[{"Title":"THE ORIGINAL, THE BEST!!!","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"76 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them is simply one of the most influential films of all time.  This was the first film to deal with our fears of the atomic age and the what if scenario of what our continued testing and use of nuclear arms and how they would affect mother nature.  Within the next few years we were bombarded with giant locusts, lizards and mutated humans of all sorts.  In fact, this film was the inspiration for Godzlla (or Gojira as he is known in Japan).  In fact, the giant insects in Rodan were a directly inspired by Them.  This film also works as a murder mystery as well.  In the first half hour, the viewer thinks that he is looking at a whodunnit until the appearance of the giant ants.  This film works on so many different levels that it still holds up well nearly fifty years after it was first released. "},{"Title":"B-Grade but a real Lord of the Things!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"69 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As has been my habit of late, I'm catching-up on old movies I remember from my youth seen on the screen at the time of release or remembered from '60s-'80s replays on late-night television. Watching them on a widescreen TV in DVD format with surround sound and, of course, with the benefit of hindsight, it becomes a whole new experience.THEM! is a wonderful Cold-War era movie which manages, without trying, to prove that modern SF blockbusters owe much to their (especially) '50s progenitors. Given the limited budget of B-Grade movies they manage to thrill across the generations - even while remakes and plagiaristic sequences abound and dazzle contemporary audiences.The 'storm-drain' sequence in T2 is a prime example, as is the 'egg burning' scenario in ALIEN, complete with flamethrowers. You saw them first in THEM!, folks. The 'isolated and mysteriously-wrecked gas station/general store' is another stolen moment from THEM! and has appeared in many movies - even the X-FILES. Wearing the flame-retardant suits and the breathing-apparatuses to attack 'the nest' pops up in EVOLUTION. And so it goes.There are some excellent actors in this film - most of whom are B-Grade stalwarts (James Whitmore and James Arness for example) - and they play it straight. No 'camping-it-up' for these heroes! I even spotted a young Leonard Nimoy as an Airforce sergeant. Fess Parker as the confused witness of the 'ant-shaped UFOs' offers both light-hearted humour and the prototype for the innocent caught in a cover-up he's left in the mental hospital as a deranged psychotic as per the suggestion put to his doctor. How many times have we seen this since? Even the little girl, a traumatised survivor of the attack on her parents' trailer-home, has resonances in the character of a similar survivor in ALIENS.OK, the irradiated monsters/ants are pretty hokey, but see my remark re small budgets. CGI didn't exist then.I'd place this production alongside such classics as INVADERS FROM MARS and the British QUATERMASS (trilogy?) which also terrorised my generation. We were children in a time when the world seemed doomed to nuclear destruction and our homes ripe for invasion by THEM!, regardless of who (yes, I know, the Communists) or what (monsters created by our cavalier use of technology) would be invading. And, strangely, nothing has changed, except that postmodern children seem to have lost their innocence in a demonstrably violent and insane milieu. As I stated before, these movies, in hindsight have lost none of their power. The themes remain the same. "},{"Title":"6 Reasons Why This Is Praised So Much","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"74 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm glad to read so many intelligent, positive reviews of a 1950s sci-fi giant monster-type flick, most of which are so bad they are laughable. Not this one this one earns all the praise.Why does this film in the midst of so many bad efforts of the genre and time period get rated so highly?1 - A good cast James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn and James Arness are all pretty famous actors who do a fine job here,; 2 - Good special effects, meaning they still look pretty real over 50 years later; 3 - A pretty intelligent script, certainly far better than its competitors; 4 - None of the standard stupid love interest to take away from the storyline; 5 - Just the right amount of action, and finally, 6 - It keeps your interest all the way through. No lulls and genuinely suspenseful. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi Classic","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"63 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I were to write a review something along the lines of Them! is awesome because it depicts giant irradiated ants, and giant irradiated ants are cool, I'd probably be shot. Either way, 'Them!' is a great movie.'Them!, to my knowledge, would be one of the earliest sci-fi movies to look at the consequences of nuclear technology. 'The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms' was released a year earlier in 1953, and 'Gojira' was released months after 'Them!', and arguably became the most successful of the three, but don't discount the impact 'Them!' had.The film opens in New Mexico. Several people seem to bitten the desert dust when some police officers find the prototype for Newt from 'Aliens'. After an investigation, a nest of giant ants is discovered. The ants were mutated by atomic testing, and are responsible for the local deaths.Like the 'Beast From 20,000 Fathoms' and 'Gojira', 'Them!' played on Cold War fears of the consequences of using nuclear weapons. The story may not be as relevant today as it was during the 50s, but as a student of history I find it rather interesting. And as a fan of action and sci-fi, 'Them!' has obviously had influences on 'Aliens', 'Starship Troopers', 'Terminator 2', and other movies.'Them!' is a great sci-fi movie. It is a shame that many people my age would avoid it due to its age, it being in black and white, and not having special-effects on the level of the 'Matrix' - 9/10 "},{"Title":"really, really impressive!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"45 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Until I watched ,Them!, I thought all 50's giant monster/bug films were hilariously bad horror attempts consisting of bad acting, bad monsters, and bad everything really! This film is entirely different. It starts off really eerily with a wandering child in shock in the desert and from there on , it builds up into a masterpiece of good acting, and amazing special effects! Yes! The special effects WERE good! Well, for the fifties! They weren't like other pathetic paper mache model films like The Giant Claw, or, The attack of the Crab Monsters. These monsters actually looked like an effort had been made on them. I have to say I was taken aback by this suspenseful fifties success and was pleased in every way. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Gordon Douglas' film was the epitome of the big-bug films&#133;","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The marauding ants in Naked Jungle, advancing across a desert, are matched by the monsters in Them! coming out through mists of the white sands of New Mexico after an atomic blast has increased them to giants&#133;Slowly people start to go missing and the news filters though to the nearest towns that the arid plateau can present a real threat as strange creepy whistles are coming out from that deep desert&#133;Rather than an atomic movie, the film is about the struggle between humans and species revolt which invade their cities and show their remarkable energy, tenacity and vulnerability&#133;Just as the Gill Man can only be driven back when he has isolated far from his natural element, the monster ants are all powerful in their own territory and none too easy to destroy outside it&#133;Them! is well acted, frightening, and engaging from start to finish&#133; The cast is pretty damn good, especially James Whitmore as the pretty intelligent cop who found a five year old girl, aimlessly walking through the terrain of the desert&#151; miles from her family's wrecked travel trailer&#151;unresponsive by some catastrophe...Them! is a well-made monster movie, an instant classic nominated for an Oscar for its effects&#133; "},{"Title":"Don't You Love It?","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably the best of the 50's mutated insects/animals/humans films. One of the reasons is that the acting is superb. In this film, the entire cast is absolutely top notch, led by James Whitmore as the policeman with a BIG problem. Of course, Edmund Gwenn is terrific as the lead scientist......always delightful in any part, he handles his role with a bit of humor in the midst of death and destruction. Even the smaller parts are handled well. Sandy Descher as the traumatized child is very affecting and is the first to say Them in reference to the giant ants. The special effects are not bad for a 50's film....... in fact pretty good for a 50's film. The script is literate and you can almost believe the premise of radiated mutated ants. Regardless of whether you believe it or not, this is a film that everybody who loves 50's sci fi movies should see. You might develop a fear of ants after this one!!! "},{"Title":"Hey, this could really happen!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"41 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all the films of this genre (1950's cold war paranoia, aliens, monsters and atomic mutations) that I have seen, THEM! is by far the best. Yes, it certainly has the 'plot' of countless other films (Big _________s caused by radiation) and the square-jawed heroes, but THEM! goes beyond that.Despite the fact that it was intended to be shot in color, this film seems more natural in b&w. The lighting holds THEM! together. Particularly in the desert 'tension' scenes and the finale in the flood drains of LA. The acting is fine, definetly not wooden-a trait which plagues this genre. Thankfully, other than the something-exposed-to-radiation-must-become-a-larger-something thing, the film doesn't get muddled in pseudo-science and gibberish thus killing any anxiety with un-intended laughs. Some people might even learn something about ants (and giant ants).   "},{"Title":"Mutant ants go on the attack.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie builds your anxiety to a minor frenzy. I think the old black and white did not hinder this sci-fi drama that still holds up well today. The creepy sound of the desert wind really sets the mood. The other effects seemed pretty darn good to be in a mid 50s movie. Of course the giant mutant ants don't look as scary as they did when I was a kid; but they still provide something to cause a squirm or two.Mutant ants crawl up from their burrows in the desert of New Mexico. Another product of nuclear testing. They are hungry and are attacking humans as they search out food. Sounds like a movie that would be full of stupid dialog and over acting. Guess again. Understandable, but predictable script with some decent acting. Great example of early sci-fi and can be enjoyed by young and old alike.The cast includes James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn, James Arness, Joan Weldon and a smaller part for Fess Parker. "},{"Title":"They don't get much better than this","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the granddaddy of 'em all, the film that pretty much started giant bug genre of sci-fi films and spawned countless imitators, none of which are remotely as good as this one. This movie has pretty much everything going for it a literate, atmospheric, extremely well-written script for what is essentially a B picture (although Warner Brothers put a substantial amount of cash into it)l outstanding acting jobs by everyone from the leads on down to the extras; razor-sharp direction by an old pro, Gordon Douglas (by far his best film; nothing he did before or since was anywhere near as good); a combination of visual and sound effects guaranteed to creep you out (the scene where James Whitmore's partner goes outside the wrecked store to investigate the strange noises he hears is among the scariest things you'll ever see). Also, the characters are believable; they act like you know people would act in the same situation. Edmund Gwenn isn't the typical befuddled scientist you see in these films; he may be a tad distracted at times, but he gets down to business when the situation calls for it. Joan Weldon, his daughter, isn't just just a pretty face for the leads to fight over; she's every bit as much a scientist as her father, and she lets that fact be known right away. There's another level of this film that works well, too; comedy. Not the slapstick kind, or the stereotypical dumb cop or cook or crew member (usually from Brooklyn) that pops up in these films, but there are several lighter moments in the film that really work. Everyone remembers the wonderful Olin Howlin, the guy in the drunk tank who sings Make me a sergeant in charge of the booze!, but there are several other segements that are equally as lighthearted; the great Dub Taylor playing a railroad detective suspected of stealing a load of sugar from a railroad car that the ants have actually done (You think I stole that sugar? When was the last time you busted a ring of sugar thieves? You ever heard of a market for hot sugar?) and another scene in the drunk ward where a patient looks at the army major accompanying Arness and Whitmore and says, I wanna get out of here, general, but I ain't gonna join the army to do it! The special effects are first-rate but do not overwhelm the story, as is all too common in many of today's action films (that is, when there actually IS a story). There are some truly terrifying scenes (the one where the ants, who have hidden in the hold of a cargo ship at sea, attack and slaughter the crew), and I liked the fact that the ants aren't invulnerable--they CAN be killed (it just takes a lot more effort)--and also that they actually act like ants. All they're doing is just what real ants would actually do--which makes things even scarier, given that we know how single-minded and vicious real ants can actually be.All in all, this is a trailblazing film that attempts to work on several levels--as a sci-fi film, as a mystery, as an action film--and succeeds admirably in every one.  "}{"Title":"Put Some Sugar Over The Screenplay!","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadI am in my fifties and I adore classic science fiction Earth Vs. Flying Saucers, The Day The Earth Stood Still, Forbidden Planet. I am sorry; this movie is a dreadful bore. It starts so well, you will think I am crazy when you first start watching it. You can see where Cameron got the idea for Newt in Aliens. It starts with a little girl wandering in the desert, clutching her doll. The cops follow her route back to her wrecked trailer. They hear these creepy sounds that are unearthly. The director does what Ridley did in ALIEN. You see more and more of the creatures until about twenty minutes in, you finally see them. I know, they did the best they could, I forgive them for the cheesy appearance, it goes with the territory, this is the 50s. The movie keeps being great through another wrecked house, the discovery of the subterranean nest and their destruction of it. Well, now you will begin to think I am not so crazy after all. The next forty five minutes consist of meeting after meeting featuring films on how the ants work collectively, how strong they are and forgive me, how they are going to wipe us all out. Hey, they said it not me. Gwenn is an excellent actor but selling this plot point was a little silly.I am not kidding, you think the meetings are over? Guess again, more meetings and briefings follow. Then they canvas all press reports for the unusual, tracking down poor James Arness who probably wishes he was back in a Western. They find him at the hospital and guess what happens next? Some action? Nope, another meeting about where the queen ants that escaped the immolation of the nest in the desert have moved to. Yes, at the end, if you are still conscious, the movie picks up with Arness spotting one coming out of a tunnel on the Los Angeles River. Then we get the great part of the movie again for the last fifteen minutes. Here's the problem, I feel asleep and had to play the movie over again. I woke up with the screen saver on my Blu Ray player. The movie's first half hour is a 10; the above praises are accurate for that time period. Unfortunately, the middle half hour is like watching paint dry. If you don't agree with me, ask yourself do I like lectures and films on ants? do I believe that giant ants are going to defeat human technology? It is like being trapped in an entomology lecture in the biology department when you thought they were showing an exciting science fiction movie. Look, if you want to go make a sandwich, check your mail, write those bills, come back for the last twenty minutes go for it. If you try to watch it straight through do not say I didn't warn you. Lots of this is paranoia about the Bomb, the lectures seem to function as some kind of anodyne for hysterical people terrified of the A Bomb. One Half Of A Good Movie. "},{"Title":"Has not gotten any less scary.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the very first horror flick I ever saw (at age 7), and retains the distinction of being the ONLY film after which I had to leave a light on to sleep. It's just basic scary monster and, with its black-and-white tones, continues to evoke that eerie sense of impending attack. When you add in that in the mid-fifties fears generated by the new atomic age were very real, you can appreciate that the threat of giant mutations was not as far-fetched as it may seem. Parenthetically, we should note that the presentation and treatment of a female scientist in a primary role, at a time when very few science PhD's went to women, is laudable. Also, it's fun to see James Arness as such a dashing young man, and Fess Parker in a pre-Crockett bit part. Well worth watching even after half a century. "},{"Title":"I`d Forgotten How Good This Was","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"29 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched THEM last week after an absence of nearly 15 years and was expecting to see another corny SF bug movie , but I was surprised as to how much I enjoyed it . Okay the science involved is absolute rubbish but it is a very enjoyable film with some really good moments like the lone cop investigating the eldritch sound of the ants , the attack on the ship , and the final battle underneath the city . Gordon Douglas uses an almost documentary type of filming that suspends disbelief . THEM is rightly regarded as one of the best films of the golden age of SFI enjoyed watching this for the first time when I was about 8 years old , but it does have a personal relevence to me It was the very first film I taped off the television when I got my own video recorder way back in 1988  "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 1950's science fiction golden age","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the kind of stuff I grew up on as a kid, watching science fiction and horror movies on TV which had been originally released in the 1940s and 50s. The 1950s was a golden age of science fiction movies, and THEM! was one of the very best. Good casting, dialog, and storyline, and commendable special effects for the time. Although the atomic-radiation-causing-terrible-mutations was a standard device in 50s sci fi (THE DEADLY MANTIS, IT CAME FROM BENEATH THE SEA, and others), it was a workable one, and given that the ants were from the same area of desert where the first atomic blast occurred, it had just enough plausibility. I also like the little touches of humor and banter between characters. There was even a little bit of cheesecake when the young Dr. Medford (Joan Weldon) gets her skirt caught when descended from the plane, revealing a pair of shapely legs. This is one I keep going back to on rainy Saturday afternoons! A gem of its kind. "},{"Title":"The Best of the 50's Sci Fi's","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It annoys me that some people call the special effects in this film bad or good for its time. For its time, they were state of the art and personally I can't imagine any better ants on the screen. They look and act real. and they're pretty creepy, enough to keep you looking over your shouldar But what I really love about this movie is the script, which is unusually good for a sci fi of this period and the fact that it all sounds so scientifically possible. I have since learned that it's impossible for insects to grow to a large size even with radiation because they lack lungs to support their bodies, but who knew back then? We didn't know what atomic energy could do and this movie expresses our fears in such a homey way.And it may just be the only sci fi where the woman does more than scream and get rescued. She is a scientist and she's no one's fool and she manages to put James Arness in his place when he tells her the ant hill is no place for a woman. I love it! And every time I watch it, I just feel so bad when James Whitmore dies saving those two kids. He's been with us since the beginning of the movie and he gives his life to rescue them, finally able to right the scales a little over the death of his partner. I just hate that he dies. It's horrifying.A great flick. "},{"Title":"Often imitated, rarely bettered.","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird deaths are occurring in the New Mexico desert, it is revealed to be the work of giant mutated ants born out of the A Bomb tests that took place there. Trouble escalates to the big city of Los Angeles when one of the giant queen ants escapes to L.A. and starts laying eggs that could lead to the end of mankind as we know it.This is a cautionary tale about scientific tampering fused with a Cold War theme of destroying a threat to the country. Boasting some wonderful scenes such as the first desert encounter (cloaked in a sandstorm) and the final underground battle, Them! is a truly enjoyable viewing experience that oozes the right amount of paranoia that became ever more prominent as the nuclear age grew. The puppetry and special effects on show is of a very high standard for the time (well done Academy Award Nominee Ralph Ayres), and the direction from Gordon Douglas is one of the better efforts in the genre. The tight story vanquishes any gripes about the plausibility factor, while the acting is, perhaps given the type of piece it is, of a surprisingly good standard. With James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn, and Joan Weldon giving it a bit of oopmh. Them! went on to become Warner Brothers highest grossing film in 1954, it's really not hard to see why. Because Them! firmly stands up as one of the best films of a sadly much maligned genre. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The best giant bug movie ever","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them was the best giant bug movie. It was about giant ants and started a horde of pathetic clones that followed it, but none have even come close to matching this movie's effectiveness.Atomic testing in New Mexico that went on in 1945 creates a horde of giant ants. It is up to a group of scientists, a police officer, and the military to stop these creatures from spreading throughout the USA and killing off the human race.This movie is not only a horror movie, but it also makes a point about the dangers of atomic testing. Much like Japan's Godzilla, Them finds nothing good in radiation testing or atomic bombs. There is even a monologue at the end of the movie which explains that things have changed now that we have entered the Atomic age.James Whitmore, James Arness, Joan Weldon, and Edmund Gwenn give good performances as the heroes who are out to save mankind, along with the U.S. military police. The pacing was rather good as well, slowing down when things need to be explained, and then picking up when the giant ants are on screen.Though the special effects seem cheesy by todays standards, I thought they were rather effective in this movie and memorable for 1954. This movie definitely looks best in black and white because it adds a haunting feeling to the desolation of the desert where the creatures are first found, and it also makes other scenes in the movie seem darker and sinister. Definitely a thumbs up in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Them is ants you will not step on!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since the first time I saw Them! it has been one of my favorite science fictions movies. It is a classic and one of the top ten greats of its genre. Them! was the movie that started a bunch of imitators in the giant bug sci-fi films.It was the best of the lot. The story starts out like a murder mystery and takes itself very seriously. Them follows the less is more theory and you are not sure who or what the killer in the New Mexico desert is. The characters are real and believable. For years I associated Edmund Gwynn with Them more than I did with Miracle on 34th Street.Say what you want about the special effects, they may have been limited but they were well utilized and pretty good for the budget and their day. The overall story and the suspense that followed int his movie was great. The part where some of the ants hatched aboard a ship at see was well done and added some extra menacing drama to the movie. Now that I am grown up I have owned Them on both VHS and eventually DVD. I enjoy this movie. It is not only entertaining and very done science fiction, it is fun. I feel bad for movies like Them, The Thing, War of the Worlds, Forbidden Planet and the Day the Earth Stood Still, because ever since Star wars, it's as if they have been relegated to second class status, when they should in fact be right up there with those movies. Them gave a giant monsters with a well-thought out and intelligent script. It is in my top ten sci-fi films and top ten sci-films of the 1950's. This movie was a trend setter and any film that followed after wards with a giant bug in it owe its allegiance to Them! This is worth buying, that is how much I recommend this classic 1950's science fiction film. Truly this is a great science fiction film. One of the greatest, in fact. You can't step on these ants, not Them. "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Sci-Fi Films Of The 1950s","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Set initially in the haunting New Mexico desert, this film gets off to a terrific start. Two cops investigate, when they encounter a little girl wandering alone in a daze with her doll. Later, at night, a howling wind, a dust storm, and noir lighting make a deserted country store evocatively creepy. With heart-stopping mystery, this first fifteen minutes is one of the best openings in sci-fi film history.Unfortunately, the plot then turns familiar and routine with lots of talky investigation. As we move into the final Act, the plot deteriorates further, when the setting shifts to Los Angeles. Here, the film becomes increasingly melodramatic. And behavior of the monsters with regard to humans is inconsistent with the monsters' previous behavior.A big plus in this film is the performance of actor Edmund Gwenn, as the lead scientist, Dr. Medford. Gwenn infuses his character with enthusiasm and humor. The aging Dr. Medford, as he seeks to understand the evolution of the monsters, is clearly having the time of his life, despite the dire threat to mankind's very existence.The film's B&W cinematography is good. Sound effects are wonderful. Not just the howling wind but also the high-pitched sounds made by the monsters and the underground echoes are all just terrific. For a film made in the early 1950s, the special effects are very, very good.Despite a plot that deteriorates as the film proceeds, Them! is well worth watching, for its characterization, its setting, the sound and special effects, and the acting. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended 50's giant bug film","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them stars James Whitmore as New Mexico Police Sgt. Ben Peterson who discovers a little girl wandering in the desert. He finds her trailer ripped apart and her parents missing. Casts of the strange footprints found at the crime scene are sent to a lab where they catch the attention of father/daughter doctors Medford (Edmund Gwenn and Joan Weldon) who come to New Mexico along with FBI agent Robert Graham (James Arness) to investigate. Dr. Medford has a theory but won't tell Peterson or Graham until he has more proof.If you are a fan of sci-fi films, Them is one of the four essential sci-fi films of the 1950s along with The Thing, Day the Earth Stood Still, and Invasion of the Body Snatchers. It's part crime story, part sci-fi, part horror with crisp dialog and it moves along at a brisk pace. Veteran director Gordon Douglas put together a solid cast of actors and the characters are totally believable. The story is interesting and the sets are outstanding.Them was a box office hit in 1954 and it still holds up today if you can forgive the special effects. Them is a movie where any remake would always pale with the original. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Hollywood MagicTHEM! (1954)","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Originally intended as a 3D color sensation from Warner Brothers, this last-minute slashed budget sci-fi film about giant ants proves to be ahead of its time with an excellent script and inspired acting. Ironically, the cheaper b/w print serves to enhance the mood and fear surrounding unusual deaths in the Mohave Desert. The script and character portrayal make a strong social comment on the folly of nuclear weapons. Camera angles and ant robotics (intended to enhance a 3D effect) also serve the director skillfully, in spite of visual restraints. This film is unforgettable and stands up today as a chilling morality play about the fruits of man's darker side. The movie is also a comment on how artistic vision should most often overrule the business office. A must-see for any fan of movie magic! "},{"Title":"the greatest of all atomic age sci-fi!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a fan of atomic age sci-fi, this is the absolute best film you,ll ever see. Fueled by an excellent cast and very interesting plot line THEM is one of those rare sci-fi,s of the 50,s that is not only entertaining, but is also shocking in its portrayal of what could happen due to mans abuse of nuclear energy...I,ve viewed this movie countless times and it has never failed to leave me without the message What If The film moves at a steady pace with the police searching the desert for a missing child that had been spotted..shortly after finding her the searchers encounter a mobile home that has been torn apart, but strangely from the inside out. After finding out that one of the victims works for the FBI,they are called in as well to investigate.. they,re investigation leads them deep into the desert,where they discover a huge ant mound,they must then venture inside to try todestroy any queen ants that may exist there. Unfortunaly they find that the queen ants have escaped to lay more eggs...the tale then moves nationwide to search for more of these huge killers....fast forward to the miles of drainage pipes in L.A. where the ants are discovered to have established an egg colony.Our heros battle it out and after one of them sacrifices his life to save two young boys,the army breaks thru and kills off the remaining ants with flame throwers....This film is an absolute must see! If you never watch any other 50,s sci-fi film you must see THEM! "},{"Title":"a great film that stands the test of time","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  clearly one the best sci fi of the nineteen fiftys, it stands the test of time with truth , justice, and the american way. and best of all the guy gets the girl at the end.the ploit is straight forward , and with acting that is of high quality for a sci fi film . hollywood should make  them  like this once again. "},{"Title":"Still scary after all these years - Spoilers","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Two scenes from Them have remained with me for many years since I first saw it.  When the younger policeman remains at the wrecked store (I knew, even then--BAD IDEA!) and the squeaky noises are heard and he fires his revolver at whatever it is, and then he is seen no more--his disappearance is left to the imagination.  Later on, when the helicopter flies over a huge anthill opening in the desert, one of the giants comes up to challenge it. The human rib basket it is carrying is dropped and rolls down the hill, coming to rest beside a human skull and a pistol belt.  Now we know!The second scene has given me nightmares for years.  When James Whitmore is boosting the lost boys up into the drainage pipe, the camera switches behind him and the shadow of a huge ant's head is seen ominously approaching.  I cannot remember how many times this shadow has invaded my nightmares over the years and awakened me in gasping gratitude when I realize that it was just a nightmare!One of my colleagues once told me that she didn't like early sci-fi movies because they are sexist.  Puzzled and amused, I used Them as a very good example of how wrong she was.  After the first nest is cleaned out, James Arness tells Pat that she cannot go down into the burned-out nest to examine the remains.  That's no place for you or any other woman! he bosses her.  To which she replies that her father is not in the best of health, so someone (meaning she) who knows what to look for will have to look over the nest.  She gets her way, and rather neatly puts him in his place at the same time!  (Okay, so she screams when she sees one of the ants for the first time--wouldn't you?)Primitive special effects aside, this is a cracking good film, a classic, with plenty of chills and a good lesson, besides.Fess Parker nearly steals the whole film! "},{"Title":"Made before I was born, still great today!","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen the movie more times than I should admit, the DVD version that came out is just, plain, fantastic. I never imagined it would be so clean and clear. The haunting sound of the ants communicating, the clicking of their jaws and a scream from Patricia. A wonderful but odd touch to the very beginning of this classic B&W film is seeing the title in color. If you just sit back and watch this film for what it is, Sci-Fi, you'll be well entertained. "},{"Title":"Old school sci-fi Excellent","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sci-fi classic may seem, on initial inspection, to be a cliché. But the heartfelt acting, the not-so-buried message (a prescient warning about the excesses of the Cold War and nuclear science), and the (for the time) special effects raise this one above the rest. Yes, the government is the fall guy, and the scientists beg the rest to heed their warnings but THEM! is a science fiction classic, despite it all. There are some tragi-comic lighter moments (Make me a sergeant, charge the booze. is one misguided dipsomaniac's mantra). But all in all it's sci-fi noir at its most suspenseful. The most chilling aspect of the movie is that the nemesis is UNSEEN until nearly the end. We know something very, horrible is out there, but we never see them. Their absence is as scary as their later presence... and the sound? You'll never find the nighttime sound of crickets to be innocuous again.  Don't miss this one, as several of the retro-movie channels have added THEM! to their lineup. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw it as a ten year old in Mt Macedon Victoria. The theatre was in the old Town Hall. The projector would routinely break down. My house was about three miles further up the Mountain and after the movie, I had to push my bicycle up a long, dark track through the dense Mountain forest on a black moonless night.I've known what fear is ever since, believe me.At every step along the way I just KNEW one of those giant mutants was about to leap out of the dark and grab me!What a film it was. For years, whenever a horror movie was the main feature at Mt Macedon Town Hall on Saturday nights I'd furtively check it out before agreeing to meet up with my mates for a night out at the 'flicks'. It was alright for THEM, they didn't have so far to go alone, in the dark of night, through the Australian bush. "},{"Title":"Why is this not Top 250?","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, the best creature horror movie ever made. The bugs may not be all that great by our modern Phantom Menace internet-age standards, but if you're willing to suspend that, everything else is great. The writing introduces plenty of mystery and suspense, the acting is plenty good (although, admitted, it could be better), and the sound effects are great.If you haven't seen this movie, you must. An all time classic. "},{"Title":"Pure Cinematic Gold","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them! is, quite simply, dynamite. It is the finest of the 50's monster movies, and one of the finest sci-fi films ever. The films biggest asset is the realism. Director Douglas has somehow managed to make a film about giant, killer ants believable. Everything about this movie scores high. James Whitmore is terrific in the lead role, well supported by some great character acting. Priceless and very, VERY frightening. "},{"Title":"One of the Scariest Movies of My Life","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw THEM! when it came out in 1954. I was ten years old. Several weeks later, I woke up shaking and sweating because I heard the sound of the giant ants outside. As it got closer I peeked out my bedroom window in time to see a car drive by, accompanied by the sound. It was a squeaking fan belt! That sound still scares me to this day, although not nearly as severely.Whenever I see the movie listed on a cable channel, I find myself watching it. There are several movies I cannot pass up when they appear on cable, but this is the only horror (monster, scary, etc.) movie that affects me this way.Truly a masterpiece of this genre! "}{"Title":"The spark that ignited a revolution in the genre of science-fiction.","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! is a grand movie with a growing threat that is set in the here and now of the nineteen-fifties age of nuclear science reality and science-fiction. Combing the two, we have a wonderful fable of just how this new dawn of the Atomic age can go awry. The interesting point here is this film takes and uses actual events, such as the atomic weapon testing at New Mexico's military base, the White Sands Missile Range, and references the first nuclear bomb test Trinity, during 1945. Later that same year the US proceeded to use this new age weaponry to end World War II by atomising both Japans Hiroshima and Nagasaki.Adding fact's aftermath of nuclear fallout in the New Mexico desert and fictions theories of the possibilities of its consequence, this George Worthing Yates (1901 - 1975) story, who too penned It Came from Beneath the Sea, and the directional skills of Gordon Douglas (1907 - 1993) has given a sizable account of a vision of man's need to advance and conquer. Ironically, this may not be the case, for what crawls out of the ashes of progress is a far greater danger than man's own destructive minds. Nature has claimed her right to survive and with it, a man-made travesty of epic proportions.Ants, victim of the Trinity bomb test nine years previously, have grown to a gigantic size and are now roaming the desert of New Mexico. Rummaging for food and killing innocent locals in their path, it is up to the local police force, an FBI agent and two entomologists to take control and save man from his own fate.While this genre can be seen, at worst, to be clichéd and predictable, Them! is the poplar-opposite, and in particular Edmund Gwenn's (1877 - 1956) role as Dr. Harold Medford; the anchor that holds down an intelligent script with strong characters delivering. Its plot is, via its vigour of seriousness, most tense and believable because of the strength of the narrative and cast, in this, it becomes more than an episode of fantasy but an exercise in education, again, fact over fiction.However, the mainstay of this feature is, without doubt, the ants themselves, with a menace and structure to pride this genre, and with their own unique eerie soundtrack, they more than deliver the inevitable flair of terror across the screen. They are the newcomers in the world of analogical radiation defects and indifferent, ignorant human altered beasts that would soon burst onto the big screen, such as Ishirô Honda's 1954 analogical antiwar masterpiece Godzilla to the 2006 South Korean creature feature Gwoemul.The town's folk of Los Angeles are warned of the threat and a curfew is announced, in reflection, would the baying public have ever known of this predicament if the queen had not escaped in this marvellous film of post-war technological advancement and the reality of Government repression in the form of keeping witnesses contained? Mental wards and hospitalisation is the remedy here, in the name of national security &#x85;is the Cold War getting hot?&#x85; asks one needy reporter; the pace quickens with the delivery of martial law and the atmosphere then driven onto the street of Los Angeles and within her sewers and waterways. The ants have taken over the asylum and it is here the film turns into paranoia and cold war rhetoric; these are no Reds-under-the-bed but an alternative invading army.Science fiction films such as Them! and its companions' as The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951), Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956) and The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957) for example, are all high-end entertainment and well structured in the art metaphorical rhetoric. This was an era that was rich in ideas and new territories, albeit nuclear at least, plucking into the psyche of a new world order of conformity and control and the East - West relations race was on, to propagate belief that one side knew better than the other. With this new age cinema came new age scenarios in the shape and form of the science fiction, nuclear, film.Them! comes across more of a warning, a caution, and the friendly optimist of this new age thinking, it's all here for the taking, but just how will the future unfold and to what extent will the human race develop this new technology? Them! may have been the forefather, but with films as the graphic, and banned then not shown on British television until 1985, The War Game (1965 BBC documentary), Planet of the Apes (1968) to Mad Max (1979) and The Omega Man (1971), the future has never looked so pessimistic. "},{"Title":"We haven't seen the last of them.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boy, if this doesn't creep you out, then you just don't live in the South or Southwest, where you are constantly battling the monsters in this film.The special effects were superb considering the limitations in 1954.James Whitmore (Oscar nominations for Give 'em Hell, Harry! and Battleground) and James Arness, who played Marshal Matt Dillon in over 600 episodes of Gunsmoke in my formative years, were compelling as they chased the monsters.They were ably assisted by Edmund Gwenn, who won ans Oscar for playing Kris Kringle in Miracle on 34th Street, and has a nomination for Mister 880. He won Golden Globes for both roles. He really was great here as The Professor. Great Southwest locations and chilling excitement for a Sci Fi classic. "},{"Title":"Easily among the best horrors from the 50s!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whenever one thinks about the many horror movies of the 50s, it's nearly impossible to not think about the multitude of creature features that had in common a basis on science-fiction that reflected the newly discovered fears of uncontrolled science and the cold war paranoia; and when one thinks about this 50s creature features, the ideas of cheesy story lines and laughably awful special effects quickly come to mind as those were two elements typical in many low-budget productions. However, it would be a big mistake to think that every 50s horror movie was a bad display of special effects, as the classic Warner Brothers film titled Them!, one of the first of those nuclear monster films, proves clearly. Made a year after the success of The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms, this movie followed similar themes, but gave them a more horror oriented spin and single-handed became the source of countless imitators.Sgt. Ben Peterson (James Whitmore) investigates a strange series of disappearances and murders happening in New Mexico's desert, and since one of the missing persons was an FBI agent, agent Robert Graham (James Arness) is sent to collaborate with Peterson in the investigation, however, the only clue they have is the strange prints found at the crime scenes. As the death toll increases, they send the print to be analyzed in the FBI headquarters, but in return the FBI sends Dr. Harold Medford (Edmund Gwenn) from the Department of Agriculture and his daughter, Dr. Patricia Medford (Joan Weldon), in order to aid them in their work. While the two law enforcers are confused at first by this decision, soon they discover that the Medfords were sent because the responsible of the killings is not human.Based on a story by George Worthing Yates (actually his first foray into science fiction), Them! presents a story that still feels fresh in this its original form (despite having been copied countless times). Playing on the Cold War fears of Nuclear technology, Them! starts as a murder mystery that grows bigger and suddenly becomes a matter of global security. What truly makes Them! to stand out among the rest of the movies of its time, it's the way it takes its plot (as silly as it may sound to today's audiences) with a respect that few works of science fiction (not only films) do. Another of the elements that makes Them! a very special movie, is the way the characters are fleshed out in a very realistic and human form. While basically stereotypes (scientist, cop, government agent, etc...), every one is given enough depth to stand out and become really multi dimensional characters.Experienced b-movie director Gordon Douglas brings the story to life in a sober yet very effective style that at times echoes his work in Westerns and Film Noirs. Just like the script does, Douglas takes the plot of his movie seriously and with a strong basis on reality; creating an atmosphere of dread and a slight dose of pessimism that adds a lot of feeling to the movie. Unlike his imitators, Douglas favors suspense over visual shock, and by hiding the monster during most of the time and giving a really brilliant use to the score and sound effects, he transforms it into a terrifying and very real threat despite his low-budget effects. Combined with the serious take on the plot, this really makes the whole movie be more believable and adds an powerful feeling of impending doom that makes it haunting and truly terrifying.The four actors that give life to the key roles in the film really make the most of the characters they play, starting with James Whitmore, as the county cop whose simple and quiet life gets changed after his discovery in the desert. James Arness is excellent as agent Graham, and shows off the natural talent and charm that would make him a star in Gunsmoke. Joan Weldon is also very good in an atypical (for the 50s) role very ahead of its time. She plays Dr. Pat Medford with a confidence that shows that women can be both beautiful and intelligent. However, the true highlight of the film is the performance done by Edmund Gwenn as Dr. Harold Medford. It is he who gives the film the heart and becomes the basis for the old scientist role of future creature features.Like many movies of its time, Them! has earned a reputation as outdated, silly or worse, badly done movies of a bygone era; however, Them! is a film that offers not only a glimpse of the 50s attitudes, but also an example of a movie that twisted the conventions of its time. While James Arness and Whitmore play the typical archetypes of the hero in this kind of films, they are shown as confused at first, and later afraid of the nature of the beasts they must fight. They are not know-it-all macho men ready to save the world, but everyday people who must learn to overcome their own fears. As written above, Joan Weldon's role was also ahead of its time, and certainly, Edmund Gwenn's role represented the fears of a society afraid of the results of Nuclear testings.I was not expecting a lot of Them!, I mean, the overall concept is really simple, yet the way the movie is crafted makes it one of the most haunting movies of its type ever done. This is a movie that proves that the 50s creature features could really be worthy pieces of horror and science fiction that were more than a bunch of cheap special effects and Cold War paranoia. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was about 6 years old when i first saw this movie in 1962 or 63. My neighbor, Bill, and my brother watched it with me. I lived in Montrose MI at the time and when it was over my mother told us to go out and play. We resisted her and almost got in trouble for arguing but hey, how can you send three young boys out to face the world after they just watched how giant ants almost took it over? We were scared to death, and hid behind the trees and bushes just watching for them.Where have I lived for most part since 1984? Good old Alamogordo NM, home of the giant ants! How destiny does intrude on life. I love the desert and mountains out here (retired from USAF in 1999) and I am very happy to say that there have been no reports of giant ants since I have been here. People always call this the home of Atomic bomb (though they are off by some distance)and I always look them straight in the face and say What? You mean you never heard of our giant ant problem? "},{"Title":"my view on THEM!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" brilliant film, to see something this old age so well is great. it just goes to show you don't need multi-million dollar actors and CGI to scare people these days. whatever happened to the idea of making films this way? thank god for DVD, now THEM! can chill the bones of generations to come. my name's Richard and i say WATCH IT!!! if you don't watch this film i'm sure you will get a visit from THEM! giant radioactive ants, who'd o' thunk it? b movies rock! (sorry, ran out of things to say)you really o need to watch this film, it is the basis for modern sci fi cinema, the old testament to the new religion of CGI so for your own good watch this film or it will be lost forever hidden behind metres of computer generated red tape. p.s Hollywood, do not remake this film or any other you CGI dependant pigs. ;) "},{"Title":"Eight Legged Freaks meets Antz","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Terror  Horror  Excitement  Mystery Them!I wanted to see this film ever since I heard about it,so I was very,very excited when I was given the DVD for my birthday-)I wasn`t at all disappointed when I saw it,although it wasn`t quite what I thought.The film was incredibly slow starting and it wasn`t scary,but it worked.The special effects were very good and personally I never once thought that they were bad.The picture was very sharp.Strangely enough,it said on the back of the case that it won Academy Awards for special effects.See this as soon as you can.They often have DVDs on ebay.****1\2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"They don't make sci-fi scripts like that anymore","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them! was a terrific example of how sci-fi movies should always be made  a tight, engrossing, suspenseful script and great acting, with the special effects there to support the story and actors, not to be the whole movie.  We seem to get fewer and fewer such sci-fi movies anymore.Them! overcame the limitations of 1950's special effects with a script so vivid that while you get to see the ants on screen only occasionally, you imagine so much in your mind's eye, almost like an old-time radio play.  Like when the distraught airplane pilot was confined to a mental ward because he kept insisting he saw flying saucers shaped like ants that nearly crashed his plane.  Today they would show the ants flying around explicitly on-screen with lots of CGI, and you would lose so much.One thing other reviewers haven't often noticed, is the species of ants.  Dr. Medford identifies them as mutations of a savage species called Camponotus vicinus.  That's the Latin name.  I think the scriptwriters deliberately didn't tell us the English name for that species--good old carpenter ants!  Because they wanted the ants to appear exotic and menacing, and so many of us have had carpenter ants in our homes, the audience might just have laughed instead of being scared of them. "},{"Title":"Classic 1950s paranoia","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Scared the life out of me at an early age - my Dad could do a great impersonation of the noise those ants made ) Since then the movie, for me anyway, has come to represent 1950s paranoia over the effects of atomic radiation. Fast-moving story with thankfully next to nothing love interest, a good cast, wonderful soundtrack and photography. A movie which I never tire of watching. Interesting to compare the shots in the LA drainage canals with those in 'Grease'. Same locations but the steam locos have long gone. I await a DVD with extras with great interest ... "},{"Title":"The Best.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them! is the best giant bug movie of the 1950's and one of the best, if not the best monster movie of the decade.The acting is excellent with good performances from James Whitmore (The Relic) and James Arness (The Thing From Another World).  The movie includes haunting desert settings and the giant ants look great.  The sounds they make makes the movie even more eerie.This is 50's monster movie action at its very best.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"I like this movie!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently had to watch this movie for a science class to illustrate ethics in scientific research, and I will say it was good.  I thought I was in for a cheesy horror flick, but this was some fine film material!Following the detonation of the atomic bomb in the deserts of New Mexico, gigantic ants are on the prowl after being mutated by leftover radiation. A goodguy cop, an FBI agent, and two scientists now must track down these ants and stop them from colonizing the earth.This movie had very good acting, pretty decent special effects for a 50's movie, and brings up a lot of interesting debates and ethics regarding scientific research. If you ever wanna just sit back and watch a classic horror film and have a good time, I definitely reccomend this. 8/10 "}{"Title":"One of the triad of truly classic 50s SF films","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of the many B black and whites produced in the 50s perhaps only THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL and THE THING equal THEM! in stature and enduring greatness.  It is an ageless and timeless snapshot of a moment in American history that maintains its pertinence even in modern viewing.  Quibble about the few details that have not aged gracefully if you like; it is a classic. "},{"Title":"Classic science fiction movie.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 1954 film is a classic first-rate cast, intelligent screenplay, and exceptional special effects. It is as enjoyable to watch in 2000 as it was in 1954. While cold-war jitters about lingering A-bomb radiation gave rise to the film, it stands on its own as a great adventure film, and the quaint clothes, hair styles and automobiles are an added source of entertainment!  "},{"Title":"The best of the giant monster movies","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is quite simply the best of all those '50's giant monster movies.  It has decent production values, acceptable acting,and a real sense of intelligence about a seemingly impossible subject, Giant Ants.  This movie is worth renting for those rainy weekend afternoons the kids will like it,and the adults can appreciate it too. "},{"Title":"Make me a Sergeant - and Give me the Booze!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  New Mexico State Trooper James Whitmore and FBI agent James Arness track down giant mutant atomic ants spawned at Alamagordo, NM, following the first atom bomb tests. Edmund Gwenn plays the scientist. Very above average horror flick and a must see!The film's climax takes place in the storm drains of Los Angeles, a familiar site for movie goers (we've all seen either the storm drains or dry river bed in dozens of films). The best line of the movie is the psycho drunk being interviewed by FBI man Arness. He has seen the ants near the storm drain, but no one believes him (except Arness, who, because of national security, doesn't want anyone else to believe him). The drunk sings make me a sergeant and give me the booze!      "},{"Title":"A fantastic and creepy movie.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a gem. On par with ALIENS for chills and thrills. The effects are excellent for the time, and the movie really exploits its concept in a smart way. James Arness, James Whitmore, and Edmund Gwenn are great. And the ant noises will creep you out.  "},{"Title":"Before there were Aliens there was Them","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them is among the better of the giant insect radiation mutation monster movies of the 1950's. The cast is quite fine and for once in a film of this type they have a good script to work with. The special effects are really quite good combining not just the visual of giant ants but the bone chilling sound they make. Also of interest are various bit part actors who quickly flash by. Catch the soldier at the teletype or sailor at the typewriter and try to guess who.   "},{"Title":"Stands the tests of logic, time and six year old boys","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My son was six years old when I recorded Them one late Friday night. Soon thereafter I foolishly allowed him to watch it with me. Not foolishly because it gave either of us nightmares, but because it instantly became the flavor of the month, being requested time and time again, to the point where the family could just about recite the entire movie. We even wrote to James Whitmore to clear up whether he or James Arness spoke the immortal words, It's them all right. It was James Whitmore. What stands out for me about Them, was that if you accepted the premise that nuclear radiation could produce giant ants everything else unrolled in a logical and believable manner. The ants were not impervious to human weapons, nor did they have intellectual discussions. The effects do seem hokey by today's standards, but it was an intelligent film, with an underlying antiwar message, and it didn't require an enormous fire ball of an explosion every five minutes. "},{"Title":"Subtle","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gordon Douglas' Them! bears much in common with other Commie movies of the late 40s and early 50s in that it has the hidden subtext of the Cold War included into the script.  Nonetheless, the structuring of the story deserves far more credit than the wave of atrocious B-movies that followed because it is not concerned about many of the elements that would turn horror into schlock.Sex, romance, and all that unnecessary camp is thrown to the wind as the main characters are more concerned about the plan than each other.  Humor is of the serious, deadpan variety (with Edmund Gwenn leading the pack) or is non-existent.The camera is manipulative in a fashion almost reminiscent of the X-Files.  Some of the shocks are rather cheesy, but I am happy this is in black and white.  B&W not only shows the essence of the picture, but also places this movie in the time period where it belongs.  Simplicity in an age where the professional intellectual was a scarcity.  The same tone rings out in October Sky.I praise the writers for not making some disappointing schlock-fest.  This is smarter, faster, and deadlier than The Deadly Mantis and even The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms.  Before Paul Verhoeven totally ruined any intelligent filmmaking skills he had left with the horrendously overblown Starship Troopers, this is the defining Man & Technology Vs. Nature film.  ALIENS hits on the same concept with more subtlety.  The music and sound is a delightful blend of nature's ferocity and a radio mystery.Overall, an interesting pseudo-documentary, mystery, thriller, horror, science fiction film that became one of the first in an infamously long line of lesser quality works.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An easy B&W monster flick to watch when it's raining outside.","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film could impress any child under the age of 11 who wouldn't challenge the ideas too strong.  Most kids like giant bugs or monsters.  I know I did. This film is a step above a cartoon with a monster plot to resolve.  I didn't think I could get into the action and enjoy the film 30 years after I first saw it, but I managed to escape my adult inhibitions and become captivated by a simple little idea.  I await my opportunity to see other sci-fi giant bug films like the Scorpion, Tarantula, Preying Mantis, and also the Monoliths (Growing Rocks) and Triffids (deadly walking plants). You can't take them so serious...you just enjoy them.  "},{"Title":"Superb Science Fiction!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Due to atomic testing in 1945, the New Mexico desert houses mutant ants that are as much as twelve feet in height.  A pair of policemen, led by James Whitmore, investigate a couple crimes and discover what turns out to be a foot print of a colossal ant.  Through the aid of an FBI man played by James Arness and an elderly professor(Edmund Gwenn), Whitmore and company uncovers a huge ant colony located in the desert.  From here the story goes on to the destruction of the ant colony and the mystery of finding the two queen ants that flew away to start colonies of their own.  Them! is a wonderful suspense film not only translating the story of menace on society, but also ruminating over the powers unleashed by man through atomic testing.  It is extremely atmospheric.  The ants are credible, and the cinematography is very good as well.  Acting honors go out to Whitmore and Arness, and particularly to Gwenn who chews the scenery as a somewhat adleminded no-nonsense professor and prophet of doom.  There are a number of memorable scenes in the film.  For me, the most notable is in the beginning of the film as we see a young girl, carrying her doll, mindlessly trek across the wind-ridden desert.  A must-see for the classic sci-fi fan. "}{"Title":"The Best of Its Kind","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To say this is the best giant bug movie from the 1950's might sound like a backhanded compliment but it's not intended that way. The genre was full of creative and fun popcorn movies during that era. But Them! is something special. It's an intelligent, suspenseful, exciting film. The direction and script are superb. The actors are all great, even those in supporting roles. Edmund Gwenn is the standout. Possibly the most impressive thing about the movie is that the characters are written and acted so well they don't descend into archetypes as often happens in sci-fi and horror films, then and now. Speaking of impressive, how about those special effects? Extraordinary for the time and hold up well today.In my opinion it's one of the top ten movies of the 1950's. But then again my top ten would include movies like this, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Thing From Another World, and The Day the Earth Stood Still over the likes of Marty and Streetcar. I would recommend Them! to anyone, not just genre fans. "},{"Title":"One of the best of its kind.","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Almost 60 years later, Them! still stands tall as an Atomic Age cautionary tale. It's a thrilling and suspenseful story, masterfully directed by Gordon Douglas, and acted to perfection by a cast of pros. The special effects are excellent, and there are memorable scenes, especially those in the nests and in the storm drains under Los Angeles.What's particularly impressive is how well the movie works as a mystery for almost its first third. The characters and audience alike don't know that the culprits are giant mutated ants until then, as various crime scenes and one incredibly traumatized little girl are discovered. Once the nature of the threat is revealed, several characters work to solve the problem, including intrepid policeman James Whitmore, scientists Edmund Gwenn and Joan Weldon, and FBI agent James Arness.This movie is exciting every step of the way, and establishes some very eerie atmosphere in its early scenes. Much like other science fiction productions of the era, it does feature many scenes of exposition, but it remains engrossing and it does really come to life for any and all scenes where the ants are required to reveal themselves and attack our heroes. And while it works very well as a horror film, it doesn't miss opportunities for humour, as the aged Gwenn learns how to use goggles and radios. Best of all is the climax in the storm drains; the filmmakers create some real tension for these scenes.The well chosen cast is great fun to watch, with Whitmore and Arness making for stoic heroes, and Gwenn is a delight as our wise exposition provider. Good in support are Onslow Stevens, Sean McClory, Chris Drake, Mary Alan Hokanson, Fess Parker (in a brief but memorable role), and Olin Howland, with a number of familiar faces in uncredited bits Willis Bouchey, Richard Deacon, Lawrence Dobkin, Ann Doran, Grandon Rhodes, William Schallert, and Dub Taylor; be sure to look out for the appearance by a young Leonard Nimoy!If you're a big fan of the giant bug films from this classic era of science fiction, then watching Them! is essential. It's simply as good as this sort of thing gets. It begins strongly and maintains a fever pitch all the way until its big finish.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic sci-fi classic that still holds up today. THEM! ranks alongside George Pal's War of the Worlds and The Day the Earth Stood Still as the best of the '50's classics.The acting from top to bottom was first rate,and every character was well cast-Edmund Gwynn as the crotchety old professor,didn't let a bad case of arthritis stop him. James Arness played a man who knew he was a bit out of his league when it came to giant ants and radiation,but didn't stop him from doing his job. However,he comes across at times as a bit of a male chauvinist,obviously not used to meeting a strong,intelligent woman who didn't need or want protecting. Joan Weldon was that woman,and I can't think of any other '50's actress who could have taken on the role as well. James Whitmore as the grizzled cop looking to revenge his partner but not losing his head or going rogue is fab,and his death scene is very poignant.And then all the cameos William Schallert,Leonard Nimoy,Fess Parker,Allen Jocelyn,and Richard Deacon,they're all there!I am glad to see this classic has not been honored' with a crappy re-make,as too many of the '50s SciFi classics were. Only The Thing by John Carpenter out-did the original. "},{"Title":"Them! (1954)","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 78/100. I love these old 1950's sci-fi giant insect movies! This one is certainly among the best. It is tense, exciting and well produced. Edmund Gwenn is excellent, he adds validity to the film. The rest of the cast is very good. The fact it has a cast of some reasonably well know actors is a big plus. The special effects are quite impressive, even by todays standards, and especially for 1954. Director Gordon Douglas does a fine job keeping the film from going over the top and making it convincing with an interesting plot, rather than making it just a movie for the 1950's drive-in teenage crowd. Good cinematography and it moves at a great clip. "},{"Title":"A Creepy Crawlie.","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a surprisingly intelligent bug movie from the 1950's. In presentation and plot 'Them!' is as well-crafted a piece as -say - the 'Quatermass' works, but with far superior budget. Some have called it a 'classic' and I won't dispute their claim.Filmed in gloriously dated black and white, the movie follows that time-honoured theme of a peril apparently coming out of nowhere. We are introduced by degrees, as clue after clue mount-up. Odd, inexplicable happenings tease us a dazed, wandering child, remote habitations ripped asunder, sugar disappearing by the ton. As the investigation proceeds, 'experts' identify a strange footprint; it can only mean one thing...It's extremely tense stuff. The director takes us straight into the story. There is no wasted celluloid, no lengthy get-to-know-the-characters preamble. We learn to understand each individual as best we can with the progress of the plot.Right from the start we are shown that something is seriously wrong. A spotter plane is looking for the runaway child. Police on the ground are directed to her point of origin - a wrecked trailer. There are no parents to be found. A police officer loses his buddy, but our patience is not jaded by some lengthy, maudlin I-lost-my-partner routine at the local bar that would typify a remake. This cop's made of sterner stuff; he just wants revenge. The movie is an object-lesson in essential economy, for which its director deserves every credit.Joan Weldon presents the feminine interest in a surprisingly emancipated way. Like Ellen Ripley many years later, she is an educated, confident take-charge female who leads from the front. In 1954, such a character must herself have seemed like science-fiction compared to the usual array of flirters, screamers and swooners. She dismisses the slight awkwardness of her predicament with a steadfast simplicity that, by comparison, makes fragile, bigoted pygmies of most feminists. Sound effects are wonderfully minimal, and bring a big plus to the tension. An eerie chirruping sound that comes and goes as if carried on a fickle wind is the only clue that the monsters are getting nearer. Hammer, by contrast, would have crassly blasted your eardrums out. Theme music is still loud and menacing, but once again the director knows when to tone it down.Inevitably, the monsters are a bit of a disappointment. In the 1950's special-effects just didn't have the know-how when it came to making seriously believable bugs. Though that said, the 'Black Scorpion' wasn't too bad. And Mr Harryhausen could surely have worked some of his magic. Whatever the case, what we got was pretty insipid by today's standards. It could certainly have been a lot better even for its time. Still; the well-paced story, an excellent script with one or two memorable one-liners, genuinely believable acting from otherwise B-movie players, and extremely nice moments of tension, lighting, and drama go a long way to make up for a lack of imagination in the puppetry department. Check out James Whitmore as the grizzled highway patrolman; 40 years later he was still giving a solid turn as prison librarian 'Brooks' in 'Shawshank Redemption'. There were cute little details too. I particularly liked the helicopter view of the nest in which an ant half-emerges carrying a human rib-cage in its mandibles and drops it next to what are clearly the remnants of a policeman's uniform. Now we know what happened to the 'buddy'.I saw this movie as a child some years after its release on television, and don't mind admitting that it gave me quite a scare. But after seeing Spielberg's 'The Lost World' T-Rex's savagely ripping a man in two, most kids today would probably laugh out loud at the 'ant-ics' of these monsters. Which may be telling us something about how a diet of extreme violence has hardened their little hearts.Definitely worth a watch, if only to see how good some early sci-fi movies could be despite a lack of imagination in the special-effects department.Classic? I think it would answer to a dictionary definition. "},{"Title":"Boy, What a Big BUG!","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the earliest and one of the best big bug movies to appear in the 1950s. There are these giant ants -- and I mean BIG ones -- that were caused by the first atomic bomb explosion in New Mexico. Where was the first bomb exploded?, asks Edmund Gwen, the requisite scientist. Near here, in the White Sands area, replies James Arness as the FBI agent, indicating on a map of New Mexico an area that is on the opposite side of the state. Not that the subtext is really concerned with the first atomic bomb. These monster films, with the creatures often generated by an atomic explosion, only began to appear after the USSR and the Chinese had exploded their own nuclear devices. That's the period in which Hollywood first became aware of the danger of these artifacts.The film is continuously engaging, with hardly a dull moment, and follows the trajectory familiar to fans of the genre. A mysterious and lethal event occurs in a remote area. The local police are dismissive or baffled. But another minor catastrophe takes place and the scientific experts are called in to explain the goings-on. (One of them should be a beautiful young apprentice scientist.) The scientists and the agents of social control follow the cause of the disturbances to an urban area where the threat really turns serious. The military finally rides to the rescue.This is a pretty good story, nicely thought out, and good use is made of location shooting in the Mojave desert and in the cement bed of the LA River and the tunnels surrounding it. The acting, too, lifts this above the norm. The principals are all reliable. Whitmore is Everyman. Arness is so big and so polite that he beguiles. And Edmund Gwen has his comic moments, especially when he is in an airplane, wrestling with proper radio procedure. Joan Weldon, as the foxy young scientist, isn't much of an actress.(She was a singer.) But she brings her high zygomatics and a certain elegance to a part that, in all honesty, doesn't call for much more than that.The scientific element of the plot requires a suspension of disbelief that is only rarely achieved outside of frankly paranoid states. No animal the size of ants could survive by breathing through book lungs, for instance, and other problems are curtly dismissed by the experts. No pupae? It's an effect of the atomic radiation. Yes, that would explain it, agrees Edmund Gwen with no further attempt at explanation. But none of this is in any way irritating because the movie is so good natured, so generous, and so genuinely eager to wrap the viewer in its spell.It bears repeated viewings well. Instead of stop-motion, the creatures are life-sized (or miniature) mechanical models. And if they're not especially believable, well, this was 1954, before the age of computer-generated images. I don't believe the film is as good as a few others, such as The Thing From Another World, but it's far from pedestrian and is much better than much of the stuff that was to follow.All around, a nice job. "},{"Title":"Macho bug movie made with swaggering charm and high-end adventure","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Atomic Bomb tests in the early-1940s have now resulted in marauding mutant ants, currently terrorizing folks in a desert community and soon set to migrate to Los Angeles (a drunk in a mental ward sees the humongous ants near the L.A. city sewers but, of course, nobody believes him!). Crackerjack thriller cast with a macho group of guys seemingly nonplussed about sharing the screen with such scream-worthy creatures (director Gordon Douglas, doing terrific work, never lets the actors look foolish and keeps the tension high). Natty Edmund Gwenn is wonderful as the scientist who initially makes the ant connection, and his wily seriousness is both fun and intense (he quotes a biblical prophecy that gives the movie a scary undercurrent, much more so than other films in this genre). The photography is uneven, but at times exceptional, and James Whitmore's desert policemen is in a class by himself. Upstaging even the ants, Whitmore's aw-shucks subtlety (I've got a score to settle!) makes him an Everyman that appeals to both men and women; sadly, his character's fate does render the final sequence a disappointment. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A first-rate nifty 50's creature feature classic","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Atomic bomb testing in the New Mexico desert creates a lethal giant mutant strain of ants which naturally pose a grave threat to mankind's status as the dominant species on the planet. It's up to stalwart police sergeant James Whitmore, no-nonsense FBI agent James Arness, sweet, cranky, dynamic old entomologist Edmund Gwenn, and Gwenn's equally feisty daughter Joan Weldon to stop the deadly gigantic insects before it's too late.Director Gordon Douglas, working from a smart, witty and literate script by Ted Sherdeman, expertly crafts one of the best, most creepy and effective of the many over-sized killer monster movies that were made in the 50's, starting things out on an arrestingly spooky and mysterious note with the marvelously atmospheric and enigmatic opening third before progressing with a fine bunch of potent set pieces (the exploration of a corpse-littered underground ant colony is memorably eerie) and culminating with a tense and thrilling climactic confrontation between the army and the ants in the Los Angeles sewer drains. Sid Hickox's exquisitely crisp black and white photography, Bronislau Kaper's perfectly ominous, brooding score, the excellent special effects, the grimly serious tone, the tightly streamlined narrative and the nicely low-key, naturalistic acting from a uniformly sound cast (Gwenn especially is a rip-snorting delight) further add to the picture's sterling quality. Popping up in cool small parts are Fess Barker as a twitchy airplane pilot, William Schallert as an ambulance attendant, Sandy Descher (one of the titular kids in Jack Arnold's The Space Children) as a frightened little mute girl, Leonard Nimoy as an Air Force sergeant, Dub Taylor as a peppery railroad night watchman, and Olin Howlin (the first victim of the original The Blob) as a funny boisterous drunk (Make me a sergeant! Give me the booze!). A simply terrific gem that's wholly worthy of its classic status. "},{"Title":"Those sinister internal dangers we overlooked in Cold War America","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is one of the funny things about movie making that one can spend millions of dollars bringing a screenplay to the screen that is supposed to be a blockbuster and it is a total flop, but one can also have a restricted, low-budget film with a cast of good character actors, and it will turn out to be memorable movie making and a permanent favorite. Such is the case with THEM.In the 1950s the science fiction movie really came into it's own with THE DAY EARTH STOOD STILL, THIS ISLAND EARTH, THE INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE, and FORBIDDEN PLANET. Given good scripts and intelligent direction, and good actors one could make a lastingly perfect product. Some of the stories borrowed from classic backgrounds (FORBIDDEN PLANET's debt to Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST has been noted for decades). The special effects at the time may seem laughable by 2006 levels, but keep in mind what 2006 special effects will seem to be like in 3006! There is also that undercurrent of Cold War paranoia that engulfs these films. Inevitably atomic warfare and the threat of an alien group (usually from outer space, but here from the interior of the country) pops up. Here it is mutant ants, which have grown humongous due to radiation.* The giveaway is the traces of ascorbic acid that the ants use to paralyze and kill their prey. They fill the victim's bodies up with it. Soon the expert from Washington (Edmund Gwenn) is lecturing the local state police (James Arness, James Whitmore) on how organized and deadly ants are - we even see a film of a three day battle between rival ant armies. The only thing missing (because the film is in black and white) is that the dead mutant ants are not shown to be colored red or wearing Russian words on their sides.*Interestingly enough, in THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN, such radiation leads to a human being shrinking - what gives here?.The film is quite good and even convincing of the real danger from the over-sized creatures. One particularly good build-up to a moment of memorable horror is when a state trooper disappears. Subsequently a search for him leads the authorities to one of the desert lairs of the ants. Amidst the refuse of the ants is the skeletal remains of a man's rib cage. A simple enough effect, but still memorable 52 years later.Quite a nicely made science fiction film - one that really lasts. "},{"Title":"eerie and still unsettling..","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was 13 around 1971 when I first saw this masterpiece on TV, it unsettled me then and did again on the DVD I bought! The face and close-up of the petrified little girl really is a superb piece of film. A very 'cimematic' film one might say, the eerie desert scenes and unseen malevolent force, you can almost smell. Still very unsettling especially in the early part of the film.The sinister sound effects are superb and special effects are excellent for what is, in effect, a post-war 'Sci-Fi' film. I remember well feeling scared in 'advance' at seeing the distress of the spooked child,wondering with apprehension as to what 'THEM' were. Also of note were the tunnel scenes as the approaching menace were nearly upon the Army of fighters, exciting but scarily so! Thoroughly recommended viewing! "}{"Title":"Behold! Atomic Age Ants are Upon Us!","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We may be witnessing a biblical prophecy... so intones our in-the-field scientist (the great Gwenn). Like many other sci-fi/horror films of this period, this mixes in religious phrases with the scientific observations, resulting in an all-the-more chilling scenario. This one is also one of the best, almost a benchmark by which to judge all those so-called giant monster movies of the fifties. I've actually forgotten how good Them! really is and was reminded by a recent viewing. There's that shot of the desert right off the bat, followed by the grim title (though the film is black & white, this is in bright red). Ahh, so this is from where Matinee copied to its little parody far in the future of '93. The eerie desert plays a huge role in elevating this scary tale, especially in the first half.The story plays out like a mystery in the first half-hour, a mystery in the desert. Two patrolmen (including lead Whitmore) come across some baffling signs of destruction and a little girl wandering around in shock. It's during these early scenes when the audience can get really spooked - you get the sense something is really not right in the desert and you want everyone to get out of there, pronto. What seems like a very local type of problem gradually escalates into a threat of worldwide proportions. The FBI, in the form of strapping Jim Arness (just before TV's Gunsmoke), soon becomes involved and then Washington DC. Remember that big sign which details 10 kinds of news to monitor for when the search is on for the queen ants? The last line says it all 'unnatural things alive or dead.' And after Gwenn shows his little film (about real ants) within the film to the DC bigwigs, he speculates mankind has about a year left at the top of the food chain.It's moments like these, copied in many later movies, that define this era of atomic age fear and dread. The world, it seemed, could change in an instant - and not for the better. There were some powerfully scary moments in some of the films of that time, and Them! had some of the better ones. The acting here is first rate, as well, especially from Whitmore, who plays it very straight, as if it's all really happening. Fess Parker, just before being chosen for the Davy Crockett role, is far down the cast list, but makes the most of his one scene as a rattled flier. I wonder if he's still locked up in the loony bin - I hope they didn't forget about him. This remains the best movie about formidable ants; see also later fare such as Phase IV(74) and Empire of the Ants(77). "},{"Title":"The ants are coming!","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unlike other big insect movies of the 50s, this is not a stupid movie, and a big plus is it's not using any lousy back projection either.The acting is low-key, and tense, but never over the top.On The DVD one can get a short glance that the ants was either Pneumatic or hydromatic handled.Offcourse there are a few standards of the era, A screaming woman when she sees big ants, and men thinking more rational and shoots at antennas.Them was in colour on the titles on the DVD, was it the same back when it was new in cinemas? It was fun to see James Arness before he became Matt Dillon on Gunsmoke The James Whitmore character, who was a local police in New Mexico, how came he got involved in Los Angeles sours sequences? And did he die? "},{"Title":"THEM! is the best of the Atomic monster movies.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I grew up loving this movie and own the DVD now. This is without a doubt the best of the Atomic monster movies. A surprisingly strong cast, James Arness of Gunsmoke fame and James Whitmore of Shawshank Redemption fame, plus an Oscar winning VFX team make this a memorable horror flick worthy of any home collection. The decision to go with black & white only enhances the mood and nail-biting tension. The story is solid and very few technical errors are visible. A great flick that is scary but not too offensive or gory. A little stronger than a Universal B&W horror flick. It was also making a political statement at the time with the Cold War and the threat of Nuclear War. Very apparent in the final lines of the movie spoken by the elderly Doctor Medford. A little tidbit of trivia also. There were only two ants used in the movie due to budget restraints, but with camera movements, editing, and story you feel like there are hundreds. This is one of those sleeper hits that the studio didn't really give much of a chance. The winner for best Special Effects at the Academy Awards, it has stood the test of time and is worthy of being considered a Classic. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was one of the best of that era,black and white and as a 14yr old I thought the Ants were looked pretty good. this was a scary movie. James Arness the FBI guy and James Whitmore were real good and Arness was the THE THING 3 years earlier! Edmund Gwen was also terrific a long way from MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET. Scenes in the storm drain were scary and the only bummer Whitmore getting killed. I don't know why he had to be killed,bad taste in my mouth when I left theatre. The drunks in the detox ward. MAKE ME A SGT.,GIVE ME THE BOOZE. The mother of the 2 boys in the storm drain waiting the fate of her children and somebody saying lets just burn them out and James Whitmore saying tell that to the mother whose kids might still be alive,very good scene. A great movie. "},{"Title":"A Nagging Question","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always loved this movie, ever since I saw it in the theater in 1954-55 at the tender age of 10. One spot raises a question mark, however.(I don't think this is a spoiler, but a question of logic.) When Ben and Ed Blackburn discover the wreckage of the general store, and the storekeeper's body, they come across a rifle that had been fired four times. The rifle barrel has been bent back upon itself. I've always wondered how a giant ant, armed with huge clumsy mandibles, could manage to pick up a rifle and bend the barrel with only one set of mandibles. It would take at least two ants, I think, and why would they try to do this? It's sort of like a Beat the Clock stunt! "},{"Title":"A great 50s horror movie perfect with a bag of buttered popcorn.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To Whom It May ConcernI consider this one of the great horror movies of the early 1950s. One of the things my buddies and I liked about it is that unlike the dinosaur in the Beast from 20,000 Fathoms the creatures in this movie could be killed by smallarms fire - something that so many of the other pictures of the day didn't include as an attribut. It made the movie more believable.That aside, I do have a question about it if someone can answer it.I remember seeing this movie in the theater when it originally came out. At the time, 3D was making a lot of noise in the movie world. What I was wondering, given the opening display of the title Them is if this movie was originally supposed to be in 3D like the Creature from the Black Lagoon and others.Any information you can provide will be most gratefully appreciated and if you haven't seen this movie and you like these early 50s horror movies, don't hesitate to buy or rent it.With kindest regards, Bill "},{"Title":"I'm impressed!","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are giant ants in the New Mexico desert, all because of the effects of nuclear testing out there a couple of years ago.Excellent performances and a decent script is what really gives this film a lot of credit. The special effects and the giant ant designs aren't that bad for their time. The performances by James Whitmore, Chris Drake, James Arness and Joan Weldon are appealing and seriously delivered, which helps it from being silly and grounds the film. There is some sharp and subtle humour in the mix, but not too campy.The direction and pace of the film is good, while the story is clever and unpredictable. The set up in the beginning in the desert is quite unnerving with its eerie sounds and nauseating feel. It slows down a bit in the middle of the film but it finishes with a pretty decent climax involving an all out assault in the sewers.This film was quite a surprise; it was more entertaining than I thought it was going to be. I would say it's the best of those films from the 50's that were obsessed with Nuclear radiation and it's effect on mankind... especially on it creating hideous monsters.3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Ultimate monster-movie? (spoilers)","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a huge lizard, a giant ape or monstrous spiders make up for the best monster movie (IMHO), but big and scary... ants! After a nuclear tests these desert-ants who live in and about White Sands (btw if you ever get a chance to go there, do it! I did, it was great...) the ants grow bigger, up to about 10 feet and beyond! The monsters are being exterminated BUT... a couple of queens (well, princesses really) have already flown out, one towards... LA! Now doesn't that sound like fun! Man takes on these giant creatures in the sewers of the big city, ultimately destroying THEM. The movie was great fun and had amazing special effects (specially for that era). The acting is surprisingly good and the movie has a good pace. Up there with King Kong and Tarantula, a great ol' monster movie! 8/10. "},{"Title":"Tight script; tight action; tight skirt on the female lead.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! and 'The Day the Earth Stood Still' are the two best sci-fi films ever made; period. Even compared to today's special effects extravaganzas, all other entries in this genre are just also-rans.Most 1950s sci-fi invasion films were forgettable; even laughable. Humans violate Mother Nature's balance and humongous monsters, aliens or tax collectors arrive to destroy us. 'THEM!' is different. It takes the basic monster flick formula and turns it into a sly 'who-done-it'. This makes it a subliminal, but chillingly effective, adaptation of America's cold war fear of communism and atomic annihilation.Them! unfolds like a dark and foreboding detective mystery. It makes the audience think the authorities are looking for a serial type killer (the term was not coined yet) who has left a trail of death in the American desert Southwest.POSSIBLE SPOILER Suddenly, we discover the villains are common household ants, mutated into giants by atomic bomb tests. And they are about to spread their colonies worldwide and destroy mankind.Like any great thriller, what sets 'THEM!' apart is the way the filmmaker uses our imagination, not special effects, to scare us. The giant ants don't spend that much time on screen. We see lots of clues, like weird footprints, mangled dead bodies and large traces of salivary acid (ants have a mouth acid to break down food).But mostly we go through the film sitting on the edge of our seats while the cast does basic, thorough police work. Once the villains are discovered (the giant ants in three colonies that are about to spread world wide) the film reaches its conclusion quickly.A couple of scary scenes are played out when a then unknown James Arness (and Millburn Stone, both will star in Gunsmoke) checks out the giant ants' first nest. The Los Angeles City sewer/flood runoff system is cleverly used as the final set where the last colony is breeding.There are great sequences of the U.S. Military running around in Jeeps and passing out flamethrowers. The female lead wears a tight (but way below the knee '50s style) skirt and she and Jim Arness fight over what's safe for her to do. They finally decide the safest thing for her to do is to fall in love with him.Edmond Gwinn is absolutely superb as Dr. Medford, the old, but undisputed authority on ants and their social behavior. His befuddled and methodical personality steals every scene he is in.Even an unknown Fess Parker shows up doing an extreme parody of his Southern accent, which became his trademark as Davy Crockett and Daniel Boone.James Whitmore is outstanding as Police Sgt. Ben Petersen. He is a methodical, fearless highway patrolman who finds the catatonic survivor of the first ant attack wandering in the desert, screaming the movie's title.Like any true classic, 'THEM!' stands the ultimate test; the test of time. After 49 years it is just as good as the current crop of multi-million dollar special effects Terminator and Matrix movies. I watch it every time it comes on the late show and it's every bit as fun now as it was back in 1954. "},{"Title":"Classic sci fi","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my all time favourties. It may be a bit dated, especially in the special effects department but the plot and acting are really good and for once the characters are (just about) believable. A few cliches maybe but in a way that adds to the film. I wasn't even born when this film was made but somehow I find it so much more entertaining than modern films. "}{"Title":"Funny with many actors who later became well known.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie starred James Whitmore, James Arness and Edmund Gwinn but had small parts for Dub Taylor, Fess Parker, William Schallert, Leonard Nimoy, Richard Deacon and Joe Sawyer (Sgt Biff O'Hara from the Rin Tin Tin TV show). Olin Howard played a guy who claimed to have seen the giant ants in and around the LA River. His mental hospital scene allowed him to yell, Make me the sgt in charge of the booze! If you like old sci-fi with a lot of familiar faces in supporting roles, you'll like this one. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best of the 50's horror B-Movies...","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that someone should be looking to remake. Unfortunately, my copy is around 20 years old, and it shows. But it's still an exciting, well made horror flick. Even with the cheesy looking ants. James Whitmore's no nonsense state trooper plays great against James Arness as a, well, goofy, FBI agent. He didn't seem to have much going on upstairs. A very impressive supporting cast, and quite a list of uncredited appearances by many of the days best bit players makes this film a must for film buffs, and fans of the genre... "},{"Title":"Veteran character actor steals film from giant ants!!!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The thrills have definitely faded from this well-produced but dated 50's sci-fi epic, but there's still some fun to be had for patient comedy buffs a Howlin-ly funny bit by veteran character actor Olin Howlin. Olin shows up 3/4 of the way through the film, just as you might be about to channel-flip, and breaks up the joint!! He plays an alcoholic patient in a veteran's hospital psycho ward, and is one of just a few witnesses to the whereabouts of the giants ants. But, there's no grim business here, just a hysterically funny scene in which Our Heroes try to interview Olin, who, as you might have guessed, is less than forthcoming, and just about the LEAST reliable witness in history!! Equally funny are the deadpan expressions of his fellow actors, particularly poker-faced James Whitmore, who are reduced to playing Jack Webb-like straight men to Olin's schtick!!  (Would that we could have been flies on the wall during rehearsals for this scene!!) So, next time the films pops up on cable, flip back just before it ends to catch Olin--and we'll make you a Sergeant--In Charge of the Booze!!! "},{"Title":"An entertaining, well acted and well cast film of the atomic age.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them played on the fears of the atomic age to present a plausable story line and provides food for thought on the effects of radiation on living creatures.  The cast was excellent with a young James Arness and Fess Parker and a brief scene with Leonard Nimoy.  Veteran actors James Whitmore and Edmund Gwen gave the film credibility.  It was a very entertaining film with good special effects considering the state-of-the-art at that time.  "},{"Title":"Hide the Sugar Bowl!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An intense wind blows sand across a desert.  Is it just me, or did a good many fifties monster movies take place in a desert climate.  Is it to keep the creatures isolated?  Allow them to devour a few prospectors since no one cares about them anyway. Is it the painful isolation or the nuclear tests that took place in deserts.  Whatever, I always feel I have seen this before.  This particular movie is quite a superior effort.  Suspense is nicely built.  The knowledge of the ants depends on a mute child who has been traumatized by the visions of death and destruction.  We meet the kindly scientist whose sole interest is his entomological interests and speaks with fervor over this incredible discovery.  Like Tarantula there is the young female scientist who has spent eight years of study and who is really only there for the male lead (James Arness, who had recently played a large carrot in The Thing from Another World) to make nice with.  She falls for the big lug in a man's world and all her training and expertise are probably doomed to oblivion.  The ants are a little hokey, but I love the integration of the sound effects and their appearance over the sand dunes.  Throw in a couple of kids lost in the storm sewers with a colony, and the potential for a huge infestation of these beasts, and you have a pretty darn good horror movie.  I know that if I'm ever in a desert and the wind picks up, I won't soon forget this movie. "},{"Title":"some must have been shot in color","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was in its first theatrical release. I have heard many times that it was planned to be shot in color and they decided to save money with black and white. They must have shot some color footage, because when I saw it the whole credit sequence (until the police arrive at the chrushed trailer) was in COLOR, then it went to black and white. I noted this in a little book of my movie reviews that I kept as a kid, mainly because it was so odd...why in the world would they process a part of it in color for a release print when (even if parts of it were already shot in color), the print could have been all black and white. I saw it a few years later at a drive in and it was all b/w.Forry Akerman also mentioned this oddity once in FMOF. I just watched Them! on Movieplex this morning and this little classic holds up just as well as it ever did (the Fess Parker bit is still hilarious.) "},{"Title":"Watch for Olin Howards film stealing scene!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just another classic B&W giant insect 50's sci-fi feature. This one however has some great comedy in it which is unusual for a film of this genre from this time period. Veteran character actor Dub Taylor is featured in this picture. This time Taylor is not the films most remembered character actor. (Although his scene is good) That honor goes to Olin Howlin who IMHO steals the film with his scene as a whacked out drunk in a rehab hospital unit. No wonder this picture is a classic.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best!!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the premise may sound absurd, (giant mutated ants running amok in the southwestern United States), this is by far one of the greatest sc-fi movies of the fifties or of any other decade for that matter. What sets this movie apart from all other giant bug movies is both the acting and the direction.The acting is top notch, with a cast ranging from James Arness and James Whitmore to Edmund Gwen (Santa Claus). Everyone plays their roles perfectly and brings a sense of urgency and believability to the proceedings (which is crucial to a movie like this.) The direction is also excellent, there has never been a more believable movie made about what sounds like such an absurd topic. The special effects, although dated, still hold up today because the ants are never on screen long enough to truly look fake. A lot of the action takes place off screen. The decision to do this movie as murder mystery, rather than a straight horror piece, was also a master-stroke.For all you film buffs out there, if you look quickly when a soldier is talking by a teletype machine towards the middle of the movie, you will notice he bears an uncanny resemblance to a certain pointy-eared alien from a famous T.V. and movie series.All in all, a great example of what can be done with a small budget, great b-actors and perfect directing. "},{"Title":"Any film that has real unretouched bazooka fire  has my vote  ;  )","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watched it after Reading Lynda Barry's latest novel which discusses and uses the opening scene and sense of foreboding as a jumping off point. Real-looking little girl wandering in real desert is a masterful opening with suspense that is sustained for as long as possible. The neat things about the bazooka scene are that 1 - they are just shooting at a hole in the ground but the viewer sees the entrance to the giant anthill 2- no special effects or sound remixing - a big boom, no visible flame, a dust cloud that quickly dissipates. But you can tell it is totally real and Hollywood today could learn from this. "},{"Title":"better-than-average sci fi from the 50's","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them! is one of the better sci-fi movies to come out of the 50's, and there were lots of 'em. It's not quite up there with War of the Worlds, but it's up there. The premise is standard atomic testing causes a certain species of insect or mammal to grow to monsterous size, which then threatens to take over the entire world. It is then up to the US Army to mobilize its tanks and troops to blast them out of existence. In this case it's giant ants. Now, we've had giant spiders, mantises, lizards, men, women, rats, roaches... ad infinitum. But what makes this picture stand out is the cast, which include many good actors who went on to become big stars. The writing, witty and intelligent, and the pacing. The silly giant ant head props can be forgiven.  "}{"Title":"Classic film, even today","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers (as always).James Arness (also as the monster in the other great 50s sci-fi film, The Thing), before he established himself as tv's Matt Dillon, and James Whitmore (famous tv/film character actor, Harry Truman impersonator, also frequently on Combat and Arness' Gunsmoke in the early years), team up with Edmund Gwenn (Santy Claus in the famous Miracle on 34th St.), with a host of character actors you'd recognize from later work like Fess Parker, the western actor Dub Taylor, William Schallert (Mr. 'middle America'), form quite a lead and supporting cast. And that tends to make for a good film, regardless of anything else.America had just won the Big One, WWII, and was rightly proud of its infantry, and trucks rolling in the street under martial law to wipe out a menace at home. Troops march by as the assault on the sewers begins. And it's done this way all because two kids might be trapped. Most all the characters involved just matter of factly insist that's reason enough to do everything to save the kids, rather than just gas the ants, or try flooding them, or something. It keeps it from being a simple extermination, but it is delivered convincingly and with heart (as when Whitmore reports the kids are alive).The giant ants themselves seem slow and muscle bound, to say the least, but the annoying high pitched noise that always accompanies them serves very effectively to draw attention away from the flaws in the props themselves. It's one of the best uses of sound I think I've seen (or heard). Only at the end, with the queens trapped in the sewer nest, do the cardboard flat wings look embarrassingly amatuerish (and given the care with which they tried to match the appearance of real ants, it's surprizing not even the least effort went into those wings - but . . ).The plot sort of makes sense. How the ants that large and cumbersome could maneuver on a small ship at sea is left to the imagination. But, at least it got the navy involved in the film. Where the light was coming from when Arness gets conveniently trapped by a cave-in was another, facing the ants by his lonesome.It's also interesting that the - hey, let's study 'em plea - so often adopted in much later films, and also rejected by the plot in The Thing - is answered with flame throwers, here. No desire at all to keep Them alive, secret government labs, X-Files, and so on. That's all pretty modern paranoia.This film makes as much sense as a radiation mutation film can make, as it were. It clearly set off a number of lesser imitators, perhaps right up to the somewhat mediocre Starship Troopers. The ants are portrayed as . . giant ants, basically, no more or less. The fear is simply based on them behaving not unusally, as in Hitchcock's The Birds, but as one would expect of the large carnivorous ants they seemed to grow from (that they'd turn carnivorous comment, early on, is one that seems a little at odds with the script, but . . . again).Great film. Tight editing. Decent acting and decent actors. Very watchable. Sound effects help with the believability. Ebay should have copies a plenty (it's out of print, otherwise, I think). "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you'd think","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"       When I first saw this movie, I had my doubts. I've always borne a prejudice toward black-and-white movies, and I've never really been a horror fan, either. But I did tune in to watch this movie as part of American Movie Classics' Halloween film festival (hosted by filmmaker Tim Burton) a few years back. I was pleasantly surprised. It's quite entertaining, and not just for an old movie.      Unlike some other hokum science-fiction movies, THEM! actually draws on zoology in explaining the nature of the giant ants in the film. Seems the little varmints aren't the harmless picnic arthropoids we've always taken them for. As a scientist character in the movie points out, ants store secretions of poisonous formic acid in their mandibles. And when the ants are blown up to monstrous proportions by an atomic blast, these secretions of acid become potent enough to kill a full-grown man. This was grotesquely demonstrated near the end of the movie, and was only one of the many details that made this film informative and enjoyable.      THEM! is a serious film, a cautionary tale of what could happen should nuclear energy or the forces of nature ever collide. As such, it probably carried more weight during the days when nuclear war seemed all too possible. Today, however, it still carries a warning not to mess with Mother Nature.      Of course, this doesn't mean the film isn't a lot of fun, too. A team of scientists-turned-bug-killers teams up with the U.S. Army to stop a legion of ant-monsters from becoming Earth's dominant species. The action takes place in many locales, from the underground desert caves of New Mexico (in a scene that must have inspired Robert Heinlein's book Starship Troopers) to the sewers of Los Angeles. The special effects are tolerable considering it was 1954, though I would have preferred to see a color version of the movie.      The finale is one of the best monster movie endings I've seen in a long while the scientists and soldiers, armed with flamethrowers, prepare to incinerate the ant queen and all her eggs. Just as the queen is about to meet her maker, though, one of the more philosophical members of the team remarks that similar events will happen in the future if nuclear testing goes unchecked. It's a great ending, a chilling reminder that this planet is the only one we've got. "},{"Title":"An outstanding sci-fi thriller that delivers on every level.","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the story of giant ants running wild in America's southwest. James Witmore, Edmund Gwenn and James Arness give fine performances. The special effects must be considered good for the time (1954). The following year James Arness would begin a 20 year series with Gunsmoke. Look for brief appearances by Fess Parker(Davy Crokett fame) and a young Leonard Nimoy sitting at a typewriter.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the great science fiction classics. The supporting cast is excellent. Sure the ants are somewhat phony looking, but you forget that in about fifteen seconds. The ant noise brings a shudder every time you hear it. This is what a horror movie should be. See it. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites!","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My husband and I have seen THEM dozens of times.  When ever we just want to veg out we put it in the VCR.  It's funny we still find new things.  The story is a little fatalistic sometimes, but the acting is so convincing.  I keep imagining it being remade by say, Steven Speilberg.  It really would be a shame.  The best part are the ants!  I just love the cardboard wings!  "},{"Title":"Take a closer look","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is a real gem.  This goes in my favorite Sci-Fi films of the  fifties list.  It's right up there with The Day The Earth Stood Still, War  Of The Worlds, Invasion Of The Body Snatchers and The Creature From The  Black Lagoon.  Extra bonus  nice comedy touches abound, the over and out  scene with Edmund Gwenn, the make me a sergeant song and the Fess Parker  and Leonard Nimoy cameos. "},{"Title":"The most underrated of the 1950s monster movies. Fantastic entertainment!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Them!' is in my opinion the most underrated of the 1950s monster movies. Well scripted, well acted, tautly directed (by Gordon Douglas who went on to make 'In Like Flint' and 'Slaughter's Big Rip Off'), it really holds up today. So okay, the special effects have dated, so what. You don't think today's state-of-the-heart CGI effects aren't going to look a little silly in fifty years? This movie was a big influence on James Cameron's 'Aliens', from the catatonic little girl, to the underground battles with the monsters. The cast is first rate. James Whitmore ('The Shawshank Redemption'), James Arness (the monster in 'The Thing From Another World'!), and Edmund Gwenn ('The Trouble With Harry') are all excellent, and Joan Weldon (unknown to me) is also very good.  Look out for Joe Dante regular William Schallert, and future TV stars Fess Parker and Leonard Nimoy among the supporting cast. I think 'Them!' is still terrific entertainment, and recommend it to all SF/horror buffs. It may be dated in some ways, but it's still extremely effective and suspenseful with lots of thrills and chills, especially in the eerie opening sequences before the mystery is solved. I wonder how many contemporary movies in a similar vein will be able to claim that half a century later?  "},{"Title":" So, it's nearly fifty years old? So what?","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!  This film not only pioneered the American anti-nuke subgenre of sci-fi monster movies (as opposed to Japanese imports), it also gave a lot of then-unknown actors their first big breaks. It was Fess Parker's brief role, as a Texas aviator accused of craziness, that brought him to the attention of Walt Disney (for the DAVY CROCKETT adventures)!  And, even my father (the non-Trekkie) recognizes one big-eared extra as the future Dr. Spock.  And, isn't appropriate that James Whitmore (New Mexico State Police Sgt. Peterson) now sells bug spray on television? As for the so-called fake ants?  Yes; I'm sure the artificiality of THEM was obvious, even to the movie theater audiences of 1954.  But, while low-tech to us (spoiled rotten by CGI), today, those gi-ants were undeniably big budget, back then.   In fact, half that budget went to the climactic battle in the sewer tunnels!  So, when it comes on AMC or TCM for the umpteenth time, don't groan about it.  Kick back and enjoy it!  I do...every single time. "},{"Title":"One of the best sci fi's of the 50's","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was very enjoyable, and the way the story was told, gave it a more realistic feel than many sci fic films. The only 50's sci fic tilm that I think is better than this one is the day the earth stood still "},{"Title":"Good movie still to this day","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first sat down to watch this film, I thought it was going to be just another corny 50's monster flick.  I'm a teenager of the 90's, and by definition not impressed with such movies.But after watching it for just the first half hour, I was already deeply engrossed in the film.  It was awesome.  The giant ants were really cool looking, especially for a film so old.  Plus the good guys had everything; machine guns, flamethrowers, grenades, nerve gas.  And despite the silly premise, there is a lot of real science possibilities explored here, not just some science psychobabble that other films offer.  It was obvious that unlike other fifties movie studios and their films, Warner Brother actually put some serious cash into this project.This movie is living proof that we modern day teenagers should believe our parents when they claim something they watched as children was cool.  You can see that this film is a definite precursor to STARSHIP TROOPERS.  Now I only have to see the original THE THING (I saw the 80's remake, which I must say is one of the scarriest movies ever).One last word of advise to you viewers out thereMake me a sergeant and pass me the booze!  Make me a sergeant and pass me the booze!9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"They don't make B-films like this anymore.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! is a true classic in the genre of monster films. It actually fulfills the definition of monster films. Straight to the point ! Detecting the creatures, hunting 'em down and destroying 'em. No pointless side-stories, no melodramatic stuff...clean and pure entertainment. In a wide desert area, a young girl is found. Walking around in shock. She's too shocked to tell what happened to her, but the police finds the trailer she stayed in with her parents. It's completely destroyed and her parents are dead. A few other people die in a mysterious way and local police and the FBI ask for help to a famous professor and his attractive daughter. They find out what is going on and it's a complete nightmare. Due to radiation from the atomic bomb 9 years ago, ants grew in to gigantic creatures and they are out to protect their queen. In order to do that, they'll kill every person who comes to close. This was a very important film in so many ways. One of the first gigantic mutated animals-films who were an inspiration for many many movies... and still are by the way. Everything a good movie needs is present a good script, good acting, very good creatures effects for 1954 !! and some appropriate humor.Also one of the greatest quotes in the history of scary films  (after killing just one nest of ants) I thought we had seen the end of them by doing this No, what we saw was just the beginning of what will be the end of us!  Isn't that great ? "},{"Title":"50's Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No science-fiction library is complete without this 1954 classic, probably the best of the mutant creature craze. Sure, the special effects have long been eclipsed by digital, but the suspense holds up as LA mobilizes to defeat the giant killer ants in a battle of the sewers. The opening scenes are among the best of any era. I don't know how director Douglas got little Sandy Descher to emulate wide-eyed speechless shock, but from that moment on the tension rarely lets up. Then too, her single word eruption in the van may be the single scariest moment and a genuine inspiration on somebody's part. I guess it takes a big man to defeat big ants and thank goodness James Arness has switched to our side since menacing the North Pole in The Thing (1951). He, Whitmore, and Gwenn prove to be great pest exterminators though their methods are a little unorthodox, while poor pretty Joan Weldon sort of tags along after the guys in typical 50's style. Note the many nice touches from both the producer and director-- the well-stocked press conference, the army units deploying in the background, the humorous aside from the ugly guy in the hospital. These are the kind of additions that turn a good movie into a memorable one. It's certainly one I've remembered fondly since its enthusiastic 1954 reception, and so will you if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Big-Bug Breakthrough","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Universally Praised and Fondly Remembered, this 1950's Sci-Fi, Big-Bug, Nuclear Paranoia Movie is so because of just that. It was the First Big-Bug Film, helped usher in the Sci-Fi Fad of the Decade, and Solidified the use of Radiation as one of the Stalwart Villains that Remains a Fear to this Day (Fukushima).Everyone who has seen this Little Gem is Forever Forgiving when it comes to the Minimal and at times Clunky SFX. It is the Tone of the Thing that Resonates its Creepiness, Beginning with the Unforgettable Little Girl in the Opening. When She finally Emerges from Her Shock and Screams...Them...Them...Them it is as Chilling as Anything in the Genre.There is a Solemn and Matter-of Fact Presentation to the Story and throughout it Maintains a Foreboding Feeling as the Scientist and Military try to Play Catch-Up with the Mobile and Relentless Insects.The Encounters with the Mutants are Brief but Extremely Effective and the Tunnel Scenes are Atmospheric with some Bonafide Shocks and Surprises. This is one of the Best Monster Movies and is Essential Viewing for Fans of the Unusual and might even be a Surprise for Movie Buffs not Usually Want to take a Chance on this Type. "},{"Title":"THEM and YOU","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rarely do I give out a ten. You got to earn those beyond all doubt. Here is one of THEM (pun). A good movie, script, acting, directing, pacing and dedicated support movie crews (who BTW worked their hearts out making those ants well... antsy) turned out a winner and this movie made $$$ for the studio. Imagine going to a movie in the 50's, with a friend, popcorn, drink and candy and this comes on. It doesn't get any better than this except...You can do this now on your home screen and even better still...watch it again and again. Edge of your seat dynamics while capturing the audience and holding them is rare but all so wanted and expected by all. Many times the movie goer is left out to dry. Not here with THEM. What makes this movie so compelling is that while it is unfolding, you cannot help but think about what is being presented. It makes sense, is possible and we want it to be so too. Because of how it is done, you feel you are in the movie with the players, tracking the ants and fighting for survival. It is not hard to do either. It has the right tugging emotions, the memorable scenes and the wanting to know more aspects of it which to me spelled sequel in any language. One wonders why they didn't set it up at the time. See the ending and wonder about this yourself. In order for this to be remade, relaying on a good script and decent acting would be mandatory because we already know we can create giant vicious ants no problem. Also, it would have to take place in the early part of the century or even the late 1800's so that the ants have a fighting chance and we get a 2 hour plus thrill ride. For now, enjoy this well made jewel of a good movie, with plot and suspense uninterrupted too. Highly recommend dinner while watching, a handy snack or dessert within arms reach, a tasty large drink plus some candy of choice...This is it. Pure, decent entertainment as it should be...THEM is for YOU "},{"Title":"Giant Ants!","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gordon Douglas directed this surprisingly first-rate science fiction/horror picture that stars James Whitmore as Police Sergeant Ben Peterson, who discovers mysterious deaths in the New Mexico desert which brings in FBI agent Robert Graham(played by James Arness) and Doctors Harold Bedford(played by Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter Pat Medford(played by Joan Weldon). They discover that giant ants, who have mutated after atomic testing in 1945(9 years previous) are responsible. They infiltrate the ant colony, and discover that two Queen ants have escaped. One is destroyed on a ship, but the other lands in Los Angeles in the vast sewer drains, where they threaten to take over the world if allowed to reproduce... Exciting and well made film with excellent F/X that hold up today. Fine cast and writing overcome unlikely premise to make this a winner, which puts to shame much of the TV produced CGI junk on the air today! "},{"Title":"A legitimate challenger to Gojira for the title of best 50's monster movie","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! was released almost exactly a year after The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms kick-started the whole atomic 'creature feature' craze of the 1950's. In this case, radiation causes normal ants to mutate into giant man-eaters that eventually threaten all of humanity.The script is more polished than you might expect from a movie of this type. The plot is compelling and the scientific angle is convincingly presented. Characterization isn't neglected, either.The cast is a pretty good one, too; especially for a monster movie. Headliner James Whitmore contributed a solid performance, as did James Arness. Edmund Gwenn's pretty good in support and Fess Parker's also notable in a small role.Gordon Douglas's direction is surprisingly good. He does an excellent job of building and maintaining suspense. In doing so, he is aided by Bronislau Kaper's moody score. As for the special effects, I certainly wouldn't call them impressive but they're functional, at least. They probably rank as the film's biggest drawback.Ultimately, Them! is a well-crafted sci-fi/horror film that rises above its rudimentary special effects to tell an intriguing story. It's comparable to Gojira as one of the best monster movies of the 50's. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Thriller - And It's Even Educational!","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whatever else you may think, you have to love a sci-fi thriller that in the end leaves you feeling not only thrilled but also as if you've learned something! This is a truly magnificent movie from the 50's, one of the earliest of a series of films (which by the end of the 50's was getting progressively sillier) which depicted the era's fears about the bomb and the effects of radiation. This film opens with a scene that captures your attention (a young girl found wandering alone and in shock through the New Mexico desert), a half hour or so of real mystery as scenes of devastation are discovered and victims found (but victims of what?) and then becomes a pretty decent thriller. In the midst of it all you actually feel that you learn a great deal about ants and their ways! How can you not love this?Beginning with that opening with the young girl, the movie gets increasingly suspenseful until the mystery is revealed - all the devastation is being caused by ants who have been mutated into giants by the left over radiation from the first atomic bomb test in Los Alamos, New Mexico. There were a number of things I really liked about this. The ants for one. So many of these types of films went with the dinosaur comes back to life theme that it was exciting to see an actual creature that I could relate to. That even gave this movie a somewhat believable feel (at least, as the 50's creature feature genre goes.) Ants are also so ubiquitous that this situation would seem to be a potentially world-wide threat. Considering the limitations of special effects in the era, the ants were also surprisingly realistic. In that sense, this was very well done. I also appreciated, though, that the ants weren't the focus of the movie. This wasn't just a film of repeated ant attacks. The focus was far more on the reactions of the people trying to respond to the crisis, which - again, by these standards - gave this a feeling of reality, although I did find it amusing that one area in which this movie did follow what would become the traditions of the genre was in ensuring that one of the scientists on the case was a beautiful woman with great legs! (Thankfully they did avoid turning her presence into the excuse for a budding romance.)Magnificent. I've often thought that The Creature From The Black Lagoon was my favourite 50's creature feature. I think it's been supplanted by Them! 9/10 "},{"Title":" They make the industry of man,  puny by comparison ","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The atomic age began with the detonation of the first atomic bomb. Directly, the world of science fiction, took a right turn towards the money making side of man's fear. What this film shows is that America was ripe for new monsters originating from the Atomic age. In this story, which takes place in New Mexico, where the first Atomic Bomb was exploded, a monstrous species of gigantic ants mutates to endanger first the open arid desert and then the world. The movie is called  Them  and stars one of the most versatile actors of his day. James Whitmore is Police Sgt. Ben Peterson who discovers the remains of the first victims who fall prey to gigantic mutants. James Arness (Gunsmoke) plays F.B.I. agent Robert Graham who teams with Peterson and is smitten by beautiful Patricia Medford, (Joan Weldon) a scientist's daughter. Edmund Gwenn plays Dr. Harold Medford a famous scientist who is called in to explain the dangerous goals and world wide threat of the ants. With Fess Parker, Dub Taylor and even Leonard Nimoy all playing small parts, this movie not only becomes the biggest hit film of 1954 for Warner Brothers, but a true Sci-Fi Classic for audiences of all ages. **** "},{"Title":"One of the best science fiction films of the decade","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the 1950s science fiction films that I've seen, this is certainly one of the best. In fact, the only ones that I enjoyed more were Forbidden Planet, Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Day the Earth Stood Still. It was the first film to feature giant monsters created by nuclear fallout, a concept which remained a sci-fi staple into the 1960s and still occasionally pops up today. The film was very skillfully directed by Gordon Douglas, who maintains a great atmosphere of tension throughout, and it has a nice anti-atomic weapons message.Edmund Gwenn, best known for playing Santa Claus in the original version of Miracle on 34th Street, delivers a wonderful performance as Dr. Harold Medford, an entomologist assigned to investigate the giant ants by the Department of Agriculture. Medford's doddery personality and completely earnest attitude make him a very likable character. Gwenn has great presence and authority and I warmed to him immediately as a result, as I'm sure audience members in 1954 were meant to. Although he's credited second, he's the real star of the film. James Whitmore plays the protagonist Ben Peterson, a New Mexico policeman who is the first person to discover evidence of the giant ants' existence. Whitmore turns in a good performance which I found very engaging. The future Gunsmoke star James Arness, who plays FBI Agent Robert Graham, is also good but he's not on the same level. My only real criticism as regards acting relates to the film's last surviving star Joan Weldon, who plays Medford's daughter and fellow entomologist Patricia. Unlike those of her co-stars, Weldon's performance largely fails to convince. Whenever she uses scientific jargon, I found it all too apparent that she did not understand it. Unsurprising really but I'm sure that the same was true of Gwenn but I never got that impression with him. He seemed to know what he was talking about every step of the way. Her delivery of dialogue in general seemed a bit stilted. That said, her scenes with Arness were well done as the attraction between their characters was nicely underplayed. They seemed like they would make a good couple. Leonard Nimoy's brief appearance was nice but I'm glad to say that his acting improved greatly by the time that he moved on to the role that he was born to play. It also features nice small appearances from William Schallert, Booth Colman, Larry Dobkin, Fess Parker, Richard Deacon and Dub Taylor.Given that the film is 55 years old, the special effects were astounding. The detail of the giant ants was very impressive. In contrast to many special effects from films of this era, they were very effective giant monsters. Going by the old horror principle that what we don't see is scarier than what we do, the ants' actual on screen appearances are brief but compelling. Medford's descriptions of the threat posed by the ants to human civilisation ratchets up the tension and creates disturbing mental images, making the audience imbue the ants with more power and greater capabilities than those actually portrayed on screen. As a matter of fact, no more than three ants are seen on screen at any one time. In all honesty, I'd say this was done more to save money than anything else but it nevertheless serves the film well. The film was nominated for an Oscar for its special effects and it's easy to see why. It's rare for the special effects of such an old film to hold up so well today but this is certainly true of the giant ants in Them!Overall, this is an excellent film which was often imitated but never bettered. Incidentally, one of those pale imitations was Beginning of the End which featured Arness' younger brother Peter Graves fighting giant locusts. "},{"Title":"From The Sands Of New Mexico","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the greatest of Fifties science fiction features came from the Warner Brothers Studio in 1954. Them! is one of the best examples of the paranoid Fifties and all the things that we were afraid of that could result from the new atomic age.Ever since J. Robert Oppenheimer and his team exploded that first atomic bomb on the desert in White Sands, New Mexico radiation has spawned a new breed of giant ants nine to twelve feet in length. It's taken a decade for them to be discovered, the desert being a solitary place, but when these big guys come out of their holes, it's with a feeding frenzy vengeance.First on the scene is deputy sheriff James Whitmore, who first brings in FBI man James Arness and then a father and daughter team of scientists, Edmund Gwenn and Joan Weldon. The trail eventually takes the four to Los Angeles where an escaped queen from New Mexico is building a nest in the sewer system of Los Angeles.The tension and the action is brought to a fine pitch in Them! Though the human cast does give a good account of themselves, it's the special effects creating those giant ants that is the real star of the film. Other than a big of male chauvinism shown by James Arness towards Joan Weldon, the romance is non-existent. My guess is that those who survived the experience went on about the serious business of finding out what other kind of mutated creatures might be spawning as a result of atomic testing. Which was a very real fear in the Fifties.Edmund Gwenn comes off the best as a most intelligent and civilized scientist who knows the dangers and explains the situation to the military and civilian authorities without any condescension.Them! gave many nightmares to movie goers back in the day. The film is still capable of doing just that. "}{"Title":"Best of the 1950s Big Bug Films","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! is even better than Tarantula when it comes to big bug movies, and there were a lot of them back in the 1950s. Ben Peterson (James Whitmore) and his partner Ed Blackburn find a little girl wandering alone in the New Mexico desert. After sending her to the hospital, they encounter several places where people have been mysteriously killed. Blackburn is next, when he goes outside a murder scene at night and disappears.FBI agent Robert Graham (James Arness) is called in, as are scientists Dr. Harold Medford (Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter Dr. Pat Medford (Joan Weldon). They find that 1940s-era nuclear tests have created giant ants that threaten to increase their range and take over the world. The film's climax takes place in storm drains beneath Los Angeles, where the surviving queen ants are destroyed by the U.S. Army. However, Peterson didn't make it&#151;he was crushed by a giant ant after saving a couple of trapped boys.In many ways, Them! is a typical 1950s giant insect movie the big critters are produced by radiation, the first hero to encounter them fights them all the way through the film, and scientists and the U.S. Army save the day at the end. However, this movie also has a great cast (Gwenn, Weldon, Whitmore, and Arness are all just fantastic), and intelligent, thoughtful story, and some pretty good (for its day) special effects and sets. While the big ants might look pretty funny today, they were probably state-of-the art back then.The subject matter may turn off some viewers (after all, it is sci-fi), but that shouldn't matter. The production and cast are first-rate throughout. "},{"Title":"It's them! Giant killer ants!","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, my next on list of big 50's sci fi films, Them! This is a film that my parents were crazy about it and always wanted me to watch this classic. But of course when you're a kid, naturally you don't find many black and white films that appealing. I always thought this was going to be a lame film, but like I said, I'm on a goal to see the big sci fi films of the 1950's and I'm glad that I finally gave this fine film a chance. Them actually scared me, as cheesy as the effects were, if you watch this film in the dark, it has creepy elements to it. Not to mention, it was cool to see a younger Lenord Nemoy on screen, to think that he was a struggling actor too who has a very small part in this film. Them has a great story and is one of the best scary bug films you'll ever see.After several people in the New Mexico desert wind up missing or dead, including an F.B.I. agent and most of his family, police Sgt. Ben Peterson teams up with F.B.I. agent Bob Graham to find out what's causing the strange occurrences. They find send a strange print found at one of the crime scenes and it is sent to the Department of Agriculture. Doctor Harold Medford and his daughter Doctor Patricia Medford arrive and ask to be taken to the scene of some of the disappearances. When they get there they are shocked to find gigantic ants, whose mutations were caused by the first atomic bomb explosion nine years earlier. They manage to destroy the nest of ants, but not before two winged queen ants and a couple of drones have hatched and escaped the nest. Now it is a race against time to find the two queen ants before they can establish more nests and hatch more queens.I believe that Them is a film to be watched by any film lover, this is a true classic in it's own right. I'm really falling in love with these old sci-fi films, the story, the effects, the history, the actors, they're a lot of fun to watch. Them is now in my top fav's, the scariest scene was without a doubt when you see those little boys trapped in the cave with the queen ants, I couldn't imagine the fear they were experiencing. This was a very fun film to watch and I'm looking forward to my next sci fi film, but Them is going to be tough to beat on the scares.8/10 "},{"Title":"first of its kind","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Giant bugs! Giant grasshoppers! bellows Martin Landau's Bela Lugosi in 'Ed Wood,' bemoaning the current state of horror films. Who would believe such nonsense? Apparently in the 1950's, a lot of people, that's who. This was the era of giant bug movies. Concurrent with this trend ran a deep fear of the atomic bomb. Many people were absolutely convinced we were all going to die in a nuclear holocaust, and soon. Scientists and philosophers testified at the United Nations. Writers, like Rod Serling, used nuclear bomb-based themes again and again in their stories. The fear is still with us today in a more subdued sense; now it's the fear of terrorists with 'dirty bombs,' or rogue states like Iran acquiring a few wmd's, certainly not 'end of the world' scenarios as were so popular back then, with the U.S. and the Soviet Union wiping mankind off the face of the earth in a nuclear duel to the death. That paranoia, in turn, inspired another kind of fright- what might the lingering after-effects of such an explosion do? The radiation, the 'fall-out.' Why, it might cause things, animals, people, even insects to mutate, to change, to grow! Hence the spate of sci-fi/horror films featuring monster bugs like 'Tarantula,' 'The Black Scorpion,' 'The Deadly Mantis,' and of course, 'Them!' These movies have never really gone away, more recent examples being 'Eight Legged Freaks' and 'Starship Troopers.' But its heyday was in the fifties. 'Them!' is usually cited as the best; it's a genuinely scary film, well-drawn and paced, with situations that are about as plausible as possible, given the circumstances. It also benefits from a wonderful performance by old Edmund Gwenn as an eccentric scientist who has a better grasp than anyone else in the picture on why ants in the desert are so damn big these days . Gwenn is absentminded and fussy, short-tempered and sometimes exasperating as Dr. Medford. He's also quite funny. Reliable standbys James Arness and James Whitmore are fine as an FBI agent and police sergeant, respectively. I always admire actors in these kinds of movies who do more than 'phone in' their performances, who approach their roles as they would any other. I think this is another reason 'Them' is a cut above some of the other sci-fi flicks of the period. The visual special effects are also above average, comparatively speaking, but in truth it is the sound effects that have the most impact. The shrill, high-pitched sound associated with the giant ants is the most frightening aspect of 'Them!' Like the best horror films, 'Them!' is deliberately paced, taking the time to build up suspense and anticipation. The desert setting for many of the scenes is perfect, the idea of people living in lonely, wind-blown locales falling victim to the ants, helpless, is suggested rather than shown explicitly at first. We only see the aftermath of the attacks. Then as the film progresses, it becomes more graphic until the final scene in the sewers beneath Los Angeles provides a suitably noisy and violent climax. 'Them!' is considered the first giant bug film and many feel it's the best, setting the standard for this strange sub-genre of horror cinema. "},{"Title":"The quintessential 50's creature feature!","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! is an amazing achievement in special effects and a revolutionizing horror/monster movie. Of course, the effects will seem very hokey by today's standards and the acting isn't anything Oscar worthy but that aside this is a great movie and an interesting social statement (well, back then anyway). It starts off with a little girl wandering through a desert, in shock from seeing THEM! and ends in the Los Angeles sewers. In between this there are some genuine moments of suspense, some great scenes of the giant ants (they actually do look pretty good considering this was made in the mid 50's) and some creepy shots of an empty desert accompanied by an eerie wind.Them! also spawned hundreds of imitators but was rarely bettered.3½/5 "},{"Title":"Antie Maim","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them is one of the best science fiction and big bug movies of the fifties. It has a taut script, an able cast, decent but certainly not outstanding special effects, and direction by Gordon Douglas which wisely played to the movies' strengths and minimized the weaknesses.Strong points1. The early mystery scenes are among the most tense of the era and certainly create an ominous mood, as does the secretiveness of the scientists and their obvious concern about panic. 2. The Dragnet style police procedure scenes work well. As in Dragnet, the investigators underplay to the point of woodenness while character actors ham it up as actual or potential witnesses. 3. The cast is well above average. Edmund Gwenn lends authority as the scientist. Joan Weldon is brisk as his daughter and fellow scientist, bringing a conviction she did not match in her other roles. James Whitmore infuses humanity into the role of the highway patrolman who discovers the lost girl in the desert. James Arness fits in as a Rambo style hero. Among the various eccentric witnesses, Fess Parker and Dub Taylor stand out.4. The scene in the anthill in the desert is extremely creepy. 5. The mobilization of mankind, including the Federal government, especially the scene in which Los Angeles is put under martial law, was carried off well. 6. The use of the traumatized little girl in the opening scenes and the lost boys at the end does tend to draw the viewer emotionally into the story in a way that the prediction of the extinction of human life inside of one year does not. Weak points1. The ants are at least a relative weak point, not up to the standard of the rest of the movie. They were clearly marionettes with few natural movements. The movie was structured to keep them off screen as much as possible. I thought they were a letdown whenever they did appear. 2. Olin Howlin was over-the-top in his key drunk portrayal near the end. 3. I found it wildly implausible that ants the size of cars could be creeping around a major city without all kinds of people noticing. What did they eat? Wouldn't scouts be out and spotted?4. The survival of the two boys inside the sewer seemed more than contrived to me. I guess they might hide in a pipe too small for the ants to enter, but they were found in an open room not far from the egg chamber, with the ants moving in for the kill. Where had they been hiding earlier?All in all, one of the best of the big bug movies, but flawed, and lacking the convincing monsters of Tarantula and the Ray Harryhausen flicks of the era. "},{"Title":"Classic giant insect sci-fi '50s flick","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THEM! (1954) ***1/2 Classic '50s giant ant sci-fi shocker set in Los Angeles where atomic testings (isn't it always in these genre flicks?!) have unearthed a horde of man-eating insects multiplying like crazy bent on taking over La-La Land with the battling Jameses &#150; Arness (pre-Gunsmoke) and Whitmore (kindly old Brooks, the lifer who gets his doomed parole in The Shawshank Redemption) &#150; uniting brute force with the scientific genius of Edmund Gwenn (he was Santa in Miracle on 34th St. which by the way he scored an Oscar for), who refreshingly isn't anxious to study the natural forces but to destroy them. Great eerie sound effects set the tone (think of a pre-Jaws theme announcing the monsters!), cool black and white to enhance the spindly creatures and a few surprises (FYI The unusual title comes from the assumedly mute young girl, the first survivor , who finally breaks her silence by shrieking THEM!) Great creature-feature for Gen X and Baby-Boomers alike. "},{"Title":"Stands the tests of logic, time and six year old boys","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My son was six years old when I recorded Them one late Friday night. Soon thereafter I foolishly allowed him to watch it with me. Not foolishly because it gave either of us nightmares, but because it instantly became the flavor of the month, being requested time and time again, to the point where the family could just about recite the entire movie. We even wrote to James Whitmore to clear up whether he or James Arness spoke the immortal words, It's them all right. It was James Whitmore. What stands out for me about Them, was that if you accepted the premise that nuclear radiation could produce giant ants everything else unrolled in a logical and believable manner. The ants were not impervious to human weapons, nor did they have intellectual discussions. The effects do seem hokey by today's standards, but it was an intelligent film, with an underlying antiwar message, and it didn't require an enormous fire ball of an explosion every five minutes. "},{"Title":"We need more bug spray!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One the best 1950s movies of science fiction made. The special effects was believable. The acting also was above average for a B-movie. James Whitmore and James Arnest kept the movie goers on the edge of their seats. The ants were excellent. The sounds made by the ants, I will always remember it. The whole atmoshpere of sound and visual effects, the desert, the Los Angles sewers added to the film. The use of humor with the drunk in the Hospital was fun. The film didn't have the gore that current creature movie have. The gore was not missed. Please keep these type of movie for future generation. Truly enjoy it! Love these ants! "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This eerie thriller is perhaps the best of the mutant insect horror films of the 1950s. The yarn is somewhat plausible, owing to the nuclear testing sites in some western states after World War II. James Whitmore and James Arness figure prominently in the story as state and federal officers who try to solve the mystery of strange phenomena taking place in the New Mexico desert. Mutant ants are on the prowl and the great mystery is how to get rid of them after they're discovered. There are several chilling scenes as the monsters do their terrible work and the grand showdown comes during a savage firefight in storm drains beneath the streets of Los Angeles. The story has an intelligent script in spite of the film's premise and a good supporting cast makes it all come together. The ominous music score is very good, as is the camera work. "},{"Title":"Bazookas! Flamethrowers!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Man may mastered the atom but can he handle the consequences? This momentous and irrevocable change in world history can only lead to one thing giant carnivorous ants! This freak of the nuclear age becomes a worldwide crises that can only be overcome by the cooperation of the scientific community and the army....maybe. 'Them!' is one of those great cold war anxiety sci-fi films of the fifties that goes to great lengths to glorify the military while not so subtly denouncing the A-bomb. Talk about your noble white guys! The studios put their hunkiest actors in uniform and create a blonde, gleaming grinned G. I. Joe archetype. Almost everything about this picture seems like it was made specifically for adolescent boys. The fetishistic use of flamethrowers and bazookas is so awesome that it makes you want to go into the backyard and torch your toys with a can of hairspray and a bic like you used to. The giant ants themselves get a good amount of screen time after an appropriate build-up and work pretty spectacularly as visuals. The ultra-apocalyptic fuddy duddy scientist cryptically references the Bible constantly, and there's a great scene where the nation's top brass are assembled to sit in for a lecture on ant behavior. This is a great picture and any classic science-fiction fan should definitely check it out. "}{"Title":"Gimme some Them!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Giant ants on the warpath! I love this movie, despite the outdated special effects. It has some rather likable characters, and the filmmakers have managed to get mileage out of more than just their monsters. The film takes place in eerie locations such as the wind-swept desert, ominous storm drains, and an abandoned general store.It also benefits from cutting through the B.S. relatively early and getting right to the action. It isn't long before we see our first giant ant, making a memorable appearance over the crest of a hill during a sandstorm while our heroine doesn't see it coming.The scenes at the end of the movie are interesting, too, especially since their influence on later movies like Aliens and Terminator II have been well-documented.The clunky ant effects are the one big drawback to the film. Although they are adequate, they don't often look like anything other than giant marionettes. We also start to wonder why, if this is an entire ant colony, there aren't hundreds of ants swarming around like a real ant colony.Still, it's a lot of fun, and a satisfying flick. Get yourself some Them! as soon as possible! (PS Them! means the ants, of course, although you'll have to see the movie to find out why) "},{"Title":"Great movie, weird poster","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As most people know, this is no ordinary Giant Mutant Insect B-Movie. It is in fact the first big bug movie, and it's done very well. The only true B-movie aspect about it is the fact that the lead characters are involved every step of the way. I mean, the entire operation to save the world is practically ran by a smalltown desert cop and an FBI agent, who was only called in because the first victims were the family of an FBI man on holiday. Still, maybe things were different in the 50s.Of course, the poster art doesn't help either. I bought this wonderful poster years before I saw the film, and it is one of the most deceptive ones I've seen. The first ant is twice as big as the ones in the movie, the one in the background is as big as a house! Buildings are crumbling, the fleeing civilians are engulfed in flames and a big breasted woman is caught in the ant's mandibles. The line 'Kill one and two take it's place!' led me to believe they somehow split into two living halves, like a worm. Naturally, none of this is in the film. Anyway, I like both the poster on my wall and the movie on my shelf a lot. "},{"Title":"Grade A Ants, Coming Right Up","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gordon Douglas is not a director one usually associates with the word masterpiece. Most of his movies are mediocre at best, and only a handful are even good, much less outstanding. Them!, however, is splendid. The premise is ludicrous, concerning mutant ants in the southwestern desert who somehow grow to a frightening proportions due to their exposure to radiation from the atomic bomb. A good deal of the credit must go to Ted Sherdeman's script, which is crisp, to the point, and often quite funny. The acting is excellent. James Whitmore is the edgy but compassionate hero; James Arness is straightforward and winning as an FBI man. Edmund Gwenn all but steals the picture as the crusty old scientist who knows more than he says, and only speaks his mind when he's absolutely certain. Joan Weldon is attractive and believable as Gwenn's daughter, whom Arness romances along the way. A nice quartet of lead players. No one gets to hog the limelight for too long. As soon as Whitmore's grim determination gets to be a bit much, we get a report of a big ant attack, and it's off to the races. Then Gwenn does something fey, and everyone laughs. Everything flows smoothly in Them! there's a bit of horror, a touch of romance, followed by a science lecture.The movie begins like a murder mystery, in the New Mexico desert, as we see a young girl wandering about in a state of shock, soon to be picked up by state troopers. They come across a trailer where the girl's parents were apparently living, only its walls are caved in and the furniture and fixtures are smashed up and in disarray. When the officers go to a general store to talk to a local shopkeeper they discover his body on the basement stairs, and the store in a condition similar to that of the trailer. One of the officers stays behind, the other goes to get help. We see the officer outside, through the window, as a shadowy figure approaches. He fires his gun, then screams. An investigation ensures. A footprint taken from one of the crime scenes is sent to Washington, and soon a pair of scientists from the department of agriculture arrive. This first part of the movie is matter of fact, done in the style of Dragnet, but with more urgency and less police procedural stuff. It kicks into high gear when a giant ant appears over the top of the hill. The ant models are none too convincing, but the film works so well one can almost forget about this and focus on the human story, which is always emphasized over the horror. The last leg of the journey is in Los Angeles, where Whitmore and Arness interview a drunk in a hospital who tells them a story about some flying ants he sees from his window. Olin Howlin's performance and dialogue in this role have become classic (make me a sergeant, charge the booze!), as it's the one wholly comic interlude in the film, and yet it's hardly a diversion, since it furthers the story. Again, a nice balance in the script here.The movie ends in the storm drains beneath Los Angeles, as Whitmore, Arness and what looks like half the United States Army search for the nest of the queen ant, and also for two little boys who were last seen playing with their father nearby. Director Douglas ties things up neatly here, building tension melodramatically but effectively, with a minimum of fifties-style flag waving corn. Them! is sci-fi with a heart. There's very little tech talk in the movie, and when science is dragged into a conversation it's discussed intelligently (once one gets over the initial premise, that is), and people behave as one would expect (and hope) they would under such circumstances. That the movie was produced by a major studio no doubt helps a good deal. For a while, it appeared that sci-fi might emerge as a serious A-level genre in the fifties, but this never happened. When MGM, Paramount and Warners produced sci-fi they did so for the most part seriously, and they were often successful in their efforts. But the cheap movies came to dominate, and before long there were giant everythings (spiders, lizards, grasshoppers, crabs), as sci-fi devolved into drive-in fare. Them! is a good example of the genre at its A peak, before Roger Corman and others came along and turned it into beatnick camp.  "},{"Title":"Get The Large Can Of Raid!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here it is! The one and only THEM! This was one of the first mutant bug films to be released in the 1950's. It's probably the best of all of them. Great cast and cool giant ants. This film still has some great moments despite being nearly 48 years old. So pop up the corn and turn down the lights. This film is a lot of fun. And the next time you squash a little ant on the kitchen counter, just keep in mind the giant ants of...THEM! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Giant Insect Film of them all!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THEM! is a simple story of ants, who living near the test sites of the first nuclear weapons, have grown gigantic and are now ranging out to expand their nest and look for food.  What makes this film so great, other than the excellent direction (Gordon Douglass got his start doing Little Rascals!) and cast (Whitmore and Arness are superb as is Joan Weldon), is that these giant ants are still just ants. They don't have nuclear breath, they don't stop bullets, in fact they can be killed. But the documentary style, terse approach to the film has us believing that ant's like this can be around. It's just a great film from beginning to end. I hope they never think of re-making this! "},{"Title":"A 50s Classic!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the finest sci-fi/monster movies made in the 1950s.  This is an all time classic. Wonderfully acted by Edmund Gwenn, James Arness, James Whitmore and Joan Weldon this film for its time will be difficult to surpass. Lingering radiation from the first atomic bomb test, White Sands, Mexico in 1945 turns ants into huge rampaging monsters. The world is about to come to an end, but determination to destroy the giant ants leads to an exciting confrontation in the nest beneath the LA sewers which to this day, is one of the most amazing scenes ever filmed. A must buy if on DVD, although as far as I know is not available on VHS tape which is a pity. See it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie. I can recite about the whole movie word for word. It is a story of something that is not only frightning, but of something that can actually happen in the world. There is so much to the world of the unknown, who is to say that things like this can not happen. I enjoyed the movie because it is very realistic and you can tell that it could almost be a true story. "},{"Title":"Don´t bring any sugar...","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really love sci-fi/horror movies from the 40´s and 50´s and this is one of the best works in this genre. The dramaturgic build-up contra the semi-bad studio set, the convinced acting (from James Zeb Macahan Arness among others) versus the synthetic giant ants (made of papier mache or something) and of course the moral twist at the end. Like other masterpieces from this time, like for example The Incredible Shrinking Man and It Came From Outer Space, it is not scary at all but made with a lot of heart and very, very funny. "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen that flamethrower somewhere else?","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this film one summer afternoon a long time ago.  Not many films from that era of my life look very good upon rewatching.  But as I watched this one again recently on AMC, I found myself thinking, Y'know, for a '50's monster movie this isn't really that bad.  The acting, dialogue and plot development were actually reasonably good.  And that sound effect used to foreshadow the ant attacks was actually quite effective.Trivia  According to the AMC host, Them! was originally planned to be shot in color and 3D.  A few weeks before filming began, Jack Warner, who didn't believe in the project, slashed the budget.  However, the primary ant models had already been built.  According to one actor, the models looked so colorful and pretty that no one would have been found them to be very scary if the film had been in color.  Hence, the switch to B&W possibly saved the film.It would be fun to watch this movie back-to-back with James Cameron's Aliens.  There are some interesting similarities. "},{"Title":"Giant Ants Amongst Us!!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This classic came out during the early 1950s and is a gem of a film. Despite budget limitations which affected many so-called monster movies during that era, this one stand head and shoulders above all others. Wonderfully acted by a great cast, the story centres around the discovery of giant ants created out of atomic dust fallout from recent atomic bomb testing. It has a tremendous atmosphere throughout with a menacing music score. Two scenes stand out. The first one in the nest when there is an attempt to gas the ants. And the final scene in the Los Angeles sewers which is a classic. Time for a video release.  "}{"Title":"Vintage 1950s Classic","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the things that really strikes me about Them! is just how much of a 1950s movie this is.  Granted, all movies are artifacts of the time when they are made, but this one is like a time capsule.  It takes you back to a time when highway patrolmen wore bow ties (seriously, look close at James Whitmore's uniform) and people did what the government told them.  In the movie, they drive around Los Angeles and tell people there's giant mutant ants in the sewers, and the citizens of LA obediently cooperate.  Today you'd have the media all over the place, along with protesters wanting the ants to be preserved.Aside from that, Them! is one of those classics that still holds up well today.  The giant ants look a little on the phony side, but the movie is saved by a logical, suspenseful script and good performances.  And keep an eye open for cameo appearances by Leonard Nimoy and Fess Parker! The final analysis?  Them! is a gem.  "},{"Title":"Great classic entertainment.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Them! is a fun, and often suspenseful sci-fi movie. It's also one of the best of the 50's B-grade monster movie. It has so much entertainment, and cool special effects, and it is nowhere near as campy as you'd expect. The best part is when they are firing missiles at the ants nest. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movie centers around giant ants in New Mexico.James Arness stars in this movie.Although it is in b/w,the movie is well-directed,and the ants are fairly terrifying.Glad they killed those things.Hoo-ray for Warner Bros.!! "},{"Title":"Spine tingler","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Edmund Gwenn leads an excellent cast, including some great  character actors, in this nuclear age thriller. The  premise may sound crazy, but the literate script and the  solid acting make it really believable. Gwenn provides  not only comic relief in some scenes, but he also gives  the right sense of seriousness and urgency in his  performance. You may never think of ants the same way  after seeing this one. "},{"Title":"Brilliance on a Budget!","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them was Warner Brothers' biggest-grossing film of the year. It still grabs and holds audiences today because it is a graduate school seminar in budget film-making.The economical, intelligent and suspenseful script (by Russell Hughes and Ted Sherdeman) was cleverly designed around the least expensive locales (the Joshua Tree National Park in the Mojave Desert in California; the Los Angeles concrete river basin and drainage system; a smattering of interior sets).The biggest stars in the cast, at the time, were James Whitmore and Edmund Gwenn -- and even then they weren't stars but excellent character actors. The rest of the cast were largely unknowns -- but uniformly terrific actors.Originally to be shot in color and 3-D, the budget was cut, forcing 2-D black and white.Sydney Hickox's cinematography expertly utilizes lighting and angles to maximize suspense and drama, and to suggest far greater production values than are actually apparent. (When you're dealing with over-sized mechanical monsters -- see Jaws -- one rule of thumb is to show them as rarely as possible, and then only in the most dramatic quick cuts.) Thomas Reilly's taut editing, Stanley Fleischer's art direction and G.W. Berntsen's set decoration are all models for how to construct an expensive look on a shoestring budget.Gordon Douglas directs his excellent cast for maximum realism. The actors believe in what's happening and so do we.Dick Smith's ant models (brilliantly shot and edited) combined with Francis Scheid's award-nominated sound make the mutant ants believable, even if not up to today's CGI standards.The actors, of course, make or break a picture -- and here, to a man and woman -- they make it. Even the children are terrific. The girl in shock in the opening and the two boys trapped a mile into the dark drainage system beneath Los Angeles are admirably frightened and terrorized.With few (if any) sets to be built (existing ones were used and modified), the action set-pieces staged on dramatic existing locations (the Mojave Desert and the L.A. river basin / drainage system), and no high-priced stars to pay, Them is proof that less is more. Where there's no money for stars or special effects, creativity is all that's left.Audiences of today won't be terrified by Them (if they ever were), but once you start watching, you can't stop. "},{"Title":"pretty good 50's flick WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  pretty good 50's Scfi flick is well made and at times tense with a suspenseful exciting finale but the problem is it is at times a bit talky and uneven with it's pacing still i enjoyed this flick quite a bit as it's not your usual 50's campy b flick it's well written intelligent with some actually quite decent effects the Ants were actually creepy looking and the beginning has a creepy opening scene.the acting is good James Whitmore was my favorite character here and was VERY likable SPOILERS!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!! it was sad when he died i wanted him to live plus this man is a great actor and came out of this looking like a winner. i LOVED him! Edmund Gwenn does his job well here as the Doc and was quite likable i liked him lots Joan Weldon does what she has to do well not much of a part Onslow Stevens is good here not much of a part though rest of the cast do good. Overall a pretty good if a little overrated 50's Scfi flick still i really enjoyed this and i highly recommend it *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a fan of sci fi for well ever,this film is without doubt one of the finest of its type ever made.All the cast play it straight they add convection and depth to the story and their own characters,which help flesh out the characters/story.The special effects are from the school ofless shown more menacing they become,indeed the whole film has a slightly grainy documentary feel to it.Without doubt it shows what can be achieved on small budgets/no computer generated effects i hope to god no one ever tries to do a remake of this classic with zillions of dollars of special effects and no plot/characters developments filmmakers be warned leave it alone  "},{"Title":"Smashing!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Totally wonderful film, kinda nerv-thrilling and oh so funny. The special effects were colossal and it's no wonder it got an Oscar for Best SFX. ..the only downside to the film is;1) Black 'n white. 2) Too short. 3) Too much clichés. "},{"Title":"When they talk classic sci-fi this is one of the dearly beloved!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The greatest attribute about this film is that it is just so ordinary! Ok so its dated now! so's President Nixon (what am I saying? he always was!!!) Literate and totally unsensational in presentation it simply puts forth the hypothesis what IF nuclear testing left us with a colony of mutated ants? They are not super ants...faster than a speeding bullet, stronger than Hulk Hogan, or even able to knock over the Empire State building - they're just, well, huge!So many strong performances. James Whitmore, ever reliable and still holding up almost 50 years on, in such films as THE RELIC (does this guy love monster movies or what???) and currently THE MAJESTIC. He is a real survivor! James Arness, pre GUNSMOKE days plays an FBI agent up to his eyeballs in formic acid while Edmund Gwenn simply steals the show as Doctor Medford. Have a look too for Fess Parker, just pre his stint as Davy Crockett. Although the individual ant fx aren't that crash hot, the scenes inside the nests are quite brilliant. I have to tell you that seeing the film in 1954, complaints about the fx were the last thing on anyone's mind. This was adrenalin plus and prejudiced or not I would have to admit that the film as a unit, holds up well even today. They could spend $200 million remaking this and it'd be no better!I'm actually watching it as I write!....ooh! thats gotta hurt! "},{"Title":"Make me a Sergeant, and charge the booze","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Make me a Sergeant, and charge the booze  this is a little low-budget gem because it gets the little things right.  The crazy boozer in the VA hospital, the LA river turned into a culvert, the murder mystery that turns into a fable of the atomic age--it all works to make what could have been just another drive-in rubber monster movie into something deeply real.  In a way, the rather absurd giant ants are a McGuffen to propel a plot about decent ordinary human beings facing disaster with courage and dignity.  It faces, if obliquely, the reals horrors of the modern age  soul-less war, soul-less genetic manipulation, soul-less science.  It opposes these with humanistic science and just plain human bravery.  And just plain human weakness as well--sometimes it's a good thing that a drunk is more insightful than a general. "}{"Title":"The first, and best, of the big bug films","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Giant ants (caused by atom bomb tests) are on the rampage in the desert of New Mexico. Police officer James Whitmore, FBI agent James Arness and scientists Edmund Gwenn and Joan Weldon find the nest and destroy them...but three of them escape and are headed to Los Angeles.The special effects look pretty silly but this still works. The cast plays the whole thing dead serious and the script is intelligent and the movie exciting. Even better there's no stupid romantic subplot shoe horned in (even though Arness and Weldon DO make eyes at each other). People act just like you would expect and nothing is dumbed down. It is disturbing though that one man (Fess Parker!) is kept locked in a mental institution so he won't tell anybody he saw the ants and Los Angeles is put under martial law with no fuss! Still this was considered OK back in the 1950s. The ant attacks are (wisely) kept to a minimum so when they do happen they're pretty shocking and there's one death that I did NOT see coming! The special effects were even nominated for an Academy Award! This is rightfully considered a classic sci-fi film. Ignore the silly effects and you'll be entertained. I give it an 8. Look for Leonard Nimoy in a quick bit. Also restored prints have the title in big color letters while the rest of the film is in b&w. "},{"Title":"one of the best of the old b&w horror films","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What makes this film so good is the cast. It's a great collection of familiar faces. And they they do a good job with material that could have turned out very differently. Obviously it doesn't have the effects that we see today, and it may seem corny in a few places. But, this is a film that is just fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"The giant insect movie against which all others should be judged","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is truly THE classic B-movie. Released less than ten years after Hiroshima, it was the first movie to show the possible effects of nuclear fallout. In this case, ants grow to the size of semi trucks and start terrorizing people.OK, so Them! doesn't have the biggest plot line, but the movie never pretends to be anything more than it is. I'm assuming that Joe Dante's Matinee (the movie-within-a-movie portrays a man turning into an ant) was inspired by Them!. My mom, who grew up in a small town where there was little more to do than go to the movies, has always told me about how part of the reason that these B-movies were so great is because they were always an alternative to the family fun movies (which were approximately as fun as a root canal). So make sure to see Them!. You'll love it.Oh, and watch for Leonard Nimoy as a radio operator. "},{"Title":"Atomic Ants on the Attack!","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You don't get more classic than this. The 1950s was the golden age of timeless monster movies. We've went from alien invaders to mad scientists to Godzilla and back, some good movies like 20 Million Miles to Earth to laughable flicks such as The Giant Claw. For this little gem, the filmmakers essentially took animals we normally wouldn't think twice about and turned them into massive terrifying monsters, an ingenious concept if you ask me. The result is one of the most iconic and influential monster movies of all time, strangely named Them!.Within the hot, barren New Mexico desert, a number of strange incidents have been occurring. Homes are torn apart, corpses are discovered, sugar instead of money is stolen, and a small girl too scared to speak is found and rescued. With the usual possibilities quickly ruled out, police officers and FBI agents team up with scientists to find the true cause of this bizarre series of unfortunate events. What they ultimately discover proves too incredible to believe giant mutant ants spawned by atomic tests conducted a decade ago. With their strength, ingenuity, and numbers, these insects pose a dire threat to humanity's very survival. Our heroes must find a way to prevent these beasts from spreading across the country, leading to a suspenseful final showdown beneath the earth.There's plenty to like about this sci-fi movie. The characters are distinct enough from a courageous police officer to a quirky scientist and his determined no-nonsense daughter (the latter of which is a relief from the usual damsel in distress). The dialogue between them is entertaining to watch with some rather humorous moments that genuinely made me chuckle from time to time. The suspense is executed pretty well here, keeping you on your toes wondering when the ants will strike. The music is pretty standard for its time but it does its job providing a creepy atmosphere to the film. The action scenes are quite thrilling to watch, complete with structures collapsing, guns firing, flamethrowers blazing, monsters chomping, all that good stuff.The giant ants are the obvious highlight and boy are they are great. They are portrayed using massive animatronics, which are actually quite impressive given the low budgets of the genre at the time, complete with many moving parts like the mandibles, antennae, and legs. While these monsters are harmed by our weapons, they are still quite powerful and, like real ants, are determined to stop their prey by any means necessary. By far the scariest part of the giant insects is their sounds, which have an almost alien feel to them. This is especially apparent when you don't see the ants and are unsure of where and when they will strike, giving a foreboding sense of dread. It's really easy to forget that ants, when you really get down to it, are savage and frightening animals and if you run into one as big you, you'd better run. While the ants are absent for a good chunk of the film, when they do show up, it's a spectacle to behold.With notable characters, chilling monsters, great action, surprisingly good science regarding ants, and excellent suspense, Them! is a memorable 50s classic you may not want to miss. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Simply just one of the best!","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The next time that your house is invaded by ants, just be grateful that they're not the giants of this practically perfect science fiction film. Along with The Thing from Another World or The Day the Earth Stood Still, Them! ranks as one of the all-time great classic science fiction films. Like many others of its time, it is a commentary on what happens when mankind bites off more than they can chew in the world of science, being unaware of what the repercussions will be where there snooping into areas which should not be part of their knowledge. The deserts of New Mexico have been plagued with mysterious killings, with houses literally being ripped to pieces, and a little girl walking aimlessly through the desert, lost in shock. Fortunately kind police officer James Whitmore happens to be on the scene, making his rounds when he spots the poor unfortunate little girl. She can't speak, is unaware of her surroundings, but when all of a sudden certain circumstances make her remember, she spits up in a panic and screams Them!As we soon find out, there are these large ants, living in a huge hole in the ground, and coming out to find their prey. They have the strength to rip a man in half, and are soon making their way to Los Angeles. While it is not obviously for a screen test, they do get their share of publicity, turning the city into a panic when the military arrives and proclaimed martial law. Two little boys are found inside the tunnels of the Los Angeles River, and it is up to the military now to rescue them from these nasty creatures, and to then find the nest where the Queen has laid her eggs.I will never forget the sound effects utilized to make the ant's noise, because they are truly eerie. The always likable Edmund Gwenn plays the wise professor who gives an explanation as to why these ants have increased in size, and what they are capable of considering their size. Interesting film footage shows regular sized ants in combat with each other, big ants devouring small ants, and how the Queen fertilizes her eggs so new Queens can be born. With this aspect thrown in, science fiction becomes science truth and while certainly the earth has not been invaded by giant bugs as of yet, it does give us a reminder of the dangers that science has perpetrated over the past 70 years.This is one of those films that can be watched over and over again, because there's always something new to learn and some outstanding special effects then you may not have picked up before. Also among the cast is James Arness aka the thing from another world, and this time he is on the right side of the laws of nature. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Giant Bug Movie","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! (1954) **** (out of 4) A police Sergent (James Whitmore) finds a little girl wondering alone in the desert. Soon afterwards a couple different locations appear as if something has blown them apart. Soon a FBI agent (James Arness), a scientist (Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter (Joan Weldon) are investigating and they discover that the atomic bomb that was dropped nine years earlier has caused the ants to grow to a giant size.THEM! was the first of the giant bug movies and it's also the greatest. There were countless giant movies that followed this one but none of them came close to matching the greatness that can be found here. There's really not a flaw to be found in this B movie that manages to have some nice tension, a great sci-fi story, a terrific monster as well as some excellent performances and direction. Whenever you want to recommend a monster movie done right then this here certainly ranks up there with the greatest.I think the greatest thing the film has going for it is the screenplay, which treats the material extremely serious but doesn't waste time preaching. A lot of movies usually had speeches with scientist beating it into our head that we're destroying the planet and these type of things could happen. This film gets the message across but at the same time it doesn't forget that it's a monster movie. It really delivers the goods as the monsters look and sound terrific and the underground chambers are just a lot of fun as our heroes walk through them.There are all sorts of explosions and various gunfights and these just add to the fun. It certainly doesn't hurt that you've got three terrific leads that just make you believe and care more about the story. Whitmore and Arness easily steal the film but Gwenn, Weldon and Onslow Stevens are also extremely good. Add in the terrific cinematography and that wonderful bug noise and you're left with one terrific monster movie. "},{"Title":"much better than it has any right to be - all hail the WILHELM scream!","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It starts out with a murder mystery what happened in this room where everything looks completely messed up? What about the sugar cubes? And the little girl who is in shock and will one day probably serve as inspiration for when Newt is discovered in Aliens? Who could've done this to this home? As it turns out, there is something very fishy going on... whoops, sorry, wrong animal classification. There are giant ants, as it turns out (and the filmmakers cleverly wait until 28 minutes in to the movie), and of course once you see just once ant there's a whole colony of them with a Queen. And not just one colony, if there are more than one queen - this information provided, of course, by the very helpful Dr. Medford (Edmund Gwenn) who seems to know all there is to know about ants and, thus, knows everything about these giant, atomic-age ants.How can this be? Who cares? This is the kind of movie where you almost need the information given to you because, hey, it's THAT kind of 50's sci-fi B-movie hallmark. We even get, in a scene where it's meant for some key people in Washington but it's mostly for those yokels in the audience who know next to nothing about the little critters, a step-by-step illustration of what they can do on film lifting objects much greater than their own size, finding ways to dig around objects much bigger than themselves, and how their antennae and hearing is so intense that their lack of good eyesight doesn't matter much.THEM! is kind of lacking in really engaging character development but, again, who cares right? The good part about Them is that it is always moving forward with purpose what to do next about the ants? How did they get on to a ship? Could they be in Los Angeles?! There are also a lot of little details that help to give some characterizations along the way, or just in side people who we only see briefly. When the little girl finally gets her smelling salts and delivers the classic, campy THEM! line over and over, it's hard not to smile and laugh a little.When the doctor is on the helicopter having to communicate with his daughter (a very good Joan Weldon) on another copter, he just can't seem to get the concept of saying Over after every sentence he gives, and it's a clever little bit of comedy amid the tension of this scene (the characters even point out it's just one of those things movie characters have to do, without saying it explicitly). And when the cops have to question some drunks and speeder who may have been in the area in LA where ants were, the speeder turns out to be a woman who was going so fast early in the morning after, well, being married and out all night with someone else. Oops.And the ants themselves - lumbering, big-headed things that were meant in part for 3D (a couple of shots show that for sure in close-ups), and while they are ludicrous monstrosities, they're kind of adorable things just in the wake of today's glut of CGI pictures. One can't imagine, of course, one of these ants in the Marvel Ant-Man movie, but then in this time and place we'd practically *want* to see something like this. It's real, it's in their faces, and when one of them picks someone up it's not fake... OK, it is a fake ant, but you know what I mean.THEM! crams in its parable about the dangers of the atomic age - hey, this was just ONE of the effects of the A-bomb, what about the others that went off (they don't say it but, eh, Japan, right) - but it's also a skillful thriller, and it takes its actors and situations seriously enough with decent dialog and performances. What it may lack in making these fully fleshed out characters it makes up for with a rigorously told story and multiple Wilhelm screams. "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Best Supporting Actress Nominee","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Academy missed an obvious nominee for Best Supporting Actress Sandy Descher as the young Ellinson girl, who first appears wandering in the desert, delivers a star performance, convincingly projecting the persona of a child traumatized. Despite the dry environment, the many distractions, and her youthful inexperience she stares absently and unflinchingly in all her scenes. Her gradual dozing off to sleep; her involuntary response of sitting upright in the ambulance, vacantly peering into the desert at the sound of the ants; and her dramatic reawakening from misdiagnosed aphonia when the professor passes a dish of formic acid beneath her nose--screaming the film's title, Them!-- add a real sense of fright. Director Gordan Douglas had discovered a star who never received the recognition she deserved. "},{"Title":"One of the better giant bug movies.","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This had real potential but they screwed it all up.They managed to have a good story but it's completely unoriginal. An FBI agent goes on vacation to the middle of the desert,seems about right.Then giant ants attack. The government sends in a guy to take over and try to create conflict and spout scientific lies. From there on lots of stuff that doesn't make sense happens. This movie is just a bunch of clichés wrapped in a half-baked plot.It has all the typical things like the American southwest and tunnels and scientists with guns. I didn't really like it but it's above average for this type of movie.Definitely give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Them Review","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Getting into the spirit of Halloween I'm going to review THEM. A 1950's monster movie about mutant ants. The ants are mutated from radiation maybe from A-Bomb tests. The effects are a little laughable today with the ants but a lot of this was borrowed later for Aliens.If you don't know what I'm taking about rent THEM when you can. It's available almost everywhere You'll see the things related to Aliens, the girl as the lone survivor, people torching the nest, all that from THEM originally. This movie has a 100% on the tomato meter and it shows with the anti-nuclear moral. Also I think you can see a young Leonard Nimoy in one of the scenes too. Watch it for yourselves and see what you think of it. "}{"Title":"A True groundbreaking, Sci-Fi' Classic","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For what it's worth, Them! was made in an era without any history for sci-fi' precedence. It was a completely new movie genre, in a Hollywood still trying to break away from its classic silver-screen mantra of the 1920's and 1930's. So along comes this amazing movie - complete with a brilliantly new and original plot / storyline, story setting & backdrop. Next to 'Metropolis', it truly is (as clichéd as descriptions go) an epic, before-its-time, classic. For the era, it is an incredible achievement of balanced storyline, character development, and special effects, that precious few sci-fi' flicks since have ever gotten close to mimicking. Setting the perfect tone for a cold-war era warning about the dangers of radioactive fallout makes it the template for each and every sci-fi' rip-off that woefully tried to follow its lead. How can i fault a masterpiece? Truth is, i can't. "},{"Title":"Watch Out for Them!","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In arid New Mexico, police sergeant James Whitmore (as Ben Peterson) finds pretty pigtailed Sandy Descher. She's in a catatonic state and has obviously witnessed some earth-shattering event. When able to speak, the little girl identifies her horror as Them! Unusual footprints are found, along with some dead bodies. Them appear to have a sweet tooth, as we see sugar is a target (not money). Unfortunately, nobody noticed the sugar was only knocked over, not taken (in error.) FBI agent James Arness (as Robert Bob Graham) arrives to investigate. More helpful is elderly entomologist Edmund Gwenn (as Harold Medford). His daughter Joan Weldon (as Patricia Pat Medford) is similarly well-versed in insect life. She's also young, single and shapely...Lingering radiation from the first atomic bomb, is how Mr. Gwenn describes the monsters. This resulted in a swarm of 1950s movies, along the same lines. Them! is one of the best. Among the TV stars in small roles; Leonard Nimoy (Mr. Spock), John Beradino (Dr. Hardy), William Schallert (Patty Duke's dad) and Richard Deacon (Mel Cooley). In a robe and pajamas, Texas story-teller Fess Parker (Davy Crockett) takes full advantage of his featured role. Without knowing he had one of his best assignments, director Gordon Douglas glides his cast and cameras around perfectly. His home is a medium low angle and he alters point of view to great effect. Sid Hickox photographed, in striking black-and-white. From the desert to Los Angeles, it looks terrific.******** Them! (6/16/54) Gordon Douglas ~ James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn, Joan Weldon, James Arness "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good actors in B-movie","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Police Sgt. Ben Peterson (James Whitmore) finds a shocked little girl wandering in the New Mexico desert. She escaped from giant ants that attacked her family trailer but is now catatonic. Soon the ants are attacking the locals. FBI agent Robert Graham (James Arness) arrives to investigate. Dr. Harold Medford (Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter Dr. Pat Medford (Joan Weldon) from Department of Agriculture arrives later to explain that the atomic testing in 1945 had mutated giant ants. Harold Medford shocks the little girl and she screams Them! The group is able to kill one of the ants. Then they discover the entrance to the colony. After destroying the nest, they find two queen ants had already hatched and escaped. The action continues to move until it reaches Los Angeles.The first half is quite compelling. The ants aren't shown. It is simply the eerie squeaking ants sound amongst the wind. The investigation is interesting. The acting is quite good consider its B-movie size. Both James Whitmore and Edmund Gwenn are Oscar caliber actors. The escape to LA is problematic. It would have been better to have the cops battle the ants out in the desert. The action is ant-tastic but it can get a little repetitive. Nevertheless this is one of the better creature features from the era. Also one can also play a game of spot the Leonard Nimoy in one of his early minor acting role. "},{"Title":"Them!","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie Them! had incredible graphics for its time seeming to bring real life giant ants to the bring screen. Their eerie screeching sound is like nails on a chalkboard and who can forget the scene where the ant tosses a human rib cage down its ant hill. The film also had great characters besides the loony scientist that every monster movie has to have, just didn't like Edward Gwenn's role thinking he was acting extra annoying. I thought the film had some balls though illuminating the message against nuclear bombs and its surprising ending which I won't spoil. The plot was a little jumbled and it was slow at times but overall I enjoyed Them! very much so and it has replay value. "},{"Title":"Them","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before the atomic age was truly understood, this movie explored the what if that could happen as a result. It is pretty successful too.The cast is above average for a Sci-Fi 50's film. Warner Brothers got James Whitmore and James Arness for this one. They even found opera singer actress Joan Weldon for Arness in the days before Miss Kitty.The string of the plot is a bit thin as giant ants being created by radiation might have seemed real in 1954 but it seems anyone who went to a shoe store back then and had their feet measured by an X-Ray machine might have saw through it. Then again, considering how big some peoples feet are now days, maybe there is something to this after all.These are giants ants who try to ruin humanities picnic. They seem to crush and eat humans like fried chicken stripping us to the bone. That's about as creepy as I want to get. Look for Fess Parker in a bit role in this one. "},{"Title":"A landmark movie","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1954, It begins in New Mexico with a wandering child in robotic shock, a ransacked local store and a corpse full of enough formic acid to kill 20 men. It ends in an epic underground struggle in Los Angeles where the insect horde is beaten. *Special Stars- James Arness, James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn, Joan Weldon *Theme- Atomic power in a bomb is uncontrollable and scary. *Trivia/location/goofs- Very early roles for Leonard Nimoy as the Army Communication Sergeant and a very animated 'Pre-Coonskin Hat' Fess Parker as the Texan Pilot Eyewitness in an asylum. The actual ant nest film location is at the foot of the rocky hills West of Lake Los Angeles community in antelope Valley CA. The spot can be found east against the rocky points of 145st east and intersection of the dirt road P-8. *Emotion- An enjoyable film. A landmark movie about giant radiation-mutated ants that gets better with age and boasts remarkable Academy Award nominated special physical effects. This film plot has spawned a new cinema generation of films about radioactive creatures for the succeeding decades. Man has split the atom and ushered in a new era. But how could we know about we could also create? "},{"Title":"Another Anti-Nuclear Tale of Warning","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The special effects in Them! dates this classic chiller considerably, and one wishes that the giant ants weren't so synthetic. Nevertheless, not even ersatz special effects can sabotage this atmospheric scary saga. Barquero director Gordon Douglas had helmed just about every kind of movie when he brought his vision to this straightforward but exciting procedural where nothing--not even the huge radioactive ants--seems outlandish. Indeed, Them! could serve as a blueprint for any standard creature feature, with some exceptional detours along the way. This cautionary yarn warns us that we as humanity have entered a new sort of world with the atomic age advances that the nuclear bomb ushered in during 1945. Nobody has any reason to notice or any chance to catch a glimpse of these big ants until they go searching for sugar. The convincing cast is quite sturdy, toplining James Whitmore as New Mexico State Policeman Sergeant Ben Peterson and James Arness as FBI Agent Robert Graham propelling the plot forward with commendable urgency.The opening scene with the little girl (Sandy Descher of The Space Children) traipsing through the desert as if in a trance with a doll baby in her arm sets the tone for this mysterious epic. Peterson and his partner Ed Blackburn (Chris Drake of Tokyo Rose) discover an unusual footprint amid the wreckage of a trailer and an abandoned car with an Illinois license tag which turns out to be nothing like they expected. The thing that a trashed trailer shares with a ransacked gas station in the middle of nowhere is sugar scattered everywhere as if a giant with a sweet tooth had plundered both places. This mystifies Peterson because money has been left about in abundance. Peterson leaves Blackburn behind to guard the ravaged gas station while he heads off to the hospital to see about the little girl. Not long after Peterson leaves, something arouses Blackburn's curiosity, and he investigates off screen. We hear gunshots and learn later that he has been killed. Peterson's superior tells our hero that he shouldn't feel any more responsible for Blackburn's death than the death of storekeeper Gramps Johnson or the disappearance of Chicago native Alan Ellinson. As it turns out, Ellinson was an FBI agent on vacation with his family. Not surprisingly, the New Mexico State Troopers call in the FBI, and Robert Graham shows up.Graham ships the plaster footprint impression to Washington. They are surprised when the Department of Agriculture dispatches two doctors named Medford. Of course, one is the elderly father, Harold (Edmund Gwenn of Miracle on 34th Street), while the other is his drop-dead gorgeous daughter Patricia(Joan Weldon of Gunsight Ridge) who makes a memorable entry when she climbs out of a bomber. She catches her apparel on the ladder as she descends. FBI Agent Graham wants to get sick just so she can nurse and the two of them become soft on each other. The Medfords are reluctant to share their findings until they are absolutely certain that the culprits are ants which have been mutated into sizes of 9 to 12 feet in size. Initially, our protagonists aren't sure what to make of this discovery until one of them attacks Patricia in the desert. Dr. Harold advises the military to drop cyanide into a gigantic underground ant colony as soon as possible. Afterward, our heroes descend to the depths of the tunnels and learn to their chagrin that two queens have hatched and how flown the coop. Now, the countdown begins as our heroes must locate the flying queens and their drones. One queen and her court land on a ship at sea, and this scene is really cool. Graham and Peterson track the other queen to Los Angeles and the underground sewer system. Look out! "},{"Title":"Don't want these ants in your pants","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another film in Universal monster movies line. However, this film deals with the relatively new at the time fear of nuclear radiation. Instead of a wolf-man or Frankenstein monster the characters face a new horror, giant ants created by nuclear fallout. When I say giant I mean in the nine to twelve foot range. They also create a horrifying sound that is sure to stay with you after the picture.The film starts out with two police (James Whitmore) responding to a call about a girl found wandering in the New Mexico desert. As the investigation unfolds the police are baffled by the clues and amount of wreckage that they find at the crime scenes. As more victims turn up the FBI becomes involved and calls in Dr. Medford (Edmund Gwenn) and his lovely daughter/assistant (Joan Weldon) who specialize in insects. We soon discover the true protagonist in the film isn't some crazy killer but is instead giant Irradiated ants. The film is less campy than the previous monster films I have reviewed. The actors play the roles straight without the unintentional humor found in some of the other Universal horror pictures. The special effects still look frightening after all these years. The giant ants look fearsome and menacing as they prey upon their victims. I found the story to be well written, the level of suspense slowly builds in the film toward the monsters reveal. The topics and themes introduced in this picture have been copied and emulated numerous times since. This is certainly a groundbreaking work of science fiction upon which many current and past films owe a debt of gratitude. For example I was struck by the similarities between some scenes in this film involving the hatching eggs and flamethrowers and similar shots in the Alien movies. Furthermore without this film would we have the Godzilla films and numerous other giant monster pictures?This is worth checking out to study the influences it helped spawn. Furthermore, the picture still holds up well despite its age do to a good story and solid acting. I would not hesitate to recommend that you check out this sci-fi classic. It is currently available on Netflix instant streaming. "},{"Title":"They mostly come out at night. Mostly.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Jaws and Aliens there was the vaguely titled Them!, one of the better of many creature features released in the 1950s (Them!, The Thing, The Blob, The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms, Tarantula, Invaders From Mars) .The plot? Exposure to radiation has led to the creation of a hive of giant, mutated ants. The ants commit a series of unseen murders in small town New Mexico, the corpses of which lead locals to suspect that a serial killer is on the loose. When it is revealed that the murders were in fact committed by TOTALLY GIGANTIC MUTANT ANTS, the US Army is promptly called in, and together with our heroes work together to defeat the GIGANTIC INSECTS.In the 1950s, these films were typically shot on low budgets, featured lowly actors and relied on madcap ingenuity to fashion monsters and special effects out of discarded bits of junk. Today, Hollywood almost exclusively disseminates such movies, though now these B movies are given A list production values, the biggest movie stars, the largest budgets, the most elaborate special effects and the most obscene global, blanket promotions. In many ways, Them!'s army of ants has gone on to completely conquer Hollywood.Incidentally, from this film would spring much of Aliens and Jaws (and the B movies of Lucas and Spielberg). The film's unseen murderers becomes Jaws' shark, and much of James Cameron's film owes a lot to director Gordon Douglas' work here. For example, both Them! and Aliens feature a traumatised little girl who is the sole survivor of a settlement wiped out by monsters, both films feature creatures whose colony is led by a giant queen, both films feature battles in alien tunnels, both films end with our heroes descending into the queen's nest to rescue children, both films end with our heroes killing the queen and her eggs with flamethrowers, both films feature environments ravaged by electrical sandstorms, and both end with the collapse and destruction of the queen's hive.Like many of these 1950's science-fiction/horror B movies, the film expresses post Hiroshima anxieties, and a fear of the atomic bomb, nuclear energy and radiation. The film's heroes are strictly out of the 1950's scifi B movie handbook, all square jawed, gentle, handsome, intelligent, and strong; the American ideal.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Review of the film, Them!","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! is one of the leading examples of the exploitation period of cinema. To this day, it remains to be an entertaining and well-directed science fiction film. It also happens to be one of the well-made studio pictures of this time period. The movie deals with mutated ants that have been exposed to test-bomb radiation, hence causing them to become giant, fierce monsters. The film was obviously inspired by the cold-war fear of the atomic bomb, and the possible side effects it could cause. Nowadays, weapons exist that have the capability to destroy entire countries. In fact, our world probably possesses the power to destroy our entire planet, and that's a scary fact, especially when you have no control over it. In my opinion, no control is the scariest part about the existence of the atom bomb. We, the civilians, have no say in its use. You never know when nuclear weapons are going to fall into the hands of the wrong people. This movie truly attempts to frighten the audience in a good scene where Dr. Harold Medford quotes scripture saying, We may be witnesses to biblical prophecy come true And there shall be destruction & darkness come up in creation, and the beasts will reign over the earth. The line was given at the perfect moment in the film to just keep on feeding on the fear of its audience. Please take the time to enjoy this cautionary tale! "}{"Title":"The atomic age left vampires and werewolves seeming not so scary","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film had a common theme for 50's sci-fi - that of man playing around with atomic power causing extreme adverse impacts on the global environment. Here James Arness plays an FBI agent and Edmund Gwenn is a Ph.D. from the Department of Agriculture, both of whom are sent out to help solve the cases of a group of small town New Mexico murders and disappearances that don't make sense to local law enforcement. This film is overtly judgmental of man's recklessness with nuclear technology and discusses the possibility that there is more to the after effect of the atomic testing that went on there in 1945 than just the immediate destruction of the blast. In this case, mutations in the form of giant ants are linked to those first atomic experiments.Although the public probably wasn't afraid of actual giant insects in the 1950's, as a result of the cold war and nuclear technology, the atomic age certainly made the stars of past horror films - vampires and werewolves - look tame in comparison by opening up a whole new horizon of horrific possibilities. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was entertaining fare. What I like about it is that, although the idea is preposterous, the movie at least tried to get real information on ant colonies. Many science fiction movies fail, because they make up facts. The older scientist, whom I believe later played in North By Northwest, is very convincing as a wise and determined man. James Arness looks more like his younger brother, Peter Graves, in this role. The main character, James Whitmore, would later star in police movies and TV shows in the 60s and 70s.This movie doesn't pretend to be much more than entertainment. It is also probably a look at the potential consequences of the consequences of the nuclear age. Look for William Schalert playing an ambulance driver. He later would play in several movies in his career, and also has been on TV commercials. "},{"Title":"That ant hole is no place for a woman!","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A little girl is found wandering in the desert, the sole survivor of her family, and the only word she can say is, Them! A local police officer (James Whitmore) and an FBI agent (James Arness) investigate the mystery with the help of a lovely scientist (Joan Weldon).One of the best of the fifties sci-fi movies, Them has a good cast, a serious and at times, even educational tone to the script, and giant ants that are usually half-hidden in the dark. (Just as well, because they're pretty lame by today's standards, but still fun for nostalgia-fans.) It's wholesome entertainment that would only scare small children these days, but those who love the genre will appreciate the sincere and solemn characters who risk their lives to save mankind from atom bomb-mutated bugs. A simple story with good acting that is still entertaining. "},{"Title":"You can't kill these with a shoe","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the first time I've seen a monster/sci-fi movie where science isn't the bad guy. There is an even balance between sanity and science that is seldom seen in movies of the day and even today. Scientists typically turn from general curiosity to madness in just a few scenes. There is a lot for a scientist to go mad about in the movie, but they don't, and it pays off. There are very few things wrong in this movie. A few lines of dialogue are out of place, but other than that this is a pretty tight story. I had no problem with the fact that giant ants were invading and the effects were cheesy (but nominated for an Oscar, losing to 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea). The acting is great and the writing doesn't take away from any of the drama. It's also nice to see an intelligent woman who does more than just scream. Don't let this title fool you. Them! is a pretty legitimate sci/fi film that even stands up to some of todays standards of suspense and general storytelling. Plus you have to love the message at the end of the film. Like all other sci/fi films from the 50s and 60s, there has to be a takeaway point. Classic. "},{"Title":"Excellent mutant monster movie that still holds up well","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young girl, mute because of psychological trauma, is found wandering in the desert, her parents' trailer destroyed, the parents missing. Soon it is discovered that the killers who wreaked such destruction are none other than giant ants, mutated because of radiation from atomic bomb testing. And they are on the loose, reproducing and threatening all civilization. It is up to the military, aided by a mild mannered professor, his daughter and the FBI, to stop this menace.Them! is one of the earliest, and together with Godzilla, one of the best atomic age mutant monster movies. The story is fairly simple and linear, but is successful in keeping the viewer's interest throughout. A great feeling of suspense is built up in the early parts of the film, when the killers are unknown, and then the action heats ups in the quest to destroy the giant mutants.Visually this is a pleasing film, and the ants themselves are menacing. There are some shots of the ants that I think could be considered among the most frightening in cinema if taken as still pictures. The acting is good, the dialog reasonable. This movie never gets camp or corny and it doesn't seem dated even more than 50 years after it was released.On top of all its entertainment value, it is a good example of the collective societal fears in the 1950's around nuclear weapons and atomic radiation. It is interesting that, made during the Cold War, in this film, the good guys are the military and the scientific establishment-not often seen in later films surrounding the bad effects of man's explorations into technology.All in all, this is a great movie that stands the test of time and continues to be entertaining and a real classic. "},{"Title":"It's great.","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You gotta like this one--check the cast Arness, Whitmore, Taylor, Weldon, Gwenn, etc. the locales-desert, sewers, etc. The cameos-Richard Deacon! Fess Parker! Dub Taylor! Spock! all good stuff here.There's suspense, there's action, there's flame-throwers, big ants, a junked camper-trailer, big bugs on the loose, there's the distinguished mad scientist type running things, there's a rare nod towards a strong smart woman who's not just there for her looks-there's a couple cute kids in danger and there's an ant going nuts on board a ship.Clearly this could have been TERRIBLE, but w/ anything, it's NOT the formula, it's what ya do w/ it. They did it rather well here. Only debits, well okay the ants aren't the most convincing, but this WAS made in '54, and it's hitting all the big monster attack clichés in the book. Again, that's to be expected.I liked it and it was good seeing this again.***1/2 outta **** "},{"Title":"50s sci-fi at its very best!","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a big fan of 1950s science fiction films and this is one of the best.From start to finish it's pure entertainment.The film is much more than a story about giant ants.Part of the fun is the investigation that leads to the discovery of the giant ants.Edmund Gwenn,James Arness(before-Gunsmoke) and James Whitmore are excellent and play the characters straight and realistic.The supporting cast is top notch also including a short but funny scene with Fess Parker playing a witness who has seen these ants while flying his small plane.The special effects are also good,remember this film was made in the mid-fifties.Camera work is excellent.Them! is well written with many clever lines and you do actually learn about ants too.The entire film is done realistically making the unrealistic situation of giant ants almost believable.--You can keep current day movies fancy special effects,what good are special effects without a good story or acting or for that matter good anything?Them!, along with the ORIGINAL 1951 classic The Thing are must see films. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a great cast","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My local paper announced the death of James Whitmore a few days ago. In my opinion he was one of the best character actors of all time. In the movie THEM he not only played the role of a police officer - he became the police officer for his role in the movie. In one of the early scenes he picks up the little girl wandering in the desert after the attack of the mutated ants and carries her back to the police car. Any other actor would have simply picked up the girl and carried her. However, James Whitmore gave the scene the extra boost that confirms his abilities as a superior character actor when he juggles her expertly to make sure she is safe in his arms. This is a subtle move, albeit a move that adds credibility to his role. He has always been a supporting actor and I think he was happiest in this kind of role that enabled him to play so many different roles. "},{"Title":"Them!  Them!  Them!","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Contains possible spoiler...Them! (1954) starring character actor favorites of mine, James Whitmore & Edmund Gwenn. We also have lovely Joan Weldon for the men of taste in the audience & a young James Arness for the ladies who have appreciative taste for a 6'7 giant of a stud-muffin.Found in New Mexico a pajama clad 7 year old girl wandering alone in the desert. Police Sgt. Ben Peterson (Whitmore) picks her up. Next her parent's car & trailer are discovered. The side of the trailer's broken out. Then Peterson & his partner discover the general store owner is dead in his destroyed business. Again the store wall is torn out. So, F.B.I. Agent Bob Graham (Arness) is called in to help discover what the heck is going on.The one animal print they find is sent to F.B.I. Headquarters. It isn't recognized there. Off it goes to the Agricultural Dept. Doctors Harold & (daughter) Pat Medford (who turn out to be Gwenn & Weldon). They fly to New Mexico obviously carrying more information then they are willing to share at the moment.Dr. Harold insists on seeing every scene of the crime. Then he wants to see the little Ellinson girl who remains in a catatonic state. He uses the smell of the chemical ants carry to snap her out of it. Her first words screamed at the top of her lungs? Them! Them! Them! over & over again. Now the doctors know what she saw & what happened. Giant mutant ants, created from atomic bomb fallout, are out in the desert hunting humans as food for the queens.The ants manage to easily travel from New Mexico to Los Angeles & they must be stopped even if it takes an army & many lives to do it! There is so much more to the story & I hope if you haven't seen it you will. "},{"Title":"Sights, Sounds, and Smells!","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 50-some years later, Them! still holds up well. The first of the giant bug scary movies, it's still a fabulous classic to this day. A little girl is found among the wreckage of a New Mexico trailer. Her heart-piercing shriek of THEM! lets the viewer know they're in for one scary desert ride. I think it loses a bit of steam during the search for some missing boys in the sewers, but it's really top-notch from the get-go. The giant ant effects aren't the greatest in light of modern FX work, but that horrible sound that signals the critters' presence is still unnerving. I also like the emphasis on the smell of the formic acid. I don't know what formic acid smells like, but in the moment of the movie, I found myself sniffing right along with the characters. ) Even the science is good, and shows a commitment to the script. And one last thing - can we please bring back hunky heroes like James Arness? "}{"Title":"Them! Them! Them!","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THEM! manages to be pretty good despite featuring giant monsters. Generally it's a rule that a giant monster movie will suck whenever the giant monster is not actually on screen - often they suck even when it is. But James Whitmore and Edmund Gwenn do their best to keep this situation desperate and grounded, and Gordon Douglas outdoes himself maintaining a creepy atmosphere for much longer than the rest of his Fiend Who Walked the West resume would seem to indicate possible.The first twenty minutes are simply excellent film-making. The terse dialog, the underplayed acting, the methodically paced revelations, and most of all the quiet moaning of the desert wind - these elements are superior in every way to the bulk of the genre. Sadly they are also superior to the rest of this movie. But this moody sequence culminates beautifully at the demolished general store, during a sandstorm the bemused cops check out the apocalyptic wreckage of their friend's isolated shop, accompanied only by the now-screaming wind and the crazily swinging overhead lights. At this point, one expects a consistently logical and thrilling second and third act too.Such is not the case, as the very next scene starts a cavalcade of ridiculous suits-in-suites scenes, in which the authorities speak and behave in a manner - and in offices - best described as unconvincing. There is the usual crazy professor, his straitlaced daughter, and of course the besotted and befuddled All-American FBI agent - James Arness, looking very happy not to be at the North Pole in an alien costume. There is the inevitable monster movie filmstrip, explaining the intricacies of pseudo-science in terms insulting to laymen. Many pins are placed in many maps. A standard B-movie press conference to Central Casting hardboiled reporters nearly tips the scales in favor of Total Piece of Crap.However, somewhere along the line, this becomes a KING KONG style adventure movie. Yes, the two Jameses inexplicably get to wear a succession of funny hats - HAZ-MAT suits, single-breasted homicide squad sacks, army uniforms - but it works. Within half an hour intrepid men with Thompsons and flamethrowers are exploring a giant ant farm, in mortal combat with admittedly klunky but well-photographed puppets while pushing the story along. Pretty soon there's an attack at sea, a scuttled freighter, and, in one of our first glimpses of Hollywood's unlikely love affair with its own concrete river system, a full-on military invasion of 700 miles of Los Angeles sewer tunnels. Best of all, the go-nowhere love story goes nowhere, but fast. And the last scene, with the winged princess ants backed into a corner and doused with napalm while Gwenn recites the atomic-age mantra of brave new worlds - that stuff'll never age, for those of us who grew up with duck-and-cover. "},{"Title":"Very good bug-movie!","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most of the so called monster movies of the 50's are only funny, but Them is an exception. Of course you might get amused by the special effects, but that don't change the fact that Them! is a seriously good movie. One reason that Them is working so well is that they don't show the ants very much. First appearance happens after half an hour. There is a real suspension and there are really chilling moments, which is quite rare in these kind of films. And the other reason for being a good movie is that actors are quite good (for example James Whitmore, who's been nominated twice in Academy Awards) and they don't even overact - at least not too much, which is very typical in 50's sci-fi films. Edmund Gwenn (The Trouble with Harry) as a scientist is so and so if he's overdoing it, but we'll forgive him... I was pleasantly surprised after watching this, definitely one of best horror/sci-fi-movies of the 50's! I'll give it 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Good 1950s Classic","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed by Gordon Douglas and written by Ted Sherdeman THEM! is a great sci-fi horror.I don't really know what to say so I'll just write the blurb.Them! begins in New Mexico with a child wondering in shock, a ransacked general store- and a battered corpse full of enough formic acid to kill 20 men. It ends with an epic struggle in the 700 miles of storm drains under Los Angeles, where the insect hordes are beaten.This film has spawned a generation of radioactive creatures. Some approximate the terror but few have equalled the artistry of THEM!Front cover A HORROR OF CRAWL-AND-CRUSH GIANTS CRAWLING OUT OF THE EARTH FROM MILE-DEEP CATACOMBS.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Gold Standard of 50s Sci-Fi","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you didn't know that it was a Sci-Fi movie, you would almost think it was a Film Noir murder mystery, for the first 25 minutes or so. The cast is stellar with numerous character actors that made a mane for themselves over long acting careers Fess Parker, Leonard Nemoy, Dub Taylor, James Arness, James Whitmore, Edmond Gwenn (how can you beat Santa Claus?) and about a gazillion other that guys. The story, though implausible, is presented in such a way that the viewer is easily able to suspend disbelief and go right along with it. The special effects are first rate, for the day, and even now, hold up very well. I really love this movie and can watch it over and over. Watch it, it's time well spent. "},{"Title":"Them - Big Ants 1954","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is Sci Fi at it's best for 1954. It stands the test of time. I love the Los Angeles locations, since I was born in LA. The Los Angeles river and the California desert scenes bring back great memories. This film  Them  is for all audiences and is entertaining. By far one the greatest classic suspense science fiction films of it's time. It will be enjoyed by young and old alike. Some people will find it to corny. That is o.k. too, it is meant to entertain. If you love a great story line you will love this film. Some over acting, or over directing. It's science fiction after all. Not a small world , BIG ANTS after all ! It should make people that are civil servants or military members able to relate to dedication. "},{"Title":"Brilliant 50's Atomic Sci-Fi Fear & Loathing","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a child of the 50's who has seen this film dozens and dozens of times. Of all the similar films of the era, this is the only one that for me achieved a state of perfection, a state of movie grace. I watch my DVD copy at least several times a year, and always end of up watching it if it pops up on AMC or TMC...Greatest moments...Opening credits...the deathly low pounding chord heard during the Warner Brothers logo. Then the music....Bronislau Kaper hushes down his ominous score when his own name pops up!The child actress, Sandy Descher....the moment when she breaks her catatonic state after Gwenn gives her a whiff of formic acid...one of the most stunningly scary sequences in 50's cinema...still chills me to the bone every time I view it..the look on her face as she shrieks Them!, then the cut to the adults shocked reaction while the score swells up. The pitched battle in storm drains between the army and the ants. Some of those individual camera shots are the closest 50's movies came to depicting hell on earth.And I've heard that Jack Warner was perpetually angry and embarrassed by the thought of his studio producing Them!, even after it outperformed all other Warner movies that year at the box office.Anyway...Them! will always be, for me,a landmark film, a pivotal moment in the atomic-scare pop culture of the time. One's thing's for sure...you couldn't duck and cover if giant ants were coming at you. "},{"Title":"Giant bugs at their best!","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Playing on the fears of both the unknown effects of radioactive fallout and the cold war, director Gordon Douglas delivered to audience members a chilling look at nature gone wild and one of the most recognized and likable classic movie monsters of the 1950's. Not only was THEM! a hit with audience members, it was also Warner Bros. highest grossing film the year of its release.An excellent cast which includes James Whitmore, Edmund Gwen, James Arness and Sandy Descher as the Ellison girl.THEM! is the best of the giant bug-type movies, and was responsible for the popularity of those to follow, including Tarantula (1955), The Dealdy Mantis (1957), and Earth vs. the Spider (1958) to mention a few.Although the FX are somewhat dated, the storyline and acting hold up well, and remains one of the most beloved classics of the 50's. "},{"Title":"One of the First and Best of the Giant Insect Pictures!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them are giant mutated ants that suddenly appear in a New Mexico desert where a nuclear A-Bomb test had been made nine years before.State policemen Sgt. Ben Peterson (James Whitmore) and Trooper Ed Blackburn (Chris Drake) come upon a little girl (Sandy Descher) wandering aimlessly in the desert in apparent shock. They take her to the site of her parents' trailer only to find it totally wrecked and her parents missing. The policeman are baffled. Next, they are directed to a store some 12 miles down the road where they discover the proprietor brutally murdered and his shop in shambles. Peterson decides to go for help and leaves Blackburn behind to stand guard. Blackburn is murdered by an unknown (at this point) assailant.The state police call in the FBI in the person of agent Robert Graham (James Arness). A plaster cast of a mysterious footprint is sent to Washington for analysis. Unable to identify it, scientific expert Dr. Harold Medford (Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter Dr. Pat Medford (Joan Weldon) are sent to investigate.Working with army officers General O'Brien (Onslow Stevens) and Major Kibbee (Sean McClory) the party soon discovers the existence of a colony of giant ants mutated as the result of A-Bomb testing. They manage to destroy the colony but learn that two new queen ants have escaped for parts unknown. One of the queens is destroyed and the other with the aid of a mad pilot, Alan Crotty (Fess Parker), the party tracks the second queen to the Los Angeles sewer system where...................................This film was one of the first and best of the giant atomic mutated insect sci-fi thrillers made in the 1950s. Oddly enough Warner Bros. left the genre open to Universal following this film, which by the way, was initially intended to be released in 3-D.It gave star James Whitmore a rare role as the hero and if he ever gave a bad performance, I have yet to see it. This was also James Arness' biggest role to date. The following year would begin his 20 year run on TV's Gunsmoke. The veteran character actor Edmund Gwenn steals the film as the eccentric absent minded scientist. Fess Parker was on the verge of being cast by Walt Disney as Davy Crockett.Also in the cast in a variety of minor roles are such recognizable faces as Willis Bouchey, Richard Deacon, Walter Coy, Lawrence Dobkin. Ann Doran, Joe Sawyer, William Schallert, Douglas Spencer, Dub Taylor, Dick Wessell and as an air force sergeant at the teletype machine, Leonard Nimoy in an early role.Exciting well-paced sci-fi classic. "},{"Title":"sugar cubes","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A few weeks ago I was talking with a good friend of mine about films from the 1970s and 1980s. One of these films concerned mutant ants, so the conversation eventually led to my friend asking me if I watched a 1954 film titled Them which concerned the havoc caused by mutant ants. I said no and my friend loaned me the DVD a couple of days later and I was repeatedly asked over the last few weeks if I has watched said film. I wasn't intentionally putting off watching the film, but the opportunity just didn't arise for a few weeks. However, tonight I finally sat down to watch this old piece of science fiction and I must say that I am quite glad that I did.Patrol officers Sgt. Ben Peterson and Trooper Ed Blackburn are called into the depths of the deserts of New Mexico after it is reported that a young girl had been spotted wandering the desert alone. After finding the girl, whose doll's head is missing quite a chunk, the officers find the girl's parents' vacation trailer which has been completely destroyed on one side. There are a few strange things about the wreckage, however, the trailer looks to have been ripper from the inside out, no money is missing, and sugar cubes are scattered about. Also there is a strange footprint found. The officers then travel to a nearby dry goods store and find the proprietor dead his body having been slung into a cellar. Peterson goes for backup, but during his absence Blackburn is killed by a strange creature that makes a high pitched screeching noise. It is eventually discovered that the owner of the trailer was a member of the FBI so an agent, Robert Graham, is sent in. He has the footprint sent to Washington D.C. and two doctors from the ministry of agriculture arrive and we soon learn that a human is the not the culprit, but instead giant ants.Filmed some nine years after the atomic bomb testing in New Mexico, Them is a film that displays the fear of how nature and society are affected by the presence of such abominable objects of mass destruction. Similar to Godzilla in Japan, Them shows nature fighting back against the devastations that man has brought on himself. While this film could have easily just have been another bad B movie from the 1950s, Them is actually quite creepy in some parts especially with its use of audio and darkness. Those of us who are creeped out by bugs in general might received an additional watching this film. "},{"Title":"Nuclear powered ANTS!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Open air atomic bomb tests in the deserts of America produce GIANT ANTS!! ....and they attack a worthy target-- Los Angeles. One of the better things about this atomic horror movie is that you can never be sure that all the ants have been killed. Are there more in the wastelands of the White Sands Proving Grounds? The anxiety remains with you and for good reason. Just like speed, nukes'll kill ya baby. People were justifiably terrorized about the negative effects of radiation in those days (1954). Now, we like nukes. Bring the nuclear power on! say the capitalist opportunists and their stable of polytricksters. Yes, THEM! We can yet be fools for nuclear power...nya, ha, ha.... and trade radiation for our fossil-fueled global warming disaster. "}{"Title":"There's no SF like 50's SF!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh yes. Back in the 70's we'd never miss THEM! whenever it came on TV, and viewing a DVD of it the other night reminded me why. The film begins in an eerie and unsettling manner with a lonely desert highway, a wrecked caravan and a sandstorm - I wonder if this is where Spielberg got his superb opening for Close Encounters from? - and an orphaned girl who cannot or will not tell us what has happened. From this intriguing opening we are taken to other horrors and an investigation involving 'experts' who are called in (aren't they always in 50's SF?) to solve the mystery. Edmund Gwenn plays the Ant Expert with plenty of gusto and overlays his performance with a feeling of doom. Needless to say his assistant is a pretty female who provides some low-key love interest. It turns out that the ants in question are HUGE, mutated by atomic weapons tests in the desert. After two little boys go missing, the hunt for the ants becomes desperate - if their nest is not found soon, they will breed and infest the entire USA! In the tense climax, the team - armed with flame-throwers - explores the dark tunnels underneath Los Angeles (Aliens anyone?) and finds the boys in the nick of time, enabling the ants to be destroyed. Predictable maybe, but excellent direction, photography and a certain amount of reserve by the actors make this one of the best 'mutant' films of its time. "},{"Title":"A Nail Biter!","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never thought I could ever rate a 50's big bug flick a 10, but this one earned it. This thing was riveting from start to heart-pounding climax. Everything was right with this one especially the 100% interesting script and the tight direction from Gordon Douglas. The final scene in the storm drains under L.A. had me actually biting my nails yelling at the television as James Whitmore is trying to save the 2 small boys surrounded by hordes of giant mutated ants. Another scene with the newly hatched ants all over the naval ship at sea, was superb. There is not one scene in this that was filler. It plays like a police who-dun-it crossed with a sci-fi film mixed with horror overtones. Even the minor actors from cops to moms to kids were all acted very well.The original poster for this had a warning not for children, I can see why, it would be to intense. This was made for older teens and adults and maybe this is why it is so much better than the other giant thing movies from that era. A gem from the 1950's that today is still worth watching. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for 1954...","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love science fiction, and I'm often disappointed by the recent films and the big name old ones. I hear there were quite a few large bugs films and out of them all, THEM was one of the very best.If you can believe ants can grow do to nuclear fallout (pretty hard to believe...), you won't be disappointed. Despite 1954 effects, acting, and just plain the fact it was black and white... I actually enjoyed this movie. The suspense is good, the plot is well formed, and though the action IS 1954... it still excites.Makes me wonder if there will ever a a remake, it sure could save today's sci-fi films from extinction. "},{"Title":"The Atomic Age door opens to a new set of problems","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of the staples of late night sci-fi horror flicks on television in the 1960's and I saw it several times. After years of atomic testing in the southwestern deserts common ants have grown unchecked to giant proportions and are now suddenly threatening mankind. It's got all the familiar elements in scientists, the military, cops and the FBI rallying their wits and resources against an enemy of radiation mutant monsters. A great cast with James Whitmore, Edmund Gwenn, Jame Arness and Fess Parker with a lot of familiar faces as extras including Leonard Nimoy, Dub Taylor, Richard Deacon and William Schallert. Adapted from a George Wothington Yates story who had written mostly B-movie westerns and made his first foray into sci-fi, he would stick with a winner and go on to write a dozen more sci-fi horror films. For some reason he wasn't able to put together a workable screenplay of his story so screenwriters Russell Hughes and Ted Sherdeman were brought in to finish the script. A Warner Brothers studio special effects team led by Ralph Ayers and Dick Smith got an Academy Award nomination but lost out on the Oscar to Disny's 20,000 Leauges Under the Sea. Veteran sound man Francis Scheid whose career work included Casablanca is on board here as well as veteran cinematographer Sydney Hickox who photographed such films as To Have and Have Not, Dark Passage and White Heat in his prolific career and veteran art director Stanley Fleicher adds to the well-balanced Warner Brothers film team. Gordan Douglas who worked in all genres of film including comedies, westerns, crime, action, drama and romance puts together a good sci-fi film. It's got it's flaws but it's still an entertaining movie and a genre trend setter of it's era and beyond and I would give it 8.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's good to see a high rating","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them has a solid story and the effects simply add to the mystique. Sure, the ants were a little choppy in their movements, but heck! The producers went to the trouble to create large puppets rather than depend on stop action. That's a big plus in my view, that they cared enough to use big and unwieldy creatures to enhance the story of mutant ants endangering humankind. Edmund Gwen is special to me, as the curious scientist. He injects just the right amount of legitimacy to the dangers such ants could cause us.Sure, the nuclear mutation story was already over used even back then, but this movie really does provide some drama along with the obligatory unbelievable feelings evoked by the very nature of such a threat. I love watching Them over and over. "},{"Title":"One of the Top 3 Black & White Sci Fi Movies of the 50s","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a marvelously paced, well plotted and well acted film. It is by far the best of the 50s movies about atomically-mutated insects(which includes the well-done The Deadly Mantis, the poorly done, but very campy, The Beginning of the End and a few others.)Perhaps the reason these movies have not been redone is that it is more or less common knowledge (in the 21st century) that insects at this scale could not get enough oxygen through their sides, or have enough structural support for their internal organs to keep them from being crushed by their own weight (no internal skeleton). But, in the 50s, when we were amazed and easily terrified by the marvels of the atomic age, this seemed wonderfully plausible.The plot A little girl is found wandering, clutching a doll with a broken head, in the desert around Alamogordo. She is unresponsive, suffering from aphonia and clearly in a state of shock. The 2 state troopers that discover her are directed (by a helicopter pilot) to a trailer down the road. The trailer has been ripped open from the outside. There are no bodies, but the missing piece from the doll's head confirms that this is where the little girl is from. A technician arrives and takes a plaster mold of a strange print found outside the trailer.After the girl is picked up by ambulance, the two troopers visit a small store where the proprietor is found dead, his rifle twisted, it's barrel split. There is money in the cash register, the floor is covered with sugar and the building has been torn open from the outside -- just like the trailer. James Whitmore leaves. The other policeman remains and is shortly thereafter dies screaming off-screen.At police headquarters the locals try to make sense of the print, the twisted rifle and all of the other pieces of the puzzle. They discover the trailer belonged to an FBI agent on vacation. The local FBI, in the form of James Arness, then joins the investigation. The coroner arrives and tells everyone that the shopkeeper had enough formic acid in him to kill 20 men. Arness sends the plaster cast of the print to Washington to be identified.Drs Medford (Edmund Gwenn, Joan Weldon) arrive in an Army transport plane, review the evidence, speculate on how close the trailer was to the site of the first Atomic bomb tests, and (after a stop at a drug store) visit the little girl, who is still in shock. Edmund Gwenn produces some formic acid which he holds under the little girls nose. She blinks, startled, and then screams Them ! (and the title is born).Our little team then goes to the site of the trailer, finds another print and then runs into one of Them! Joan Weldon narrowly escapes with the help of James Whitmore's submachine gun.Next it's off in helicopters to find the nest, after which it's back to a conference room where Gwenn gives the impatient Army general a high- school-level lecture on the nature of ants, and convinces them that they have to go into the nest before destroying it. (Although the military is treated with far more respect in these 50s films than it is today, they still can't seem to think very far beyond blowing things up.)Off to the nest in the heat of the day. (The Ants are laying low.) Our small team (now including the General) lays phosphorous charges (shot from bazookas) over the mound to keep the ants inside, then drop cyanide gas through the opening and, protected by gas masks, descend for our first claustrophobic encounter with our antagonists.After discovering that two queens have hatched and escaped it's off to discover where the queens have gone. We are aided in this by a short cameo of a very young Leonard Nimoy.And, not to spoil the fun for those who haven't seen it, I'll leave you to watch the rest... "},{"Title":"A Blockbuster of the '50s","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! is definitely one of the better sci-fi flicks out of the '50s because of the amount of effort put into this film. While reading the plot outline may make the movie should like many of the other lower budget films of the time, this film utilized good actors and special effects to create a film with the feel of the blockbuster films we have today.Although the plot is not a strong point in the film, the direction gives a sense of suspense and adventure which is key for this type of genre regardless of decade. And most importantly, as for any film, it was simply entertaining. "},{"Title":"They could kill you with that obnoxious whistling sound alone...","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! was part of the invasion of radioactivity-creates-super-sized-insect movies back in the 1950s. I remember watching it for the first time as a kid on Channel 56 Creature Double Feature. Recently saw it again on AMC's Fear Friday. The beginning was pretty scary when I saw it in my youth, little girl is paralyzed in fear and two police officer trying to figure out why become the giant ants' lunch. The movie is not without its flaws. The entomologist lady spends too much time trying to impress everyone else with her ant wisdom. The whistling sound these economy-sized ants make is a little hokey, and some of the methods they use to try to smoke out the ants early on are so implausible they feel like they came straight out of Wile E. Coyote's Acme catalog. Clearly the special effects are not Spielberg-quality, but for 1954 they're actually quite good. And the good far outweighs the bad here. There's a refreshingly small dose of bad dialog, and the scene where the ants take on Los Angeles is surprisingly entertaining and suspenseful. Them! is not only the best of the '50s giant-insect-gone-amok movies, it's also probably one of the best horror movies of the pre-Alien era and light-years better than modern-day killer ant movies like Glass Trap. A solid 7. "},{"Title":"Good science fiction when there was no such thing","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the 1950's, science fiction was the red-headed stepchild of the film industry, because it dealt with science, for one thing, which few people knew anything about, and it usually involved some kind of special effects, which were always expensive, even if they were hokey. Science fiction films were always thought to be 'B' movies, whereas even a bad Western would never be thought of as a 'B' film. This was a time when the world was changing faster than many people could cope with, and there was a sense that the world was in great danger. The advent of the nuclear bomb had created words that people did not know the meaning of, but of which they were terrified. Radiation, mutation, atomic pile, thermonuclear weapon. People were realizing that nuclear meant more than just bombs, that something which you could not see, smell, hear, or taste could kill in a matter of seconds, even though it might take months to die.In this setting, a movie about mutated ants capable of destroying the world was very powerful. Because ants are a hive creature, they seem somehow different from most insects. And they have fascinated people for years, with their orderly nests. It was easy to believe that a colony in the area where the first atomic bomb was exploded could have been affected by the lingering radiation, and that the effect was giantism. And ants are the perfect monster, being capable of huge feats of strength for their size, with terrible mandibles ready to rend and tear, and packing a horrible stinger, which many people can remember hurting them.'Them' does an excellent job of building the suspense, with mysterious happenings in otherwise normal settings. We see two future stars, James Arness and James Whitmore carrying this film with excellent acting. They are supported with a very believable performance by Joan Weldon, in the nearly unheard (at that time)of role of woman scientist. She is rendered authenticity by the character of her father, the nations leading myrmecologist. Myrma what? This film actually attempts to be scientific in its depiction of ants, pointing out that they have the strength for their size equivalent to a human having the strength of 12 men.Edmund Gwenn makes a memorable portrayal of the elderly scientist, tops in his field, but facing something completely new, like talking on a radio. His performance as the slightly absent minded senior researcher brings several moments of laughter to an otherwise very serious film. He is not the only one we can laugh at, for Fess Parker appears in one of his earliest roles, playing the part of someone who is being held against his will because he saw something he can not believe.This film is, in my opinion, one of the all time classics of science fiction, superbly made, well written, photographed carefully, and with quality acting. It does not need to rely on special effects, trick photography, or script non sequiturs. I think that it is likely to outlast most of that decades prolific output of science fiction, simply because it was never a 'B' movie. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" These days it is common for parents to take young children to all kinds of scary movies. It was different long ago. No parent would take a young child to an evening movie. What they did was send them to the Saturday horror movie matinée with their older brothers and sisters.This happened to me in 1954 at the tender age of seven when I was sent with my older sister to see Them, a science fiction classic about giant mutant ants created in atom bomb testing. The giant ants invade LA, breaking into box cars filled with sugar and killing screaming people left and right, crushing them in their horrific jaws.I spent most of the movie in the lobby, watching through the curtains they had in those days, too frightened to be in the dark. The WORST thing was that the giant ants made a sound sort of like giant crickets and for several years after I had to talk myself into going to sleep -- It's just crickets, not giant ants, not giant ants, not giant ...By the way, it's still a great movie, but I make sure I watch it with the lights on and holding on to my wife. "}{"Title":"One of the best of the Giant Bug films","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't say enough about this film. Them is easily one of the best Sci-Fi films of all-time. The giant ants are realistic, the script is very good and the acting is terrific. The suspense builds nicely as the giant ants get ready for the attack! The scene inside the giant ant hill and in the sewers at the end of the film are my favorites. James Arness and James Whitmore really shine as does Edmund Gwenn. Also, look for Fess Parker(Davey Crockett) and Leonard Nimoy(Star Trek) in their early roles. Onslow Stevens as the General is under-rated. I could go on and on about this movie but you just have to view it to appreciate it. A true classic! "},{"Title":"That Thar THEM Good Saturday morning fare-any day.","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My cousin says that one of the REAl reasons the Air Force flies Its Red Flag training missions near the Nevada Test Site ( adjacent to the infamous Area 51) is to keep the mutant ant population down. This film explains that comment-now. THEM shows that a good movie whatever its age is a good movie. As others have noted the influence on several films is apparent in some scenes,the image of one of the ants cleaning the nest with the skeletons and bones of their victims at the foot of the nest,is scary at least to me.The touch of realism and the fact that there is no rivalry over the lady scientist keeps this a Class A horror classic. "},{"Title":"THEM! (1954) - DVD Review","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THEM! is possibly the finest science-fiction movie of the 1950s along with Don Siegel's INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS (1956). It's interesting that THEM! came from one of the major studios because one of the reasons why it is so good is the slick production and above-average casting. This cautionary tale about the dangerous use of atomic weapons and their unfathomable aftermath has a very strong script (by Ted Sherdeman) and convincing performances, all expertly guided by the hand of director Gordon Douglas.The title sequence in color was a nice touch; the powerful and eerie score by Bronislau Kaper sets the tone for what's to come, and we're immediately thrown into the plot with the discovery of the stunned little girl. The suspense mounts beautifully, with the various wrecked sites and the clues that are found, as we are gradually led to the first appearance of the giant ants. The Oscar-nominated special effects are very well done, and we are drawn into believing (through the sober and extensive technical detail of the script and the film's own measured pace) that it could very well happen!Various scenes stick in the mind but probably none more so than when the little girl (until then the only surviving witness to the monsters' existence) is brought to her senses by the smell of formic acid, jumping out of her chair with a violent scream and recoiling in horror to a corner of the room, helplessly repeating the single phrase 'Them!' as if it held the key to Man's future on Earth (which indeed it did)! It's one of the classic moments in all of cinema. The climax in the Los Angeles sewers was also very effective but not overblown, like most of today's effects-laden films.I was a bit disappointed by the limited supplements provided on the DVD (especially considering that both James Whitmore and James Arness are still alive and should have been contacted for an interview or, better still, a full-length Audio Commentary). However, this was more than made up for by the film's amazing transfer &#150; one of the best I have ever seen for a black-and-white movie. Sound quality was adequate for its purpose, but I think it would have benefited nicely from a stereo remix (like IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE). A good word has to be put in also for the beautifully designed menus, which are slightly confusing at first but a lot of fun once you get the hang of it!  "},{"Title":"Classic Giant Bug Movie","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Along with Tarantula,  Them! is the best giant mutated bug movie to come  out of the 1950s, and believe me, there were a lot of giant bug movies to come  out of the 1950s, most of them pretty wretched (Beginning of the Endanyone?).  Them! was the first and the best and remains unsurpassed to this  day.9 years after the first nuclear device was detonated in the Southwestern desert,  the first results of radiation and atomic mutation are seen when an ant colony,  grown to ten times their normal size, go on a rampage in the desert and destroy  the camping trailer of a vacationing FBI agent.  We only see the aftermath of the  destruction; trailer squashed like a beer can, sugar cubes everywhere and ashell shocked little girl wandering through the desert in her pajamas, a broken  doll in one hand.  Upon emerging from her catatonic shock, the girl can onlyscream one horrified word over and over THEM!The film is then off and running as a local police officer, an FBI agent, a scientist  and his daughter head out into the barren desert, following strange tracks and  hearing strange, high pitched sounds within the relentless sandstorms, all of  which eventually lead them to the biggest anthill in the world, the entrance to  which is strewn with human bones.  After blasting the hill and venturing inside,  (and 50s or no, let no one dare say that an ant hill is no place for a woman!) the  pretty scientist and her two smitten men in uniform discover that they are too  late two queen eggs have hatched, and two sets of of newlywed ants havealready left the hill to build new colonies elsewhere.  The race is on asgovernment and military try to find out where the ants have gone, before another  colony can begin and overrun the world.For a movie made 60 years ago, this never feels dated (much) and is still every  bit as witty and intelligent as it was when it was first released.  The script is  smart, the performances are strong and the humor is innocent and engaging. The giant ants also look pretty good considering the lack of advanced special  effects in the 50s.  Edmund Gwenn is particularly likable as the elderly but no- nonsense scientist and Joan Weldon as his daughter proves that she can doeverything a man can do and sometimes do it better, quite a feat considering the  date!  James Whitmore fights the heroic fight at films end, plunging headfirst into  the Los Angeles storm drains and James Arness is professional and stoic, butnever icy, as the Fed who gets the girl.  This is truly a classic film, paving the way for numerous imitators and ushering in  the era of atomic paranoia.  And it's just a lot of fun, too.  If you only watch one  Giant Bug movie in your entire life, make sure it's this one. "},{"Title":"Brings Science Fiction Into the Modern Era","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nine years after nuclear bomb tests in New Mexico, the aftershocks are being felt. Radiation has turned the local ant colony into a field of giant, angry insects. This is bad enough, but soon they breed and all of America may be at risk from these six-legged freaks.This film is notable for its atomic age concerns, and possibly being the first of the giant creature features (followed by countless more which would keep the Roger Corman and Bert Gordon fans happy for decades). Does radiation create giant ants? Of course not... but the reality is not really any better.There is some cheese here, as you would expect from a 1950s sci-fi flick. Plenty of Wilhelm screams (I mean, really, plenty) and ants that make noises the same as tree frogs (would a giant ant make a different noise from a regular ant?). It is a pretty awful noise, really. Even more odd for science fiction history, is a cameo from a pre-Star Trek Leonard Nimoy.I think this film's reputation is a bit higher than it ought to be. I understand its importance in horror history (or science fiction history) but to include it among the top 100 horror films, or to rank it as a must-see film just seems to be too much. But then, on my second viewing, I appreciated it much more. The detectives aspect and exploration of Los Angeles' sewers is pretty cool. "},{"Title":"The Door for a New World","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the New Mexico desert, the Police Sgt. Ben Peterson (James Whitmore) and his partner find a child wandering in the desert and sooner they discover that giant ants are attacking the locals. The FBI agent Robert Graham (James Arness) teams up with Ben and with the support of Dr. Harold Medford (Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter Dr. Patricia 'Pat' Medford (Joan Weldon), they destroy the colony of ants in the middle of the desert. Dr. Harold Medford explains that the atomic testing in 1945 developed the dangerous mutant ants. But they also discover that two queen ants have flown away to Los Angeles and they are starting a huge colony in the underground of the city. When a mother reports that her two children are missing, the team and the army have a lead to follow. Will they arrive in time to save the children and destroy the colony?Them! is a classic sci-fi and an early film about giant mutants that threaten the human race. This film was made in the beginning of the Cold War and gives a message in the end against the use of nuclear weapons when Dr. Harold Medford say that we have opened the door for a new world. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Mundo em Perigo The World in Danger) "},{"Title":"Gets pretty freakish in these parts.","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh yeah! - atomic bomb blasts and mutant monster insects - what's not to love about a 1950's black and white flick featuring horrifying giants ants. It was only a few years later in my young life that we were doing those duck and cover drills in the basement of my parochial school, knowing that we'd be safe if ever the big one dropped out of the sky. Personally, I knew I'd be safer by running across the baseball field to my house, calculating that I could beat a bomb dropped out of a plane so high up in the air. The prospect of Them evolving into humanity's final doom never crossed my mind, but I was too young to have had such an impressionable idea planted in my brain.Now I've seen this movie before, and doubtless will watch it again, but oddly, this is the first James Arness picture I've watched since he passed away a week ago as I write this. It would only be a year or so later that Marshal Matt Dillon would take to the airwaves as one of TV's first, most popular Western lawmen. He gives a hint of his understated star power here as the FBI agent Bob Graham, and to the script's credit, he didn't have to get all starry eyed over the obvious romantic interest, Dr Pat Medford (Joan Weldon). I certainly didn't associate her Pop Harold (Edmund Gwenn) with the venerable Kris Kringle of 1947's Miracle on 34th Street, but I have to say, he did a fine job as the probing scientist getting to the bottom of those nuclear inspired mutations.Considering the type of film this was, I was impressed with the studious vocabulary offered by the principals. I now know that formic acid is a venom naturally found in ant stings, and a myrmecologist is a scientist who studies ant societies. That along with the term aphonia meaning an inability to speak, as characterized by the young Ellinson girl (Sandy Descher) in a particularly impressive performance. I wonder how she managed to maintain that catatonic trance, interrupted only by her repeated hysterical exclamation of the horror that was - Them, Them!!! Well, I'm not enough of a film history buff to know if this is the picture that started it all in terms of mutant monster flicks, but it was certainly one of the earliest. Closely followed by Godzilla a couple of years later, the genre seemed to hit it's peak around 1958/1959 with such gems as The Fly, The Wasp Woman, The Giant Gila Monster, and Attack of the Giant Leeches. They didn't all rely on Cold War hysteria to attain their status in cinema history, but heck, who needs it when you've got a giant hairy insect as your star. "},{"Title":"Yep. Just Blame Them On The Atom Bomb!","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me tell ya - When the very first sighting of Them takes place in this wild & wacky Creature Feature from 1954, it has got to be one of the most hysterically laughable scream-moments ever filmed in all of 1950's schlock-movie history, bar none.Believe me, the giant, mutated creatures in this hilariously fun, Sci-Fi picture are absolutely priceless examples of old-school special effects. Without a doubt these beasts of the insect world were the real stars of this show here. I can't imagine how any of the human characters were ever able to keep a straight face while doing serious battle with these ridiculous-looking monsters.Competently directed (in b&w) by Gordon Douglas (who also directed dozens of Little Rascals shorts during the 1930s), Them certainly managed to hold this viewer's rapt attention throughout its entire 92-minute running time.From its eerie and mysterious beginnings in the New Mexico desert, to its all-out, final showdown (with flame-throwers, and all) inside the dark, dank sewer-system of Los Angeles, Them was certainly a mighty bleak and dire warning to man (and all of his meddlesome, scientific mischief) in those dangerous, experimental days of the Atomic Age. "},{"Title":"Somewhat good science fiction/horror, however in places I found it a bit dull too.","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know I will regret admitting this, but I actually prefer the campy 70's giant ant movie Empire of the Ants to this film. I will say that this is the better of the two films in terms of story, however that one to me moved at a nice quick pace and was fun to watch cause it was so cheesy and I never found myself getting bored as I did while watching this one in a couple of spots during the film. However, that being said they did a much better job with the ants in this one than they did with that one as that one was mostly the film real ants and make them look big by overlapping film while from what I remember about this one I think they actually built giant ant models. The story is interesting too as at first you do not know what is killing the people, well I guess most people watching the film now would know, but I am sure it proved quite suspenseful back when the film was first released back in the 1950's. The ants are rather large here, having their size increased by our good friend radiation. From what I hear this film is the inspiration for the Japanese classic Gojira so I have to give it points for that as well, because there is nothing I like more than a Godzilla movie. Better pacing though would not have hurt to much and I think it would have helped if they could have showed the ants a bit more, however it is understandable that they are not in this one to much as back in the 1950's they did not have the technology we have today. Of course, I am guessing if they did this film would have been more like one of those horrible Science Fiction channel monster movies with the terrible looking computer generated monsters. "},{"Title":"Figuring out why this is the greatest sci fi movie ever","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to add on the comments already stated, nearly all of them true about THEM. I will drop anything to watch this if it is on. I have to keep the VHS back and out of the way to avoid temptation. First, the plot. I don't think I'll tell you. And I hope you don't read any other explanation, because when I first watched it, it was on TV, and I had no idea what I was watching. It begins as a mystery, and I feel it best to have that mystery revealed by the movie. I'm sure you know what it is, but if you don't, trust me, you'll enjoy it even more if you watch with no expectations. So I find myself trying to explain why this is the best. Every bit in the movie is stunning. It's one great jigsaw puzzle pieced together with no extra pieces. The actors include some of the best ever (Gwenn and Whitmore stand out in film history); the directing, camera work, writing, everything is superb; the characters are extremely well drawn; the plot is fascinating. What can I say. Touching, exciting, emotional, mysterious, action packed. A classic among classics. "}{"Title":"Fantastic - One of The Better Movies Made of Any Genre","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"                  ***** FANTASTIC *******Them is a great movie.  From the eerie howling of the wind to the deafening silence in the underground sewers, this movie has a way of making an impact on you before you realize you are hooked.First rate acting, dialogue, photography, musical score and pacing make this movie a gem. This story is still fresh after nearly 50 years and it only gets better with repeated viewings.  It's a keeper.  Even if you are not a sci fi buff, you'll still like this one.******* Mild Spoilers Ahead *****A child wandering in the desert is picked up by two police officers.  Them begins as a simple detective mystery and soon turns into one of the most engrossing science fiction movies ever made.  Something of biblical proportions has occurred in the desert of New Mexico after testing of nuclear bombs there.  As a matter of fact, it could destroy all mankind.  A police officer, a government agent and two scientists embark on the adventure of their lives. There is nothing second rate or B Movie about Them.  It is one of the better movies I've seen of any genre.    "},{"Title":"Were 1954 audiences supposed to know what they were?","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I took a film appreciation course in college, and THEM was one of the first movies screened.  Nobody in the class had heard of it before; the professor introduced the movie without revealing what them was, which made the movie all that more engrossing.So, I've wondered since then how THEM was marketed for its original release.  The DVD cover spoils the surprise, and the majority of user comments here don't think twice about giving it away, either.  I found a poster online which also spoils the suspense (though I can't determine if it's the original one-sheet).  The tag line doesn't give it away, and the movie waits an hour before showing what the threat is.  Why go out of your way to create mystery if the marketing subverts the effort?Anyway, everyone in the class loved THEM, and I'm glad to see it's so highly regarded by my fellow IMDb'ers.  "},{"Title":"Ants on the warpath!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes, I wish I could have lived in the '50s.  Everything was bigger in the '50s -- cars, hair, music; even the animals were bigger.  Unfortunately, the bigger animals were caused by radiation (see Tarantula, this movie's cousin).Our movie begins with the New Mexico state police searching for something.  It is a little girl with a blank look on her face.  While my initial thought was she'd seen Toni Braxton's *ahem* dress at the Grammy's, this was not the case.  Her family has been murdered, and worse yet, her doll baby has had her head smashed in (how vile!).  Along comes pseudo-German scientist and his daughter to explain what is happening in the desert. (I'd like to know who these women are that are marrying these pseudo-German scientists and having their children, and why they're almost always girls.)  It turns out that our A-bomb tests have created these giant ants.  Picnics in New Mexico are now an extreme event.In a Japanese rubber monster movie twist, the keys to the World's Best Military (c) are turned over to the scientist as they hunt down and try to destroy the murderous, doll-crunching, boy-abducting ants.  The movie ends up in the sewer - literally - but there is seldom a dull moment.  This could be attributed to the fine cast (Witmore, Arness) and a well crafted story that has no room for John Agar.Sterno says join Them for an evening of fun. "},{"Title":"Good script, clumsy ants","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This the first of the 1950s big bug chillers, but not the best, special-effects wise. That belongs to Tarantula (1955) which used a real spider, magnified, with mattes filmed in, for the best realism. Others used animation, such as The Black Scorpion (1957), which was very effective. Them uses large mock-ups and swaying heads (from giant windblowers) with only adequate results. Notice at the end that the creatures are completely on fire, but still swaying, somehow. They'd be dead, by now. Otherwise, the picture plays like a gripping murder mystery, with fine performances by James Whitmore and Edmund Gwenn, who has some great dialogue. This is hard-boiled science-fiction fun. "},{"Title":"The dangers of the Atomic Age","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the classic movie of giant ants rampaging across North America. Simply the first atomic explosion effected the ants causing them to begin to grow. Nine years later they emerge and start destroying the country. They quickly find the nest and destroy it but learn that there are others elsewhere, one somewhere under the streets of Los Angeles.This movie is reasonably plain, it has no deep themes nor does it explore much, except for the idea of the entrance to the nuclear age. What he see emerging in the 1950's is the idea that we have indeed entered into a new age, the age of the atomic weapon. This new power is able to level cities and to provide almost unlimited power. People see it as clean and great, though the problems that are predicted here do not arise until later.Science Fiction now seems to be looking forward to the unlimited possibilities that the new technology has given us, but this I will discuss in Tobor the Great. What Them! looks at is the possible dangers that arises from this new technology. Them!, in a way, is a protest film, trying to encourage us to think about the repercussions of such power. The atomic bomb created the giant ants, which really is science fiction - any biologist can tell you that giant insects could not hold up the weight of their exo-skeleton. But the possibility of danger is real. At the end they talk about the possibility of other mutations and the response is, we have entered into a new world where the future is unknown. Looking back we now see the problems with nuclear power. The possibility of melt down or even an explosion in the plant. Chernobyl wiped out large a large region of western Russia (and I still remember when it happened. There was a huge radiation cloud floating over Scandanavia and everybody was mystified as to where it came from). Then there is nuclear waste, namely what do we do with it. The waste is poisonous and it is not biodegradable. The radiation can severely mutate a person, not in sci-fi ways, but rather unhealthy ways such as sterilisation.I think the major theme of Them! is saying welcome to the atomic age, but watch out. For every powerful thing there is a drawback. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them!With the size of food portions nowadays, it's no wonder ants had to grow to enormous heights to steal from our picnics.However, it's not evolution that has altered the insects in this horror movie, but something manmade.Police (James Whitmore, Chris Drake) are stumped when townsfolk near a New Mexican atomic weapons testing site begin turning up dead.Later, casts of the bizarre prints found at the scene of the murders are sent to an entomologist (Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter (Joan Weldon), who then deduce that the tracks belong to over-sized ants that have been mutated by atomic radiation.Now, the doctors and the army must prevent the queens from birthing more colossal colonies.Capturing the hysteria of the time and turning it into an unforgettable parable, Them! is a pioneer of atomic monster movies.In reality, however, ants exposed to atomic radiation would just grow cancerous tumors. (Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Them! is the smartest science fiction ever","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Them! provides action. Throws in a murder mystery. Blends the action and mystery with big bugs that have creepy sounds and adds educational stuff you'd learn in a biology class or on National Geographic. How many of us think about the types of ants that makes up a colony and what their purpose is?I loved this movie as a child and still love it today. I watch it whenever it's on. TCM has it on right now. It's a great Halloween treat. I feel like a kid again. It's the perfect movie to watch with your children to introduce them to a true science fiction movie that isn't fluff or full of gore. "},{"Title":"Spit's all that's holding me together now, too.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well now, what does one say about such a film....I just watched it and it was really cool, great acting which is hard to believe seeing as how most of these older movies have very bad acting - Overacting, as I refer to it, and this film had some but I really liked these characters, I felt comfy with them.The ants didn't get enough screen time, but it was fair considering the time the movie was made. The ants weren't exciting enough to make me crave more anyway.The movie had some boring moments of talk talk talk but they felt as if they had to explain every damn thing to the viewer back in the older films like we are dumb as hell or something. I always forgive them and try to be very lenient with pre-7o's movies as they are extremely flawed.This one is very nice for a Sunday afternoon and as far as classics go it's one of the better ones- If you enjoy the creature feature, mutant insect or attack of the..., type movies then this one is great - if you're wanting some exciting horror action then this might just let you down 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"one of the best giant ant movies ever!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is a pretty intelligent and better than average sci-fi picture from the 1950s, though not one of the very best. THIS ISLAND EARTH, THE THING, WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE, THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL and many other films of this era are better. To me, this is sort of like a small step down from them--still well worth seeing but not great by any standards. I think the movie is improved, somewhat, by having Edmund Gwenn in the film, as he was an excellent actor and brought some real class to the film.However, I am about to write some sacrilege here. Although it is a HORRIBLE film, I actually enjoyed watching EMPIRE OF THE ANTS a lot more than THEM! exactly because it was to terrible!! Joan Collins and the rest of the cast do battle with the least realistic ants along with the dumbest plot imaginable. So take your choice--for a good ant film, see THEM! and for a horrible but funny ant film, see EMPIRE OF THE ANTS. Or, see them both. "},{"Title":"THEY are terrifying!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot go to church anymore after seeing the dreaded THEM!. I have altogether since abandoned my faith because this is such a sick movie. What is humanity coming to I ask? THEM! is a disgusting and immoral story about gigantic ants who come to terrorize the goodly people of 1954 out of their poodle skirts. I recently wrote to the pope asking him to make it a one-way ticket to hell for Catholics to see this movie. I am not Catholic myself but I guess it is a start. It hurts my brain to think children are watching this instead of character-building films like JAWS and THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE. My mother practically nursed me on these classics - and look at me now! I will write to the U.N. if I have to. "}{"Title":"Pretty good film, But many silly happenings...","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1. Cyanide gas in the hole, yet they walk in with no skin protection!2. It was obvious the ant(s) walked to the caravan, but only one foot print was found at the site?3. The queen hatchlings left the hole in New Mexico, went into east Texas, turned around and ended up in L.A.?4. The drunk in the ward had been seeing ants in the river bed for 5 months, yet no one else saw them?5. They drive multitudes of carbon monoxide making machines (Jeeps) into the tunnels with no gas masks?6. Those old radios work even a half mile back in a tunnel?7. Giddy takes off his flame thrower (His only defense against ants.) to help the children safely through the pipe? "},{"Title":"Overstated Nonsense","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I traveled through New Mexico on Interstate 10 and then subsequently I changed to I-25 moving North towards Denver,Co.There were good sized signs appearing every so often on the Interstate that read First in Poverty first in Nuclear Fallout.Perhaps all is somewhat the same these days as those signs were of the year 2000.New Mexico is a poor state as well.It is unusual to find anything about this particular motion picture that is anything more than an exploit.There is an overstated premise which if anything that Nucluear Fallout and perhaps Nucluear radiation are a very serious consequence of this now Nuclear Age.Edmund Gwenn as Doctor Medford ,a leading myrmercologist(Study of Ants) was nearer a belief in what this Nuclear world had ushered in than anyone else with Joan Weldons portrayal as Doctor Medfords daughter( A Dr.Medford in her own right)being like a pointer while keeping others at bay.The Doctors Medford were terribly useful and as it were served as both direction and reference to the result of Nuclear Fallout.The overstated premise by Dr.Medford was just that overstated.The belief is not perhaps if at all in the short term however the effects that have as yet to be measured to understand how different this day now is.The picture is not an accurate measurement of fallout and as such wrongly suggests that mutated ants actually threaten the whole of the human race.Like I said it is overstated and if anything at all serves as something of hysterical nonsense.The characterizations of the James Arness character as a FBI Agent is clearly made for Hollywood.The attempt to overstate this pictures claim is as well an exploit and perhaps that is as useful a position as anything Hollywood has to offer.This film is that to this opinion,this film is an overstated and exploited premise for purposes of showing off,for purposes of taking advantage,and even more subversive would be to sell Hollywood one more time. The picture was well received in 1954 with special mention of Natalie Wood, James Whitmore, James Arness, Edmund Gwenn, Joan Weldon, etc.The performances and perhaps the success of the picture have kept this motion picture in video libraries. Perhaps things were different then and perhaps they were not.It would be useful to indeed take a closer look but in so far as that closer look concerns Them,it is only a movie. "},{"Title":"Saucery? Antastic!","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How is one going to find something sensible to say about something like this, despite its reputed Oscar-nomination? There's little point in recounting the story, or, as it's sometimes called, the plot. In fact I never understand why anyone spells out the plot, if someone else has already done so. Surely once is enough? So what can one say ? James Whitmore really was an unusually competent actor. Edmund Gwenn, though not a name I'm otherwise overly familiar with, eventually seems much better than he first looks as though he's going to be. Joan Weldon is dressed in the height of 1954 fashion, and trips elegantly and delicately around the desert, avoiding the tumbleweeds, but to no visibly constructive purpose. The simple truth is that very many films shot in the 1950s were quite abysmal; I wonder if this decade was when film production peaked, worldwide, and quantity exceeded quality in every direction? The stars, as opposed to actors, were Leonard Nimoy and Fess Parker, although their stardom lay many years ahead of them. If I hadn't been told I wouldn't have recognized Leonard, but Fess was his obvious self. Here he acts the part of a nutcase, afflicted by sanity, in spite of describing a bunch of giant flying ants as saucers. Huh? Hadn't the term UFO been invented in 1954? Difficult to imagine an object less resembling a saucer than a flying ant, of any size. Never mind. Another reviewer tells me that the male lead became famous as Marshal Matt Dillon, but I regret I've never seen any of his TV episodes.The opening, with a little actress called Sandy Descher (I learn), was rather intriguing, but it promised more than it came to deliver. One thing I didn't understand was why the mutAnts blasted their holes in trailers and stores from the inside (!?!). How did they get in, to start with? Or did they pop up from underground, entering by bursting through the floors? Another reviewer points out the singularity of the Friday-like footprint. Well, I think the thing to do with this sort of product is give up any hope of consistency, and simply revel in the dialogue and the one-liners. See the discussion forum. A very generous 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Down in a hole.","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty good choice for people who love Z movies but other people wouldn't really like it. It is somewhat boring in the beginning but it does get good and cheesy once the ants come out. Then there is that guy who is educating some people about ants by showing them a film strip. Thanks for the education because I never knew so much about ants before in my whole life. Then ants crawl in holes and fly around but I wasn't expecting this movie to be great but it was better than most Z movies I watch. I didn't think ants made goo goo gaa gaa sounds but maybe it's just this movie. Then the Los Angeles curfew is 6 p.m. which is so funny I was laughing hard. Just put some salt out and enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Them!","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director Gordon Douglas (Saps at Sea, Viva Knievel!), I had heard about this classic film that I assumed was a horror, which in a way is correct, and I was definitely intrigued to see it seeing that it was rated five out of five stars by the critics. Basically in the New Mexico desert several people have gone missing or been found dead, and investigating Police Sgt. Ben Peterson (The Shawshank Redemption's James Whitmore) and FBI agent Robert Graham (James Arness) team up to find the cause. It is at one of the crime scenes that they find a strange print on the ground, which is sampled and sent to the Department of Agriculture, and soon enough Dr. Harold Medford (Miracle on 34th Street's Edmund Gwenn) and his daughter Dr. Patricia 'Pat' Medford (Joan Weldon) join them as well. Not long after their arrival, they are shocked by the appearance of a giant mutated ant, and Dr. Medford is convinced that there are many more of them hiding in a nest below the ground. They manage to find and destroy the nest of the ants that lay inside, but the scientist proves that some of the queens have escaped and flown elsewhere to create havoc towards people, who are seen of course as victims. Dr. Medford concludes that the ant mutations are due to the radiation left behind after atomic bomb explosions years ago, and using stock footage of regular ants he explains how they breed and will continue to if they are not stopped. It is a race against time to find the remaining queens and the drones in their new nesting hive, before more queens are created and hatched out, and this will mean that humans would be extinct within a year. In the end the humans, and the army joining them, manage to find the new nesting ground within the sewer systems, and they are just in time to eliminate the giant ant threat to mankind. Also starring Onslow Stevens as Brig. Gen. Robert O'Brien, Sean McClory as Maj. Kibbee and Leonard Nimoy as Air Force Sergeant. This film does rely on a good amount of the humans interacting as they try to solve the problem, and they are good characters, especially the wonderfully calm and collected Gwenn, and when they appear the giant ants are certainly very freaky, which means a good use of special effects that work well, if you like a good old fashioned monster or invasion movie, then this is a terrific classic science fiction film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Special Effects. Very good! "},{"Title":"*.5,1.5 out of 5 stars,a truly overrated ant b-film","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before there was ANTZ before A bug's Life there was this overrated Ant monster film (now before you think of me as a nasty critic,I'm actually 1 one of those who commonly takes it easy on plenty of movies & T.V shows). The movie has a bunch of gigantic ants, a traumatized overacting li'l girl who only shouts Them!,Them!,& a plotline which is something from a horrid B-movie,I find it truly amazing on how this film got to become such a hit,okay so Edmund Gween's(origianl Miracle on 34th st.) performance was actually rather good & at least the ants didn't look as lame as other B-movie monsters(perhaps that's 1 of the main reasons why this film got so liked),although everybody else's acting was incredibly hokey & the traumitazed li'l girl's line PLEASE!,I know she's traumatized but give her a better line to say!,even though there's some likeabilites (actually only 2),the film looked like another 50's B-Movie. "}]