[{"Title":"One of Wood's most underrated movies. 'Bride Of The Monster' isn't anywhere near as bad as many claim and Lugosi is terrific!","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever since The Golden Turkey Awards chose Ed Wood as the world's worst director back in the 80s there have been a lot of people who automatically dismiss all Ed Wood movies as garbage. Even Tim Burton's terrific 'Ed Wood' has encouraged this. My opinion is that there are many, many worse directors out there, because at least Wood's movies were fun and entertaining, unlike many of those made by the likes of  Roland Emmerich or Michael Bay, directors who are able to work with budgets a 1000 times bigger than Wood I might add! 'Bride Of The Monster' is one of Wood's most underrated movies. It was his second movie to star horror legend Bela Lugosi, but unlike the first, the truly mind blowing 'Glen Or Glenda', it isn't completely inept. True, some of the acting is terrible, especially the talentless leading lady Loretta King who is (I admit it) lousy, and Wood regular Paul Marco, who has a small supporting role as a cop. But, and this is a BIG but, Lugosi is terrific. Many fans regard this as his best performance. I wouldn't go that far but it's hard not to get choked up at Lugosi's immortal I have no home speech. 'Bride Of The Monster' is the first Wood film to feature the amazing Tor Johnson. He plays Lugosi's Tibetan servant/slave Lobo. All the scenes with Lobo are great fun to watch, especially when Lugosi whips him. Apart from Lugosi and Tor this movie is best remembered for the rubber octopus monster. Of course it's a hoot, but the rest of the picture isn't anywhere near as bad as many claim and is comparable to say 'The Devil Bat', which Lugosi starred in back in the 1940s. Both movies suffer from their minuscule budgets, but both are still worth watching to see Lugosi struggle for greatness. I recommend 'Bride Of The Monster' to all horror fans, especially those of Bela Lugosi. "},{"Title":"Almost Poignant","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bride of the Monster is the best of Ed Wood's films. Frankly compared with Scared to Death and the Devil Bat-- the film truly looks like a masterpiece -- and truth be told it isn't that bad. In fact, it is rather enjoyable. Okay, I am gonna admit it -- I like it! If you look past the cheesy octopus (no worse than the hysterical devil bat), the cheap sets and the lame acting (better than Scared to Death!), if you suspend a little disbelief and realize this movie was made for a song -- then actually it is pretty darned good. One reason for this is that Bela Lugosi gets ample screen time. If Ed Wood was a bit unimaginative, he at least knew what it was that made Lugosi a legend and reprises little details, from the mad scientific leering of the Devil Bat to the idiosyncratic hand gestures of White Zombie. Bela is given a chance to shine in his final starring performance and shine he does. The movie has its flaws, but Bela is not one of them. He is old and looks weak, but he carries the movie like a true champion. He makes empty dialog sound meaningful and implausible scenarios seem poignant (well almost poignant).Lugosi's I have no home monolog is beautiful. He could make dialog such as I have proven that I am alright! sound good. Lugosi gives his all in his last performance, and it is a great performance, even if he does have to wrestle with a fake octopus. "},{"Title":"TWILIGHT OF A GOD","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" AS others have commented on, BOTM is indeed a competent B-movie. Afterseeing it on public domain video I was glad to buy the Image DVD which hasvery good image quality. You can see the movie the way Ed Wood intended it.The lighting is competent; the camera work is competent.But what elevates BOTM to film nirvana is Bela Lugosi's performance as Dr. Eric Vornoff (sp?). To those who say that Ed Wood exploited Bela (including Bela Jr), I say, at least he didn't put Bela in white plastic go-go boots and give him no dialogue, like the director of The Black Sleep did.Without exception Bela's performances are hypnotic. His strange intonation, his deliberate facial gesture, his gravitas -- he is always the magnetic center of his films. And BOTM gives a summary of his career -- the Dracula hands, the White Zombie hands -- and the pathos of his I have no home speech -- give hisperformance a dimension most of his roles (though check out Invisible Ghost for another excellent role) lacked.Nuff said. I enjoy the delirium of Glen or Glenda? and Plan 9, but Bride of the Monster is Bela's show ALL THE WAY. "},{"Title":"When a Horror Cult-Movie Becomes a Comedy","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many person are vanishing in the Lake Marsh, nearby an old mansion recently bought by Dr. Eric Vornoff (Bela Lugosi). He lives with Lobo (Tor Johnson) and has an octopus in the lake, product of his experiment in developing somehow atomic energy. Janet Lawton (Loretta King), a reporter of a tabloid, decides to investigate further the disappearance of locals and is abducted by Dr. Vornoff. Her fiancée,  Lt. Dick Craig (Tony McCoy), together with the police force, goes to the old house looking for Janet. This story, expected to be a horror movie, is indeed a funny entertainment due to the lack of talent of Ed Wood. When I bought this rare VHS a couple of days ago, some friends of mine, also lovers of cinema, were a little jealous. - Where did you find this film? was the common question. When we watch an Ed Wood's film, we know that it will be a movie full of flaws. But why do we like him so much? Because since Tim Burton promoted this director, he became a cult personality. Therefore, it is very unfair and almost unacceptable the IMDB User Rating of 2.8 for this movie. There are unbelievable mistakes in framing and edition, such as, for example, about 36 minutes running time, we can see the microphone over the heads of Janet and Dr. Vornoff. The performance of the cast is so ridiculous that becomes really funny. The motionless octopus in the `lake' is also funny. And what about the screenplay, a kind of Frankenstein meeting the Loch Ness monster, with hilarious dialogs? This movie is a great entertainment, to see the courage of a brave director lover of cinema but without any skill. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) `A Noiva do Monstro' (`The Bride of the Monster')  "},{"Title":"Watch the Birdie!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay...lets be honest.  This film was just what is was expected to be  a poorly made film with little to no budget, terrible acting overall, a script that borders on insanity, and special effects that children in a school play could be proud of.  Yet, the film has a certain charm to it and is a vehicle in which to see both Bela Lugosi and Tor Johnson madly overact and interact.  Bela whipping Johnson and then getting into a wrestling match is definitely a high point.  The rest of the cast strive to be mediocre...and fail...with the exception of character actor Harvey Dunn.  Dunn plays the police chief and is humorous both intentionally and unintentionally.  Watch his scenes and see him play with his parakeet in his office.  It defies logic, time, and space...and is funny.  Not Ed Woods best or worse...and a film that really has been given a boost by Tim Burton's Ed Wood.  A fun picture to sit through with a group. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not...this movie is pretty good!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is easily Wood's best! Of all the movies Ed Wood has written this one makes 'the most sense', even though the story and concept are still ridiculous of course. Yet the movie works as an horror movie, or like Ed wood would call it; 'a supernatural thriller'.The acting probably is the only thing that is truly bad about this movie. Lot's of people praise Bela Lugosi for his role in this but I think that's truly offensive to a great actor like him. Lugosi was hundred times better in movies like Dracula and The Black Cat. Bela Lugosi and Tor Johnson are terribly overacting in this!Also it's too bad about the octopus scene's. It all was terrible fake and the use of archive footage was done horribly.The dialog and characters are the best Wood has ever written. Even though they are far from supreme, they work very well in the movie. Wood even manages to come up with some memorable quotes.This movie really doesn't deserve such a low rating and my guess is that more than halve the people who have rated this movie poorly had not even seen this movie but just rated it low because it's an Ed Wood movie. Be fair people! I recognize a bad movie when I see one and this movie most certainly is not bad!Even if you're not familiar with Wood's work but are a fan of classic horror movie's, you'll appreciate this movie. It really is not bad and works well as an horror movie. The story flows well and the ending is build up very good.By Wood's standards, an excellent movie!6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"An Ed Wood Classic","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you do not know Ed Wood then this movie will have little meaning to you. So the first thing you have to do is learn about the life of Ed Wood. He is one of the worst directors of all time, but also one of the most colorful. Bride of the monster is a good example of his ability to make the most out of his scarce resources. You'll love it or you'll hate it. Have fun! "},{"Title":"Not so bad&#133;not so bad at all","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really don't think this deserves the honor of being in the Bottom 100 of all times. I've seen much worse films without nearly the notoriety. In Bride of the Monster, Edward Wood shows himself to be a typically competent director doing a typical low-rent horror film. There are no mistakes in continuity, the lighting is adequate, the performances are pretty good&#133;how Plan 9 came from the same director is beyond me. I *am* put off by the DVD, though. For a premium price, you get the film, the trailer, and chapter stops&#151;that's all, folks. If this is supposed to be a camp classic, I could at least hope for some interviews, outtakes, and other amusements. The transfer isn't bad, with few scratches or specks that I noticed and a faithful rendering of the black-and-white movies of that era. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood tampers in God's domain...again.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This really isn't such a terrible little movie. Sure, it's cheap, the acting is horrible, the sets wobble if sneezed upon and the special effects consist of stock footage and a rubber octopus, but Bride of the Monster is much, MUCH better than Plan 9 From Outer Space. Mad scientist Vornoff (a sickly Bela Lugosi) has apparently set up shop in the Florida Everglades, kidnapping anyone unwise enough to wander too close to his house (and his pet octopus) and conducting sinister experiments upon them. Vornoff, for some odd reason, is determined to create a race of super giants with incredible strength. We're never really sure exactly WHY he wants to do this, but one can only assume that, if one possesses an army of super strong giants, one could take over the world and rule it and stuff. That seems to be the goal of every other mad scientist in the unruled world, anyway. Into this diabolical plan stumbles loudmouthed newsgirl Loretta King, who is determined to get the story on the Lake Marsh Monster. Whether the title of Lake Marsh Monster refers to the octopus, Tor Johnson as the fumbling Lobo or Bela's drug problem, we're never sure. Take your pick. Anyway, Loretta is kept under constant hypnosis by Bela's eyebags and is slated to become The Bride of the Monster! By this point, we're all quite ready to see the annoying Loretta fried to a crisp, but unfortunately, her wimpy boyfriend shows up to save her. The stunning climax is packed full of raging Lobo's, rolling boulders, lightening bolts, gunfire and death by octopus! The story doesn't make much sense, but were you really expecting it to when you saw Ed Wood's name listed under the title of director? Still and all, it's certainly Wood's most coherent effort and can be entertaining for those of us who stop to look at road accidents. "},{"Title":"Bela's last real movie role and he made it count","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Strange things have been happening around the Old Willow's place where a number of people have disappeared with the local police baffled about what happened to them. Janet Lawton, Loretta King, a local reporter has been writing stories about the disappearances and blaming them on what she calls The Monster of Lake Marsh which is getting people in the area very apprehensive and scared and making the police look helpless. It turns out very early in the movie we're shown that a Dr. Eric Vornoff, Bela Lugosi, with the help of his hulking assistant Lobo, Tor Johnson, have been kidnapping people in the woods around Lake Marsh and using them in experiments. The trouble is that Dr. Vornoff's experiments haven't been working out like he planned them to with those who he's experimenting on ending up dead.One afternoon at the local police station a prof. Strowski,George Becwar, shows up claiming that he's an expert on undiscovered monsters and thinks that whoever solve the mystery about the Monster of Lake Marsh. Telling police Captain Robbins, Harvey B. Dunn, and his second in command Lt. Dick Craig, Tony McCoy, to meet him the next morning and go out in the Lake Marsh area looking for the monster Strowski for some mysterious reason never shows up!Strowski instead checks out the Old Willow's Place where he comes face to face with Dr. Vornoff. It turns out that both Dr. Vornoff and prof. Strowski worked in, for some strange reason the country is never mentioned in the movie, the Soviet Union Back in the USSR Dr. Vornoff came up with a plan to create beings out of atomic energy that would be indestructible and use them to conquer the world for the USSR. The Soviet Government feeling that Dr.Vornoff was mad and ran him out of the country. Now it seems that they realized that Dr.Vornoff was on to something big and they want him back so they sent Strowski to the USA to fetch him and bring him home.Dr. Vornoff feeling insulted and condescended too instead tells Strowski to get lost that his plans for an army of atomic supermen is for his own purposes not for any country much less the Soviet Union who threw him out and stripped him of all his honors and accomplishments. It's then when Strowski pulls out a gun and tells Vornoff that his government ordered him to bring him back. Lobo sneaks up on Strowski and grabs him from behind then throws him into a water tank where he's killed by a giant octopus.Meanwhile Janet, who's Lt. Craig's girlfriend is also snooping around the Old Willow's place looking to break the big story about the monster. Being attacked by a python Lobo comes to Janet's rescue and takes her back to Dr. Vornoff. Dr. Vornoff sees in Janet a new subject for him to try out his atomic experiments with but is interrupted when Lt. Craig, who went out looking for Strowski at the Old Willow's Place, bursts in before Dr. Vornoff can do his dirty work. Lt. Craig like it was with Strowski is grabbed from behind by Lobo who subdues him. With Lt. Craig chained to the wall Dr. Vornoff goes on with his experiments on Janet. Lobo who has taken a liking to Janet then attacks Vornoff and stops him from pulling the switch. Strapping Vornoff to the operating table Lobo turns the juice on him but unlike the other times when the experiment failed and the persons died this time it worked! Vornoff turns into an atomic superman and clobbers Lobo and takes off with Janet in the woods with the whole police force hot on his heels. Vornoff after being forced to releases Janet, after Lt. Craig rolled a bolder on him, falls into a pound where he's attacked by the octopus that killed Strowski. While Vornoff and the the octopus are engaged in a life and death struggle their hit by a lighting bolt! With what seems like the whole movie set goes up in a nuclear explosion with Captain Robbins, who was in charge of the police , ends the film by saying what has now become folk lore in movie history He Tampered in God's Domain.Bride of the Monster was Bela Lugosi's last staring role and Bela gave it all that he had with the Mad Scientist bit which has to rank right up there with the best films that he made over his long movie career including Dracula and Son of Frankenstein as well as Ninotchka. Bela's I Have'a no Home speech that he gave to prof. Strowski was as good as anything that you would hear in an Academy Award winning film or top flight Shakesperaean production.Tor Johnson was also very effective as Lobo, even though he never uttered a word in the movie, by showing pain and affection for Janet who he tried to save from Dr. Vornoff's evil clutches and both Tony McCoy and Loretta King did have chemistry in the scenes that they were in together. George Becwar was more then adequate as the cagey and obsessed prof. Strowski trying to get Dr. Vornoff back home, to the USSR, to help in their nuclear research. You can say that the movie was awful only because director Ed Wood didn't have the money to make it more extravagant. Ed had to relay on cheap sets and props and in some places in the film add in stock footage. Yet I wounder how many top directors in the film business today or in 1955 when Bride of the Monster was made would have done better then Wood did with what he had. People should think of that before they put Ed Wood's Bride of the Monster down. "}{"Title":"I was expecting this movie to be worst","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Really, I imagined this movie would be much worst of what actually it is. OK, the soundtrack is awful as some of the effects. ( The octopus is memorable! I laughed a lot withBela Lugosi needing to move the tentacles of the octopus, to pretend the animal was killing him!It's some of the funniest parts of Ed Wood's movies ) But I don't think that the acting thing is SO bad like people say, and even the story has some interesting points.People,try to watch this movie without the prejudice because it's a Ed Wood's movie, okay?= You are going to be surprised that they can be also enjoyable.= "},{"Title":"Don't Be Fooled","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sure Ed Wood movies are cheesy and humorless, so are apt fodder for people looking for something to belittle.But I'm not one to let a bad execution get in the way of a good movie. In the sequel to this, there really was a cool, worthwhile concept. This one lacks that, but it makes up for it in my mind through the much celebrated performance of Lugosi.As much as I appreciate the Burton version of the history, I like the real thing so much better.Here was a man deep in the mysteries of the devil via drugs. Here was a man whose life consisted of the sort of cheap props that feature in this story. Here is a man who could and did hypnotize millions of visitors (filmgoers). And a man who was destroyed by his own creation.Man and character, truth and play all here for us to see. This is no mere funhouse, kiddies. This is the real thing, real experimentation turned evil, beyond deadly.I thank Tod Browning for starting this metamovie, and Burton for finishing it. But for the actual corpse, you have to visit this house.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Long live Bela!","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Plan 9 from Outer Space is Ed Wood's Citizen Kane, then Bride of the Monster is his Casablanca. The weird thing is, even though this is a bad movie, again you can't hate Ed Wood for it, because he put a lot of passion into it. Also this was one of his better films, while it could be a bit dull at times and over the top fake with that octopus monster, he had a good story that with a bit of patching could have been a really decent sci-fi flick. But how could I dismiss Ed Wood? This was his baby, he and Bela Legosi put so much love into this movie. Bella proves that he still has that strong presence on screen. I'm so glad that he had more screen time than what was written originally, it shows such a precious time in his life where when you think he would have fallen still in his typecast of horror movies, he could still deliver a great speech with such honor. Bride of the Monster offers silliness and a not so scary monster, but nevertheless what else could you want from an Ed Wood movie? It was the 1950's after all and he was just trying to make a name for himself with this script.Dr. Eric Vornoff, is experimenting with nuclear power with the help of his mute assistant, Lobo. His goal is to eventually create an army of super soldiers that he will use to conquer the earth. Their residence, an old mansion, is guarded by a giant octopus of Dr. Vornoff's own creation which lives in the surrounding swamp. The Octopus has been responsible for the deaths of local townspeople. Newspaper reporter Janet Lawton investigates further, becoming a prisoner of Dr. Vornoff in the process. The police eventually follow, led by lieutenant Dick Craig, who is also Lawton's boyfriend. Meanwhile, an official from Dr. Vornoff's home country, Professor Strowksi, arrives and tries to persuade him to return to their homeland in hopes that his research will benefit their nation. However, Strowski is killed and Lobo unwittingly turns Dr. Vornoff into an atomic-powered superhuman being.I absolutely love the ending with a passion, I loved the out of no where explosion that also happened to be a nuclear bomb that somehow didn't effect anyone. The silly effects that were also offered, I found it hilarious that Bela Legosi's character couldn't operate his own machine that he built, but the minute that his deformed side kick operates it, it works for him just fine. The only flaw that I found with this movie is that there are times where it could be a bit dull and felt a little dragged on. With Plan 9 you never got that, because as silly as it was it never stopped entertaining you. So like I said while this was Ed Wood's better film, it just seemed like we had to wait a while before any fun action scenes. But if you like Ed Wood or goofy movies, I definitely would recommend this one, it's not as silly as some of his other films but you'll get a great kick out of people wrestling with the octopus. Gotta give those actors credit, no CGI back then, only a silly doll to play dead with.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not Wood's worst","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a tendency to underrate Ed Eood's films due to the fact that he is considered one of the worst writers and directors out there. I will challenge that by saying that I consider William Allen Castleman and Robert Freeman to be worse than Wood. Having said that, you can't give this movie a high rating because it really is poorly done, despite the fact that Bela Lugosi does a credible job. I like Tor Johnson too, but that doesn't make him an actor. This movie has too many obvious flaws to be rated highly, but as a camp classic it should be viewed just so you know the history of movies. You can't call someone good unless you can point to someone who did it wrong. "},{"Title":"Rubber Octopus!","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bela Lugosi. Tor. A rubber octopus. An angora fetish. It's all so very, very...Ed Wood. If Wood have never existed, we'd probably need to make him up. Check out Bride of the Monster for some of the most unique filmmaking ever to bear the scarlet letter B. "},{"Title":"A fine, fine Ed Wood film!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are four Bela Lugosi movies that are mt favorites. They are Dracula (of course), The Devil Bat, The Raven, and Bride Of The Monster. Lugosi gives one of his best acting performances in this film; particularly in the scene where he states I have no home. That scene (in my opinion) is the high point of the movie. Lugosi was a genius; using facial expressions to enhance his incredible acting. Nobody could do it like him. The plot and acting in Bride Of The Monster is fine and they cast carries the entire affair very well indeed. This is not a high budget from MGM or Paramount, but instead it is a fine example of what can be done with a low budget and limited resources . Bride is a must see for any Lugosi fan and will delight those who enjoy this type of movie.  "},{"Title":"a terrible film you MUST watch!","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is only marginally better than Wood's most famous film, Plan 9 From Outer Space. Plan 9 was rightfully voted the worst movie ever made a while back. So why would I recommend this movie?! Well, it is not because I am a masochist, but I do enjoy watching films that are so inept and stupid they are funny. However, this is NOT the same as a simply bad movie. There are many bad movies that either bore me (The Conqueror--starring John Wayne as Genghis Khan) or give me a headache (Cracking Up by Jerry Lewis) and I would NEVER recommend ANYONE seem them (except, maybe, the prisoners at Guantanamo). No, instead Bride of the Monster is one you put in with a group of friends and watch just how amateurishly made a film can be! The movie stars the down-and-out Bela Lugosi shortly before his death. He stars as an evil mad scientist and he is assisted by his henchman, Tor Johnson (both of which are ALSO in Plan 9). I really don't remember that much of the plot--just the silliness of the movie and the ending where Lugosi wrestles with a giant rubber octopus (or squid). According to Michael Medved, the creature was to have been animated but the motor broke. So, the aging Lugosi had to wrestle a dead-looking creature and ACT like it was alive--wrapping its tentacles around him and screaming hysterically! It's a sight to see--trust me! "},{"Title":"the best worst movie ever made","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" there are three kinds of bad films - the cheap, the boring, and the tasteless. only the cheap bad films are really funny, because the filmmakers wanted to make their films so desperately, they way-over-reached beyond their abilities and available resources.boring films are just, well, boring - if you don't leave quickly enough, you fall asleep.tasteless films actually have their defenders; but the fact remains that they are masturbatory aids for very sick people.ed wood made bad films of every description - tasteless soft-core porn; slow-as-mud ghost-movies; and some of the funniest bottom -of-the-bucket cheap movies ever made.although the most famous of these is 'plan 9 from outer space', i should warn the reader that 'plan 9' gets awfully slow way too often to be tolerable for more than one viewing.but for 'bride of the monster', the editing leaps forward and nearly becomes professional. 'bride' is the best paced and most compact of the ed wood films, despite the fact that more happens in it than in any other wood film.because of this better pacing, the faults in the usual wood show of lack of any skill or talent whatsoever are given a real chance to shine forth as accidental jokes, unintended innuendos, gaffes, goofs, and gobs of gooey rubber stuff, like the least scary octopus in Hollywood history that Bela Lugosi wrestles with just before he vaporizes into a nuclear explosion, while being watched by the heroes standing only a few feet away - one of the least damaging nuclear blasts in history, fiction or fact.and the dialog - the speech from Bela Lugosi, over-acting as only a true monster could, about having no home but the 'living hell' of an American swamp only a few miles outside of los angeles, is a truly magnificent bit of nonsense poetry that only a true ego-maniacal paranoid schizophrenic could have written - bravo ed wood.but what really makes this film, as with all ed wood films that one might find entertaining in any way, is the earnestness with which wood makes this film. it is precisely this quality that inspired Tim Burton to do his ed wood biography. this was a man for whom making films - whether he had the talent or resources or not - was clearly a holy crusade, a passion that made all else in his undeniably wretched existence worth tolerating - just to get the next vision on celluloid, just to say something, whether anyone wanted to listen or not.that's truly heroic, however else misguided. and this heroism shows forth in 'bride of the monster' more than in any other film.this is a movie, dammit - no matter how unintentionally funny or just plain bad - it deserves respect as the nearest thing to the holy grail a film-maker like wood could get. "},{"Title":"If you have ever wondered where the expression so stupid its brilliant comes from...","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the place to look. After Glen Or Glenda? failed to attract any offers of big-studio financing, Ed financed this entire film himself and filmed it entirely without oversight. The fact that he was clearly less than competent to do all of these tasks himself utterly failed to dissuade anyone involved from seeing the thing through to completion, and the result is that we have this cinematic turkey to laugh at for all time. Wood, bless him, was so enthusiastic about making films that he never bothered to try and learn his craft or test his ideas to see if they would work in the finished product. As a consequence, all of his effects are symbolic, and utterly laughable. When he wants a character to manipulate lab equipment, he will direct an actor to wildly gesticulate in front of a set that looks like a random collection of dials and lights stuck to a board. Making it all the funnier is that his actors are so clueless to his incompetence, or so captivated by his imagination, that they deliver a stupefyingly earnest performance.The plot of Bride Of The Monster is as ridiculous as anything else to have been written by Ed Wood, but in a sort of charming way, it works. The documentary Flying Saucers Over Hollywood explains in some segments that Wood's best-known work, Plan 9 From Outer Space, is widely watched because in addition to the reputation it has as a completely insane film, it also has a smattering of legitimately effective scenes or shots. That is definitely the case with Bride Of The Monster. Scenes like Bela Lugosi's I have no home speech, or Loretta King's quick chat with the file clerk, demonstrate a knack for composition and spacing that would have served Wood quite well if he had been able to reign in his apparent belief in shooting everything in one take, even if that take shows the set wobbling. Another quote about Plan 9 that definitely applies here is that no matter what time you watch Bride Of The Monster at, it always feels as if you are sitting in front of your television at four in the morning.Lugosi plays a mad scientist named Eric Vornoff, who is attempting to create a super-strength zombie through the use of a table, some straps, a powerful lamp, and some kind of electric play-toy. In the swamp around his mansion, people have been going missing with alarming regularity, prompting a detective to poke his nose into the area's goings-on. Contrary to the impression given by Tim Burton's biopic, Tony McCoy is not that bad an actor, although you will not be surprised to learn he only ever acted in one film and a TV episode after Bride Of The Monster. In fact, the acting in this particular film is much better than is usually the case for Wood productions, although that is not saying a lot. Loretta King speaks all of her lines as if she is reading from cue cards, and Dolores Fuller makes it plainly obvious she would rather be anywhere but on the office set. But the real prize for bad acting comes from George Becwar as Professor Vladimir Strowski, who has the apparent objective of taking Vornoff home by any means necessary. Whether Vornoff likes it or not. If one ever needed proof that Bela Lugosi was the most talented person to cross Ed Wood's path, this scene is it.Wood's enthusiasm for incorporating stock footage into his films both benefits and hinders him this time. The octopus stock footage is blended with his footage of what is clearly an octopus dummy to an effect that is both hilarious and rather sad. Watching Bela Lugosi battle with an octopus that he is clearly moving himself is enough to make one feel pretty sorry for the old guy. Exactly why producer Donald McCoy felt the need to end the film with a nuclear explosion is anyone's guess, but Wood obliges him with stock footage that not only doesn't come close to matching the rest of the film, but also raises the question of how our heroes survived. Wood's problem as a director was not so much that he was incompetent or had ambitions too great for his ability. No, his real problem was that he was utterly blind to when his stock footage or effects shots simply were not working. A good filmmaker like Verhoeven or Lucas would arrange their shots and editing to either cover their mistakes or let the audience's imagination take over. Wood just showed his blunders, warts and all.Amazingly, Bride Of The Monster achieved financial success when first released to theatres in 1955. Combined with Wood's documented excessive enthusiasm, this does a lot to explain why Wood was so enthusiastic to get another film in production. Although he made two short films between this and Plan 9, it took another two years for him to get what was then a feature-length film wrapped. That's another peculiarity of Wood's productions - none of them reached so much as a ninety minute length. In today's film-making world where studios will insert excessive scenes just to get a film up to an unspoken minimum length, nobody will ever accuse Wood's of outlasting their welcome. And that is probably one of the saddest things about Wood's story. Even though he never fit into the system in place during the 1950s, he would have even more difficulty fitting into the studio system of today. He dared to take on subjects that others considered taboo, and wasn't made creatively impotent by focus group meetings.I gave Bride Of The Monster a one out of ten. It is incompetent on every level, yet so endearing. Watch it with a group of friends, make it a MST-style night, and you will have a blast. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie as such, but much better than its reputation","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ed Wood Jnr has often been cited as the worst director of all time, and his films(Plan 9 From Outer Space especially) also get a similar reputation. I personally think that the distinction is unfair, there are certainly better directors than Wood and better made, written and acted films/movies out there of course, but- unlike something like anything Friedberg and Seltzer- Wood's films are entertaining and kind of like guilty pleasures. Great movies no they're not, but when someone says that they are among the worst of all time I'll respectfully disagree on that one. Bride of the Monster does have things wrong, the sets are wobbly, the special effects especially the octopus are fake, the story does drag at times and Loretta King displays no kind of acting talent whatsoever. (Paul Murco's small role is also rather embarrassing) Even with these, Bride of the Monster is still one of Ed Wood Jnr's better movies. Wood is never going to be up there with the greatest directors, but not the worst either, at least he directed with heart. Lugosi's fight with the octopus is absolutely hilarious and has to be seen with be believed, easily one of the memorable scenes of any of Ed Wood's movies. The dialogue has some very funny moments(of what I can remember only the final line really made me groan), but the I have no home monologue is really quite poignant. The ending is senseless indeed but a lot of fun, and while the story does drag at times and also a little senseless, I didn't ever feel my intelligence being insulted to unbearable degree(unlike the SyFy/Asylum movies). The acting is not amazing, but King was the only one really that came across as really, really bad. Tony McCoy is handsome and does manage to give some of his lines credibility and Harvey B.Dunn is very amusing. Tor Johnson is somewhat stiff but looks the part of a monster figure and he does provide some of the movie's most entertaining scenes. But it is really Bela Lugosi's movie, in his final role he gives a commanding and heartfelt performance, succeeding also in giving moments of banality some genuine meaning. Overall, not great but better than I expected it to be. 6/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"So bad and so funny all at once.","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can you say about Edward Wood Jr.? He's been called the worst filmmaker ever, yet his movies are so fun to watch regardless. This was the first movie I've ever seen of his and I had a fun time laughing at the sheer loopiness of it all.Wood's idol, Bela Lugosi, plays an exiled Soviet scientist called Dr. Eric Vornoff, hiding out in an ramshackle house in the middle of a swamp. Vornoff wants to create a nuclear-charged master race with which he can use to take over the world. He also has a mute, Tibetan lab assistant with an angora fetish named Lobo (played by wrestler Tor Johnson) who stumbles and fumbles around Vornoff's swampy bungalow for much of the film. Through the efforts of a young policeman and his Lois Lane-styled reporter girlfriend, Vornoff's world domination scheme is foiled.This movie has tons of silliness. One personal favorite is where Lobo mutinies against Vornoff and fights his shorter, platform shoe-wearing stunt double. Another funny scene Vornoff's getting killed by his giant octopus and a random bolt of lighting strikes him, causing an atomic blast; the heroes watch the mushroom cloud from a safe distance of forty feet away!This is a movie you have to see to believe! "},{"Title":"ED Wood broke my octopus","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride Of The Monster was Bela Lugosi's last completed film and was done for that legendary director of bad movies, Ed Wood, Jr. At least Lugosi didn't live to see Plan Nine From Outer Space, he was spared that humiliation.Once again Bela is a mad scientist who has a scheme to create a race of atomic supermen and he's got a great old prototype in Tor Johnson formerly the Swedish Angel of pro wrestling fame. In fact Tor's nocturnal wanderings have given rise to a monster legend in and around Lugosi's secluded digs in the woods. That and the pet giant octopus he keeps around for no discernible reason other than to dispose of unwanted guests.Bela has all kinds of people on his trail, the cops, a Lois Lane type reporter who is girlfriend to one of the cops and another scientist from Lugosi's home country who wants to bring him back so he can do his work there. Bela however is a believer that a prophet has no honor in his home country and disposes of that unwanted guest via the octopus.The octopus and Ed Wood's inability to use it somewhat realistically are the main reasons that this Ed Wood classic is remembered today. I just read a very thorough biography of Lugosi and the rubber octopus was the one John Wayne struggled with in Wake Of The Red Witch. It was the property of Republic Pictures. But Republic was slowly going out of business so Wood got the thing from Herbert J. Yates somehow, he rented it, Yates sold it to him in a fire sale, or he just gave it to him there not being a big market for giant rubber octopuses. Now that thing would bring thousands of dollars in an on line auction if it still exists. Even with a missing tentacle, broken off during the shooting of Bride Of The Monster.Not much else to recommend it, cheesy sets, acting on the junior high school level, and a man with no eye for special effects directing this epic. Still worth a few laughs though. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as I expected!","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having enjoyed Plan 9 many times and Glen or Glenda once, I really expected this to be a serious turkey...and it wasn't! It's not overly good, but (since it came before Plan 9) I had ASSUMED Ed Wood had used this as a movie making dress rehearsal. Wrong! Lugosi is great! Tor Johnson is certainly more believable here than in Plan 9.It's a dumb movie with a dumb monster and dumb effects, but it works...almost. It's a fun watch grab some popcorn and your buddies, set the bar low, and enjoy. Lugosi's performance makes me wonder what Plan 9 would have been like had he lived beyond 3 days into Plan 9's filming. "},{"Title":"Probably Ed's most accomplished movie","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Technically speaking Bride of the Monster is probably Ed Wood's most fully realized film. I get the impression that in this instance Wood came closest to producing on screen what he conceived beforehand. That's not to say that it's his most enjoyable work because in the mad and crazy world of Wood, incompetence has been elevated almost to an art form and, therefore, some of his more unintentionally funny films are actually favoured by me. That said Bride of the Monster should certainly still please fans of bad psychotronic cinema. And, along with Glen or Glenda and Plan 9 From Outer Space would make excellent complementary viewing alongside Tim Burton's masterful biopic Ed Wood.The story is suitably ridiculous and not really worth going into. And it's not 100% obvious what the title actually means. Loretta King's character is clearly supposed to be the bride but there are two completely separate monsters and neither of them particularly appears to be the groom. One of the monsters is played by a stock footage octopus that turns hilariously into an inanimate giant prop in a puddle when attacking various members of the cast. The second monster is played by the one and only Tor Johnson, as a character called Lobo who is the sidekick of Bela Lugosi's Dr. Eric Vornoff. Lugosi is a lot of fun in this and despite the film's cruddiness, it's not a terrible showcase for him. Ironically, his turn in this ultra-cheap notorious movie has become one of his most iconic. He gets to say his famous 'I have no home' speech that was made famous in Burton's movie, and the sight of him whipping Tor into action in his (cardboard?) laboratory is both funny and highly memorable. In general, the acting is not as bad as is typical for a Wood film; although Dolores Fuller is, as usual, gloriously rubbish in her small role as the secretary &#x96; her short conversation with Loretta King is truly a non-acting master-class.It goes without saying that Bride of the Monster is not a film for everyone. For the casual viewer this would still be considered an awful film, but in relative Woodian terms it can be regarded as something of an accomplished success. "},{"Title":"Bela, Tor, Nash, and Studebaker!","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having heard for years how bad this movie was I was prepared for the worst. I was very pleasantly surprised. While I wouldn't label this a good movie, I will say that it is entertaining - never boring. As others have commented, Bela does a fine job - perhaps overacting a bit, but in a good way. We are treated to a masterful performance as he makes the most of every bit of insipid dialog.The story moves along well and the production, while cheap, is never ridiculous. I will disagree with other reviewers who pan the rest of the cast. I feel that the acting was mostly competent and fairly natural. I have certainly seen worse, often in much more highly regarded films. Even Tor manages to be believable within the context.An added bonus that I think has not been mentioned If you are a car buff you have the rare privilege of seeing a Nash and a Studebaker share a scene! That in itself is worth a look! "},{"Title":"Home...I have no home...","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I will start off by saying that this is an Ed Wood, Jr. film, so of course it's going to have cheap sets, grade z actors (except for the wonderful Bela Lugosi) and ridiculous dialog. With that being said, this little horror movie is actually better than it should be.Bela Lugosi plays the mad doctor Dr. Vornoff who has been banished from his home country because of his bizarre experiments using atomic energy. He is trying to create a race of super humans but he keeps killing people as his experiments continue to fail. Ed Wood perennial player Tor Johnson portrays Lobo, his assistant. Let's just say the menacing Lobo is a few french fries short of a Happy Meal.Dr. Vornoff is hiding out in an abandoned old house in the woods complete with the mad scientist laboratory and a pond outside complete with a giant rubber octopus.The movie would be a total mess except for Bela Lugosi. He actually gives a wonderful performance, especially given the limitations he had to work with, i.e. cheapola sets, having to wrestle the giant octopus, etc. His speech where he says, Home? I have no home... shows the shades of the brilliant actor that captivated fans 30 years before when he performed Dracula on Broadway. Despite the terrible material he had to work with, Bela rises above everything and shows the true professional he really was. He is frail and looks old, but he still retained the essence that made him a star.I feel this movie isn't any worse than many of the cheapie movies that studios were cranking out in the 1950's. To me this is probably the best of Ed Wood, Jr.'s many movies. If you are a Bela Lugosi fan, or a fan of Ed Wood, Jr., you definitely don't want to miss this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the so bad it's entertaining films...","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this fillm,because I loved Tim Burton's Ed Wood,and was curious,so here is my review of The Bride Of The Monster is about Lt Dick Craig,and his girlfriend Janet Lawton searching for a monster who lives at The Old Willow Place. The master of the monster,which is a rubber octopus,is Bela Lugosi,a very sad looking Bela,who with his assitant Lobo plan to build a race of super men. The film is terrible in many ways,the direction,musical score,acting(Except for Bela) But it is good for a director with the little skills Ed had. Looks more like a fan film,than a feature length one. It is entertaining nonetheless,and very silly at times. But a true fan of the genre will understand,and sit back for the ride of Ed Wood's Bride of the Monster.  "},{"Title":"Ed Wood deserves a bit more credit for this...","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD ! Many years ago, Bride of the Monster was the first Edward D. Wood movie I ever saw. I didn't quite understand what was so terrible about it then and I still quite haven't figured it out. Especially when you're comparing it to most of his other movies, Bride of the Monster is a fairly decent motion picture. Sure it's a bunch of silly and far-fetched nonsense but, if you look beyond that, you may detect a bit of creativity and a miniscule amount of talent in it. If you're really optimistic, you might even say that Edward Wood was ahead of his time !! The idea is there but he just misses the essential budget and means to work it out like it should be. I'm really convinced that it looked like a masterpiece in his head. The script even contains a few good dialogues and humorBride of the Monster tells the story of Dr. Eric Vornoff (the legendary Bela Lugosi). He's a dedicated scientist who lives in an abandoned house near a swamp, together with Lobo - a freaking' huge monster played by Tor Johnson. Near Vornoff's property, men are disappearing. He uses them for experiments to create a new breed of super-men or something. A young female journalist becomes too curious and checks it out. Vornoff sees her as a new volunteer to experimentate upon and captures her. Her boyfriend-policeman comes to the rescue.  Vornoff also has an adorable pet !! A giant rubber octopus who dwells around the swamp. Sure this thing looks really dumb and cheesy but come on people !! The year is 1950!! Ed Wood really made terrible movies ( like the incredibly boring Glen or Glenda ) but Bride of the Monster really isn't that bad. It's merely one of the movies that got marked just because he directed it. Give it a chance...  "},{"Title":"Why did I give this film an 8?","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good question. I feel Ed always had to know what he was doing. I mean if this had been an A film, do you think any of it would have made it past the dailys? Sure he was slightly demented in his thinking. But he was also having fun. He knew just how bad his film were, yet he kept doing them. I give him an 8 mostly for effort. But they are almost hypnotizing to watch. BOTM isn't long enough to bore you to tears. The dialogue is sparse enough that you can remember most every line spoken, the acting keeps you on your toes! I mean, most of us can't act, but we love to scream at the screen...'You are so bad!'...The sets, in fact everyhing about this fim, (all of Ed's films, really), are so bent that you can't help but smile while watching.  About the only sad thing about this is Bela Lugosi. He wasn't really exploited, but you can see pain in is eyes. Yet Ed gave him employment. He wanted to work, Ed wanted him to work. But there was nothing left of him, just the shell of a great actor. Not the greatest way to go out, but then, it's still great to see him hamming it up.  I don't know about anyone else, but I pull my Ed Wood movies out every few months and sit back and enjoy them for what they are, true schlock cinema from a guy who thought of himself as one of the greats, in his own little world... "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of the Monster (1955) *** (out of 4) Cult classic from Edward D. Wood, Jr. about a mad scientist (Bela Lugosi), his over-sized assisstant (Tor Johnson) and their pet rubber octopuss. Only God really knows how many of these Z grade films I've seen over the years but there's no doubt in my mind that Wood's movies are the best of the bunch. The worst thing that could happen while watching this stuff is that you get bored but with Wood, and especially this film, boredom isn't a possibility since there's countless insane moments happening throughout the 69-minute running time. The film moves by very quickly and while I do enjoy the movie because it's bad, I will go out on the limb and say Lugosi gives his best performance in his later day roles. "}{"Title":"The ground is alive with crawling things-a quality line of dialogue from Edward D. Wood Jr.'s  Bride of the Monster!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of the Monster opens on a dark stormy night, the wind howls as the rain lashes down between strikes of lightening and rumbling thunder. It's Lake Marsh and two men, Mac (Bud Osborne) and Jake (John Warren) are caught unawares by the storm and find themselves stranded. They seek refuge in 'Willow' mansion owned by mad Russian scientist Dr. Eric Vornoff (Bela Lugosi). Vornoff warns the men to leave. Before they can Vornoff's idiotic servant Lobo (Tor Johnson) creeps up behind them and sends them running back into the swamp. There Mac and Jake are attacked by Vornoff's monstrous creation that lives there, a giant octopus. Lobo manages to retrieve one of the men and take him back to Vornoff's laboratory where Vornoff sticks a siv with three spark plugs stuck to the top on his head. Vornoff then shines a light in his face, which proves fatal. Vornoff bemoans yet another failed experiment. Captain of homicide Tom Robbins (Harvey B. Dunn) calls Lieutenant Dick Craig (Tony McCoy) into his office to discuss the disappearance of twelve men near Lake Marsh. Lt. Craig says he has nothing to go on when his fiancé who works as a journalist, Janet Lawton (Loretta King) walks into Robbins office. Janet feels the police aren't doing everything they can so she decides to do some investigating of her own, much to the displeasure of Lt. Craig and Captain Robbins. After some research Janet drives out to Lake Marsh but crashes her car in a violent thunder storm and is kidnapped by Lobo. Back at headquarters Captain Robbins and Lt. Craig talk to the leading authority on Prehistoric monsters, Professor Vladimir Strowski (George Becwar) who convinces them that the legends of a monster surrounding the swamps may be true and along with Lt. Craig and his partner Detective Marty Martin (Don Nagel) decides to head out to the swamps to check things out. Vornoff dresses Janet in a white bridal gown (I don't know why) and prepares her to undergo more of his insane experiments which he hopes will create a race of Atomic supermen to conquer the world! Once at the swamp Lt. Craig finds Janet's abandoned car with her nowhere to be seen. Will Lt. Craig be able to solve the mystery and rescue his fiancé Janet before she becomes Vornoff's latest experiment? Or will he end up octopus food?Written and directed by Edwood D. Wood Jr. I thought this film was nowhere near as bad as it's reputation suggests. In fact I was impressed with it considering all the negative things I had heard. Don't misunderstand me as it certainly isn't a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination but as a decent, fun, silly and entertaining 50's monster film I quite liked it. It moves along at a fair pace and at under 70 minutes it doesn't outstay it's welcome, but it did start to drag a little in the middle but it picked up again towards the end. The dialogue, although stupid at times, isn't as bad as I thought it was going to be. It's simple and basic but coherent. Obviously there are 'bad' bits in the film, Vornoff's lab for instance is just a simple set with the stonework and bricks painted onto the walls to give the impression of an old Gothic dungeon. There is the odd continuity error and the special effects for the giant octopus are truly terrible, plus the octopus isn't really in it enough just a somewhat measly three times. The black and white photography by Ted Allan and William C. Thompson is simple but clean and crisp, at least you can see whats going on all the time which is all I was hoping for. Lugosi puts in a decent performance, Johnson is absolutely awful and he can hardly walk straight much less act and Dunn as Robbins is actually quite funny in a couple of scenes particularly when he questions the old woman in the records office. I really don't think this film deserves to be in the bottom 100, I've seen many film much worse than this fairly innocent, fun and at times charming little 50's effort from Edward D. Wodd Jr.! Difficult to recommend for casual viewers, but definitely worth a watch if you like these types of films. "},{"Title":"I'm so glad I bought this movie","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was so surprised when I found this movie for sale at the local used book/CD/video store. I was also very delighted, because it meant I would be able to see more work of Ed Wood. This film had a big part in the movie Tim Burton did on Ed Wood. I think it was great that he got booed out of the theater, but also kind of depressing. But I have to admit, I think this movie deserves a lot more credit than it currently has.The only really and truly bad part of the movie was the end. Not just one part of the end, but the WHOLE ending. The parts where Bela was getting shot at, and he twitched his face to dodge the bullets, and the part with the boulder and then the octopus in ankle deep water where Bela had to fling the tentacles around to make it look alive. And then the explosion. Now, I'm no atomic physicist, but I thought atomic explosions encompassed at least a one mile blast radius... at LEAST. I mean, the other characters where like ten feet away when the explosion happened. How could they not have been hurt? Well, I shouldn't be complaining too much... It IS after all Ed Wood, and it WAS stock footage, so... who can complain. Not me!!! Good day to all. "},{"Title":"Not Ed Wood's worst.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this film is absolutely terrible, it isn't Ed Wood's worst film. It has a little structure and some okay acting moments considering the talent involved. So bad it's good. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Ed Wood Classic","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think that most of Ed Wood's films are as bad as some people make them out to be - they are entertaining. No, they are not the greatest films but they do have entertainment value and a fan following for a reason. Bride of the Monster might be Wood's best film.We have the great Bela Lugosi as Dr. Eric Vornoff - a mad scientist out to create atomic creatures... and he echos his hand gesture from White Zombie (a nod in that direction).We also have Tor Johnson as Lobo - Lobo is very much like Johnson's character's from Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959) and The Beast of Yucca Flats (1961).Bride of the Monster really is worth watching if you are into the classic sci-fi horror and like a good B Horror film.7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't marry yourself to it","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A film whose making was immortalized in Tim Burton's comedy Ed Wood (1994), Bride of the Monster is actually much worse than Burton makes it out to be. Watching the (fictionalized) film, it looked better than Glen or Glenda or Plan 9, particularly with the way Martin Landau delivered his lines with such force and really did make that octopus look alive. He gave real Bela Lugosi a run for his money. In this film, that octopus is obviously fake and incapable of movement. When someone lands on it and it's just dead, the only thing you can think of is how cheap this film must be. An attempt is also made to splice together footage of a living octopus and an actor being dragged into the water, but Wood did not make them mesh. Later, Lugosi becomes a monster himself, but you can hardly realize it because he looks simply the same.Beyond the failure of the special effects, Bride of the Monster is characterized by the same awful dialogue and acting seen in Wood's other work. Even Lugosi is lacking in the acting department- and how waving his hand puts people to sleep, I do not know. So sad his career ended with films like this. The story is an attempt at science fiction that is totally devoid of science or substance. Any enjoyment people take in this film is strictly ironic- meaning, so bad it's good. But I think it's debatable if it can even be considered that. "},{"Title":"Poor Bela - and where's Criswell?","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" BOTM isn't quite the delirious howler like PLAN 9, but it sure has its fair share of giggles. The atomic salad-bowl helmet is a treat (and makes a cameo appearance in Ed's NIGHT OF THE GHOULS as well). But Bela doesn't shine as much as he struggles through it all with the tattered remains of his dignity. For that alone, we applaud him. If you want to see what a great character actor he truly was, check out his performance as Ygor in SON OF FRANKENSTEIN and GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN.Dracula will always be his signature role, but when he fit the bill he did it flawlessly. If you've never seen him in Universal's THE RAVEN by all means do! Even the lesser productions such as DEVIL BAT and THE HUMAN MONSTER are delightfully sinister. He is sorely missed. "},{"Title":"Laughably but Almost Endearingly Inept From Start to Finish","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There has long been a good deal of debate within certain circles about the identity of the worst director ever. These days, the most common response would probably be Michal Bey. True, his movies suck, but they're still good enough to bring in millions for their studios. Others would point to German director Uwe Bol, whose series of video game adaptations has resulted in a petition calling for him to never direct again. Last I heard, this petition has over 10,000 signatures. I personally would choose the little known Coleman Francis, creator of such atrocities as The Beast of Yucca Flats and Night Train to Mundo Fine.But one name that keeps popping up is that of Edward T Wood. Unlike most B movie directors, Wood wasn't in it just to get a paycheck and see his name in the credits. Wood was hardworking, earnest, and oh so eager to make a good movie. But the fact was, he lacked any formal training or innate skill. He has a reputation for making guys like Roger Corman and Bert I. Gordon look like Spielberg. I've known for some time now that I had to see (and most likely ridicule) his work, and I decided to start with his second film, Bride of the Monster.Bride is truly remarkable in that it is made entirely of clichés. The mad scientist, the hulking, mute henchman, the hard nosed reporter and her boyfriend the cop, the mysterious character who may know more than he's telling, even the dark and stormy night; they're all here. The scientist (played by Bella Lugosi!) has created a process that can turn normal human beings into giants with 'the strength of twenty men'- if it doesn't kill them, which is what's happened to every test subject so far. With this process, he seeks to- all together now- conquer the world and gain vengeance on those who have wronged him.Like all self respecting mad scientists, he has a monster to guard his lab, in this case an octopus. In most scenes, the octopus is brought to life through the magic of stock footage. But for scenes where the creature deals with the professor's unwanted guests, Wood used a mechanical octopus, reportedly stolen from the Republic Studios lot. But he forgot to steal the motor, so it's painfully obvious that the actors are just writhing around and moving the tentacles themselves. Fortunately for viewers, this spectacle is as funny as it is pathetic.It's also worth noting that most of the people in this movie are idiots. For instance, the pair of hunters in the opening scene run from the mad scientist and his henchman even though both of them have guns. And the pretty young reporter thinks that it's a good idea for her to go investigate the old house in the middle of the swamp on her own. For that matter, why is she the first one to look into the house? By this point, twelve people have gone missing in the swamp, and rumors of a monster abound. Hasn't it occurred to the police that they might want to take a look at the only building in the swamp? I suppose if they had the pretty girl never would have found herself in peril, and then we wouldn't get the climactic final scene in which the police arrive to save her. Oops, I just gave away the ending! The bottom line is that nothing in this movie is done right. The actors convey no more emotion than if they had been reading from a teleprompter, their lines sound like they were written by an eight year old, production values are abysmal, and the entire plot is an exercise in predictability, which relies on people doing the dumbest thing possible in every situation.But the whole thing has such an earnest, amateurish feel that it's still watchable. It's a bad movie, no doubt about that, but it does have an almost endearing campiness to it. This is the kind of movie that Mystery Science Theatre 3000 was made to showcase, and show it they did, in one of their best episodes. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of the Monster (or Bride of the Atom, as it was initially named, but that title was scrapped although it's still mentioned in the film, much like Plan 9) is the only Ed Wood film that actually attained commercial success and is notable for several reasons. It was the last speaking role of Bela Lugosi and it's one of the most cherished B- films of all time.Lugosi delivers an enjoyable, kinda comical performance as mad dr. Eric Vornoff, whose goal is to create mutant atomic supermen (???) and is assisted by Lobo (played by Swedish wrestler Tor Johnson), a mute powerhouse with a heart of gold. Vornoff is not only a scientific genius but also a hypnotist (uses the same hypnotic hand gesture from Lugosi's earlier hit White Zombie). The rest of the characters are kind of a bore in comparison to the crazy stuff going on inside Vornoff's lab. The main hero is just a generic guy in a gray suit and the leading lady is forgettable. The two most noteworthy supporting characters are a cop who says Yes, sir! to everything and the police captain who for some inexplicable reason has a parrot on his shoulder.The monster from the title is unspecified - it could be Vornoff, but also Lobo or the giant octopus that Vornoff created. Yes, the main beast is a huge man-killing octopus residing in the upper room of the most pathetic movie monsters in history. The juxtaposition during the murders is laughable - a stock footage of a real octopus in an aquarium is shown side to side with actors in the pond moving giant rubber tentacles around and pretending they're being strangled or something. In one instance, we see a guy being thrown into the octopus' chamber where we see the rubber octopus prop in all of its glory, standing still, while the guy moves its tentacles around in an attempt to evoke the impression of it strangling him.The sets are typical for this kind of film - an old, somber house in an area where thunderstorms are an everyday occurrence. The indoor locations are interesting, such as Vornoff's living room with crooked picture frames and a staircase that appears to be going nowhere.The final ten minutes are where it's at - Vornoff is being subjected to his own mutant-making ray, which means that he becomes a violent mute with a scarred face, makes outrageously silly faces and is now immune to bullets. He goes on a rampage, so the cops roll a boulder at him, so he falls in a lake with the octopus. The lightning strikes his house and it explodes, then out of nowhere a thunderbolt hits Vornoff and the octopus, therefore producing a mini-atomic explosion! That leaves the cops bluntly staring at it and one of them lets out a dumb remark.It's just hilarious. "},{"Title":"Thrill as you watch people speculate in between very brief action sequences!","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I caught this film on Mystery Science Theater 3000. The film was directed by Ed Wood and it plays out pretty much like all his films I have seen. It just seems he tried to aim high, but did not have the resources to do all that much and you end up with very little going on and padding galore with only a couple of actual scenes that could pass as action or horror scenes. It is not super horrible though as it does feature Bela Lugosi, who I am guessing Ed Wood treated as the star he was and which is the reason he kept appearing in his movies. It also has Tor Johnson who is always good for the occasional unintentional laugh and there is of course the horrible octopus monster! The story is like countless others. There is a strange mansion in the middle of nowhere, in this film, the middle of nowhere happens to be in a swamp. In the house a man is performing all sorts of strange and horrid experiments. There is stories of a monster attacking and killing people and everyone assumes it is the strange man living with the scientist performing the experiments, but instead it is a strange mutant octopus! An intrepid reporter finds herself as this man's captive and it is up to her cop boyfriend to find her and stop the madman before he attempts to turn her into a monster too!Like I said, I saw this one on MST3K and it was a fairly good episode. Ed Wood's movies generally make for good MST3K episodes mainly because they are rather easy fodder for riffing. Also, like the other Ed Wood films, this movie is short so you end up with a short proceeding the film.So overall, not a great cinematic masterpiece, but the gang of Mystery Science Theater 3000 have had to sit through worse. The effects are bad, the acting is pretty bad and the monster laughable. Still, you get a giant octopus killing people! Well, it is not all that exciting but you do get to see Bela and Tor face off! Well, it is just a stunt double for Bela Lugosi, but still you get, um, you get...Hm, well you get a short movie. "},{"Title":"Who has more hands? Bela? Tor? or the Octopus?","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Bela Lugosi pulls out his whip and begins to pummel the much larger Tor Johnson, you've got to laugh because of the difference in their size. Bela Lugosi by this time was in his 70's, way beyond frail, yet he is not at all afraid of slapping the model for one of the most popular Halloween masks ever. Even less than a decade after his last major Hollywood release (Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein), Lugosi looked completely like a different person. His teaming with Ed Wood (or Edward D. Wood Jr. as the Orson Welles wanna-bee billed himself) dominated his later years, and with the exception of an Old Mother Reilly film and a wretched film with a team who were a pale imitation of Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, his movie work was all gotten through who is today called the worst director ever. This movie is basically a recap of everything Lugosi had done at Monogram or PRC in the 1940's. It is especially close to the highly melodramatic Universal serial The Phantom Creeps, and if made on a much lower budget than that chapter play is still a lot more entertaining, mainly because as camp and for historical purposes, it plays better today. That is because the documenting of the filming of this with Tim Burton's wonderful Ed Wood (which won Martin Landau a well deserved Oscar as Lugosi) shows the big dreams of the director (Johnny Depp in a sweet, childlike performance) making what he considered to be a masterpiece yet the rest of the world considered to be crap.Yes, this is crap, but sometimes that is what makes the garden grow. The laughs are abundant here, and Ed Wood is no help in decreasing those laughs with the filming this cult favorite, whether it is Lugosi battling with the unmoving octopus or Lillian King (who financed the movie) encountering Dolores Fuller, Wood's previous leading lady, in one scene hysterically recreated. Of course, Lugosi does his best to give a moving performance, and in the scene where he's confronted by an old colleague, the threat is there to break your heart. Lugosi always believed that even with the lamest dialogue, you had to feel it in your heart to make it work, and somehow, he is almost right. Yet, a mad scientist in 1939 utilizing exploding mechanical spiders or a steel monster to do his bidding, or having a giant bat killing his enemies is the same as a 70-something year old man who briefly gains the strength of a 30 year old. You can't take stuff like this seriously, but you can find a lot of fun in enjoying it for being delightfully bad and the stuff that Hollywood legends are made of. "}{"Title":"Great Film For What It Is","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rumours abound about what may go on at a creepy mansion just out of town. The house is owned by Dr. Eric Vornoff (Bela Lugosi) who is conducting experiments to turn people into super-beings through the use of atomic power.With Tor Johnson as Lobo and directed by the eccentric Ed Wood, this film is a pure winner if you like B-movie cheese. Is it good? In the traditional sense of good, no. But who can say no to cheesy movies and countless scenes of Lugosi making some absurd faces? What needs mentioning is the octopus from Wake of the Red Witch, a John Wayne film. Reports are contradictory about whether or not the octopus was stolen, but more importantly -- what is the deal with this thing? When attacked by it, the victim grabs the tentacles and flails them. Not very convincing. And the mismatched footage of a real octopus? If you cannot handle this film in its normal mode, you may be happy to know it also can be viewed as an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000. It has some historical importance as Wood's only profitable film, and allegedly this is the movie that created American International Pictures, which would bring us Roger Corman, and several other huge names over the next five decades. "},{"Title":"I think a director who breaks into the studio warehouse and robs a giant octopus deserves some recognition","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Screen's Master of the WEIRD in his NEWEST and MOST DARING SHOCKER! Ed Wood holds the title of being the Worst Director of All-Time. This is because of the genre films that he made in the 50's with their ill-fitting stock footage, incoherent story lines and dialogue, terrible special effects and blatant incompetence on his part by the way he would set out the make the films. Bride of the Monster is, by Wood's terms, his most financially successful film. Wood fought in WW2 in the Pacific theatre with the Marines. He was reportedly a brilliant soldier, and had the medals to prove it and also lost his front teeth in hand-to-hand combat. A known transvestite, he had admitted that he used to wear women's under garments 'comfortably' into combat. When he returned from the war, he became a carnie, before later attempting to break into Hollywood and become a successful film director. Well, he became a film director alright but not successful. Wood's films have gained a cult status over the years because of how ridiculous and cheap they are. They are fun to watch because of how laughable everything is and they are quite amazing in how down-right idiotic and brain-dead they are. Another factor contributing to Ed Wood being a household name is that he was portrayed in the 1994 Ed Wood by Johnny Depp directed by Tim Burton. That film features the manic production of this fan favourite, Bride of the Monster.The film begins with two hunters being caught in downpour and lightening storm out in Lake Marsh, a swamp. There, they are attacked by a giant octopus. One of them escapes but is captured by Dr. Eric Vornoff's giant, retarded assistant Lobo (Played by Thor Johnson, you might recognise him from The Beast of Yucca Flats). Dr. Vornoff is clearly insane, and explains to the hunter that he is the next lucky subject to be experimented on in Vornoff's crazy scheme of trying to produce a race of super-humans using atomic energy. The man, unsurprisingly is killed. Reporter Janet Lawton travels to Lake Marsh after publicising the story that 12 hunters have gone missing out there and she promotes the rumours that there might be a monster in the swamp. She reaches Vornoff's house and is captured. She is to become 'the bride of the atom', Vornoff informs her after dressing her for no apparent reason in a white bridal gown. Her fiancé, along with some detectives, find her abandoned car and set about rescuing her.There's the typical plot of a mad scientist and a damsel in distress right there. This swamp is a monument to death. Snakes, alligators, quicksand... all bent on one thing destruction. - and there's a fine example of some superb and genuine Ed Wood dialogue. You'd be quite insane if you went into an Ed Wood film expecting something good but this really is a very boring film, that despite it's very short running time of just over an hour, feels somewhat longer. To make up time, unrelated stock footage is used over and over again of an octopus that we are meant to believe swims back into Vornoff's lab everyday before swimming out into the swamp to kill people. When it goes out to the swamp it then takes the form of a ridiculous looking rubber octopus prop. Wood didn't have the money to rent or buy an octopus prop, so instead - and I think this is brilliant! - he along with some of the film crew broke into the Republic Studios warehouse and stole the rubber octopus, which had originally been used in the John Wayne film Wake of the Red Witch in 1948. But it turned out that Ed Wood couldn't even pull off a successful robbery, as they got out with the octopus but forgot to take the motor that made it move. So what we are forced to endure here is the actors hurling themselves at the octopus to make it look as if they are being taken and then thrashing about with the tentacles, making it look like they are wrapping themselves around them when it clearly shows that the stunt men and actors are doing it themselves. It's all quite hilarious, but it wears thin after awhile and I actually felt sorry for Wood.I won't give this mess a 1/10, because I sincerely believe that Wood deserves recognition for having the bottle to break into the studio and robbing the octopus. If that's not determination for your art, I don't know what is. "},{"Title":"You are not velcome here!","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't want to defend Ed Wood here, because that sounds like a lot of work. With that said, Bride of The Monster really isn't too bad. Well of course it is, it's absolutely terrible, but is it really any more terrible than the average 50s drive-in flick? To the contrary in fact, because at least this one bothered to get the great Bela Lugosi as the villain. Lugosi shines about as much as a person can possibly shine when he's directed by Ed Wood, he's truly a mad scientist to dream of. Tor Johnson is also entertaining as the doctor's sidekick, probably because at least in this one Wood had the decency not to give him any lines. That way he can put all his effort in being freakin' huge, which suits him better. It's kinda superfluous to say when you're reviewing an Ed Wood movie, but it also has some major flaws. For one thing the actual monster. Nobody bothered to figure out how they could make it move, so the actors just kinda had to wrap themselves in its tentacles. It looks incredibly crummy, thank God that this monster doesn't get too much time on screen. The movie's also very short, but I guess that's not really a bad thing. Overall this isn't exceptionally awful, just awful will do. "},{"Title":"Bella, Bela!","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lugosi is the only reason to watch this. He must have been at the end when this was produced. He plays a man who has been wronged, his science scoffed at. He sets about to create his own master race rather than share his work. He holes up in a house near a swamp, feeding his unfortunate experiments to a waiting octopus that inhabits the swamp. Reporters and police get suspicious and the rest is history. Tor Johnson wanders around like a 350 pound sleepwalker and Lugosi abuses him. The best thing is listening to the great one spout his crazy plans. This isn't a horrible movie, but a man of the sophistication of Lugosi must have really seen his life as a sort of failure. "},{"Title":"The best of Ed's career, but non-fans should stay clear","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's make one thing clear Ed Wood Jr was a fellow who loved making movies, and that love shows in nearly everything he had a hand in. But he also had no real talent nor any patience for learning the craft of making movies, so watching an Ed Wood movie tends to be similar to biting into a wax apple.A friend who watched this with me put it better You remember those prop TVs and stereos that furniture stores put on their entertainment centers and stereo stands? Bride Of the Monster is like one of those prop TVs it takes up the size and the shape of a movie, it shows you what an actual movie would look like if you were watching a real movie, but the insides are cardboard and plastic instead of working movie parts.I'll say this for Bela Lugosi he works hard to sell his character (Dr. Vornoff) and he manages to deliver the only real good piece of screenplay writing in the whole movie (I have no home...). Also surprisingly good is Harvey B. Dunn, who apparently draws on his experience as a professional clown (no, really!) to deliver an understated performance that at least doesn't hurt me to watch. He could probably walk into almost any community theater casting call and get some kind of part as a character actor.(That's a compliment.) Tor Johnson is here in his usual role as a special effect. He's got a grand total of two expressions and three gestures, but he actually sort of works in the context of the energetic silliness going on here.As for the rest of it; continuity errors, logic holes in the plot and the screen play, special effects that betray the threadbare budget and third rate talent at work, and some aggressive non-performances that will make you smile indulgently at the poor actor-wannabees who had such hopes and were in so far over their heads.But Bela's performance and the unusually high energy level of the antics on screen make this Wood's most watchable film. I wouldn't watch it again without some serious alcoholic reinforcement (unless it was the MST3000 version), but it was a fun piece of cheesy cinema history. "},{"Title":"He tampered in God's domain!","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the first Ed Wood film that I've watched completely. I fell asleep during Plan 9 and never got back to it, but I guess I will eventually. Overall, for what it is, Bride of the Monster isn't that bad. It has a few very sorry moments, specifically the fight scenes and the octopus attacks. Otherwise, while it won't win any awards, I found that for a low budget, though much-maligned, feature, it was much better than I expected.I thought I'd be seeing characters running into scenery, botching lines that would be left in the scenes, and a lot of other hokum. What I got instead was a movie that should have been left under its previous title of Bride of the Atom, since Monster was most certainly a ploy to attract a bigger audience since so many films were already on the Atomic age bandwagon.Bela Lugosi puts in a decent effort, considering some of the trash he's been in. He's pretty ravaged by drugs and alcohol by this point in his career, and it's sad that he had to wind down his life with stuff like this. Tor Johnson puts in his usual stellar performance.Lugosi, after moving all around the world to hide his experiments that were initially scoffed at, now presides in an alligator infested swamp in a crusty old mansion. Stock footage of lightning constantly flashes overhead. In the nearby lake, a killer giant octopus lurks(again, brought to life with stock footage). Up to the usual mad scientist tricks, Lugosi seeks to infuse the power of atomic energy into normal humans to give them super strength and other preposterous attributes(unfortunately, decent acting is not one of them). Enter nosy newspaper hound, Janet, and Dick, a hot-head policeman who really knows how to work a belt and suspenders combo. They investigate the mysterious goings-on at Château de Monster only to be captured. Some terrible fight scenes ensue, and a jealous Lobo(Tor) plays the quick change on Lugosi and subjects him to his own experiments because Lobo thinks Janet's traffic cones are out of this world.Here is where the film really fails, if it hasn't already. I was actually looking forward to seeing Lugosi as a superman. He breaks his straps and kicks Lobo's butt, but when he escapes the burning mansion, doggedly hunted, and shot, by several officers, he doesn't do anything with his newfound abilities but run around and occasionally put on a Karloff sneer. Something that would have been really cool, truly a wasted opportunity, was when Lugosi runs past a giant boulder that Dick eventually pushed down a hill over him and Lugosi does nothing! He was superstrong, he could have picked up that paper boulder and really trounced someone with it. I'd seen the film Ed Wood long ago, so I knew some of what to expect in certain scenes, especially the ending(Give me some of that whiskey!), and while Ed himself is much more competent than a lot of people say(if you think he is the worst, you obviously haven't seen very many films), I think much more could have been done with the budget. I hated the agony rolls of the octopus's victims. If the darn thing won't move, at least have some offscreen hands drag the victims underwater. That's sort of scary.Oh well. This is more of a sci-fi film than horror, which is why I think Monster was a poor choice for the title. You may enjoy its camp value, if you are into that sort of thing, but if you are looking for even halfway decent 50's atomic madness films, skip this one.Pull the string, pull the string! "},{"Title":"So Bad it's Good!","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the early films by notorious director Edward D. Wood Junior (commonly said to be the worst director God ever put on this undeserving and unprepared Earth), Bride of the Monster (1955) is a classic of his kind of cinema. The whole movie feels like its borrowing sets and desperate to get it finished before the creditors pull the plug, it has a curious, hypnotic even, and atmosphere that makes it impossible to turn away. The actual films begins excellently, with two lost people being killed by a octopus in the Florida swamplands (more hilarious than a dozen comedy's) but rather slows down in the middle stretch, but keeps you entertained with offices that never change over a five day period and one office that has not one thing move over twenty-four hours, some great no-performances from Tony McCoy (the producers son), Tor Johnson (an ex-wrestle) and poor old Béla Lugosi, the original Count Dracula who, sadly, had become a drug addict and had sunk so low to appear in Ed Wood's movies. But as the film (literally, as the movie lasts only sixty-nine minute) races to the climax, we witness some astounding errors and daftness (especially the delirious final), that it's almost a shame to see it end. Almost. But beneath the no-budget surface, there is a real feeling that Edwrd D. Wood, though inept, was extremely enthusiastic about the making of films, so if there is one criticism of the movie you cannot make, it is that the direction is bored. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood was a nice guy, NOT a film maker","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Come on folks, I'm as empathetic as the next guy. I don't like to be cruel, but we're rating movies here. This film is beyond pathetic. Anyone who gave this dismal rubbish a rating beyond one either owns a B-movie DVD store (and is trying to unload the crap inventory), or has an IQ equivalent to the octopus in this film.Yes, there's the novelty (and embarrassment) of seeing an infamous Ed Wood movie, and seeing an aging Bela Lugosi humiliate himself along with the rest of the cast. But let's be fair, the best part of this film is the opening title and credits, and even that sucks. Ratings of eights and nines? Please folks&#x85; that's absolutely ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Mad scientist misuses the Atom.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just possibly the best from Ed Wood Jr. Wood directs and co-writes with Alex Gordon; BRIDE OF THE MONSTER is really fun to watch and is the last starring role for horror icon Bela Lugosi. Dr. Eric Varnoff(Lugosi)is a Russian scientist, who has the help of his man-beast servant Lobo(Tor Johnson),experimenting with radiation in attempts to create atomic supermen. When the dose of flesh-burning radiation fails the victim is fed to Varnoff's octopus. Loretta King plays an over-eager newspaper reporter searching for the source of a string of killings. And Tony McCoy is the detective trying to find the missing reporter. Put no restraints on your imagination and be forgiving of the over acting. Others in the cast Paul Marco, Harvey B. Dunn, Don Nagel and Delores Fuller, who would later write songs for Elvis Presley movies. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's Love Song to the Lugosi Legend!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While some viewers may disagree, the one sure element of Ed Wood's legacy is this film, his 'love song' to the legend of Bela Lugosi. His enthusiasm for Bela Lugosi is clearly evident here, because in addition to creating and writing a starring role for him, Wood has Bela reprise (to the delight of us fans) several of his signature moves -- his hypnotic hand gestures from 'Dracula' (1931) and his joined clenched hands and the close up of his eyes from 'White Zombie' (1932). Although Bela is clearly affected by age, we don't care. Thank you, Ed Wood for this on screen homage to Bela's career! Wood even gives Bela a couple of long speeches that are both moving and ridiculous at the same time.What distinguishes Ed Wood from even worse film makers is the unusual mix of his inept directing with his odd and quirky dialog and content (ranging from the science fictional to the psychologically surreal). 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' (1959) and his script for 'The Bride and the Beast' (1958) are good examples. These qualities make him a colorful figure in the history of film, well worth being given the biopic treatment in Tim Burton's marvelous 'Ed Wood' (1994). His best film is 'Glen or Glenda' (1953), which also includes some bizarre use of stock footage, and great work by Lugosi.What we need here is to have a DVD commentary by Steven Spielberg or George Lucas in which they dissect the movie scene by scene as a text book example of bad film making, and to tell us how each part could have been improved. They could call it How Not To Make a Turkey. Even the untutored, like me, can spot a lack of able direction in almost every scene (Billy Benedict's hand gestures, Paul Marco's one-note acting), the incongruous (Billy delivers newspapers that neither Marco nor his boss bother to look through completely), and the inconsistent (How can a mute Lobo yell so loud with such nuances, or how can the super strong atomized Lugosi be killed by an octopus?),etc., etc. Well, the whole film is one mistake after another. Thanks to Tim Burton, we know the story of the financing of the film and how that contributed to its cheapness. Ed Wood, however, is not the king of making the most of the least. That honor, of course, belongs to Edgar G. Ulmer and his no budget masterpieces 'Detour' (1945) and 'The Man From Planet X' (1951), as well as 'Beyond the Time Barrier' (1960), which was filmed in a shopping mall years before 'Logan's Run' (1976) was.Finally, we can say that the movie is enjoyable for its Ed Wood oddness and the on screen presence of Bela Lugosi, who carries the film despite looking too thin and age ravaged. And we have Ed Wood to thank for all this that despite all the weaknesses that abound, Woods enthusiastically, and with obvious respect, gives us his 'love song' to the legend of Bela Lugosi.For the movie, though, I'll give it a 3 and half.NOTE Bela Lugosi's best performances are in 'Dracula' (1931), 'White Zombie' (1932), 'The Return of Chandu' (1934), 'The Black Cat' (1934), 'Ninotchka' (1939), 'The Son of Frankenstein' (1939), 'Invisible Ghost' (1941), 'The Wolfman' (1941), and 'Glen or Glenda' (1953). You can also see his hypnotic hands and eyes (Look into my eyes! Look!) in 'Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein' (1948). "}{"Title":"He tampered in God's domain!","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Varnoff (Bela Lugosi) is trying to build an army of atomic supermen. He uses a trained octopus to gather his test subjects. When the latest two men go missing, the newspapers are filled with stories of monsters. But the police have been through the swamp numerous times and have so far turned up nothing. Intrepid newspaperwoman Janet Lawton goes to investigate and quickly finds herself in Dr. Varnoff's clutches. Can her boyfriend, Lt. Dick Craig, save her before she becomes Dr. Varnoff's latest experiment? Ever since he was awarded a Golden Turkey in the early 1980s as the Worst Director of All Time, it seems fashionable to lump all of Ed Wood's films together and dismiss them as garbage. Bride of the Monster is proof that all of Mr. Wood's work was not created equal. It's probably one of his best cinematic achievements. I'll go so far as to describe it as an entertaining little horror movie that can be fun once you get past its inherent limitations. By limitations, I'm referring to things like the rubber octopus, flimsy sets, and bad acting (to give just three examples). But if you know that going in and don't let it bother you, you might find a worthwhile low-budget thriller. Bride of the Monster actually has a couple of things going for it. One is Bela Lugosi. This is Bela late in his career. Years of drug abuse have taken their toll. But he's able to pull himself together and give one last really nice performance. His speech about going home is one of the movie's highlights and should be a favorite of Lugosi's fans. The other positive I'll mention from Bride of the Monster is Ed Wood himself. Sure, he might have lacked the talent, skill, and expertise of more accomplished directors, but there's a real love of cinema in Ed Wood's movies. It's easy to tell he enjoyed what he was doing. And to me, that's worth something. "},{"Title":"bride of the monster+chiller theatre","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" seeing this film on DVD sure brings back a lot of childhood memories. i wonder how many people on this board who grew up in new york city recall that wpix-channel 11 seemed to run this,and other low budget horror films like plan 9 from outer space, the indestructible man, frankenstein's daughter etc on chiller theatre in the early sixties very frequently. i especially remember bride of the monster being run and rerun in what seemed like every few weeks so when i saw this film again after forty years it kind of seemed like an old friend. id be curious to hear from anyone out there who watched this and other films on the original chiller theatre circa 1962-1965 and how many other titles you remember "},{"Title":"Hilarious !!!","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite film of all time. You probably think I am gone, but it is so funny and cheesy , I can't get enough of it. Bela Lugosi is at his greatest in this one. He takes the role so serious. The scene where he dismisses Lobo by the fireplace with some type of hand movement is priceless.Watch closely and you will see Bela crack up when Lobo leaves, like he was screwing with him. Funny.The rest of the cast is just plain awful, especially the police chief with the bird on his shoulder. So many flubs and miscues makes the movie so enjoyable.Lugosi looking thru the window and making tremendous face gestures as he watches the monster octopus swim in his pond is great. The final confrontation in the lab has a stand-in Lugosi in high heeled shoes fighting Lobo. Can you tell? The ending and the atom bomb explosion, chasing old Bela on the hill, just a riot.I recommend this film highly on a nice rainy evening with nothing going on. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Rubber Octopus!","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of the Monster is another of those cult classics from legendary director Edward D. Wood Jr. Ultra low budgeted, it is nonetheless one of Wood's better efforts.The story written by Wood and Alex Gordon deals with the disappearance of twelve unfortunate souls near a dark lake in the middle of nowhere. The film opens with the last two victims. Mac (Bud Osborne) falls victim to the famed rubber octopus while his partner Jake (John Warren) is captured by the hulking mute Lobo (Tor Johnson) and taken to a mysterious abandoned old mansion where we meet Professor Eric Vornoff (Bela Lugosi). Vornoff has been experimenting with the creation of a super race with which he will rule de whirled. In the course of his experiments, he has created a giant octopus which has been responsible for the disappearances.Vornoff attempts to transform Mac into a super being but the man dies and is fed to the octopus. Police Captain Robbins (Harvey B. Dunn) assigns Lt. Dick Craig (Tony McCoy) and Detective Marty Martin (Don Nagel) to the case. Reporter Janet Lawton (Loretta King), Craig's fiancé, joins in.Professor Strowski (George Becwar) goes to Vornoff's laboratory to try to convince him to return to his native country with his discovery. At one point it is suggested that Vornoff was responsible for the Loch Ness Monster. But Vornoff refuses to return being consumed by his own desires and feeds the hapless professor to the octopus.Janet's car breaks down on the way to Vornoff's lab and is captured by Lobo and brought to Vornoff. He plans to transform her into a super being. However, Lobo has grown fond of Janet and intervenes. Craig and Martin arrive on the scene just as.....................................Lugosi, in his next to last film was beginning to lose weight and didn't look well. He looked even worse in his last film The Black Sleep (1956) and he died shortly after. His performance in Bride is not all that bad. Its as good as some of the Monogram pictures he made in the 1940s. Without a strong director though, Bela was usually way over the top, as he is here. Tor Johnsons Lobo is the best performance in the picture. He was born to play large menacing lab assistants.The scenes involving the obvious rubber octopus are hilarious. The story has it that Wood borrowed this prop from another studio. It was supposed to be animated but didn't work resulting those classic scenes of the monster thrashing about with its victims.Loretta King got the female lead over Wood's long time girl friend Dolores Fuller as I believe, a favor to the producer. She was terrible. Fuller, who was no great actress herself, was relegated to a bit part and appeared in only one scene. Bud Osborne had been a staple in B westerns, usually handling a team of horses, in the 30s and 40s. Billy Benedict, who had one scene as a newsboy, had recently appeared in Monogram's Bowery Boys series.The story for this film was OK but the low budget, inept direction, the rubber octopus and the lousy acting destroyed any chance it had of being good. Ironically enough, the film is now more famous and more fondly remembered than it would have been had it been better, only because it is an Ed Wood picture. "},{"Title":"Cult Oddity From The Master (Of Cult Oddity)","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Edward D. Wood Jr. is widely considered to the worst director of all-time. This reputation is, in my opinion, not at all justified. While he was certainly a vastly untalented director, there is no doubt that Ed was enthusiastic about his work and an imaginative man, who made his movies out of love for cinema rather than for cash. What he directed to be Sci-fi an Horror movies turned out to be unintentional comedies, and his work has long (and rightly) become cult.Bride Of The Monster is one of these movies that have been considered as enormously amateurish trash by many, but that are adored by lovers of odd little treasures of that kind. This is also remarkable for the fact that it features the great Horror icon Bela Lugosi, who, in his final years, had befriended Ed Wood, in his last speaking role. The movie furthermore features Ed Wood movie regular Tor Johnson, another incredibly funny performance I recommend this movie for. The plot is, as usual for Ed's movies, extremely messy and makes little sense, but it certainly does entertain in its very special, highly amusing manner. I don't want to give too much of it away, people should experience this themselves, as Bride Of The Monster really is a film that lovers of odd cult-cinema should appreciate. And what would be a bigger joy for a Horror fan with a sense of humor than to hear the great Bela Lugosi give weird, amusingly stereotypical vintage sci-fi speeches and laugh diabolically. If you are familiar with Ed Wood, and if you liked Plan 9 From Outer Space, go ahead and see Bride Of The Monster as soon as you can. Fans of Ed Wood's amateurish, but highly amusing and lovable style of film-making will have a blast! "},{"Title":"Deadly octopus sleeps while killing victims","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some silly dialog and a comatose killer octopus tend to brand this another goofy Ed Wood film, but it's really not as awful as some other stuff he did; it almost manages a cohesive story line.Bela Lagosi, playing a mad doctor with a vendetta and a pet octopus, is conducting experiments to create an army of invincible monsters. Bela usually looks and sounds psychotic and sinister, in spite of the poorly written lines. Some of the characters are clichéd, of course, but that can be expected for any 50's drive-in horror flick. There's a female reporter who gets herself endangered by Bela's evil scheme, her cop boyfriend who is always two steps behind her trying to bail her out, and an amiable police captain who seems to find everything light and amusing. Wood regular Tor Johnson is a giant mutant flunky for Dr. Bela that makes growling noises.Legends abound about the octopus used in the film. Suffice it to say you have to see the insanely outrageous attacks on its victims. Overall, this film is strangely watchable. "},{"Title":"One of Woods' better efforts","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This no-budget monster movie isn't quite as bad as you'd expect considering it comes from a man who is widely considered to be the world's worst director. That isn't to say it's particularly good &#150; the acting ranges from amateurish to hammy, the sets wobble, the monster doesn't work (which means its 'victims' have to grab hold of its tentacles and thrash them around a bit), continuity is non-existent, editing looks as if its been spliced using a pair of blunt scissors and a pot of evo-stik, and the story makes no sense at all &#150; but it's no worse than many other cheap monster flicks from the same era.Bela Lugosi, raddled by his addictions and close to death, looks old and ill here, but still manages to give a fairly sprightly performance, while Tor Johnson had the kind of looks that were made for horror films. The male and female leads are bland, however. Strange why Woods gave the sassy female journalist part to Loretta King rather than his girlfriend Dolores Fuller, who has only a small, inconsequential role. "},{"Title":"Horribly Entertaining","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As you can see, I have chosen not to give this film a star rating. This is because, I feel that you can't rank quality crap and that's what this movie is. Lets face it, the acting sucks, the writing sucks, the directing sucks, the production quality sucks, everything about this movie sucks (with the exception of Legosi's infamous Home...I have no home monolouge which is so cheesy in its attempt to be dramatic that it comes out as the funniest and most memorable moment in the film). But despite having no quality whatsoever, this comes out as being very enjoyable, and I had a lot of fun with this movie. My review in a nutshell So bad, it's fun. And one can only marvel what Ed Wood would have done had his story begun nowadays. Oh wait; Uwe Boll. "},{"Title":"Great awfulness","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since he became the subject of Tim Burton's biopic Ed Wood has been hailed as the king of z-film and his oeuvre was re-edited. Tiobe perfectly honest most of his films are bad in terms of being terribly boring. So they mostly have no entertainment value whatsoever. Bride of the atom however is different. Here, you get the works. People walking into doors, wobbly sets, the female actresses who obviously hate each other and a monster with a colander on its head. This is the one Ed Wood film you should really watch simply because it's hilarious. So it's ten points even though they are not for what the spiritus rector intended. "},{"Title":"Bride Doesn't Follow Wood's Tradition","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ed Wood's Bride of the Monster is not the schlock fest one would expect, in fact, I've seen much worse from Hollywood's big budget production. Wood's Bride centers around several mysterious disappearances attributed to monsters near an old abandoned home . It is later discovered that Dr. Eric Vornoff (Lugosi) has rented the home. Janet Lawton, a local reporter, attempts to discover the truth behind the monster stories, much to the chagrin of her detective boyfriend. Depite the criticism of Wood's Bride, it is actually a well done lesson in film making economy. Wood's strategic use of stock footage, coupled with efficient uses of location, help make Bride a fairly good low budget movie. Bela Lugosi's performance is the high note of the film, especially his moving I have no home.. speech popularized in the Tim Burton film Ed Wood. Lugosi is clearly in his element, playing the role of Dr. Eric Vornoff with a mixture of Old World charm and scientific menace. Despite the low budget, Bride is not rife with technical or continuity errors and has a logical, narrative flow. I rated Bride of the Monster an 8 for achieving much while working with little. "}{"Title":"Awful, but entertaining","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SOME SPOILERS* Compared to Plan 9 From Outer Space - with its atrocious script, horrible acting, ludicrous plot and abysmal editing - Bride of the Monster is a masterpiece. But it is still a mess in all those areas, only a little less so.But somehow it is an entertaining film. It's got the spooky music, the spooky house and two monsters ... the lumbering brute played by Tor Johnson and the giant octopus in the lake out back. It's an amusing movie, made even more amusing because it wasn't supposed to be amusing.My favorite moments 1) Bela tells one of his victims, Don't worry about Bobo ... he is harmless and then beats him with a whip. 2) A man gets thrown into the water with the octopus, which is clearly as lifeless as one of those beanbag chairs we used to have. 3) A police officer stumbles down a hill and then the camera cuts to the face of the police captain, who is shaking his head as if he can't believe what an idiot he has on the force... except he was in no position to see the man fall. 4) At the end of the film, the characters are at the edge of the lake when the creature explodes... and the camera cuts to stock footage of an ATOM BOMB explosion, then cuts back to the characters who should have been vaporized but are simply glad it's all over.As are the rest of us. "},{"Title":"Low-grade.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  * out of ****This low-grade chiller delivers few thrills, but does manage to display some of the worst acting and dialogue you will ever see or hear. I have seen directing of a lower caliber, though. It's quite possible that Ed Wood is the worst writer of all time, but I doubt that he's the worst director. After all, besides Bela Lugosi, he never had a decent actor to work with, or a decent set. It's hard not to take this movie for anything but a joke, which is sad because it's obvious that a lot of feeling was put into it. "},{"Title":"inflatable beanbag?","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just wanted to gloss over all the obvious aspects of this movie - zero budget, absurd plot, wooden acting, and so on - and say two things firstly, it's still entertaining and fun; and secondly, if you've seen the reproduction of the climactic scene in Ed Wood and not the real thing, I think the actual scene is EVEN MORE badly made than the imitation! "},{"Title":"Best Wood's ever done","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's bad, but the LEAST bad of anything attributable to him.  Among interior sets that bear uttlerly no resemblance to their exterior counterparts, Lugosi is actually given a few coherent lines here and there.  And notice that 8 shots come out of that six-shooter, but at least our hero thinks of reloading before the next six are accurately expended... not as bad as They Live, but then, what is? "},{"Title":"Really not THAT bad - stop dissing Ed Wood!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a B feature movie (which goes without saying!), but the movie really isn't that bad. As another has commented about the Bride of the Monster, Lugosi simply had a screen presence and was an watchable actor. Sure, it's a little hammy in parts, but both Wood's dialog and Lugosi's rendition are nowhere near as bad as folks make out (if you want to see badly acted and improbable dialog, attend any student movie season). Generally the dialog flows quite well. Given that this was Wood's second feature, and that he had no real technical apprenticeship for film-making, he did good. If he had been able to make more movies, who knows what the rest would have turned out like. So I savor these early Wood movies as the start of something that could have been even better, and as inspiration for not giving up in the face of no budget; he did have talent.  "},{"Title":"A HOMAGE FOR THE FALLEN","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS FROM THE BEGINNING, SPOILERS ALL THE WAY AND TO THE VERY END.Edward D. Wood, Jr. directed this movie under the direst of circumstances.  He had no money.  The big studios rejected him.  His penchant for hard drinking and for wearing women's clothing marked him as a dangerous misfit in the eyes of the civilized world.  Very early, he mastered the convoluted and treacherous waters of the no-budget, Z-grade, -and-grits world of 50's exploitation underworld.  A passionately ambitious young man with admittedly little filmmaking gifts and a wild sense of humor, he had the uncanny ability for cutting corners at exactly the wrong turns.  He was a better editor than actor, a better actor than a screenwriter, a better screenwriter than a director. Bride of the Monster (or Bride of the Atom, before those greedy financiers recklessly retitled it to fit their grandiose investment-return plans) concerns the tragic last days of Dr. Eric Vornoff.  A woman reporter, investigating the disappearances of several locals, discovers the mansion of Vornoff, where he lives with Lobo, an early experimental mistake and faithful manservant, and an mean-spirited octopus.  Vornoff is inflamed with great vengeance and furious anger at the world, which, once he perfects his experiments, he plans to take over with a legion of atomic supermen.  After several interesting scenes, the woman is abducted by Vornoff and is about to be subjected to another of his experiments and mate her with Lobo, but her boyfriend arrives just in time to save her and get into a really exciting wrestling match with Lobo.  Minutes later, Lobo straps Vornoff to the table, releasing a frightful amount of atomic energy that transforms the beleaguered scientist into a gigantic monster.  Vornoff vanquishes Lobo in a thrilling arm-to-arm battle, and after some more hair-raising pyrotechnics, the hero and heroine and the police pursue the colossal Dr. Vornoff across the swampy night.  Vornoff falls into the octopus pit where the unequal magnetic forces of the octopus, his own atomic power, and a bullet fired by a policeman unleashes a ghastly nuclear explosion, and the surviving characters walk away to face a (presumably) uncertain future.This atmospheric chamber drama, shot in magnificently greyish black & white, offers no suitable answers because it poses no coherent questions.  Shrewdly, Wood, Jr. constructs a deliberately contrived plot to deceive his audience the heroes are not the young couple, who are obviously standard-issue stereotypes (he has no sympathy for them at all!), but Vornoff and Lobo.  He shifts his allegiance to the visionaries and to the downtrodden who, ultimately and tragically, fail and die. Using spit-and-cardboard sets, cheap technicians, bad actors and non-actors, an inert rubber octopus, and the aging, morphine-addicted Bela Lugosi as Eric Vornoff (a casting coup if there was ever one), Wood, Jr. artlessly tells the ultimate Poverty-Row tale about a tremendous fall from grace. It's a horrible movie.    "},{"Title":"Want to see Bela Lugosi in his B-movie prime?","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This is the movie to see!  In it Bela Lugosi plays Dr. Eric Varnoff, (catchy name, eh?) and is teamed up with Tor Johnson as his not-so-loyal assistant Lobo.  Together they capture hapless victims strapping them to a bed and putting a spaghetti strainer on their heads in hopes they will turn into a super monster!     This Ed Wood flick isn't as half as bad as Plan 9 from Outer Space was.  One of the funniest and most laughable scenes was the part where Bela Lugosi feeds an old scientist friend of his to that octopus which you could tell is a fake!  And also the dailogue of this movie was totally laughable, that you couldn't help but notice that this movie isn't at all frightning as it was anticipated to be!  If not, like all of Ed Wood's B-movies, in a word, laughable!   And let's not forget Harvey B. Dunn's final line, He tampered in God's domain!  That epitath pretty much told a lot about Ed Wood's movie making career as well as the reviews of this and other flicks of his as well.   If you're a fan of B-movies, I highly suggest this one.  And don't forget to watch this one with Joel and the 'Bots on the Satellite of Love!  )     "},{"Title":"Ed Wood does it again!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad acting, worse dialogue & cliched music, what more could you ask?Bela Lugosi overacts hysterically, has an obvious double in the hilarious fight scene with another of Wood's stock company, Tor Johnson who has two expressions, puzzled or shocked. Lugosi disciplines him with a huge whip!The last line is `He tampered in God's domain'  "},{"Title":"Technically Brilliant for Ed Wood Jr. Anyway","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bride of the Monster, for the most part, just comes across as your average lame-ass 1950's horror flick but it has that Ed Wood Jr. stamp...the silly stock footage the hammy acting and very little continuity whatsoever...still it has probably the best Production Value of any film by Ed Wood Jr. (and because of that it lacks some of the campy humor).  Still...the film has Bela Lugosi and his hammy close-ups and the wrestler who tries too hard...I still prefer Orgy of the Dead and Plan 9 From Outer Space (which lacks total sense) for laughs!!!    "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Strikes Again","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ed Wood, incredibly poor director of such abominations as Plan 9 from Outer Space and Glen Or Glenda does it again with Bride of the Monster. This flick is not as well known as those others, but it's deserves to be seen for most of the same reasons that they do.Bride of the Monster is terrible from start to finish.  And by start, I mean the title.  I give nothing away by saying that there is no monster to speak of in Monster.  And no one gets married.  The film was originally supposed to be titled Bride of the Atom (a title that makes a little more sense, but not much) but Wood was forced to change it (See the wonderful Ed Wood for the whole story).  So no monsters get married, but we do have Bela Legosi in his declining years as a sad little mad scientist, with Tor Johnson as his assistant Lobo, whom he commands around, and occasionally whips unconvincingly.The plot is devoid of any value, and the special effects are just as bad as Plan 9.  The octopus is especially good, along with the evil atomic-powered character who wears platform shoes to give the appearance of additional height.So incredibly bad you have to laugh.  And at only a little over an hour, it's a breeze to sit through.  Strongly recommended for fans of terrible (but fun) movies. "}{"Title":"Home? I hava no home . . .","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So says Bela Lugosi in this skid-row classic from Ed Wood, Mr. Camp himself.The plot of the film deals with The Old Willow's Place a spooky house in the Middle of Lake Marsh, or Marsh Lake, or whatever it is they call it in one segment. An attractive reporter, sensing a story (hey, who wouldn't?) goes to investigate and discovers Lobo (Tor Johnson, Super Swedish Angel!) and Dr. Eric Vornoff (the already mentioned Bela Lugosi) inside the laboratory inside the house (complete with paper stone walls that shake when hit!) Dr. Vornoff has a nasty plan of turning people into atomic supermen, and has created a rubber octopus on the side, which leads to the most memorable scene in the movie when Lugosi (or his double) is chased by the police into the water and is attacked by the lifeless creature. It's worth the price of admission alone.My opinion? Well, it's not as (good)bad as PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, but it's not as (bad)good as JAIL BAIT. The acting isn't too bad *for an Ed Wood film*, and the story is fairly decent (it helps that this was written by Alex Gordon, a person they should've kept in the Ed Wood film and the man behind THE SHE CREATURE and THE ATOMIC SUBMARINE). One thing I've noticed, though, is that Ed has a lot of comedy reliefs (besides the necessary or is he? Kelton the Cop). Bela does give a nice speech in the middle of the film, though (One is always considered man when he discovers something that others cannot grasp!). Still, it is rather odd that the dear old aging doctor fares better than his perfectly healthy subjects when submitted to the ray!So, for a fun-filled angora evening, chose BRIDE OF THE MONSTER. You'll be glad you did, even if it isn't as horrifying as DRACULA or FRANKENSTEIN! "},{"Title":"Squids and monsters and atom bombs, oh my!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A mad scientist from Eastern Europe, a wrestler passing as Lobo, a radiation monster with a fetish for angora sweaters, a giant squid in the backyard, an airhead female journalist and a brain-dead but pretty-faced hero to save the girl. It doesn't get much better than this in the land of B-movies, thanks to the genius of Edward D. Wood Jr.Strangely enough, if you dig deep down into this poor movie, you find some marks of intelligence. The scene where Bela Lugosi turns down his fellow scientist (Home? I have no home...) starts with a solid performance and soon turns to the hysterical. This movie will leave you with the persistent feeling that Wood tried really, really hard and failed miserably.Truly an oddity, and the perfect companion to Plan 9 from Outer Space and a 12-pack of cold beer. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi appeared spaced out as the mad doctor.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ed Wood has reached the pinnacle of his mediocrity in this atomic age thriller.  Tor Johnson was, well, Tor Johnson "},{"Title":"Beware That Metal Salad Bowl Thing!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most of Dr. Bella's patients seem to die in this film--and it's probably of embarrassment. After all, how would you feel if some one tied you to a table and then strapped a metal salad bowl on your head? The purpose of these odd experiments seems to be the creation of an atomic man, through which Bella can rule the world...but his subjects keep dying off, and eventually intrepid reporter Loretta King goes stomping out to Bella's house to see just what's up--and pretty soon she too is writhing on the table with that metal salad bowl thing on her head.THE BRIDE OF THE MONSTER doesn't really have the sublime ineptitude that makes PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE so much fun, but it has more than enough unintentional hilarity to keep you tuned in. After all, where else are you going to see a rubber octopus, an angora-fondling slave, and a police chief who plays with birds? And dare we mention an incredibly obnoxious performance by Loretta King, who has less talent than your bathroom tile? Ed Wood fans will love it, for sure, and for them I give it four stars. But all others are warned away! Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC LUGOSI FILM!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this film Bela Lugosi was the first to be harmed. Lugosi tried to make an atomic superman but what he got was Tor Johnson, a bald and bulgy wrestler. There is no doubt that this is a B Film from the middle 1950's, however, we must remember that Bela Lugosi(Dr. Erick Vornoff),The Black Sleep,'56, was one the greatest Classic Horror actors besides Boris Karloff. These films were Mr. Lugosi's last pictures before he went on to another Spiritual Stage! His last picture was playing Dracula 1966! You can pick a part this picture all you want to, but always remember that Bela Lugosi will out live EVERYONE!! Bela Lugosi was trying to make a come back after having been a drug addict for years and these films helped him to try and gain his self-respect!!!!  "},{"Title":"Bride of the Idiocy","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not a film-snob basher of Edward D. Wood, Jr., but JEEZ is this film a snooze. Bela Lugosi plays Eric Vornoff, an exiled doctor who conducts atomic experiments at his decrepit swampland mansion, aided by the hulking Lobo (Tor Johnson). Janet Laughton (Loretta King) is a reporter who sticks her nose where it doesn't belong, and becomes a--yawn--victim to Vornoff's insidiously vague scheme. Meanwhile, the police are hot on Vornoff's trail. As far as Wood productions go, Bride of the Monster is a colossal disappointment...it's inept, but in a non-entertaining, non-so-bad-it's-good way. For all of 68 excruciating minutes, it drags on aimlessly, a completely empty-headed failure. "},{"Title":"Ahhhhh Ed Wood","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sat down to watch this movie expecting something awful - boy was I not let down. First let's make sense of th story. Polliwogs fall up into the tree and sink in quicksand. Drinking jello-shots, torn blue jeans fill empty drinks with marshmallows. Once the marbles are finished chasing deflated pillows, penguins must burp up logs of toaster-waste. An army of warts gang up on a pair of Tuesdays and chill their frog-eyes with spaghetti sauce. (Scared yet?). Ole MacDonald and his farm sing a pistachio to sleep and staple papers to the walls. But then...yes then...I stopped dreaming and drank my milk. Mmmmm-mmmm good. Testimonial echoes beneath sheltered hamstrings and rusty face-plates...crying the silent cheers of boredom. Chisel me some jello-art and Un-smell my feet for half a league onward road hemlock and tomato plants. Phew...that was tough...but I think I summed up Ed Wood. Oh...and this is the finest movie wish I could Un-see. "},{"Title":"A Classic From Ed Wood, If You Could Call It That.","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride Of The Monster tells the story of a mad doctor who tries to create atomic super beings.From Ed Wood comes a classic picture that will enjoy anybody who likes the man. Bride Of The Monster. Considering that I like Ed Wood, I decided to give this movie a watching, and while I don't think that it's as enjoyable as Plan 9 From Outer Space, I did like the movie all the same. Basically, this movie fulfills just about everything that you would expect to see from an Ed Wood Picture. Poor sets, poor writing, poor acting, and poor directing, this movie has got all of these. Granted, while I was expecting this movie to be bad (considering who the director is), I have to admit that it actually started off being pretty good. But about halfway to three quarters of a way through the movie, it became apparent that Wood lost interest in the project and was now just wanting to hurry up and finish it. But nevertheless, the movie has still got everything that you would expect to see from Ed Wood, and it features some unintentional laughs, which definitely makes this movie appear on the level of so bad it's good.Near the end of his life, Bela Lugosi made several low budget b-movies, this one was one of the most notable. He however, does good in his role as Dr. Eric Vornoff, an exiled scientist who is trying to create atomic super beings. Tor Johnson co-stars as Lobo, Vornoff's assistant. In a role that he would reprise in two more movies, Paul Marco makes his first turn as a cowardly and bumbling policeman named Kelton. As to be expected, there are many things in this movie that are so obviously low quality. For example, the octopus shown in the movie is obviously rubber, there are numerous times where the scenery is just a backdrop. And most notably, since when does a Russian scientist keep a picture of Ulysses S. Grant in his home? And there's some laughable dialogue too, such as the final line He tampered in God's domain. And there's more too, courtesy of the genius that was Ed Wood, if you could call him that.All in all, although I can't say that this movie is one of the greatest movies of all time, I do have to say that it's a masterpiece as far as movies on the level of so bad it's good go. Ed Wood was something a genius, while I don't mean that as far as the level of greatness is concerned, I mean it in a way that proved that he had the talent of taking bad movies and elevating them to the level of an art form. After this movie, he and Lugosi would begin work on another film, called Tomb Of The Vampire, but when Lugosi died, this project was scrapped. However, the footage from that film somehow found it's way into his 1959 project, Plan 9 From Outer Space. In short, if you want to see an entertaining picture, then Bride Of The Monster should do it, it's bad, no doubt about that, but it's at least entertaining. Good work, Ed Wood.9/10 "},{"Title":"For Ed Wood this is pretty good","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Eric Vornoff (Bela Lugosi in his last speaking role) lives in a creepy old house in a swamp. His only companion is his big, hulking and mute servant Lobo (Tor Johnson). It seems the doctor is trying to make a race of atomic supermen to rule the world. Lt. Dick Craig (Tony McCoy) and his girlfriend Janet Lawton (Loretta King) try to stop him.OK--the script is silly--full of terrible dialogue (the last line especially is a groaner). There are huge holes in logic--does anyone notice that all the people that Vornoff tries to make super keep dying? With one exception the acting is pretty dreadful--McCoy got the lead because his dad was a major investor in the film! The sets are threadbare and wait till you see the rubber octopus! But, for Ed Wood, this isn't bad. It seems Wood actually learned from earlier films on how to direct and stage scenes. Also the film is only 69 minutes long and doesn't outstay its welcome. The main reason to watch this is Lugosi. He was very ill when he shot it but he gives it his all. In his sequence with Prof. Strowski you actually see how good an actor Lugosi could be. So, all in all, this is no great movie but an OK B movie. "},{"Title":"A Slightly Different Take","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are only so many ways to say bad, bad, bad. The only question here is whether this movie goes beyond the merely incompetent into the realm of the gloriously incompetent. Wood, of course, set the latter standard with the gloriously incompetent Plan 9. So, does Bride measure up to Plan 9's lofty (or abysmal) precedent. In my little book, it does not; it's simply a bad movie with few redeeming qualities, glorious or otherwise.Working against this movie are the many close-ups of Lugosi's pathetically ravaged face. It's hard, for me at least, to chuckle at any of his ridiculous dialogue when the shadow of death is so clearly present. Plan 9 managed to mask the rictus until real life death mercifully took him half-way through. Here, it's like laughing at a decrepit uncle whom you knew so well in better days. Then too, there's the hulking Tor Johnson, also more pathetic than menacing. He looks in need of a chair to rest the painful bulk as he manages two or three halting steps for what was likely a very meagre payday. I guess I couldn't disregard the underlying human element so unfortunately on display in this turkey.On the other hand, there's the usual Ed Wood ear for ridiculous dialogue, including the Wood trademark-- a delirious flight of fancy as Lugosi rants himself into nothing less than world conquest. Wood's movies may have been small, but his dreams were obviously big. Then there's the centerpiece monster, a creation straight from the Goodyear Tire Co. Watching the desiccated Lugosi wrap himself in its limp arms almost amounts to suicide by rubber band. It's here, of course, that the film approaches the gloriously bad. But all this is ruined by a well-staged car wreck and some darn near competent acting from King and Dunne. I especially enjoyed watching Loretta's face disappear behind two uplifted peaks as she lay back on Lugosi's couch-- an inspired Russ Meyer camera angle. Note too, how the director worked his sweetie Dolores Fuller into the proceedings with a totally unnecessary scene. Wood may have been the world's worst film-maker, but at least he tried to keep it in the family. For me, however, Bride is simply too compromised to enjoy at the uninhibited level of a Plan 9. "}{"Title":"Not Very Entertaining","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I bought this video I expected it to be really funny and entertained because of this movie silliness, but really, it was nothing special, the movie is just bad most of the time, with bad so its funny bits only popping up occasionally in this film.The film has very funny and predictable characters. The snoopy reporter being one of these characters along with the 2 at the police station making this film at least watchable but most of the film was too boring to really be considered an Ed Wood classic.Overall, I cant say too much about the film as their is not much to say. If you are given the opportunity of watching this or its sequel Plan 9 From Outer Space then choose the sequel. It is a riot. I rate this film 48%. "},{"Title":"Bride of the Monster","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A very sickly Bela Lugosi stars as Dr. Eric Vornoff, a scientist who wishes to make supermen so he can take over the world. He has a pet rubber octopus and massive lab assistant, Lobo(Tor Johnson)he whips when the mute beast doesn't obey his commands. News reporter Janet Lawton(Loretta King)pursues the reasons behind missing folks who were being either consumed by the octopus or treated to Vorkoff's failed experiments. She is soon captured by Vornoff who will attempt to use her as an experiment, but LObo takes a shine to her. Janet's fiancé, Lt Dick Craig(Tony McCoy)will be in hot pursuit, following his girlie's tracks eventually finding himself in the swampy lair of Vornoff. Capt Tom Robbins(Harvey B Dunn) will have to rescue not only a pesky reporter but his own detective as well. That's if his inept Keystone cops don't foul things up.Typically pathetic Ed Wood feature with cheap sets, laughable octopus with men unrealistically captured within it's tentacles which never move, Tor Johnson's method acting(haha), amateurish acting, jokes and the cast's delivery which fall flat, an enormous stunt double who doesn't even remotely favor Lugosi fighting Lobo, gun shots which fire directly point-blank at Lobo yet never even cause him to flinch, dreadfully laughable brawl between Lobo and Craig(..and, especially Lobo and Lugosi's stuntman), and clumsily inserted scenes(..such as a lightning bolt exploding a house into flames, and a shot of Vornoff supposedly falling into the octopus' pit, but one can clearly see that the victim captured was another character thrown in it's clutched earlier in the film). Lugosi's sincere portrayal is admirable despite how ravaged his body is of time and vice. His use of hypnotic hand(..something which many might find reminiscent to Lon Chaney from the silent age)to put Janet to sleep is a bit embarrassing. I do think Wood was so proud of having Lugosi in his film as evident with the long scenes where his mad scientist exposes his dementia when confronted by those who threaten his work. "},{"Title":"monster's ball","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before watching Bride of the Monster, one should know that it's an Ed Wood movie and thus pretty silly. But I found it more competent than Glen or Glenda or Plan 9 from Outer Space. If nothing else, it should be noteworthy as Bela Lugosi's final speaking role (of course, he doesn't really need to speak; his face does quite a bit on its own). Anyone who's seen Tim Burton's movie Ed Wood may recall that they didn't have the octopus's motor, so Bela Lugosi had to throw it around all over himself - and it shows.Anyway, the movie's so absurd that it's just a pleasure to watch. Bela Lugosi and Tor Johnson make quite a cool team. "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews Bride of the Monster (1955)","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its mad scientist day over at Ed Wood's place with this schlocker shocker starring Bela Lugosi (Dracula '31) as Dr. Vornoff the crazy beaker stirring genius. As with all mad geniuses this bad boy has his eyes set on world domination. Through his radiation experiments the good doctor plans on creating a race of atomic supermen to rule the world with. You in the back quit snickering. I'm not making this up.Ed Wood once again brings his enviable talents to the screen with 'Bride of the Monster'. I've always felt for Wood (I said quit snickering) he has gotten very little respect as a filmmaker. His films aren't that bad. True the cheese factor can be high sometimes but he had respect for what he was doing even though the budgets he had wouldn't let him show it. 'Bride' is no exception. Lugosi is giving it his melodramatic most. Wrestler Tar Johnson pops up as well as evil silent lapdog Lobo (a role he would reprise in 'The Unearthly (1957) and 'Night of the Ghouls (1959). Come on we've got ham acting and cheesy production values (not to mention one of the most annoying drum stings). What's not to love? 3/5 "},{"Title":"Bloody Awful","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a must-see for those who have watched Tim Burtons biopic of Ed Wood Jr, you can see just how close Tim got with his portrayal of Eddies stable of crap actors and wobbling sets. It's almost spot on! While not the worst movie Ed Wood made, it certainly ranks as a rotten B movie by anyone else's standards, and consists of bad actors mouthing bad dialogue in front of cardboard sets.The film is saved by top man Bela Lugosi, whose gravitas and screen magnetism mean the rest of the cast and plot just revolve around him like a mini solar system. Paired with the amazing Tor Johnson as his evil sidekick, they steal the movie completely from the nobodies that fill the rest of the cast.All the usual Ed Wood signature traits are here; the crap acting, the banal dialogue, the other worldly editing, the use of stock footage even though it stands out a mile, etc. Fans of Ed will love it as a classic example of his work, Fans of the Ed Wood biopic will love it as it shows just how accurate the movie was in that respect, and B-movie fans will love it because it doesn't get any more B than this. "},{"Title":"Great companion to Ed Wood","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a great companion to Tim Burton's Ed Wood. As upside-down and egg before the chicken as that may seem; the two movies explain and give full dimension to the description of his life. My favorite scenes Going into the detectives office and all of the evidence to a murder scene is left lying all over the back shelf.Dr. Varnoff gets killed in the end (of course) and the resulting effect is Wood attempting to fit in a file footage of a a-bomb explosion.Wood's signature fixation on non dialogue action, non attention to detail, one take scenes and some of the kooky/lousy props make this a fun film to watch when the old lady is still in bed, the kids are not around and crummy cinema of the fifties/sixties is your bag. "},{"Title":"Vintage Ed Wood","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching this will give you a good idea of how 'Plan 9' came into being. Tor Johnson stumbles around and bumps into things, Bela Lugosi mumbles incoherently and embarrasses himself, and stock footage is used to the extreme. The same painfully obvious mistakes can also be found. It's Ed Wood at his best, or is that worst? Watch this as a double feature with 'Plan 9' or it's MST3K version and have a few unintentional laughs. "},{"Title":"Only See This as the MST3K Version, or If You're an Ed Wood Fanatic","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unless you catch Bride of the Monster as part of Mystery Science Theater or have a deep obsession with the works of Ed Wood, don't see this film. Most possible conventions of a good film are mangled, from the shoddy script to the insufferable performances of the cast. The Monster of the title is a terrifying sucker-covered octopus, played largely by larger-than life stock footage. Only those with brontophobia (er, the fear of thunder storms - I looked it up)will be chilled by the use of thunder and lightning both as a segue between scenes and a plot device. After seeing this, I wondered exactly what had entrenched the image of Bela Lugosi as an archetypal villain in American cinema. It certainly wasn't this role. Seeing him act in this flick, essentially playing Dracula playing a mad scientist, is more saddening than anything, although you can laugh at his expense (sleeeep...sleeeep!) if you wish. Finally, I can't fault Tor Johnson for being Tor Johnson. The man is good at being large, bald, and befuddled. The rest of the cast is forgettable. Bride of the Monster is not. Do not see it unless you plan to mock it. "},{"Title":"Don't mind Lobo. He's as harmless as a kitten.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange to watch Bride of the Monster with friends and feel both the urge to pull a Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary on it (making jokes and imitating characters and movements and laughing inappropriately at times) and the feeling that this movie wasn't as bad as I expected. At least, not as bad as some of Wood's other movies, which goes without saying that he's not undeserved of the title of Worst Director of All Time. His main body of work seen by people are of a kind that is of a by-gone era, of the B science fiction movie where effects were menial and acting was taken by actors who probably didn't even bother with classes (take Tor Johnson as best example of that). But even at its best, which is saying a bit much, Bride of the Monster is a sci-fi flick that has some decent craftsmanship going, a cooky Bela Lugosi performance, and of course Tor Johnson as Lobo.It's hard actually to even describe the story, as sometimes the dialog meanders a bit into what's really going on. But what I got out of it is that Lugosi plays Dr. Eric Vernoff, who has found a way to harness atomic energy to create a race of atomic supermen, that will conquer the world! He has his big, clunky, mute assistant Lobo take a reporter who crashed her car to his laboratory, and prepares her to make her the Bride of the title. But not if a certain hero can stop them, or not as case may be. This movie contains cheesiness that lends itself immediately to ridicule, and I knew this before I saw it via the scenes in Burton's Ed Wood where they show the octopus that doesn't work, and Lobo bumbling through doorways on the 'perfect' take. And some of the looks on the faces (oh those close-ups of Lugosi's eyes) and body language especially by Johnson are too campy to miss, plus that 'octopus' which ranges from stock footage to, uh, not working.But if there is anything going for Bride of the Monster, it's that it's actually a sort of good-bad movie, where the ineptitude is almost charming in its stilted, under-budgeted way, and that main speech that was quoted in Ed Wood Home, I have no home is actually quite cool in its B-movie sort of way. Even the ridiculous bits that pop up (i.e. a police chief with a random parakeet on his shoulder in a scene) aren't deterring enough to put it down like Wood's Plan 9 or The Sinister Urge. It's stupid fun that ends with a big bang, and might be Wood's best of his worst, so to speak. "},{"Title":"Telling flick","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who's seen Tim Burton's fine biopic Ed Wood has seen some of the best and most indelible images of Edward D. Wood, Jr.'s career namely, the stock footage/plastic squid, and Tor Johnson running into a door frame. Other than Plan 9 from Outer Space, Bride of the Monster is Ed Wood's finest and most entertaining underachievement, one that's so bad, it not only makes a mistake once but manages to make the same mistake three times.An earlier film of Wood's, Bride of the Monster shows just how bad Ed Wood is frame-by-frame by his constant (and strangely consistent) habit of splicing together two shots that never, ever seem to have any relationship with each other. As an earlier film, this would just seem to be the result of a beginner uncomfortable with his craft for the first few minutes. But by the time the second person lazily and impotently rolls around with an obviously fake and obviously inanimate squid, Wood's future career becomes immediately understood this is a man who not only doesn't know what he's doing, but doesn't have a clue that he doesn't know what he's doing. Seriously, it's practically impossible to imagine what was going through this guy's head.This movie is also interesting as a study of Ed Wood's working relationship with Bela Lugosi. Bela Lugosi is a bad actor who somehow managed to get overrated with his work in Tod Browning's Dracula. The difference between Ed Wood and Tod Browning, despite the obvious, is that Tod Browning happens to know a thing or two about how to direct actors (Ed Wood's visual incompetence is matched only with his absolute inability to get a single well-delivered line out of the people in front of the camera). Bela Lugosi was always a terrible actor, it's just that Browning had both the ability to transcend him and also recognition of Lugosi's ineffable screen presence. That's the only thing Wood did right depend upon Lugosi for screen presence. Other than that, Wood had absolutely nothing (though Glen or Glenda accidentally ends up brilliant due to the nature of what it's about), and after Wood lost Lugosi, he had even less.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"Cult oddity is watchable but crippled by bad acting...","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Any monster tale featuring BELA LUGOSI in a starring role has got to be watchable, at least for some unintentional laughs. BRIDE OF THE MONSTER doesn't disappoint. It's typical Ed Wood nonsense, filmed on a very low budget with actors who are only occasionally competent and some that are downright bad.TOR JOHNSON, as a monster, and LORETTA KING, as a newspaper woman, are barely credible, especially Miss King who has all the professional poise of an amateur actress doing her first reading. The fun begins when she ends up in the clutches of doctor Bela Lugosi during a thunderstorm. All of the storm scenes seem to benefit from some stock footage of lightning splitting the sky. TONY McCOY is the male lead as a detective and at least puts a little more believability into his dialog.As a horror film, it fails to be more than mildly engaging, mostly because of the uninspired script and bad acting. It's hard to tell whether Lugosi is playing his role straight or making fun of it--he's that bad, but Miss King is even worse.Complete with less than frightening special effects, it doesn't rank high on the fright meter.Summing up Recommended only for Ed Wood fans who are curious enough to want to see all his works. "},{"Title":"He tampered in God's domain.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bela (obviously strung out on heroin) plays Dr. Eric Vornoff, a mad scientist who is trying to create a super race using atomic energy. He is assisted by Lobo, Tor Johnson who was supposedly a pretty nice guy, but had fewer facial expressions than a plate of parsley. After there are several disappearances at the lake near Vornoff's laboratory, a newspaper reporter, Loretta King, decides to go snooping against the advise of the police. She's saved? by Lobo and taken back to Vornoff's lab. From here things get really goofy.This could have been Wood's Citizen Kane. Even though Plan 9 is often cited as being his opus, my money's on Bride. Yeah, I realize there's a huge fake octopus that is more funny than actually scary. The dialog is at times pretty bad and the whole thing was probably shot on a budget that makes Bad Taste look like a Kubrick film, but this thing manages to have some shining moments. Unlike some of Wood's other pictures, this one actually had some coherence. There is a plot and most of what goes on has something to do with it. Had Wood actually had money, he might have made a pretty decent film. "}]