[{"Title":"Near the end of the noir cycle, one of its most stylish, innovative films","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"68 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  The Big Combo may be the only film noir ever plugged on the I Love Lucy show (Cornel Wilde guest-starred in the episode which aired April 18, 1955).  Coming late in the noir cycle and directed by Joseph Lewis, it seized a position as one of its most innovative and stylish titles. And, with the wizardly John Alton behind the camera, it kicks film noir's distinctive look up into another, rarefied dimension (Alton must have been emulating the Dutch Masters &#150; spare traceries of light limn almost abstract patterns on the screen's primordial blackness).  The story, too, stays a primal one of obsession, lust and revenge.  Ninety-six-fifty-a-week cop Wilde lives in a cheap flat across from a burlesque house, one of whose headliners (Helene Stanton) he occasionally `sees.'  But his only passion is for nailing suave but savage crime boss Richard Conte.  Iin a performance brimming with cool menace, Conte is fond of saying `First is first and second is nobody.'  Wilde also harbors half-admitted fantasies of riding to the rescue of Conte's remote and unwilling mistress (Jean Wallace, Wilde's off-screen wife).  Conte's so possessive that he assigns an intimate twosome of torpedoes (Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman) as her full-time bodyguards (since they're gay, he trusts them to serve as eunuchs).  But when they fail to prevent her overdosing on pills, she falls into Wilde's hands at hospital and starts to babble about a woman called Alicia.Another wild card is Conte's lieutenant Brian Donleavy, over the hill and hard of hearing, who chafes at playing second fiddle; he saw himself as heir to the organization when unseen capo Grazzi `retired' to Sicily.  His grudge against his boss makes him reckless, placing the whole `combination,' or combo, in jeopardy.  Wilde, meantime, has tracked down elusive Alicia, Conte's supposedly murdered wife (Helen Walker, the duplicitous psychiatrist in Nightmare Alley, in her last screen appearance); only she knows where the bodies are buried and can write her husband's death warrant....The Big Combo counts as one of the more sadistic instalments in the cycle, but the mayhem and executions are played as big set-pieces, as flourishes; Lewis draws on Alton's full fetch of tricks (and in one memorable instance, on the sound editor's) to highlight but at the same time soften their nastiness.  There's a streak of sadism in the casting, too Both Wallace's attempted suicide and Walker's dissipation bring to mind the actresses' private troubles.  Innovative and striking, The Big Combo comes as close as any film in the noir cycle to being an art-house triumph; it consolidates Lewis' reputation as an erratic director who was nonetheless capable &#150; here, and with his Gun Crazy &#150; of pulling off something unexpected yet extraordinary. "},{"Title":"Sleazy gangster-noir tale of obsession and revenge..","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"51 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Now that DVD is fast becoming the medium of choice for many film enthusiasts, some lesser known, lower budget titles are finding their way to wider audiences. Joseph Lewis's The Big Combo has made this trip to digital, and thankfully none of the film's captivating sleaze has been stripped away in the transfer.  What appears to be a fairly stock story of straight-arrow police detective Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde) obsessed with capturing a foreboding gangland chieftain, Mr. Brown, Combo is an unusually hardboiled, over the top tale of revenge and murder that will please and perhaps even surprise noir and crime-drama fans.  Over the course of the protracted investigation, Diamond, who has nearly lost his badge because of his stubborn determination, has fallen for the boss's dame -- a society girl gone so wrong she figures suicide is the only way out.   But Mr. Brown (Richard Conte, excellent as the 'last-name only' control freak) is as omnipotent and omniscient as a head pit boss in Vegas, taunting and manipulating every one around him with an unsettling equanimity. He tells Diamond, who is virtually powerless to do anything but temporarily hold the murderous Brown and his men on trivial charges,  that the busboys in his hotel make more money than he does.  Even Brown's right hand man, the hearing impaired McClure (Brian Donlevy)is mercilessly ridiculed for his second tier status.  And Brown is obsessed with his prowess with women as Diamond is with capturing him and wooing his moll.  The film is filled with risque sexual allusions as wild as anything from director Sam Fuller. In one scene, Brown manuevers around his girl, stopping briefly at her lips, but then dropping out of frame, seemingly down past her waist.  And Diamond cavorts with a burlesque dancer (with a heart of gold, natch) who appears in a skimpy outfit that is titillating even by today's television standards.But the most ribald bits to make it past the censors involve Brown's bickering henchmen, Fante and Mingo.  Fante, played by the aquiline Lee Van Cleef, appears to be a typical hood, but midway through the film the lights come up in a bedroom where the two men have been sleeping in remarkably close quarters. Later, sequestered in a mob-hideout, the two engage in thinly-veiled homoerotic banter that will leave you howling.  As will some of the other scenes -- torture by drum solo, a Casablanca inspired finale.  Throughout the picture  Brown and Diamond dance around one another sans gene, to the sound of gunshots and acid-tongued banter. The Big Combo is taut, gutter entertainment, delivered in precise black and white.  Even if you do watch it on DVD.    "},{"Title":"Another Lost Noir Classic","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"42 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Here is yet another gem from the forgotten noir vault. Director Joseph Lewis trades in the quasi-cinema verite style of his GUN CRAZY(1950) for strictly in-studio work and still hits the jackpot. Cinematographer John Alton works his customary chiaroscuro artistry on a fairly straightforward tale of one frustrated but determined police detective longing to collar one supremely confident crime boss. Cornel Wilde plays the cop with stolid righteousness (although the lawman isn't above trysting with a leggy striptease artist). But the filmmakers put the main focus on the calculating yet tortured (and torturing) mobster played by Richard Conte. Conte, spitting out many of his lines with measured bile, is brilliant a smug, know-it-all killer backed by the ever-ready menace of Lee Van Cleef and the studied goofiness of Earl Holliman. (As written, these two bring a very special dynamic to post-World War II crime melodrama). Brian Donleavy is on hand as a washed up but still scheming mob kingpin. And Jean Wallace plays the high-falutin' moll who yearns to go back to her world of piano recitals and afternoon teas but who just can't get enough of Conte's sinister mojo. This low budget but highly effective noir makes an excellent double feature with another cheap but powerful film of the genre, BEHIND LOCKED DOORS. Both films are highly recommended. "},{"Title":"First-rate film noir","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is one of the finest of film noirs, unjustly forgotten.  John Alton's black-and-white cinematography is brilliant, smoothly playing with light and darkness while dazzling our eyes.  This might be Joseph Lewis' best film (it's a hard choice) and the cast is amazing.  Fun to see Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman play (probably) gay hit men; Brian Donlevy in an unusual supporting role provides heft; Richard Conte is a great, great villain. And Jean Wallace is luminous in the femme-fatale-turned-good role.  Catch it if you can. "},{"Title":"A Brutal and Twisted Noir","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Cornel Wilde plays a police detective obsessed with bringing down crime lord Mr. Brown (Richard Conte), while hoping at the same time to win the affections of Conte's girl, Jean Wallace, in this tremendously atmospheric noir from 1955. The noir genre wouldn't last much longer (many contend that 1958's Touch of Evil is the last true noir), but it went out with a bang, giving us some of its best examples (this, Kiss Me Deadly, On Dangerous Ground) in its last years.Wilde plays detective Leonard Diamond like a man coming apart at the seams. His determination to bring an end to Brown's reign feels as if it's fueled by personal motivations as much as by a sense of justice. This ambiguity in the hero's actions adds to the rotten atmosphere created by director Joseph Lewis, in which the bad guys often have more allure than the good ones. Richard Conte certainly has magnetism to spare; his monotone, machine-gun patter when belittling Diamond for being a little man nearly makes you forget that Wilde towers over Conte whenever they're in the frame together. And, despite his chauvinist treatment of her, one can understand why Jean Wallace's character would be drawn against her will to the more virile Conte than to the impotent Wilde.Indeed, the question of manhood -- who has it and who doesn't -- is central to The Big Combo. It's a theme common to the genre, but is given one of its most overt treatments here. In this twisted world, the ability to inflict pain -- be it mental, emotional, physical or sexual -- is a measure of one's ability to be a man and make it in the world. Those who aren't man enough, like Mr. Brown's gay henchmen or right-hand man, McClure (played with just the right amount of vulnerability by Brian Donlevy), are destroyed.The Big Combo boasts arresting black and white images, and a number of thrillingly memorable set pieces (let's just say that imaginative and recurring use is made of a hearing aid). It doesn't beat its kissing cousin from the same year, Kiss Me Deadly, in my book, but it's an awfully fun ride.Grade A "},{"Title":"Classic crime thriller with noir leanings and memorable scenes","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Police Lieutenant Leonard Diamond is a driven man; he has seen the Organisation grow in strength daily with Mr Brown at its head. He has seen innocents being sucked into crime by the syndicate and he has had enough. With his expenses spiralling out of control, he is put under pressure to close his investigation but his anger at Brown and his love for his girl, Susan, keeps him going. A chance discovery of a mysterious woman called Alicia starts a trail of information that offers Diamond the chance to cut off the head and kill the snake if, that is, he can stay alive long enough to do it.Although it has been many years since I first saw this film it has stayed with me ever since, a classic crime thriller with elements of noir and some very memorable moments. The basic plot is about a crime syndicate and the cop who is trying to bring it down and this is very well done throughout. The plot is a bit of a mystery in this regard as Diamond tries to build a puzzle with most of the pieces missing but the plot is only a part of this film working as well as it does. One of the main factors making it so good is the consistently tough tone of the material that can be seen in many ways. It has all the usual stuff in the tough characters spouting quotable dialogue with the rat-a-tat-tat rhythm of a tommy gun but also has many tough scenes of brutality, my favourite being the unforgettable execution that takes place in total silence &#150; the perfect conclusion to a scene that had been built up with such tension.The film adds to this with elements more suited to noir than gangster movies. The hero is a deeply flawed man driven more by hate than righteousness, unable to get Brown's girl he turns to a low rent show girl (although it is clear that she is a prostitute) meanwhile we have corruption within the authorities hinted at &#150; it is all nicely twisted, not quite a fully blown noir but it takes elements and blends them well to produce a superb mix. The cast match this with some great performances. Conte gets the headlines because he gets the cool character and the toughest dialogue but for me it is Wilde that makes the film his own with a convincing portrayal of a man who is driven by hate as much as love until, finding neither, he uses a lesser woman to satisfy his lust &#150; only for it to sink him deeper into apparent self-loathing. He is a bit wild-eyed at times but generally he gets it spot on with a complex performance that says as much with his expressions as he does with his dialogue. Donlevy is good in a small role and the female characters are well done (for different reasons) by Wallace and Stanton. Lee Van Cleef was a surprise find in a minor role but really the film belongs to Wilde and Conte who really go to town with the chance.Overall this is not a normal crime syndicate thriller as the title suggests, but nor is it a traditional noir. Instead it is a fine blend of the two with the best elements of each working to produce a classic crime thriller with atmospheric direction, tough dialogue, brutally memorable scenes and great performances. Complex characters and a morally ambiguous hero only helps the film's impact making this one well worth hunting down (can you believe it has only had a few hundred votes on this site? I despair.) "},{"Title":"Classic and fascinating gangster movie","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The storyline centers about a persistent cop(Cornel Wilde)who tracks down a mobster(Richard Conte) and his henchmen (Brian Donlevy,Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman). He's helped by the gangster's girlfriend and one deputy(Robert Middleton).The movie has likeness to noir cinema of the 40s and 50s that played Robert Mitchum, Kirk Douglas and Glenn Ford but here is B series.In the film there are action, raw drama ,suspense, murders and is very interesting.Interpretation by Cornel Wilde and Jean Wallace, marriage in real life, is magnificent, the evil racketeer Richard Conte is top notch and his underlings Donlevy, Van Cleef and Holliman are of first rate.Cinematography by John Alton is extraordinary ,setting of lights and shades depict this type of cinema and Alton and Nicholas Musuraca are the principal photographers.David Raskin music, being recently deceased, is nice and atmospheric.The motion picture is well directed by Joseph H. LewisRating  very good, 7,5/10. The flick will appeal to noir cinema fans. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Syndicate Coup d'Etat","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Allied Artists which was Monogram Studios and mostly noted for the Bowery Boys gave us The Big Combo and they put together a stylish cast for this noir thriller. The cast is so good they cover up a lot of holes in the story.The antagonists in this film are honest police lieutenant Cornel Wilde against ruthless syndicate chief Richard Conte. Wilde is doggedly determined to get Conte who's an article as slick as they come. His persistence reminds me a lot of Columbo without the humor.Conte took over from a former syndicate chief who took a Johnny Torrio like 'retirement' to Sicily. Or what exactly is the real story there and who's this mysterious Alicia that throws a scare into the normally unflappable Conte?Wilde also has a personal interest in another way as he's kind of crushing out on Jean Wallace who's Conte's main squeeze. There's a club stripper played by Carolyn Jones who's sweet on Wilde and pays for it with her life.The Big Combo has made the list for cinema of gay interest because of the roles of Earl Holliman and Lee Van Cleef as a pair of gay trigger men who work for Conte. It's something that during the Fifties only a small studio like Allied Artists would have on screen. Today their relationship is rather obvious. The parts are much greater than the whole and basically what Conte has done is pull a syndicate coup d'etat. But personally as the story unfolds he did a rather sloppy job in covering it up.Rounding out the cast is syndicate banker Brian Donlevy and Wilde's police superior Robert Middleton. It's a nice noir thriller, but it should have had a much tighter story. "},{"Title":"First is first and second is nothing.","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A very good gangster flick and evocative film-noir directed by Joseph H. Lewis. A zealous cop(Cornel Wilde) seeks the aid of a gangster's(Richard Conte) ex-girlfriend(Jean Wallace)in bringing down a crime syndicate. Conte's character is relentless as he rules his corrupt world with murder, gunplay and torture. Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman are his minions and Brian Donlevy is a handicapped mentor of sorts. Supporting cast features Helen Walker and Robert Middleton. Terrific lighting and photography make this an exceptional crime drama where shades of gray makes THE BIG COMBO a notch above the ordinary. Noteoff-screen Wilde and Wallace are Mr. & Mrs. "},{"Title":"unacknowledged film noir classic!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  It is surprising that the brilliance of this film has not been adequately recognised by the viewing public or the critics. Probably inspired by the prototypical rogue cop in Fritz Lang's The Big Heat, this film features the crusade of one man - Lieutenant Diamond (Cornel Wilde in a super performance) to pin down Richard Conte's smooth-tongued gangster. Struggling to keep away the departmental bureaucracy, he battles singlehandedly against organised crime with a devotion to duty bordering on the obsessional (It's my sworn duty to push too far).Despite the absence of any big name in the cast, this film presents all the elements that we have come to love about American film noir - great lighting and photography, tight script (First is first, and second is nobody), a great storyline, and some superb performances (Susan Lowell as a society girl - the gangster's moll - is ravishing).Watch this film. It's time it got recognition amongst the greatest films to come out of Hollywood. Ever.  "}{"Title":"A Great Film-Noir with a Sleaze Story of Obsession","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Police Lt. Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde) of the 93 Precinct is obsessed to find evidences against the hoodlum Mr. Brown (Richard Conte) and unsuccessfully exceeds the budget after four years of investigation with his partner, Detective Sam Hill (Jay Adler). Police Capt. Peterson (Robert Middleton) orders him to stop the investigation, telling that his obsession is personal since he has fallen in love with Brown's mistress Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace). But Susan tries to commit suicide and Diamond convinces his chief to follow one last lead, the name Alicia babbled by Susan in the hospital.The powerful Mr. Brown is mad with Diamond's investigation and sends his gangsters Joe McClure (Brian Donlevy), Fante (Lee Van Cleef) and Mingo (Earl Holliman) to try to stop Diamond. But the reluctant lieutenant insists in his pursue and the criminals decide to kill him. However they murder Diamond's lover Rita (Helene Stanton) by mistake. Now the obsession of Diamond becomes revenge and he will not stop until Mr. Brown is sent to justice. The Big Combo is a great film-noir by Joseph H. Lewis with a sleaze story of obsession that becomes revenge in the end. The duel between the characters performed by Cornel Wilde and Richard Conte is amazing, very well supported by Jean Wallace, Brian Donlevy, Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman. The top-notch cinematography in black and white uses lights, shades and fog to create the perfect environment for this bleak story. The friendship of Fante and Mingo is very suspicious, indicating that the two gangsters are more than best friends. My vote is eight. Title (Brazil) Império do Crime (Empire of the Crime) "},{"Title":"I'm gonna break him so fast he won't have time to change his pants.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I picked-up The Big Combo as a blind buy for very little money. And I couldn't be happier with my purchase. Director Joseph H. Lewis created a wonderfully good-looking and compelling film full of atmosphere and interesting characters. This incredibly dark, relatively unknown noir deserves a much wider audience. And when I say dark, I mean as dark as midnight. No one comes out of this one unscathed. All of the characters, even the supposed good ones, are flawed and dramatically affected by the events of the movie. And technically, the movie is just as good. Lewis masterfully uses light and shadows along with interesting camera angles. Most every scene is a feast for the eyes.At the center of the plot is mobster Mr. Brown. He's an untouchable. The police have been unable to pin anything on him even though he's the mastermind behind a successful criminal organization. Richard Conte is Mr. Brown, the head bad guy in The Big Combo. It's a remarkable performance and what makes this movie so special. He oozes evil with the best of them. The only person he cares about is himself. He's the kind of guy who can turn against someone on a dime &#150; even those who have helped him get ahead. Conte's Mr. Brown is easily one of my favorite heavies I've so far run across.If you're a fan of noirs, The Big Combo is worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"Noir and much out of line","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I read about this movie from professional reviews long before i could ever lay my hands on it. If it is a rights or license issue i don't know, i would even assume, that as we deal with mature subject matters, broadcasters felt their discretion was advised in a way, as to keep it in the library instead of showing it. What do we have here  A policemen with a fanatic chase of a seemingly untouchable Mobster, who finds no better way then to chase the unsuspecting girlfriend of the gang lord to get to him, later on pulling the mobsters forgotten wife out of an insane asylum, where she hides and going for her also. A mobster, who is vain, relentless and does not hesitate to kill his 2nd in command and his killer duo, once they pose a risk for him. A special treatment for the cop, whom he gets into his hands involving a hearing aid and hair water. The killer duo, not only being brothers in arms, but also brothers of the intimate kind in life. This is as much, as needs to be told on the story, as i don't want to tick the spoiler mark. Get it, on TV, DVD or whatever available and watch it. Film noir had gone a long way from the likes of Big Sleep or Maltese Falcon to get there. But it was worth the travel and worth for anybody with an interest in this genre to view and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Richard Conte steals the show as the quintessential tough guy hoodlum.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I've always liked Conte in most movies I've seen him. Only rarely does he disappoint. Who can forget him in The Godfather (1972) as the crime boss, Barzini? Well, The Big Combo is a warm up for that later role, it would seem &#150; one that shows just how devious and cold a character he can play as the crime boss, Mr Brown (what's interesting also, is the fact that we never learn Brown's first name).Arguably, he and Cornel Wilde (as the cop, Leonard Diamond) share equal screen time, although I didn't go the trouble of timing it. So, it's toss up as to whether you think Wilde or Conte is the real star. From my perspective, Conte wins hands down but I think that's because, as a truly evil tough guy, he is able to present a truly stark contrast to the apparent ineffectiveness and frustration portrayed by Wilde with his increasingly desperate attempts to bring Brown to justice &#150; the last point being the whole basis for the main narrative. But there's no doubt Conte had the juicier role to play with, and he did in spades.There are film noir overtones with the very effective, very sharp shadows and keyed lighting &#150; to faces, in doorways, in silhouettes and such like. Perhaps, it's a bit overdone, but put it down to the director's enthusiasm, I guess. Where it lacks is with the femme fatales &#150; both of whom don't appear to be of that type at all Jean Wallace as Susan Lowell is competent but subdued; she's supposed to be scared of Brown but appears to be simply bored most of the time. Helen Walker as Alicia Brown (Mr Brown's long-suffering wife) doesn't appear until late in the movie and resolves one of the two mysteries in this narrative the one concerning her name. The other mystery concerns the disappearance of Mr Brown's boss, Grazzi, seven years earlier.The dialog is good, but it's only Conte who makes it great from time to time. The action is also well done &#150; although by 2006 standards, it's stilted &#150; and again it's Conte who gets all the meatier scenes when he tortures Diamond with McClure's (Brian Donlevy) hearing aid, when he evades McClure's trap and, most deliciously, when he brings his tough hit men (very youthful Lee van Cleef and Earl Holliman) their pay off for a job well done. It's worth seeing the movie just for those scenes alone. And, while on the subject of those two hit men, it's fascinating to see the homosexual innuendo play out between them; it's not usually seen in gangster movies, especially in the fifties.The main characters are further supported by Robert Middleton (always good to see in drama); Brian Donlevy (a consummate actor and well-known face in many crime thrillers); and the ubiquitous Jay Adler (the character actor's actor, I think) as Wilde's side-kick.Overall, however, I regard this film as a curiosity more than a successful mystery/thriller like The Maltese Falcon (1941) or The Big Sleep (1946 and 1978), perhaps. But, I'm glad I saw it. And, like I said, it's worth seeing for Conte's performance alone... "},{"Title":"THE BIG COMBO (Joseph H. Lewis, 1955) ***","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Despite a bland title, this is a top-notch film noir, one of Lewis' best in fact, with a first-rate cast (Cornel Wilde, Richard Conte, Brian Donlevy, Lee Van Cleef, Earl Holliman, Ted De Corsia, Robert Middleton, Jay Adler, John Hoyt, etc.), a typically hard-boiled script courtesy of Philip Yordan and some memorably violent scenes for its time (police officer Wilde's torture at the hands of gangster Conte, Donlevy's silent demise by Conte's henchmen Van Cleef and Holliman, Conte punching his moll, Jean Wallace, in the face, etc.); cinematographer John Alton and composer David Raksin lend their expert support. I had first seen this one some 15 years ago when I caught it one afternoon, quite by accident, on Italian TV and was very impressed by it; I'm glad that my re-acquaintance with it via Alpha's DVD proved to be equally satisfying. "},{"Title":"Film Noir At Its Toughest.....Maybe Too Tough","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is one of the few classic films that was so rough, so hard-edged, I got rid of it after several viewings....but now wish I had it back. One thing for sure this is film noir at its darkest. I got too uncomfortable watching several scenes, frankly.For instance, there is a scene in which a cop (Cornel Wilde) is tortured by the head mob boss (Richard Conte) and his goons. Wilde is given a hearing aid and forced to hear loud music through it, louder and louder piercing his ear drums. Then, they make him drink hair tonic that has 40 percent alcohol in it so that went someone finds him, they will think he's drunk.You see what I mean? This is one nasty movie. Conte's character is brutal, killing anyone who poses a threat to him. The female lead, played by Jean Wallace, has a pretty face but that can't overshadow all the mean-spirited or sadistic people who dominate this movie. Overall, it's good but not as good as the sick professional movie critics will tell you. "},{"Title":"How come a nice guy like you is a cop?","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Though the title doesn't say anything, this film from 1955 is about as stylishly noir as they come, featuring Cornel Wilde as a police lieutenant with an obsession to put away a mob boss with a name as bland as he himself is vicious - Mr. Brown. Brown is chillingly portrayed by Richard Conte, and commands the center of attention whenever he's on screen. He deserves it too, exuding an air of self confidence, whether challenging legal authority or one of his own henchmen. He makes the case for himself when confronted by Lt. Leonard Diamond (Wilde) - You think it's money, it's not, it's personality..., helping the viewer understand that he's at the top of his game because he made it that way, and anyone else in his sphere of influence is second string.The picture offers some great cinematography, almost always dark and moody; the night time fog and shadows are particularly atmospheric. There's an airport scene strangely reminiscent of Casablanca but without the presence of the usual suspects. Additionally, the picture doesn't rely on just a single femme fatale, although Brown's girl Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace) is at the center of the intrigue. Unfortunately, her character might have been one of the film's minor drawbacks; she didn't have the energy to pull off the theatrics of a jilted lover.I'll give the film credit for one very inventive rub out. When Brown's underling Joe McClure has to answer for his betrayal, he's granted a meaningless favor by his boss. Almost deaf, McClure's hearing aid is removed, and he's mowed down in ghastly machine gun staccato silence. That was just a brilliantly conceived idea put to film.It was a bit strange seeing Lee Van Cleef sans mustache and whiskers, quite some time before his spaghetti Western heyday. He teamed up with Earl Holliman in a daring partnership as a pair of henchmen for Mr. Brown, but if you read between the lines, there's more going on as part of a subtle subtext that was rare for the 1950's. You'll figure it out, with a second viewing making it much more obvious.With everything that went before, I was let down by the ending somewhat, expecting a bit more of a dramatic finale. Still, it's hard to find fault otherwise with The Big Combo, and adding this one to your collection of gangster flicks would be worth the effort. "},{"Title":"First is first, and second is nobody.","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The most stylish and gritty film noir ever made. Or so I hear. I haven't seen to many film noirs yet to make that kind of a statement for myself but this is what I hear. And if I didn't know better (which I don't) I'd say it's correct. The use of light, shadow and silhouettes in this film is truly beautiful and remarkable.The film is about Police Lt. Leonard Diamond and his quest, or I guess you could say obsession, to putting suspected mob boss Mr. Brown behind bars. But after being after him for so long and with no results the police department shuts down the investigation due to the fact that it's starting to cos the city to much money. Now Lt. Diamond only has one chance of getting to Mr. Brown. Through his girlfriend, Susan Lowell.The film was fun to watch although a tad boring at times. But only for a few moments. The suspense level in The Big Combo is very high and reaches its peak at the very end. The ending is something I really liked and the ending shot of the film demonstrates the visual style of film noir at its most extreme. There were some scenes in the film which brought out some very strong emotions in me but if I say what the scenes were I'd have to write a spoiler. Just be prepared to be marveled by this films dialogue, style and intriguing story. "},{"Title":"First is first, and second is nobody","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" New York is a big city, and it's ruled, not by the democratically-elected politician, nor by the Chief of Police, but by the Crime Boss. Contemptible but untouchable, Mr. Brown rules the sprawling metropolis like a tyrant reigning over his kingdom, flaunting his power and success extravagantly and fearlessly, secure with the knowledge that the authorities can't lay a finger on him. Richard Conte's performance in 'The Big Combo (1955)' is the key to the film's success. Though comparatively short in stature, Mr. Brown is nonetheless an intimidating figure, through both his complete confidence in his own eminence, and his denigration towards all those who are below him. With that charisma that apparently comes only to Italian-Americans, Mr. Brown (who, for whatever reason, frequently reminded me of Martin Scorsese) lays down the rules for determining the hierarchy of power Hate! Hate is the word, Benny! Hate the man that tries to beat you. Kill 'em, Benny! Kill 'em! Hate him till you see red, and you'll come out winning the big money, and the girls will come tumblin' after.The film's plot, of an honest cop trying to bring down a titan of organised crime, is not unique; the most readily-recalled example would be Brian DePalma's 'The Untouchables (1987),' but precursors certainly exist. Lt. Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde) is such an honest cop, almost obsessive in his bid to bring down Mr. Brown, though his fanaticism could just as easily be explained by his lust for the crime boss' abused girlfriend, Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace). Diamond is supposed to be the film's driving-force, but he's too dogmatic to make an interesting hero. Unlike the countless flawed anti-heroes who have made so many film noirs memorable &#150; take Marlowe, or Spade, or Hammer, for instance &#150; Diamond's only flaw appears to be that he's a workaholic. Mr. Brown contemptuously describes the detective as righteous, the word spoken with such derision that he might as well have spit on him. Indeed, so lowly is his opinion of law enforcement that Mr. Brown stubbornly refuses even to address Diamond directly, sardonically issuing threats in the third-person.I suppose it wouldn't be entirely accurate to describe Diamond as being a complete saint. After all, we must consider his part-time girlfriend Rita (Helene Stanton), whom he treats like a pair of gloves, offering his affection only when his life seems particularly hopeless. Ultimately, Rita is assassinated in a case of mistaken identity, and her death gives the detective added incentive to bring down Mr. Brown. This character subplot is obviously an attempt to make Diamond appear more of an anti-hero, but it's a thin attempt, and Wilde's character is best viewed as an obligatory vehicle of moral and legal justice. It is the strong performances of Conte and Brian Donlevy (as Mr. Brown's resentful second-in-command) that really make the film, in addition to the imaginative visuals. Cinematographer John Alton here constructs some of film noir's most iconic images, including the fog-swept airport finale that deliberately diverts the ending of 'Casablanca (1942)' into darker territory. The inspired stylistic decision to show Joe McClure's death without audio also inspired Sam Mendes' rain-swept shoot-out in 'Road to Perdition (2002).' "},{"Title":"Shadow and Light and Boys Together","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" There really should be a deluxe DVD box-set of films with The Big in their titles -- preferably The Big followed by one more word.Naturally, you would have to have Howard Hawks' The Big Sleep from 1946 and Fritz Lang's The Big Heat from 1953.If I wanted to attract hate mail, I could probably also insist on including two David Nelson circus films, particularly 1959's The Big Circus, but also the rather overlooked The Big Show from 1961. From 1955 alone you could come up with Robert Aldrich's The Big Knife and Joseph H. Lewis' s The Big Combo. The Big Combo is an unusually good film noir with more of the chiaroscuro lighting effects than you get in some other more famous noir classics and way more than you get in the archetypal David Nelson circus film.You also get a gay couple -- very unusual for a 1955 Hollywood film! Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman play two thugs named Fante and Mingo, who work for bigger thug Richard Conte. Some classic Hollywood films, as reported in Vito Russo's The Celluloid Closet, have some fairly specific gay content, but some of them only have the reputation and not much content. However, it's really there in The Big Combo. Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman live together, slay together, and apparently love each other. Watch the basement hideout scene near the climax. They caress each other! It's the most believable relationship in a very brutal and fascinating movie. "}{"Title":"A gold medalist in the film noir race","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A solid entry in the film noir genre. The major players all do a grand job but keep an eye peeled for John Hoyt as antique shop proprietor Nils Dryer. I always enjoyed this much underrated and sadly over looked actor. The psychological warfare that unfolds between Cornel Wilde as the dedicated but under paid cop and Richard Conte as the thoroughly repulsive hoodlum kingpin 'Mr Brown' makes for an interesting character study. The title theme of this movie is just SO Big City U.S.A circa 1950s and very evocative of the era.Seems to have got lost in the system over the years. Make it your business to find a copy and you won't be disappointed. A bone fide gold medalist in the film noir race. "},{"Title":"Detective Diamond Is A Girl's Best Friend","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This 1955, b&w, crime-drama had both its good points, as well as its not-so-good points.Its best point, by far, was its overall look which consisted of many scenes shot in shadowy, partially-lit spaces. This welcome effect often gave the story a more menacing feel to it, beyond what was generally conveyed by the actions of the characters.As well as The Big Combo having its fair share of impressive camera-work to its credit, it also contained plenty of unintentional humour in a story that clearly took itself way too seriously for its own good.But, on the other hand - What almost ruined this picture for me was the hideously annoying performance of actress Jean Wallace who played the clueless, blond, gangster's moll, Susan Lowell. Believe me, this woman's portrayal really grated on my nerves, big-time.Anyway - For the most part, The Big Combo was OK entertainment as far as 1950's crime-dramas go. "},{"Title":"And It's Back To The Gutter For Brown","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Favourite movie quote - You're a beautiful girl, Rita... But stupid.This bare-knuckles, yet decidedly run-of-the-mill, 1955, crime-drama earned itself some extra points from me for these following 3 things -(1) The opening scene where character Susan Lowell (in high heels, no less) is frantically running for her very life away from 2 toughs down a smoky, shadow-drenched corridor.(2) The priceless scene where hottie, burlesque queen, Rita, angrily slaps one of Brown's nelly henchmen across the face with her rhinestone-encrusted handbag.(3) And, last, but not least - Cinematographer, John Alton's first-rate camera-work, which, at times, was about the only thing that actually held my interest in this, otherwise, unintentionally laughable tale about (stud-muffin) Detective Diamond's almost neurotically obsessive crusade to bring down sadistic, self-satisfied gangster, Mr. Brown, to his knees.*Note* - The Big Combo was directed by Joseph Lewis, who, in 1950, had directed Gun Crazy. "},{"Title":"A late arrival in the Genre","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Having mostly enjoyed Cornel Wilde films, I was anxious to catch up with this rarely screened title. While it kept my interest throughout, I was surprised that by the end, I did not want to keep my recording.Following a nice main title, the film gets off to an interesting start, but this actually promises more than it delivers. The great 40's noir films had tight pacing, sharp dialog and a multi layered look and feel ~ all this is lacking here. Obviously the producers recognized this, as they themselves dropped scenes from the final cut. Whit Bisel remains on the cast, but not in the film! Even with some segments reduced the film feels much longer than it's 80+ Min's running time. I quite like slow films, but they should never feel longer than they are, and must have strong lines and situations. Its a good time filler, but don't think it will stay with too many after it's over. Wildes wife Jean Wallace is lovely to look at in the Grace Kelly school of cool blonds. The Black and White print I caught on local ABC TV was very good quality (far better than many of the soft image, and poor quality sound prints pushed out on TCM!~ when will they get it right?) Many have mentioned enjoying the films use of light and shadow, but this too is obvious and forced, looking more like cheap TV lighting, not the true 'style' of great cinema. The cast tries hard but the lines are just not there for them (substitutes violence for good dialog) OK for the easily pleased, others, don't expect too much. A decade later Wilds 'Naked Prey' while a total departure, is a far better effort. "},{"Title":"not bad, not great either","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" OK, this was a total gangster movie, i thought the story was fairly strong , but also quite complex, which was good at times, but it did lose me at one point. one thing i would have done was dress people a little more distinctly, i had a bit of trouble recognizing who was who. as far as filming goes i wouldn't say it was anything exceptional, except for the last scene, they really had some fun with the lighting on that one, which was pretty cool. it seemed to be quite similar to most other gangster films, just with a few more twists to keep track of. but all in all i would say it's a decent film and worth a watch, maybe not all that much more. "},{"Title":"I'm trying to run an impersonal business. Killing is very personal. Once it gets started, it's hard to stop.","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Big Combo is directed by Joseph H. Lewis, written by Philip Yordan and photographed by cinematographer and noir icon John Alton. David Raksin scores the music and it stars Cornel Wilde, Richard Conte, Jean Wallace, Brian Donlevy, Lee Van Cleef & Earl Holliman. The story sees Wilde as Police Lt. Leonard Diamond who is on a personal mission to bring down sadistic gangster Mr. Brown (Conte). Something that's doubly perilous since he's infatuated with Brown's girlfriend, Susan Lowell (Wallace), who is trapped by the hold that Brown has on her.Violent, dark and sexy, The Big Combo is a riveting experience from start to finish. In truth, Yordan's writing is pretty standard stuff here, but Lewis, Raksin and Alton really raise the bar in film noir atmospherics. From the nifty beginning where a blonde lady flees a darkened boxing match-pursued by two heavies-to the foggy airport conclusion, Lewis' movie revels in shifty shadows, shifty sexual motives and even shiftier characters. Upon its release the film caused something of a stir on account of its tricksy thematics, and that's not hard to believe since the film still comes off as potent even today. It's a film where what you don't see has the greater effect, and where suggestion is everything; for better or worse. One sexy scene involving Conte stepping in when Jack Palance bailed and Wallace so incensed Wilde, who was then married to Wallace, he tried to have it taken out the picture! Yes this is a ripper of a movie to be sure.Set entirely at night time, in and amongst dimly lit back alleys, rain-sodden pathways and moody plush apartments, the piece gives Alton the chance to shoot his chiaroscuro magic. I can't state enough just how great his work is here, sexual urges are cloaked in a fatalistic sheen, nocturnal shenanigans briefly lit by the blink of some neon ray. Masterful. Away from the smart technical aspects (the cast are strong, the set pieces brisk too), the piece works great as a gangster movie, this in spite of there only being a small handful of crooks in the story. That the two henchmen superbly underplayed by Cleef & Holliman are evidently gay, just adds more sexual deviance into the sleazy norish stew. Gangsters, cops & society gals, all of them have a sense of doom hanging over them, to which they have the same things in common; that of blending violence with sex. Raw direction, moodily photographed and jazzily scored, The Big Combo is a big movie in the noir pantheon. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brutal, violent noir thriller","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" With Brian Donlevey, Cornel Wilde and Richard Conte and the iconic noir shadings of John Alton The Big Combo is widely held as one of the best of the genre's films this late in the noir cycle. An obsessive police detective (Donlevey) bucks departmental policy to focus an investigation of mob kingpin Conte. Long before Jack Bauer would strap Arab type people to the chair, these enhanced techniques were used on Wilde. They blast his eardrums with loud drum music delivered via Donlevy's hearing aid, (it looks like a forerunner of today's earbuds), force him to drink hair tonic and beat the crap out of him, suggesting that he lay off the case. Of course this only increases the resolve of our noble protagonist as he searches for the key piece of evidence that will put his nemesis behind bars.The is a no holds barred, tough picture. At the time the producers pushed the violence envelope further than any mainstream film before it even causing common taters to bemoan the state of modern entertainment. Even now after The Sopranos and The Godfather this tale seems especially brutal and the audiences are the better for it. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"noir and pieces","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I have to admit that I haven't seen too many film noirs. But I've really liked the ones that I have seen, and The Big Combo may be the best. It's got everything that we expect in a film noir a detective, gangsters, a sultry blonde, and dark alleys. But how they use this combo creates one of the most impressive plots that I've even seen.During the first few minutes, we get introduced to detective Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde). Diamond has long sought to nab criminal Mr. Brown (Richard Conte). The problem is, Diamond can't find any evidence with to convict Brown. But then, one night, Brown's hubby Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace) has to get brought in to the emergency room, where she starts muttering the name Alicia. Who is this Alicia? And how does she relate to an Italian man who apparently moved back to Sicily several years earlier. The answer lies in a web of intrigue.What I really like in the movie is how they create the intrigue, let it drop, and then catch you with it. Granted, this is a staple of film noirs, but I just think that they did such a good job with it here. Every camera angle makes you feel like you're about to discover something new about the characters. Not to mention that Susan is hotter than I can describe! As for the whole part about the henchmen being gay, I don't know whether or not I would have noticed that otherwise - I can't say that it adds another dimension to the general plot - but I can see it now.Overall, a really good movie. Watch for a young Lee Van Cleef. "},{"Title":"You can't tell a jury that a man's guilty because he's too Innocent!","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Were introduced to the movie The Big Combo with a really super cool and jazzy score by music composer David Raksin. At a local boxing arena and see this cool, like the music, statuesque and sharp looking blond running from two perusers who we assume are out to either work her over or even kill her. We find out soon enough that the two man chasing and finally catching up with the woman are Fante & Mingo, who sound like a song and dance duet, played by Lee Van Cleef & Earl Holliman and the sexy blond is Susan Lowell, Jean Wallace, who's Fante & Mingo boss Mafiso Mr Brown's, Richard Conte, very uncooperative girlfriend.Susan doesn't know it at the time but she caught the eye of police Let. Leonard Diamond, Cornel Wilde, who became so infatuated with her, from afar, that he spends all his off, and vacation, time following her around to keep tabs not only on Susan who's abusive boyfriend Mr. Brown that Let. Diamond wants to free her from. It's when Susan swallows a jar of sleeping pills that almost kills her that Let. Diamond makes his move using that tragic occasion to have Susan arrested for attempted murder, of herself, in her suicide attempt.Trying to save Susan from the unfeeling and obsessive Mr. Brown Let. Diamond does his share of abusing Susan himself by hounding her, in and out of the hospital emergency ward, to the point where she almost suffers a nervous breakdown. We later learn Mr. Brown also drove his old lady Alicia, Helen walker, to crack up as well. In fact it's Alicia who's the key to this whole confusing story with her sudden disappearance on a cruise in the middle of Atlantic Ocean some seven years earlier! Trying to get a murder rap on Mr. Brown for his wife's Alicia murder Let. Diamond uncovers the startling fact that it wasn't Alicia who Mr. Brown whacked, or deep sixth, some time ago on that Atlantic cruise. Mr. Brown knocked off his former boss Mr. Grazzi who's job as big time Mafia kingpin Mr. Brown took over! Alicia in fact is alive and-well let's just say alive-with her being put against her will into a private sanitarium where she now spends all of her time talking to and conversing with the plants that she grows in the sanitariums greenhouse.The film has Let. Diamond go so far in his obsessive attempt to get Mr. Brown arrested so he can save Susan from his clutches, and even more important keep her all to himself, that you don't look at what he's doing as anything righteous heroic or even legal! It's all a desperate act of a loved crazed and uncontrollable stalker very much like the unbalanced Travis Bickel in Taxi Driver.Mr Brown for his part had nothing but sheer contempt for the overzealous and obnoxious Let.Diamond who at first didn't even talk directly to him using his now stooge, as well as doormat, and former boss Joe McClure, Brian Dunlevy, as his intermediary or interpretor! Even though he and Let. Diamond both spoke the English language! It's when Let. Diamond starts to put the screws on him that Mr. Brown starts to play dirty. Mr. Brown using his two henchmen Fante & Mingo to go so far as to kidnap the pain in the butt Let. Diamond They then torture and humiliated him, by forcing a bottle of hair lotion down his throat. Fante & Mingo finally try murder Let. Diamond only ending up drilling his old girlfriend, who was replaced by Susan, Rita (Helen Stanton)with 11 bullets as she was staying in a fleabag hotel room that Let. Diamond was registered in.Like all sick and deluded sociopaths Mr. Brown turns out to be his own worst enemy by turning his own gang of hoods against himself. The kicker comes when Mr. Brown tries to do in both loyal and dedicated Farte & Mingo for all the good work they did for him in the movie, like setting up the vengeful and a bit delusional Joe McCrue. Bringing the two hoods a box filled with dynamite sticks, which he told the two hit men was a gift for their services, Mr. Brown has it set to go off as soon as they opened it. It went off all right but only Farte got blown away with his tight as a Victorian brassiere bosom buddy Mingo miraculously surviving. Mingo now knowing what a back-stabbing creep his boss Mr. Brown is decides to spill the beans on him which in the end got him a lifetime and rent-freed apartment, or cell, in the state penitentiary. "},{"Title":"Silly, but Interesting Half Cop-crime Melodrama and Half film Noir","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The basic plot is a typical cop-criminal melodrama. A detective (Cornel Wilde) goes after crime boss Mr. Brown (Richard Conte. It is in this sense like an episode of many cop series of the 1950's, for example, The Untouchables. It does have film noir elements, great shadowy lighting, psychotic bad guys, an obsessed good guy, and lots of night scenes. On the other hand, we are missing a real femme-fatale and nothing from the past catches up with the hero. Actually, its more true to say that the past catches up with the villain. It turns out the old crime boss before him didn't actually retire to Italy.A lot of the narrative is quite clumsy and ridiculous. For example, on the basis of a thin clue, the name Alicia, Detective Diamond rounds up 96 friends of Mr. Brown. and asks them all who Alicia is. This is not standard operating procedure in too many police departments, not even in fictional ones. At another point, the bad guys kick open a door to a motel room to shoot someone. They don't bother to even enter the room to check if they are shooting the right person. This seems ridiculous, as I imagine the first thing every contract killer is taught is that you don't get paid if you don't kill the right person.For every silly scene, there is a good scene that somehow works and makes up for the silliness. The scene with Mr. Brown and the boxer at the beginning is cynical and cool. In it Mr. Brown tells a fighter that he'll never be a champ because he doesn't have the one quality that you need to succeed in life - hate. The scene towards the end where Brian Donlevy gets his hearing aid turned off is surprisingly effective. The hearing-aid-being-turned-off scene in Some Like it Hot is a possibly a reference to it.Most of the supporting actors are effective, including Jean Wallace (Susan Lowell, Brown's unwilling upper-class girlfriend), Brian Donlevy (Brown's cowardly lackey), Robert Middleton (irascible police chief), and suggestively gay hit men Lee Van Cliff and Earl Holliman.Notes Jean Wallace actually tried to commit suicide with pills in 1946, so the opening scene where she tries the same thing must have been deja vu for her.Conte is much too nice for the ruthless Mr. Brown. He treats girlfriend/mistress Susan with a lot of respect and shows some genuine emotion for her. Although the script suggests he mistreated his wife Alicia, she still seems pretty faithful to him, even after finding out about his mistress. Actually Conte seems to have treated her pretty well, considering that he states that he became a criminal for her and afterwards, she just humiliated him and constantly put him down. One would have expected him to kill her, but he just bought her a nice house where she retired and did gardening.Unlike most of the crime bosses in films from this period, he actually seems to have a number of redeeming features. For example, he lets the Detective go when he could have easily killed him. He simply cancels his losing boxer's contract instead of demanding restitution. He bails both his women out of jail as soon as they are arrested. He is willing to give large sums of money to anybody in his organization who asks for it and even his contract killers admit he's generous.The dialog also can be sharp and riveting or clumsy. For example, Mr. Brown beautifully sizes up his opponent the detective, Joe, the man has reason to hate me. His salary is $96.50 a week. The busboys in my hotel make better money than that. Don't you see, Joe? He's a righteous man. On the clumsy side there's this embarrassingly poorly written threat by the Detective, I'm gonna open you up, and I'm gonna operate. I hate to think of what I'll find. I don't think this is a lost great classic of film noir. It hits lots of clichéd and sour notes, but there are enough clever and fun scenes not to miss or dismiss it. "}{"Title":"Reservoir Hoodlums","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Police lieutenant Cornel Wilde (as Leonard Diamond) battles sadistic crime boss Richard Conte (as Mr. Brown) for not only the long arm of the law, but also the pretty hand of slim and shapely blonde Jean Wallace (as Susan Lowell). Mr. Conte's hard-of-hearing henchman Brian Donlevy (as Joe McClure), along with hoodlum pals Lee Van Cleef (as Fante) and Earl Holliman (as Mingo) are positively criminal; the latter pair seem to be clearly letting some gay subtext out of the closet. Those art imitating life filers should note Ms. Wallace, then Mrs. Cornell Wilde and formerly Mrs. Franchot Tone, had previously tried her character's suicide trick&#x85; There are great little roles, scattered throughout, like those played by doomed antique dealer John Hoyt (as Nils Dreyer) and sexy showgirl Helene Stanton (as Rita); she is the mother of the Dr. Drew Pinsky, who made a name for himself with sex talk to teenagers listening to KROQ (Rock of the Eighties!). And, Helen Walker (as Alicia) does very well. Director Joseph H. Lewis and photographer John Alton give The Big Combo a lot of style; arguably, it's more than the story deserves. This film is notable for upping sex and violence levels; some of Reservoir Dogs and Quentin Tarantino's dark roots are showing.******* The Big Combo (2/13/55) Joseph H. Lewis ~ Cornel Wilde, Richard Conte, Jean Wallace, Brian Donlevy "},{"Title":"hard-boiled crime melodrama","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A single-minded cop tracks both a notorious gangster and his target's reluctant mistress with the same ruthless determination in this little seen late Film Noir. It holds up surprisingly well after all these years, benefiting from some hard-edged characters (the villains are seriously bad; the hero is far less than perfect) and from some attractive (if appropriately bleak) high contrast black and white photography. The film is perhaps more violent and uncompromising (but no less entertaining) than the better known examples of its genre, offering evidence that in talented hands the conventions of an otherwise routine crime story can be made to appear fresh. "},{"Title":"Tough B-Movie","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A cop relentlessly pursues a mob boss, but lacks the evidence he needs to incriminate the fellow and arrest him. Conte, with his fast delivery, is terrific as the evil crime kingpin. Wilde is the hero who not only hates Conte but also has the hots for the latter's girlfriend, played by Wallace (Wilde's real life wife). Donlevy is Conte's disloyal deputy while Holliman and Van Cleef play Conte's henchmen with daring homosexual overtones, given the period in which the movie was made. This is a rough-and-tough crime drama, well-paced and stylishly directed by Lewis, the B-movie master who had earlier made the great film noir, Gun Crazy. "},{"Title":"Mean, but captivating, mystery with a good cast and a creative crew.","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This film noir should earn a certain amount of points just for making something out of virtually nothing. In other words, with a shoestring budget, the director and cinematographer were able to craft an atmospheric and creatively administered film with many striking visuals and touches. Wilde plays a police detective who is trying everything he can think of to bring down a fat cat mobster (Conte) who has assumed control of a major crime ring and who somehow always manages to weasel out of all of his misdeeds. Egging Wilde on to further effort is the fact that he has an affection for Conte's girl, the blonde and desolate Wallace, who wants out of the relationship, but feels that there's no other path open to her, aside from death. Wilde tries to pin various crimes on Conte while Conte stays one step ahead, often with the aid of his two hired guns Van Cleef and Holliman. Like many other big shots before and after him, Conte's world begins to unravel and a lot of people wind up paying the price. Wilde, who also produced this film (as he would virtually all of his after this) does a decent enough job acting-wise, though his role is far less colorful than Conte's. The part doesn't call for a great deal of dimension and he doesn't deliver a great deal of it. Conte, on the other hand, has a nice part with lots of nasty bits of dialogue and action. He stepped into it at the 11th hour after Jack Palance left and was able to assume the role easily. His reed thin and high-pitched voice is unusual for a heavy, but it just adds that much more texture to the part. His lines are spit out rapidly and he seems to be enjoying himself as he dominates the rest of the people on screen. Wallace is almost dream-like at times, with her platinum hair glistening and her moist eyes always threatening to close out of despair and depression. She's an unusual presence, but a generally captivating one for the most part. Donlevy has a good role as Conte's second-in-command, a bitter, somewhat dense tough guy who needs a hearing aid. His final scene is one of the most memorable in the picture. Stanton, as a girlfriend of Wilde's, shows more promise than her subsequent career bore out. Bit parts are filled by interesting and talented actors such as de Corsia and Hoyt. Two of the most talked about performances in the film belong to Van Cleef and Holliman. Though it's never flat-out indicated (nor could it be in 1955), their association can easily be read as more than platonic. They work and live together, share a bedroom, bicker like a married couple and yet clearly care about one another. At one point, Holliman, who has been holed up with Van Cleef for a few days, even says, I can't swallow any more salami!! It's a foggy, shadowy treat that suffers at times from banalities in the script (Will it hold up in court? and Can we make it stick? seem to turn up very often!) and occasional ripe performances such as Walker as a feigning mental patient, but more often is a tough, trim, biting little movie. Fans of composer Raksin will want to see this and hear his brassy jazz score. "},{"Title":"Great 1955 Film","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Always enjoy every film that Richard Conte stars in mainly because I was born in Jersey City, N.J. and my father use to have his hair cut by Richard Conte's father who was a barber. In this picture Conte plays the role of a mobster named Mr. Brown and is ruthless and cruel and will pull a trigger at the drop of a hat. Lt. Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde) plays the role as a police officer who is trying to convict Mr. Brown on some criminal charges that will stick, because Mr. Brown controls everyone in the City Government and has many hoods working for him. Brian Donlevy, (Joe McClure) is Mr. Brown'a sidekick and plays the role as an old time gangster from years past. Lt. Diamond has a crush on a very sexy blonde girl named Susan Lowell,(Jean Wallace) who happens to be Mr. Brown's girlfriend for four years, Susan has no idea that Lt. Diamond has the hots for her until later in the film. I was surprised to find out that Cornel Wilde was married in real life to this girl he had a crush on, Jean Wallace. "},{"Title":"narrative tautness in classical Hollywood","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A detective obsessed with catching a criminal, to the point where the two mirror each other . . . not Heat (Michael Mann, 1995) but a film of 40 years earlier, The Big Combo (Joseph H Lewis, 1955). What an array of talent! Not just director Lewis, but screenwriter Philip Yordan, composer David Raksin, and director of photography, John Alton. Low budget, high art. Ars longa, vita brevis.Consider the opening 10 shots, following the credits 1. Night, cops directing crowds across a road. 2. Dissolve to LS of boxing match. 3. Back of the stadium, lit with light and shadow, very high walls a woman comes towards us running, chased by two men. 4. Shaft of light the woman enters it running, then exits. 5. Repeat of shot 3, the set a little altered the woman chased again, as if in a labyrinth. 6. Swing doors in dark and light the woman runs through them. 7. LS of woman other side of the doors, two men still chasing. Our eye is drawn to a coffee counter at the right with a single customer. 8. The two men catch and hold the woman, then let her go. 9. Frontal MS of woman walking into the light, slight pullback of camera while a muted trumpet plays the main musical motif softly; the two men enter the frame, and one leaves. 10. MS of woman with hoodlum (Lee Van Cleef, for it is he is) in full light throwing shadows on wall, followed by camera doing a swift pan right to the coffee counter from shot 7, where it holds the shot, then as the customer finishes his coffee he walks diagonally into CU. 11. Dissolve to . . . etc.The first thing to applaud is the way the film states that the woman is running from the boxing match she's not shown at the ring, just at the back of the stadium, in flight. The juxtaposition of the ring and of the woman running is all that is needed for us to connect the two, while at the same time conveying the notion that she is running from everything, not just a boxing match. Top economy of narrative.The second reason is John Alton's direct quote of Edward Hopper, the painter of human solitude, who liked to frame his individuals in the window so that we see them through a glass screen, rather like a film director in fact. Nor is this redundant pictorialism since the pan to the coffee counter and the man then moving forward links the two elements of the story we've seen the hoodlums; now the film introduces a detective.The third reason is the immediate sense of claustrophobia that the sequence generates, a case of 'Start as you mean to go on' the protagonists move in spaces determined by the lighting and the shadows and silhouettes they create. A triumph of black-and-white chiaroscuro.A triumph too for classical Hollywood as opposed to the mannerist Hollywood of Heat. That was made with a massive budget, bigger stars, bigger set pieces when with The Big Combo Joseph H Lewis (and the producer Sydney Harmon) show how it can be done so much more simply without losing quality. What is more the psychology of the cop-criminal relationship in Lewis's film is far less glamorous, more gritty and more cruel than in Heat. Heat managers to give a sheen to its posturing, show-off psychopaths; in its underplayed but disturbing torture scenes, The Big Combo paints a darker interior picture to match Alton's exteriors, oppressive in their combination of darkness and blinding light.171 minutes of Heat? Well, probably. 84 minutes of The Big Combo? Yes, definitely.www.timcawkwell.co.uk "},{"Title":"Hey, it's a moody Joseph Lewis crime noir--watch it (and love it) for sure","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Big Combo (1955)Beautifully filmed, relatively routine but excellent crime film, a film noir around the edges, but familiar, too, and without the pathos of the best noirs. Still, Cornel Wilde as the struggling cop and Richard Conte as the very bad Mr. Brown are wonderful (Conte creates this fast speaking style that is effective, if a little hard to follow at times). And Brian Donlevy is predictably wonderful as the third male lead. The women? Susan Lowell gets higher billing and is strong enough as the woman with a mind of her own and yet vulnerable, too. But better, for my money, is Helen Walker as the mysterious girlfriend. Her role is limited, in a way, but the script, but she works with it well.The story has its twists and will keep you going, with a sensational near-ending and then, with too much Casablanca in it for my taste, a final scene at a foggy airport hangar. The two most chilling moments come when Donlevy's character takes out his hearing aid--once at the beginning for a kind of Mickey Spillane cruelty, and once at the end in a brilliant use of sound, or lack of sound. It makes a good film great for a few moments.I love any noir I see. I just like the style, the types, the falseness, the shock, the time period. And so The Big Combo is totally fun. But in the pantheon on noir films, it's not in the top tier. Totally worth seeing, though, with a few utterly brilliant flashes from the truly talented director, Joseph Lewis (who did the much better, practically legendary film, Gun Crazy). "},{"Title":"John Alton's cinematography is a classic noir example of what can be done with limited means","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" When the two most interesting scenes involve a hearing aid pulled from Brian Donlevy's ear, I think a good assumption would be that The Big Combo lacks a little something. The plot is simplicity itself. An obsessive cop is determined to bring down a crime boss, come what may. As the cop collects witnesses, the crime boss' two goons turn them into corpses. Eventually, the cop prevails...and maybe even makes a friend of the crime boss' innocent, blond and zaftig girlfriend. In fact, however, I think the Big Combo lacks two big somethings. First, the movie has a giant, dull center because the two leads, Cornel Wilde and Jean Wallace, are two of the most limited actors Hollywood ever gave star roles to. While Wilde might generously be called a limited actor, Wallace, with her little girl voice and intonations, simply isn't an actor at all. For my money, almost all the actors lack any inherent interest. The implied relationship between the two killers, amusingly played by Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holiman, might have been an inside joke in the Fifties, but it now seems simply an excuse for excessive analysis on Turner Classic Movies. Donlevy, in fact, saddened me. It was disconcerting to see this actor, who had earned major stature in Hollywood in his prime, reduced to playing a broken-down, aging, useless crime boss in a movie of this quickie, low- budget quality. Second, the dialogue is as flat and stale as yesterday's fried egg. It doesn't power the plot. It doesn't make us sit up because of cleverness or pungency. It's as lifeless as the delivery most of the actors give it, especially Wilde and Wallace. Richard Conte never quite made the A list in Hollywood, but he was always a dynamic and forceful actor, and a good one, too. He's the most animated of any of the actors. His role as the ruthless and smooth Mr. Big, always referred to and addressed as Mr. Brown, gives him more latitude to be interesting than the other players. Yet the silly device of having everyone refer to him only as Mr. Brown brings Conte perilously close to being nothing more than a screenwriter's idea of iconic menace. What's to like about the movie? Well, the plot is hardly original, yet the idea of a Mr. Big eventually brought down by an obsessed cop while people fall by the wayside is usually satisfying. Most impressively, John Alton, the cinematographer, pulled out all the tricks in his bag to give The Big Combo a great noir look. From dramatic spotlights pinning the bad guy against a wall to the flashes of silent machine guns, from Lee Van Cleef's face looking stark and scary to the opening shots of a woman pursued by two killers through dark shadows and blinding lights, The Big Combo is a pleasure to look at. But if all you can say about a noir is that the lighting was great, that might be faint praise. "},{"Title":"Under-rated Then, Over-rated Now","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The film was not well-received in 1955, rather like its noir companion of the same year, Kiss Me Deadly. Critics downgraded each for its brutal violence and frank sexuality. However, loosened standards have since allowed a re-evaluation, with the latter now being hailed as a classic of the genre, at the same time, the cult status of Combo's director Joseph Lewis, has helped lift the reputation of this work. Still and all, if Combo was under-rated upon release, I think there's good reason for believing it's now over-rated.First and foremost is Cornel Wilde as Detective Diamond. He simply lacks the on-screen gravitas to make his role compelling enough to compete with heavy-weight nemesis Richard Conte as the ethnically-cleansed Mr. Brown. Conte is convincing; unfortunately, Wilde is not. Thus their pivotal vendetta lacks the force and clash that the film needs. Also, Jean Wallace (Wilde's real life wife) may look the silken mistress part, but when she opens her mouth, only a whiney sound comes out. Male actors have been criticized for voice quality-- so why not the dis-staff side. Couple that with a limited range of expression, and we've got a pair of very pretty department store manikins in the leads. My guess is that the producers got the couple at a discount, always a big factor for independent productions like this. But whatever the reason, impact is undercut by principal casting.The script may be adventurous, but the plot is a muddle. Maybe you can follow the complications, I couldn't-- nor after a certain point did I want to try. Phillip Yordan may have been a top Hollywood scripter; however his attention here went into the kinky aspects and not the logic. He's simply inserted too many elements into the plot without blending them effectively. The result is a confusing sprawl that tries to do too much with a large cast of characters, and not even director Lewis's cult status cuts through the thickets. Then too, John Alton's celebrated noir photography is piled on in heavy-handed fashion. Just count the number of scenes in half-light, mist, fog, or heavy fog. Perhaps an existential statement is being made about people in moral situations. Nonetheless, without some natural contrast, expressionist lighting loses force and becomes tediously ineffectual, as happens here.None of this is meant to imply that the movie is without interest. But that interest is now mainly for movie historians. Combo represents a stage in the evolution of what could be shown or even implied on the big screen. As TV began eating away at Hollywood's traditional audience, the movies countered with fare more adult than married couples in twin beds. Thus Combo dares to imply a gay relationship between Van Cleef and Holliman, and a deeply erotic one between Conte and Wallace. Even Wilde's status as a cop has a dark side in his compromising links with stripper Stanley and underworld mistress Wallace. But what was daring then has largely become cliché now. Thus the film has lost much of its original novelty, which is not to say that it's lost entertainment value. Any film featuring that great actor Richard Conte has to command audience attention.All in all, Combo remains an interesting slice of noir, but its revived reputation rests largely on a suggestive script and cult director Lewis, and not on its merits as even a pale slice of cinematic art. "},{"Title":"Solid cast helps bolster this minor film noir...","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A minor film nor from Allied Artists, this one has CORNEL WILDE out to rid the city of ruthless crime boss RICHARD CONTE, who puts some realistic toughness into a stock criminal role. Not so fortunate is JEAN WALLACE (married to Wilde at the time) who doesn't offer more than a pretty face and figure in what can only be called a poor performance as Conte's femme fatale girlfriend.BRIAN DONLEVY is not quite up to Conte's standard as a tough guy, but let's face it, his role is a lot less interesting as Conte's henchman who eventually tries to double-cross him. LEE VAN CLEEF and EARL HOLLIMAN play gangsters who work for Conte, sharing an apartment and some shifty glances which are supposed to make us believe they're not just roommates or partners in crime.It's a passable film noir, not exactly up to some of the gangster dramas that came out in the '40s with guys like Bogart, Mitchum and even Mark Stevens. It's on the second tier of such crime stories, partly because Conte offers the only really riveting performance and the gals in the cast are below par as performers.TED DeCORSIA does a nice job as man on the lam from Conte and his henchmen and JOHN HOYT does a dandy job as an antique store owner who knows too much.As for CORNEL WILDE, he's much better in swashbuckling roles than he is as a tough detective. Then again, with a better script and director, he may have been more appropriate for his detective role.Summing up Good, tough crime drama but not among the best film noirs. "}{"Title":"This Little Baby's Got Everything!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" It has Helen Walker in a juicy small but pivotal role. She's both tough and poignant. How she had changed from the chic, duplicitous head-shrinker in Nightmare Alley! (To me, she is the most successful part of that well intentioned but highly flawed movie.)It has a pedigree Joseph H. Lewis was surely one of the finest directors of film noir. And Philip Yordan, the screenwriter! He was behind many a great, dark movie.Richard Conte, as a sneering mob boss, gives one of his best performances -- and that's saying a lot. He was almost always good, even when oddly cast, as in Whirlpool. And I am partial to his performance in that noir tone poem Thieves Highway. The hero, Cornell Wilde, also good. Jean Wallace is a trifle wooden as the love interest (for both these guys.) But she is beautiful and isn't at all bad.Helene Stanton is touching as the burlesque cutie who puts on her shoes from Saks to do a good deed.And of course, we have the hit men who are gay lovers. Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman are superb in these relatively small but crucial and daringly written roles.Whether having male lovers as hit men was a good thing is questionable. Talk about marginalized! But better for the image of gay men than the traditional hairdresser, floorwalker, florist, or hotel clerk. And they are right there, for all to see, at a time when homosexuality was illegal and considered a psychiatric disorder. Neither the script nor the other characters condescend to them in any manner.John Alton's cinematography is gorgeous.Everything about it works. The plot is tight, the acting good. It is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Wow....","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Slept-on film noir; noir themes obsessed police officer, living by ideals in a cold modern world; the Devil, Lucifer--the man who consumes all, the villain, First is first, and second is nobody. CF Chinatown villain.  Contains an immortal torture scene in which a prostate man has a pair of inner-ear headphones attached to him.  The villain turns the radio on to a jazz channel, upon hearing which a henchmen remarks here comes a crazy drum break--do you like crazy drums?  The crazy drums come on, torturing the protagonist.  Then, he has liqour poured down his throat, and he's let out at a police officer's apartment without a scratch on him. "},{"Title":"A minor masterpiece","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Big Combo is another small (and somehow forgotten) classic from Joseph H. Lewis. The director of Gun Crazy (1949) created an amazing array of mobsters (including the somehow sadistic gay couple personified by Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman, Fante and Mingo) which carried our sympathy better than the nominal hero, the gray Diamond (an stoic Cornel Wilde, he of No Blade of Grass and The Naked Prey). The centerpiece of this amazing feature is the villain played with a sinister grin with the always great Richard Conte, Mr. Brown, who despises violence and guns. The film, with its beautiful chiaroscuro, was photographed by John Alton, the great cinematographer who single handedly created the notion of film noir (and who, by chance, became a professional in Argentina 20 years before this movie). The script was written by Philip Yordan, a writer who &#150; allegedly &#150; was a front for blacklisted script writers in late 40's and early 50's. Anyway, with a lot of great visual ideas and a gripping and brutal narrative, The Big Combo is an undiscovered gem, a original and unique feature the revisit once in a while. And by the way, it is one of the early films to suggest cunnilingus in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Film noir fans will enjoy this gritty showdown","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Michael Neumann offers a very concise summary (hard-boiled crime melodrama, Michael Neumann from United States, 7 November 2010) that is all a person needs before deciding to see it. In addition, ChristophCinema discusses the villain/protagonist relationship and says this is why the Big Combo works (Should not be overlooked, ChristophCinema from United States, 19 December 2012) .I also enjoyed Robert Temple's background on (erratic) Jean Wallace (Quite a combo, robert-temple-1 from United Kingdom, 13 September 2012). And, don't miss Terrell-4's praise of the exquisite cinematography (John Alton's cinematography is a classic noir example..., Terrell-4 from San Antonio, Texas, 2 February 2008).Even by contemporary standards, The Big Combo (1955, directed by Joseph H. Lewis), achieves a level of tension that makes it essential viewing for fans of the film noir canon. This is a B movie with rather minimalist direction, but is very interesting to look at because of the skillful lighting. (Lewis is content to set up an establishing shot and hold it at length. This requires the actors to directly face the audience at length, which they often do here. If it weren't for the excellent lighting, it is doubtful this visual approach would have succeeded.) Cornell Wilde plays the obsessed and hardboiled police Lieutenant Diamond who spends most of his waking hours trying to bring down a mob kingpin. (Yes, it is hard to imagine police this dedicated today.) Richard Conte is the sadistic, misogynist and slick-talking mobster Mr. Brown. Despite their nearly limitless mutual loathing, there are strong narrative parallels between the detective and the mobster. One could say they are alter-egos.Jean Wallace (Susan Lowell) is very good as Mr. Brown's depressed girl who is on the verge of a nervous breakdown her entire time on the screen. Mr. Brown's three henchmen are all very interesting. Brian Donlevy is washed-up, shoulda-been-boss Joe McClure who tries to take over the gang. Lee Van Cleef (Fante) and Earl Holliman (Mingo) are vicious but not terribly bright hit men. (Cultural warning There is a scene where both say lines that are such obvious references to homosexuality it is unintentionally funny today.) First is first, and second is nobody. Mr. Brown says this repeatedly. His axiom of power resonates in these dark times. If you're a fan of film noir, don't miss The Big Combo. "},{"Title":"A hackneyed detective fiction lifted from any movie execs pitches' book is elevated to near-greatness by crisp b&w photography, unconventional score and inspired direction","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Joseph H Lewis' seminal film noir probably didn't leap off the page when he first read Philip Yordan's screenplay straight-arrow cop Lt. Len Diamond is ordered to close his investigation of suspected underworld kingpin Mr Brown due to lack of evidence procured but when Brown's suicidal moll Susan Lowell washes up in the city hospital after taking an overdose of pills, he finds a new angle.From there, he trudges from apartment to jewellery store to sanatorium in search of incriminatory secrets about Brown's past, determined to put him behind bars. He eventually succeeds in this personal mission of his, his trigger finger unflinchingly still even when shot at by a desperate Brown in a claustrophobic small aircraft hangar, to witness Brown's undignified cuffing at the hands of the law before walking out with Susan into the foggy night. The 'big combo' (Latin American for gavel) of the title truly strikes down upon the criminal underworld in the end, without using it's methods. This final image of the two figures sharply silhouetted against the misty background is considered to be one of the most iconic images in noir. Cinematographer John Alton demonstrates the chiaroscuro throughout, notably in the opening moments where Susan flees her homosexual captors Fante and Mingo in a boxing arena, before finally giving up beside a snack vendor where Diamond's partner Sam waits in the bright glow, a symbol of hope, and overall of the film's black-and-white morality; the gulf between the tireless crusader for the public good Diamond and the unscrupulous agent of destruction Brown. However, the score couldn't be less conventional. David Raskin swaps strings for brass, jarring the sensibilities of aficionados and distracting us from the decidedly unspectacular narrative. It also offers another clue to the meaning of the ambiguous title in that combo is an Anglo American term for a jazz band.Lewis also opts not to employ sound in several instances to great effect. The sequence wherein our man is subjected to torture by hearing aid borrowed from Brown's right-hand-man Joe McClure (which he acquired, it is suggested, from a prior power struggle with the big man). Cornel Wilde relays the unheard anguish piercingly before having a whole bottle of rubbing alcohol poured down his throat. Later, when an unfazed Mr B removes the hearing aid of his top henchman after a failed putsch of the combo (as in combination, the meaning the movie offers most explicitly), the sound is muted and the line of diegesis is abruptly crossed when the score ceases so we can only see the silent muzzle flashes of Fante & Mingo's guns before fading out with the dead man.Perhaps this was to cut costs or appease the censors of the time. On the one hand, the former theory is congruent with the small cast, low-key setpieces, short runtime and multiple uses of stock footage in the film. Whereas the latter theory would be consistent with numerous examples of insinuation or innuendo (too numerous to mention) which, when applied to the picture, would seem intended to arouse or captivate it's contemporaneous adult audiences. Both make sense, and they are elements sorely missed from mature cinema of the pre-Hays code era, when a grimace or raised eyebrow could mean anything. "},{"Title":"review for The Big Combo","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Big Combo was nothing extraordinary, the run of the mill Film Nior/ Gangster flick with dark lighting (this film actually played with lighting which made it enjoyable and is one of its stronger points), harsh noises, and quick movement. It was no surprise to me that this film lacked depth or interest in the story as it followed a predictable format. There were a few interesting parts throughout the film, but it was the acting that kept my attention. Cornel Wilde and Jean Wallace do not break character once despite their many roles as they try to please the others and deal with the conflicting relationship they share. These two may have been impressive, but it was Richard Conte who rose above and beyond portraying his character with perfection, convincing the audience he was a true mobster. Although I got a little lost throughout the film the thrilling sexual and actions scenes kept me tuned in. The ending especially grabbed my attention with the combination of lighting, film work, and excitement. However I would not particularly recommend this film to anyone unless the film would fulfill some type of requirement or guideline they were searching for. "},{"Title":"It was an okay film","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I thought that 'The Big Combo' was just an okay film, I had a hard time staying focused (it really didn't grab or keep my attention), you didn't really grow to like an of the characters, especially the main character Lt. Diamond, which in my opinion was the most important character to like. It was a little hard to follow in the beginning, I couldn't tell if they were doing a flash back or if they were just doing a meanwhile on the other side of town kind of intro. I understand that in 'film noir' it's supposed to be really dark and shadowy, but this was really hard to see and focus on sometimes (however, the quality could have just been affected by the network in which I watched it from). I thought the story was a good idea, I just felt that it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Quite a combo","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a strong film noir directed by Joseph Lewis which packs a good punch. An intriguing and beautiful masochistic heroine, girlfriend to a vicious gangster played by Richard Conte, is played by Jean Wallace. At the time she was married to Cornel Wilde, who plays the idealistic cop who is trying to arrest Conte. Wallace really was 'something' on screen, but in private she was unfortunately 'something else'. Her tempestuous private life, drinking, suicide attempts, and apparent general instability meant that she never achieved what she might have done if she had been more stable. The acting is strong in this film, also from Brian Donlevy as an older gangster who has been sidelined, and from a cast of familiar supporting payers such as Earl Holliman, Lee van Cleef, and John Hoyt. Conte plays one of those gangster supremos who doesn't care whom he kills, but his fingerprints are never on anything. Will they, can they, get him? Wilde tries and tries and tries, and it is a most frustrating business trying to pin something on such an elusive crime boss as Conte. Conte's controlled, sneering, sinister menace is most effective. It is really he and Wallace who make the 'screen combo', though the combo of the title refers to a crime syndicate. "},{"Title":"First Is First And Second Is Nobody","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Leonard Diamond is a world-weary cop with a big chip on his shoulder about Mr Brown, the city syndicate boss. Determined to bring in this overblown hoodlum, Diamond seems oblivious to his self-destructive behaviour and the risks to those around him.What's perhaps most striking about this low-budget fifties film noir minor classic is how unremittingly bleak it is. Its hero is a loser of a cop who can't really unearth any evidence and who hangs out with strippers, its villain is a chilling psychopath who takes pleasure in beating and belittling everyone around him, it's populated almost entirely with seedy and cynical characters, and pretty much everyone winds up either dead or irrevocably tarnished. It was made at a time when Blackboard Jungle seemed daring, yet it plays much more like Goodfellas, or the films of Abel Ferrara. It has a few limitations - some of the acting is a bit stiff and the production design is pretty threadbare - but it's flashy stuff with plenty of sourball dialogue and shocking moments. The cast are an interesting bunch of misfits; Wilde was a big star in his day and his company (Theodora) funded the film, Conte (who made several great noir pictures) steals the movie as the Nietzschean head hoodlum, blondie Wallace was Wilde's real-life wife, Donlevy was another gangster pro as well as being the first Professor Quatermass, Stanton really perks up the picture as Diamond's sultry girl Rita, and Van Cleef and Holliman as killers Fante and Mingo are probably more famous than anyone, from movies like Escape From New York and Forbidden Planet. Shot by the extremely talented John Alton (Elmer Gantry), this film doesn't quite make it into the top pantheon of crime classics for me; it comes too late for the classic early-forties period, and it's not quite as stylish or dramatic as the best films of the late fifties (such as Edge Of The City or Ascenseur Pour L'Échafaud). It is a terrific thriller though, and a great timepiece of independent American cinema. "},{"Title":"Brutality, Guilt & Mixed Motives","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This tough crime drama deals with themes of obsession, guilt, brutality and sadism in ways which are sometimes lurid but always compelling. Its three main characters, with their personal preoccupations and propensities comprise a fascinating axis around which the story is told and with its crisp dialogue, fine performances and exceptional cinematography, The Big Combo is an extremely good movie.Police Lieutenant Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde) is obsessed with trying to bring organised crime boss Mr Brown (Richard Conte) to justice and gets criticised by his superior officer for spending an inordinate amount of taxpayers money on an exercise which, so far, has produced no positive results. Diamond is also obsessed with Brown's mistress Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace) who he's had tailed for the last six months, but also to no avail.When Susan makes a failed suicide attempt and Diamond discovers that the cause of her torment is someone called Alicia (Helen Walker), this leads his investigations in a new direction. He eventually discovers that Alicia was Brown's wife who became desperately unhappy as a result of his activities and sadly descended into alcoholism.Diamond is in a relationship with a burlesque dancer called Rita (Helene Stanton) and one night immediately after leaving her, he gets attacked and abducted by Brown's henchmen Mingo (Earl Holliman) and Fante (Lee Van Cleef) who take him to a cellar where he gets roughed up by Brown's right hand man, Joe McClure (Brian Donlevy) and tortured by Brown himself.Rita warns Diamond that she's heard that he's in extreme danger as a contract has been put out on him but one night while she's in his apartment waiting for him, Mingo and Fante, believing that Diamond is at home, fire a succession of shots into a darkened room and mistakenly kill her.Alicia, who had disappeared some years earlier, is eventually located at a sanitarium and it emerges that Brown had arranged for her to be committed there soon after his predecessor as head of the combination had decided to emigrate to Sicily. Alicia is initially unwilling to testify against Brown but is later persuaded to after being shown a photograph of Rita's dead body from which eleven bullets had to be removed. This is a turning point in the investigation and subsequent developments gradually lead to a final dramatic showdown between Diamond and Brown at a private airport.Mr Brown is an incredibly smug and self confident villain who readily lectures others (McClure, Diamond and a boxer named Bennie) on the reasons why he's a winner and they're all inferior to him. He's also convinced that he's able to attract the most desirable women because women know the difference, they've got an instinct, first is first and second is nobody. Richard Conte captures Brown's mixture of sophistication, brutality and conceit perfectly and in so doing provides this movie's best performance.Jean Wallace as Susan displays all the shame, guilt and vulnerability of a refined woman who fell in love with a man who she later came to despise. Her feelings of humiliation deepen as she finds that she's lost her self respect in the process and can't break away from his control. The sexual dimension to this situation is portrayed graphically in one intimate scene with Brown and is also reinforced when Rita remarks that a woman doesn't care how a man makes his living, only how he makes love.Diamond also suffers a great deal of anguish because he's incredibly driven in his determination to bring down Brown but also feels that unjustly, everything is stacked against him, as even his superiors cannot provide the unequivocal support that he thinks his crusade merits. His motivations are also mixed and not entirely honourable, as he's clearly jealous of Brown's wealth, power and ability to attract the woman with whom he's in love. Cornel Wilde is suitably intense in his role and also effectively displays the terrible guilt he feels about the circumstances of Rita's death.Visually, this movie is top class throughout, predominantly because of John Alton's wonderful cinematography but also because of the memorable nature of scenes such as the ones in which Rita and McClure are shot. After Rita, who is totally engulfed in darkness is shot, all that subsequently can be seen is her hand as it drops down lifeless from the sofa whilst the light from a neon sign (appropriately bearing the word burlesque) flashes across the room. Just before McClure is shot, his hearing aid is removed and after a brief moment of complete silence the flashes of the inaudible guns which are pointed at him are seen.The consistent use of low key lighting with its stark contrasts fits the mood of the piece perfectly and also contributes powerfully to the haunting nature of the final scene in which the audience sees the silhouettes of two figures as they advance into the fog of their uncertain futures. "}{"Title":"Original, weird thriller","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" THE BIG COMBO is an impressionist movie, technically quite primitive, yet efficient ,that is taking what it needs and setting itself up for the right thing; in its minimal, unpretentious, virile style, it's all atmosphere. It's structured as a drama&#151;i.e., a melodrama, a cop melodrama; on the other hand, it is brutal and gritty and naturalistic like the '70s flicks. The actors make a good impression&#151;Diamond, Brown, Dreyer, the scared Italian witness, One thing is obvious&#151;TBC is very unusual, it's not a standard product, but more like the naturalistic cop dramas of the '70s. It could have been a movie for a Hackman or a Newman. The movie is tough, rich, impressive and well&#151;done. It contains a compactness of life, and it resembles a police procedural&#151;it's violent and brutal, with tough scenes. We have Van Cleef in a small role&#151;as a relatively slick hoodlum. The irritating jazz score has an intriguing role&#151;it's taken to depict the dissolute nature of the relations, the hoodlums much spoken about in the movie. Interesting movie. "},{"Title":"More 'Dragnet' than 'Out of the Past'","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" It's instructive to compare 'The Big Combo' with another detective film, 'Mystery Street', filmed earlier in 1950. Both films were shot by the great cinematographer, John Alton. Where 'Mystery Street' features a cool-headed detective finely played by a young Ricardo Montalban, 'The Big Combo's investigating officer is the hot-headed Lieutenant Leonard Diamond (with a stiff Cornel Wilde miscast in the role). Montalban's detective solves a difficult crime with finesse, always doggedly pursuing one clue after another until he arrives at a solution. In contrast, Wilde's Diamond is clueless from the beginning; he has nothing on Mr. Brown in terms of solid evidence and appears utterly impotent each time he has a face-to-face confrontation with the elusive psychopath.At the beginning, we find out that Diamond has exceeded the police department's budget for investigating a case with no leads. In terms of today's money, the $18,000 would probably be equal to $180,000 and at the very least Diamond would have been taken off the case for mismanagement of police funds.Like Mystery Street which featured ahead of its time CSI techniques, 'The Big Combo' tries to prove it too is relevant. The first 'gadget' is a tape recorder which Diamond uses to record his statement to the Commissioner about the funds used in the Brown investigation. That goes nowhere so we're then supposed to be impressed by Diamond's use of a lie detector after Brown agrees to be questioned. Brown's responses to Diamond's questions are hilarious (Question Women? Brown Expensive!). But more notable is the stupidity of Diamond's investigation techniques. The only clue he has to go on is 'Alicia'--the name Brown's girlfriend blurts out at the hospital after a suicide try. Is Diamond so stupid to believe that Brown is going to tell him who Alicia is and implicate himself in a murder? What's more Diamond is thoroughly unprofessional when he tells Brown at the hospital that he would like to 'cut him open' as if he were conducting an operation and is afraid to find out what's inside. Even in the 50s, a loose cannon like Diamond would have been reigned in by his superiors.During the lie detector test, Brown associates 'Spaghetti' with 'Betinni'. One wonders how the always-in-control Brown could make such a gaffe as it's an important clue that eventually leads to the crime boss's undoing. Betinni, an associate of Brown's former boss, disappeared after a warrant was issued for his arrest. Diamond has no idea where Betinni is, but lo and behold, after being 'tortured' by Brown and his minions and dropped off at his boss's doorstep, Captain Peterson, it turns out that Peterson knew all along where Betinni was hiding. As for the torture (some internet posters have laughably likened it to a scene from Tarrantino's 'Reservoir Dogs), it consists of Brown's use of his underling's hearing aid and a bottle of hair tonic (with 40% alcohol) which he manages to force down Diamond's throat.Still with no clues, Diamond brings in the 96 suspects in Brown's organization for questioning (funny how Brown's 'organization' really seems to consist only of Joe McClure, the gangster wannabe now demoted to gopher, and two gay thugs, Fante and Mingo (more about that in a minute). Captain Peterson quite rightly blurts out, Diamond, what am I going to do with you? The rest of the Big Combo plot emphasizes Diamond's utter inability to pin anything on Brown. Betinni's tip leads Diamond to antique dealer Nils Dreyer who used to be the captain of the yacht in which Brown and Alicia sailed on. Dreyer is murdered before he can spill any beans but leaves a photo in a bank deposit box, a more recent picture of Alicia. This time the CSI unit gets it right and is able to blow up the Alicia photo, proving that she's living in a sanitarium, only a few hours away. Alicia is about to remember who Brown murdered on the yacht but goes back to the looney bin after Brown shows up and says hello to her. Meanwhile, McClure tries to double cross Brown but Fante and Mingo turn on him and Brown blows him away (one can't forget the scene in which Brown takes out McClure's hearing aid and tells him that at least he won't hear the bullets.) Finally, Brown double crosses Fante and Mingo by bringing them what looks like a box of money but is actually a stick of dynamite. Mingo is devastated when Fante is killed and agrees to testify against Brown, not for Diamond but for his beloved gay lover (the Big Combo does win points for suggesting that Fante and Mingo are gay which is unusual for a movie from the 1950s). Diamond finally tracks Brown down at an airport (where we never see a single plane) and places him under arrest (amazing how Diamond dodges all those bullets Brown fires at him!).The Big Combo does have a few good things going for it. In addition to the sensational noirish cinematography, there is an undercurrent of dark sexuality running throughout the film's narrative. In addition to Mingo and Fante's 'different' relationship, Diamond becomes involved with a sexy show girl who ends up murdered on Brown's orders. Brown's girlfriend, Susan Lowell, a former classical pianist, also can't seem to shake off her physical attraction to her gangster boyfriend (despite the fact there is not one scene where the two show any good feelings toward one another).On the other hand, in addition to the overly moralistic and implausible Lieutenant Diamond, the Big Combo is full of histrionic performances (I love how Brown weakly slaps the prizefighter and McClure flinches as if Brown had slugged the guy, at the film's beginning).The Big Combo marks the end of the film noir anti-hero. Lieutenant Diamond is more the prototype for Sgt. Jack Friday of TV's Dragnet than Robert Mitchum's femme fatale victim in 'Out of the Past'. "},{"Title":"of interest to noir fans","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is similar to Where the Sidewalk Ends. Dana Andrews somewhat resembles Cornel Wilde. Again, a good cop wants to bust a mob ruler no matter what it takes. My least favorite performance here is the villain Mr. Brown (Richard Conte). His catchphrase is annoying and he's like something out of an episode of Batman. Does a villain have to irritate to be effective? What's the difference between when an actor is annoying and his character is? The most unusual part of this is the two henchmen Panty and Rizzo, who are as gay as the code will allow in in 1955. They sleep only a few feet apart. They dream together, and they die together, reaching for each other. It's handled well and they're a memorable team.Movies are perpetually on the cusp of change, but sometimes you can actually see it. The acting styles here are a mismatch. As irritating as Conte is, he's a new kind of villain in 1955. But the two girlfriends represent very different acting eras. The gal playing Alicia is an old school scenery-devouring ham, but Susan is much more naturalistic. The cinematography has a very high dynamic range (a bit like The Killers) and the blacks are pitch black. Very noir indeed. "},{"Title":"Keeps your attention, but is pretty run-of-the-mill","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I don't know about you but a black and white Noir movie on late at night is far more interesting to me than the usual reruns of comedy shows that make up late night TV around here. There's just something about B&W that keeps you hooked. Keeps me hooked, at least.The movie follows the attempts of LAPD Lt. Leonard Diamond, a hard-edged detective who has dedicated much of his career to catching elusive crime boss Mr. Brown. When he gets too close Brown's henchmen (including a young Lee Van Cleef...with hair) rough him up and start cutting down witnesses.It's all studio shot, giving a slightly uneasy sense of claustrophobia. There are some outdoor shots but it's all stock footage. The sets are all dark and shadowy, especially the hideout in the basement of Mr. Brown's hotel. His henchmen's eyes glinting in the darkness makes for a particularly nice shot.What lets the film down however is that the story is all talk with very little of it actually developing on-screen. Worth a watch though.No idea what the title means. "},{"Title":"Rather routine late noir.","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Maybe some of us have been spoiled by more modern ethnographies of hoodlumism. Goodfellas, for instance, showed us just how it worked on the streets. The Big Combo, solidly noir though it is, deals with the big boys at the top, like many others of the genre, including The Big Heat. Richard Conte plays Mister Brown, the head honcho. We don't even know what he does for a living. We just know that he is ruthless, has lots of dough, drips with pheromones so that women fall all over him, and causes several murders to be committed in the course of the story.His nemesis, an officer on the police force, is Cornel Wilde, who tracks Conte down and constantly tries to pin on him criminal acts for which he is, or is likely to be, responsible. But as Wilde's superior officer, Robert Middleton, keeps telling him, There isn't enough proof. And Middleton is right. There isn't enough evidence unless Wilde can turn one of Conte's gang against him, or his wife (Helen Walker), or his girl friend (Jean Wallace).Conte has two goons working for him, Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman, who I think would better have been called Mister Pink and Mister Lavender rather than Fante and Mingo. That most perceptive of moral arbiters, Pat Robertson, who could find homosexuality in a Teletubby character would have no trouble with THESE two. I mean, they appear to sleep naked in twin beds, and when they're in trouble one lays his hand tenderly on the other's shoulder and says, When this is over, let's go away and never come back. Jean Wallace has this great mane of gorgeous, shimmering blond hair, a pretty but not stunning face, and little in the way of acting talent. She was, I think, Mrs. Cornel Wilde at the time, wasn't she? Helen Walker, playing a sane woman who is playing an insane woman, is past her prime and lost the dove-like beauty she had ten years earlier. Not to knock her for it, though, because it happens to all of us except me.Richard Conte is a version of his usual cocky gangsterish film self, played a little more animato than usual. He seems to revel in his own villainy and has no excuse for it either, having started with nothing and double-crossed his way to the top. None of this, I was an abused child junk. He's given the best lines too, as suits a vicious crime king at the top of his game, while the earnest, slightly dour Wilde is stuck with righteous indignation.The story really isn't very new, nor gripping except in the usual way. That is, we like to see good people not get killed and we like to see evildoers punished. What keeps this solidly in the rank of the traditional noirs are certain directorial nudges and, above all, the photography. If there was an outdoor daytime scene, I missed it. Well, okay, one or two, probably done by the second unit. And these shadows, which are all over the place, are not just gray but almost impenetrably dark. And they're ominous shadows too, shadows in which we might see a match flicker as someone lights a cigarette before emerging from the darkness bearing a Tommy gun. The visual composition is both esthetically satisfying and functional, as they were in The Spirit, Will Eisner's noir comic strip.But overall it's a kind of fagged out example of noir. Any style, no matter how fresh it may have been at or near the beginning, eventually exhausts itself, in artistic and organizational contexts alike. That's why so many American genres (eg., Rambo-like action movies, Westerns) are so seldom seen anymore. Time to revamp? "},{"Title":"The curious case of Mr. Brown","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" 1950s crime thriller 'The Big Combo' has some good points some nice acting in the minor roles (Lee van Cleef's performance among them), an interestingly sympathetic portrayal of some of the lesser villains, and a lively, entertaining pace. But it also has a ropey plot, poor acting from the three leading women (including the beautiful Jean Wallace) and its one leading man, Cornel Wilde, and a suave but unmenacing villain, the blandly-named Mr. Brown. There are also some moments where low production values produce moments that might be from a comic strip the private airport set identified by nothing (such as an aeroplane or runway) that reveals its function but simply by a sign reading Private Airport, for example; or the box of labelled dynamite. The ending is also weak, not because the idea (a shoot-out in the fog) is bad, but because it's impossible to believe, while watching it, that you're seeing anything other than one man alone in a studio pretending to be in a fight. It's still quite fun, but if they don't make movies like this any more, there is a reason for it. "},{"Title":"Good noir B-movie","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Police Lt. Diamond (Cornel Wilde) investigates criminal boss Mr. Brown (Richard Conte). Nothing works and Diamond is being pressured to drop the case. There's a mysterious Alicia. He goes after Brown's girlfriend Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace).This is dripping with the hard-boiled noir style. The cinematography is mostly great. The dialog and the acting are all very mannered and stylized. It's definitely a B-movie but it's a good B-movie. My biggest problem is the lack of presence from the main actors. They're all good character actors but I wouldn't say any of them are stars. Again this is only a B-movie. "},{"Title":"Should not be overlooked","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Big Combo is one of those film noirs that's built on clichés. By 1955, everything in the genre had been done, so what does The Big Combo have to offer that sets it apart from the other movies of its kind? It has the look of every other film noir, it has the pacing of every other film noir, it has the characters of every other film noir; so what makes this one so special? I would have to say the hero/villain relationship. Out of all the film noirs out there, this movie has the best rivalry between protagonist and antagonist I've ever seen. The film has all the genre clichés, but the outstanding performances by Cornel Wilde and Richard Conte really make this movie so much stronger. Lt. Diamond is a great character, and very complex. I love how he's a good cop, but at times he lets his emotions get the better of him. I like Diamond a lot, but it's Mr. Brown who steals the show (for me). He's just a perfect villain. It's one of those characters that you love and hate at the same time. I love how suave he is, I love how egotistical he is, I love evil he is and how much he loves it; he's just an amazing character. I really love villains that are extremely full of themselves. Watching these two play cat and mouse with each other is the highlight of the film. One's good, and one's evil; but they go above and beyond the average hero and villain. The Big Combo really surprised me. At first I thought it was going to be an average detective movie, but then it really picked up and through a lot of curveballs. It got much darker than I expected, and it ended up actually being unpredictable. And even though the film is built on clichés, it's still a great movie. Some of the shots are just amazing (especially the last one), and the side characters are great and memorable as well. This is a very underrated film, and I think it should be more well known. It may be cliché, but it sure is awesome. "},{"Title":"A Classic Film-Noir","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Big Combo is definitely in my opinion one of the best film-noirs ever. Sometimes I wonder how that some movies (Hitchcock's Notorious for example) are better rated on film-noir top lists than this one, because Combo deserves to bee at least in top 10. At first story looks cheesy and well known, but later it gets more and more interesting and really drags you into this movie. Although this movie had small budget it looks better and more elegant than some A-list motion pictures from that period of Hollywood cinema. The photography is simply fantastic. Director of photography John Alton did a really great job. The dance of light and shadows is simply amazing. One more thing that's not in common with The Big Combo and other noirs is that The Big Combo contains slightly more violence and black humor. Example of that is scene where Mr. Brown with Fante and Mingo kills Joe McClure. At the end I would recommend this classic to everyone who simply want to see a great drama or to those who are into film-noir. "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" If you love film noir movies, then do yourself a favor and see The Big Combo. Why? Well, because the film has a lot of what noir fans love--brutal action, snappy dialog, great cinematography with wonderful shadows and a grittiness that epitomizes the genre. And, like all good noir, the film has no pretty boys--just solid acting and realism.The film begins with a frustrated Lieutenant (Cornel Wilde) lamenting that months of work have failed to come up with anything useful to convict a local mobster (Richard Conte). To make things worse, the Captain has ordered the investigation to be dropped. So, on his own, Wilde pushes those around Conte to testify against him. The problem is, Conte is ruthless and has two seemingly gay thugs (Lee Van Cleef and Early Holliman) to do his dirty work. Ultimately, however, things start to break--can tough-cop Wilde finally get the goods on him? The film is much more brutal and harsh in style than most noir. In particularly, its handling of a taboo for the Post-Production Code era (gay hit men)--though it's not 100% obvious. But, for 1955, it's pretty risqué...and tough. Well worth seeing--with good acting, a taut script and plenty of excitement.By the way, I have one minor complaint. John Hoyt's 'Swedish' accent was downright silly--and sounded German. In fact, until they said he was a Swede, I just assumed he was German. Now Hoyt was a fine character actor (and played the Dr. McCoy role in the Star Trek pilot)--but here he's just out of his element. "}{"Title":"Big Combo  is Combustible *1/","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Despite a sterling cast, this 1955 film noir is absolutely dreadful. The film is done in by weak writing and an extremely poor character development.As always, Richard Conte gave a gem of a performance. This time he is an evil man caught up in being a gangster for all seasons. Unfortunately, we don't know what kind of rackets he is in and after viewing this film, we really wouldn't care to know. Conte is good here because he captures his usual vicious self on screen. Seeing him here, you are reminded of his great performance as Tony Bardem in I'll Cry Tomorrow. The latter was the same year as Big Combo.Cornel Wilde is terribly miscast as the police detective trying to get the goods on Conte through the women in the latter's life. An equally bad performance is done by Jean Wallace, who talks like Melanie Griffith.The film goes down in quality rapidly as the bodies begin to pile up. Earl Holliman appears as one of Conte's hoods. He is as dumb as a stump. Did he ever show any creative intelligence in his films?Even veteran actor Ted de Corsia is weak in a one scene act where he divulges information on Mr. Brown. (Conte) "}]