[{"Title":".........just like the ones we used to know.","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"69 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" By 1954 the song White Christmas had become such a timeless classic that it was inevitable that a film would be made around it. And of course the star would be none other than Bing Crosby. But who to star with him.Originally this was to be the third Irving Berlin outing for Bing and Fred Astaire. Then Donald O'Connor was to co-star, but finally Danny Kaye teamed with Der Bingle. Proved to be a felicitous combination.By then Rosemary Clooney had worked in a few films well and more importantly, she had clicked with Crosby on the radio. Bing had teamed with several girl singers over the years, like Connee Boswell, Frances Langford, Mary Martin, Trudy Erwin, Carole Richards, Peggy Lee and a trio of sisters named Andrews. But he always said Rosemary Clooney was it for him and besides Mary Martin, the only other one who did became a leading lady for him.It's not remembered because of the success of her solo career, but Rosemary Clooney started as a duo with her sister Betty who retired early to raise a family. So with Vera-Ellen as her sister in the movie, that was an aspect of the plot Rosemary could handle with ease.The plot such as it is involves Bing and Danny as a song and dance duo who've expanded into the production end of show business. Through a little bit of a con game worked by Vera Ellen, the two meet a singing sister act like the Clooney sisters were. The sisters turn out to be headed to Vermont to work at a resort and the smitten guys go along with them.Problem is there ain't any snow there. It's an unheard of 68 degrees Fahrenheit in early December. And the place is owned by Crosby and Kaye's former commander from World War II, played by Dean Jagger. He's about to lose his shirt and his pride. So our intrepid quartet go to work.Irving Berlin's score for White Christmas is about half new songs and the other half from previous scores. That's how it was when you got Irving to work for you. Listen carefully even to the background music. You will not hear one note of a non-Berlin song. One of those songs was a personal favorite of mine, Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep. I recall in grade school in Brooklyn it was a song that the teachers had us sing in the school assemblies. Little did I know that it was introduced by the guy who proved to be my favorite entertainer. It's a patented philosophical Bing Crosby song that he did best and it serves as a ballad to woo and win Rosie. Bing sings it and then Rosie joins him in the reprise.Danny Kaye has two good numbers. The first The Best Things Happen While Your Dancing is clearly originally for Fred Astaire, though Kaye and Vera Ellen make a lovely couple on the dance floor. The Choreography number I think was also done for Astaire, but here dancer John Brascia does the complicated dance routine while Kaye sings. I'm sure Astaire would have handled both jobs had the film been made with him.All the stars do the Minstrel Show/Mandy number, but Vera Ellen really shines in it. She was a great dancer, really sparkled in every film she did.Besides Sisters, Rosemary Clooney has a grand torch ballad that sold a few platters for her in Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me. She had a wonderful singing voice and the most impeccable diction of any female singer ever. You don't miss one throbbing word on any of her ballads.White Christmas was Paramount's first film done in their wide screen process called VistaVision. And of course it was proper that their number one star for over 20 years be in this film. Of course jokes about Bing's derrière and the wide screen got into the repertoire of a certain comedian named Hope.Just like the song that inspired it, White Christmas has proved to be a timeless holiday classic and will remain so. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the audience knows better than the critics!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"68 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Over the years, I've read a number of professional critics' reviews of this film; almost all were mildly to severely negative.  And here's the interesting thing I don't disagree with most of the individual carps. Yes, the movie is a piece of fluff. Yes,the usually dependable Danny Kaye is a bit weak in his performance. Yes, the plot mechanism for inserting many of the production numbers is lame.  Heck, even the continuity is poor...I myself have discovered three noticeable continuity fluffs. But here's the thing.  The movie works, anyway!!! Bing and Danny nevertheless make a likeable Mutt and Jeff duo. The supporting cast all holds their own, from a radiant (and surprisingly voluptuous) Rosemary Clooney, to the astoundingly agile Vera Ellen, to Dean Jagger's Patton-like General Waverly...they all hit their marks very well. The plot-line is unbelievable.  Who cares?  This is a feel-good Christmas Movie, for cryin' out loud!  The production numbers are sheer fun, the plot doesn't get in the way of all the beauty and great music, the actors are obviously having a good time, and we're all allowed to window-peep on the shenanigans.  This is the PERFECT movie to put on after Macy's Parade, while all those who don't like football are helping prep for the big Turkey Day meal.  You sneak a bit of dressing or cranberry sauce, and watch a production number.  The plot is so user-friendly, missing five minutes here and there doesn't hurt. Treat yourself.  Discover why millions of views have made this movie a holiday favorite, despite the critics' opinions! "},{"Title":"I'm dreaming of... WHITE CHRISTMAS!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"68 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely ADORE this movie!  Have since the first time I saw it! Sure... some may classify it as simply a feel-good movie, but what's wrong with that?  Some may also classify it as pure schmaltz, but the movie truly does have it's sad points... like the priceless look on General Waverly's face whenever he enters the room where everyone who had been under his division is awaiting his arrival!The movie has a truly wonderful musical score, not to mention some VERY kick butt dancing!Bing Crosby is charming as Bob Wallace, a calm and reserved, yet witty and delightful and wise-cracking, and somewhat cynical kind of guy. Bing truly performed to his greatest.  And his vocal talent is enormous, not to mention evident throughout the entire movie!  It's a real treat to see him crack up when he and Danny Kaye are performing their rendition of Sisters!Danny Kaye is hilarious as Phil Davis, the foil to calm and cool Bob. Phil, too, is full of wise-cracks, and very intent on getting Bob to settle down. Danny gave such a life to his character, portraying him like no other! His best one liner was when a young blonde with voice like nails on a chalk board says to him (after his phoney engagment to Judy) I sure wish it would happen to me!) to which he replies So do I!Rosemary Clooney is absolutely riveting as Betty Haynes, the older of the two Haynes sisters.  She is the most calm and most subdued.  She is looking for her knight on the white horse in life.  Rosemary played Betty to the fullest, making her every bit as believable as you could imagine!  And that voice... GOLDEN!  A gift from God!  It's a true treasure to see her in her solo Love (You Didn't Do Right By Me).  She's absolutely marvelous and extremely talented.Vera-Ellen is refreshingly delightful as Judy Haynes, the younger and more naive Haynes sister.  Judy is also the dreamer of the two.  Vera-Ellen does a wonderfully through job of portraying Judy!  She is a perfect foil to her older sister.  And those dancing stems... to see her dance in numbers like Mandy and Choreography is a real treat!  How ANYONE could ever dance as well as she is beyond me!  She really did a great job in this movie, even better than her performance in On The Town with Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Betty Garrett.A GREAT MOVIE!!!!  GREAT CAST CHEMISTRY!!!!  GREAT MUSIC!!!!  GREAT DANCING!!!!  WATCH IT AND YOU WILL SOON BE DREAMING OF A WHITE CHRISTMAS!!!!  "},{"Title":"Count me in with the saps who absolutely love this movie.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"54 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas is guilty of many of the sins catalogued by other commentators its got a sappy story line, predictable plot twists, it plays outrageously for sentiment and patriotism (not your usual Christmas theme!).  But I confess to having loved it from the first moment I saw it nearly a half century ago.  I, too, like many, make it a point to view it every Christmas season, along with much better holiday fare such as It's a Wonderful Life, The Wizard of Oz, and Miracle on 34th Street. 	I think, contrary to many folks, that Danny Kaye succeeds in the second lead role better than Fred Astaire did in Holiday Inn, and while he isn't given an opportunity for his patented zaniness, he adds a thoroughgoing charm to the role that sometimes the rather stiff Astaire lacks. 	Rosemary Clooney is lovely in the rather thankless role of the practical sister and was at the peak of her genius as a pop singer, Vera-Ellen does her usually charming thing, and Crosby!  The master implants his genius in virtually every frame.  In supporting roles veteran character actor Dean Jagger is splendid as the general, while Mary Wickes steals every scene she's in as the nosy hotel housekeeper, Emma. 	The singing and dancing are first-rate (even without Astaire), and the songs by Irving Berlin are among his very best, including a number of tunes written especially for the film.  One that never ceases to charm me is the trifle, Snow, sung by our four stars in the dining car of the railroad train bound from Florida to Vermont.  What a magical moment, among many in this thoroughly delightful, if flawed, jewel. "},{"Title":"This Is Definitely My Favorite of the Classic Holiday Films!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I know, we've heard it all before, how the film, Holiday Inn is superior to this offering, but you'd never convince me of that!  I adore this film, it's fun, innocent, lively, has wonderful tunes and a top-notch cast.  My holiday viewing will never be complete until I've watched this film at least a half dozen times and probably more during the holiday season.  It's one of those 'feel good films' and this Christmas fanatic highly recommends settling in with some good snacks and simply enjoying yourself and this true holiday classic.  The DVD is a must-have, as it offers a wonderful commentary with the late-great Rosemary Clooney.   "},{"Title":"Christmas classic set in Vermont ski lodge.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas is one of those movies you can just enjoy without having to think about why the characters act the way they do.  The plot is very thin, and seems to be written just to hold the musical numbers together, but it makes for a very enjoyable movie indeed.  Viewing this film has become a holiday tradition in my family, and it is great fun to quote memorable lines and sing along with Bing, Danny, Vera-Ellen, and of course, the incomparable Rosemary Clooney. We have a theater here in Austin that regularly shows classic films, and the year they screened White Christmas, there was a packed house, and everyone sang along with every song and yelled out lines, sort of like Rocky Horror Picture Show without the dressing up.  White Christmas is just a fun movie, and I highly recommend it for holiday viewing.  The Irving Berlin songs, the dance numbers, and yes, the schmaltz are just the right combination to put even the Grinchiest person in the Christmas spirit. "},{"Title":"If this isn't the all-time great Christmas movie, it's pretty close!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Sorry, Jimmy! My apologies, Alistair! My all-time favorite Christmas was, is, and always will be, White Christmas. First of all, there's that wonderful Irving Berlin score. Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep and Sisters have become standards, of course. But, towering above them all, is Bing Crosby's definitive performance of the beloved Christmas favorite that he practically owned. All the performances are top-drawer, what with Bing, Danny Kaye (In a role meant for Donald O'Connor), Rosie Clooney, Vera-Ellen, Dean Jagger, and Mary Wickes, who, as you can see here, was playing nasty old things even when she was a nasty young thing!Corny, syrupy, kitsch. Perhaps it is all of that, to some. But, to unashamed sentimentalists like me, White Christmas will always be THE all-time great Christmas movie, particularly when viewed by the whole family, on Christmas Day, in front of the fireplace.God bless Bing, Berlin, and company, for making a lot of Holidays that much happier, including those of the Sorrentino family! "},{"Title":"Merry Christmas thanks to Irving Berlin","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The music of Irving Berlin, one of America's most distinguished composers of the 20th century, is at the center of this pleasant holiday film, that if one is to judge by the comments submitted to this forum, is a perennial favorite of audiences that discover this charming movie, or just go back to visit from time to time.Directed by Michael Curtiz, a versatile man; he was at ease with drama as well as comedy, or musicals. He shows a light touch that helps make this a cherished film for movie fans of all ages. Based on material by another great team, Norman Panama, Norman Krasna and Melvin Frank, the movie is light as a feather. The film is sort of a variation on the theme, let's put on a show, or even, if we stage it, they will come, we know how it will end, but we feel good, and enjoy it even though we know the plot by heart.The main reason for watching, besides Mr. Berlin's wonderful tunes, is hearing those standard songs delivered by the likes of Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney, who were at the top of their careers. They had such wonderful and melodious voices, they enhance the songs they interpret. The story is just a pretext to bring together the talented principals plus Danny Kaye, Vera Ellen, Dean Jagger, and the marvelous Mary Wickes, in a film that will delight anyone, anytime, but especially at Christmas. "},{"Title":"a good holiday movie","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It seems every Christmas this is one movie I must watch, and never tire of it. The cast I thought was mismatched, Danny Kaye was a poor substitute for Donald O'Connor, yet he makes the character he plays so likeable that you can't help but be drawn to his character. Danny Kaye and Bing Crosby dressed as girls has to be seen to be believed. They make the  sisters  song take on a whole other meaning.This is a picture that shows the magic of Christmas.  The last scene with the general brings a tear to the eye. Once again this proves that musicals leave you with that special feeling. "},{"Title":"To brighten your Holiday this year","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas has to be one of the most wonderful holiday musical films ever made. Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney give great performances and Crosby's White Christmas is the best song in the film. After watching this you'll feel a great amount of holiday spirit. The snow, the songs, the music. You just get a good feeling. Watch it, your holiday will brighten. -)  "}{"Title":"Vera Ellen steals the show with her dancing","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have watched White Christmas about 100 times, the reason is Vera Ellen .I have never in the thousands of movies i have seen,witnessed a dancer of Vera Ellens ability. Vera mesmerises me every time i see the movie.Don't just take my word for it,watch White Christmas a few times and watch Vera Dance i guarantee you will never witness a dancer male or female that comes close to Veras excellence.Danny Kaye is superb Bing sings with so much ease ,with that fabulous voice.Rosemary Clooney looks gorgeous and her voice is a thrill to listen too.I shall watch White Christmas many times in the future and Vera Ellen will continue to be the star as far as i am concerned. "},{"Title":"absolutely charming","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas is one of those great movies that never get boring even after you've seen them every year for a million years.  It makes you almost want to climb back into hollywood's version of life in the 1950s.  I watched this movie multiple times every holiday season for as long as I can remember, and every time I find something new I love.  Bing Crosby is a wonderful straight man to the enchanting antics of Danny Kaye, and his version of the title song will last forever.  Rosemary Clooney proves to have a voice of gold, and Vera-Ellen dances on a level with Gene Kelly.  This movie is a must-see for anyone who appreciates old movies, regardless of whether or not it is the holiday season. "},{"Title":"Slick, Schmaltzy Holiday Charmer","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A slick, schmaltzy, sort-of remake of `Holiday Inn' (1942),  `White Christmas' lacks the sass and sparkle of the earlier film.  It's also lacking Fred Astaire, though Danny Kaye is in there trying. Bing Crosby seems a tad long in the tooth for his role as a marriage-shy song and dance man, and the whole movie is permeated by the suffocating post-war insistence on everyone marrying and settling down.  This movie also falls under the `bigger, louder, better' philosophy the Hollywood film studios espoused in the early &#145;50s to combat the growing competition of television.The thin plot (old army buddies Crosby and Kaye team up with a sister act, Clooney and Vera Ellen, to save the destitute Vermont ski lodge of their former commanding general, Dean Jagger)  padded out with various romantic complications is only an excuse for the Irving Berlin numbers.  Crosby gives a nice, relaxed rendition of `Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep' and everyone comes through on the finale, a show topping performance of the title number, complete with Santa outfits and girl ballerinas.  Of the production numbers, the simplest are the more noteworthy.  Clooney and Vera-Ellen offer a straight version of `Sisters', a song that became the delight of a generation of drag queens and female impersonators.  Crosby and Kaye reprise it in makeshift drag (Kaye getting to do a bit of his manic schtick and Crosby game but clearly uncomfortable).  `Mandy', the big centerpiece of the show the gang puts on at the ski lodge (naturally it's a musical review, that hoariest of Hollywood musical cliches), is a bit of a mess.  But it comes complete with &#145;50s Rococo sets, a bevy of chorus boys in tight pants, and Vera-Ellen rising out of the floor.  And what was it with Irving Berlin and ersatz Minstrel Show nostalgia anyway?  `White Christmas' has a similar number &#150; in blackface! &#150; that was routinely excised for TV showings.  Kaye's big number, `Choreography' is a lame would-be satire on the serious `jazz ballet' then popular on Broadway and in such films as `Words and Music' (1948).  A far more deft exploration of the same idea is the `Girl Hunt' number in `The Band Wagon' (1954), starring Fred Astaire.Speaking of Astaire, compared with `Holiday Inn', the dance routines in `White Christmas' are unremarkable. Vera-Ellen does get ample opportunity to show off her lithe physique and slim waist, and her waltz with Kaye to `The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing' is nicely done.   Probably the best dancing in the film is her rehearsal of the `Abraham' number with a well-built male dancer.  It has the snap and brio the other numbers just miss.Clooney's lush voice is a nice compliment to Crosby, though she is stuck with the role of the `sensible' sister (in contrast to Vera-Ellen's schemer).  Her fledgling romance with Crosby keeps getting stonewalled by misunderstandings and false information.  She does get a juicy torch song, `Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me' ,which is given a deluxe presentation with a quartette of black-clad chorus boys in a posh NY nightclub.  (One of them is George Chakiris, later to star in the 1961 film version of  `West Side Story'.)Production wise, the film is colorful and lavish, with sets ranging from a very artificial looking WW II battlefield to an expansive, al fresco Florida nightspot adorned with a gigantic aquarium.    Amusingly, the Vermont inn's architecture seems inspired by the Connecticut country retreat of `Holiday Inn', with some pseudo Swiss touches thrown in.  The general's housekeeper (reliable screen veteran Mary Wickes) aptly describes the décor as a `Tyrolean haunted house'.  Edith Head's costumes run the gamut of &#145;50s fashions for the ladies, from tailored suits through full-skirted `New  Look' dresses to sleek, form-fitting evening gowns with huge flared hems.    This was the first feature released in the wide screen Vistavision process, and the film makes good use of the space in its compositions.  The highlight is the scene when Crosby and Kaye first realize that the long awaited snow has arrived in Vermont, in time to save the general's investment in his ski lodge.  They throw open the barn doors at the rear of the stage, revealing a wintry landscape with a horse-drawn sleigh just coming into view.  It's a lovely shot, charmingly artificial, and a good summation of the cheerful, escapist mood of this film. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this holiday gem!","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" WHITE Christmas is one of the best holiday movies not to mention musicals to come out of Hollywood in the 1950's. It has great performances by the 4 leads (Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, Vera Ellen) who act, sing and dance with effortless aplomb. Crosby and Kaye have some amazing comic set pieces. It also has Mary Wickes in one of her signature comic supporting roles. Criticism of the acting in this film is really off base--the movie requires a certain style and the performances reflect it perfectly. This is the kind of film that could never be made now and it contains all the genuine pleasures of the movie musical as developed by Hollywood. There are several wonderful scenes set in supper clubs which evoke a bygone era. It has nothing to do with real life (what musicals do?) however it is completely charming, entertaining and satisfying. If you haven't seen it--I guarantee you will want to watch it every holiday season after you do. "},{"Title":"What a Christmas with out White Christmas.","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I agree as a film buff and ex cinema worker that this film should be shown every Christmas at PEAK TIME. Here in the UK this year the viewers were subjected to awful boring worn out soap operas. Films like Gone With the Wind were shown at midnight while the soaps that are on every night 365 days a years were on at PEAK time every day over the whole Christmas period. What have these planners got for brains in their heads? People want to be cheered up at Christmas not subject to watching worn out soaps showing people and kids screaming and shouting at each other. This followed by the usual police murder series. The programmes planners should have been fined here for what they subjected us all to. With the treasure of films like we have from the golden age of cinema lets see these and less of Coronation Street, Emmerdale Farm and Eastenders. Happy New Year Everybody and lets see White Christas next Christmas at a sensible time. "},{"Title":"A Classic Film for all Ages...","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On all counts, this movie succeeds as sheer entertainment. I watched it with my sisters as a little girl -- and the tradition has been passed down to my two daughters, who look forward to the tradition of throwing fake snow around every year in the final scene (no spoilers here...)!I have never encountered another movie that engenders such faith and respect among its followers. In fact, friends from across the country join me every year in watching it simultaneously as we chat about each scene in a chat room online. We call it Cyber White Christmas - and it allows us to celebrate and type away to our hearts content as we revisit the confection each year. Yes, we understand the film is confection -- and we trust and love it to be just so.I will always smile when Danny rubs his elbow. When the Hanes Sisters come out in that heavenly blue. We'll forever gasp at Vera Ellen's skeletal frame -- and the single tap from Mandy that seems to go on forever, not to mention Betty's magnificently scalloped dress in New York as she croons Love, You didn't do right by me.. And it's true the best things really do happen when you're dancing -- a number that transports me to the sublime every single time...In other respects, I live a fairly respectable ordinary life. But once a year, I'm a giddy schoolgirl as I watch this wonderful film with my family. I count this lovely film as one of my blessings, for sure. Mutual, I'm sure. "},{"Title":"My sap runneth over","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If ever there was a guilty pleasure, it's Bing Crosby's White Christmas. From the sappy story line to the half-baked songs, this thing truly is mediocrity writ large.But it works! There's just such a prevailing aura of niceness in White Christmas that, except for the beatnik dance sequence where I always fast-forward, I can't stop loving the simple, guilt-ridden pleasure of this sweet contrivance.WC is a professional joy, wrapped with a big, fat holiday ribbon, that continues to make me smile some 37 years after I first saw it.My fifth grader loves it, too. Not a bad recommendation for a movie panned by the critics, both professional and amateur, of which I am one. "},{"Title":"All time favorite","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas is one of the best movie musicals of all times.  The cast is a exquisite gathering of talent.  The story covers music, theater, comedy, and drama; it is an exceptional classic.  It would be hard to find another selection with the same synergy. "},{"Title":"as wonderful as ever!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  i've just finished watching white Christmas for the jillionth time and loved it as much as i ever have.it may have a weak plot, it may have continuity problems, it may not be as good as holiday inn or have any number of other problems.... but it has a lot that sets it apart and makes it the classic film that it is and deserves to be!it is true. it speaks to the real comradeship and love that men who have bonded in war feel for each other. (if you don't believe me, ask any namvet who understands him better--his wife or the men he served with.)it presents men who are partners and who value each others opinions on how they run their business/act. it presents sisters who love each other--and are willing to give up their own dreams for each other. it presents a man who has served his country, is raising his granddaughter and now, in retirement, is about to lose everything thru the vagaries of weather.all of these people are willing to sacrifice of themselves in order to help each other. they are human and admit to making mistakes...and then rectify them.it is about love and caring and giving. it is the truest sort of Christmas story. it is about the TRUE spirit of Christmas.....and it gets there in a very entertaining way...despite whatever flaws it may have.the music is wonderful. the costumes are wonderful. the staging is entertaining.it makes me smile and warms the cockles of my heart....... we have too few movies these days that do that. especially Christmas movies....... "},{"Title":"The best?","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I would call myself more of a Holiday Inn than a White Christmas fan. Bing, Fred, the great dancing and the gift of the song White Christmas to a war weary world. However, last Christmas Eve my 13-year-old daughter and I had White Christmas on the TV as we wrapped last minute gifts. My daughter commented I think White Christmas is the best Christmas movie because there are no little kids, no angels or miracles. It's just the story of four people (the entertainers) trying to do something nice for somebody (the Major).I'm still more of a Holiday Inn fan, but now have a new fondness for White Christmas. "}{"Title":"Holiday classic through and through","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  At the ripe young age of 28, I enjoy this movie more and more as the years go by. While it honestly has very few Christmasy scenes, no movie puts me in the Christmas mood more or faster than this one. For the humbugs that don't like it, they simply don't get it. It's heartwarming and delightful from beginning to end. Though somewhat cheesy, for a true fan, the cheese is just as good as the bread on either end. I personally fell in love with it because I'm a huge Danny Kaye fan, but the entire cast is wonderful. I grew up with movies like this thanks to my mother and grandmother, and I guarantee my kids will do the same. If you haven't seen it, do so. If you love it, grab some cocoa and join the rest of us in front the big screen. If you don't, then shame on you and a Merry Christmas anyway. "},{"Title":"Magic !","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie countless times over the years and it remains my all-time favorite.. Even now I cannot watch the last scene -  when General Waverley enters the dining room and sees his old troop - without becoming teary-eyed.  It is a great shame that Hollywood no longer makes movies of this quality . "},{"Title":"This is the classic Christmas movie of all time","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most underrated Christmas movies i think. It has classic songs, actors, and plot (though some things don't really fit, but that is in most movies in the 40s and 50s) I think this movie should be religiously watched every Christmas. The acting is wonderful, Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney are amazing. The comedy is great with Danny Kaye, and Vera Ellen brings great dancing to the picture. All the music is amazing, my favorite song is the Mandy, with its great dancing and funny jokes. The costumes are fabulous, with vibrant colors. Overall this movie is pretty much amazing, everything is just perfect when your in the Christmas mood. "},{"Title":"one of the best films ever made","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best Christmas movies ever.  I watch it when it's not the holiday season.  I have two copies, in case one goes bad.  My family and I have a good laugh at Danny Kaye setting people up. He's one the best with Vera-Ellen, Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney.  "},{"Title":"A sentimental and nostalgic favorite","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's really difficult for me to apply my usual criticism to White Christmas because doing so is kind of like spitting on a national monument.  This film is so harmless and revered that it can't really be seriously judged against usual criteria.  It is a fun and cute musical comedy, and it is really corny unrealistic but then again so were most musicals in the 1950's.  Add a heavy dose of Christmas cheer and you have what is probably one of the most loved Christmas movies of all time.  One thing I can commend it for is that although it is essentially a remake of `Holiday Inn', they blessedly didn't stoop to the god-awful level of the `Abraham' number at any time during the film.  I also cannot help but laugh every time I see Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye's rendition of Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen's `Sisters' act.Sure it's corny and saccharine, and yes it has some really mediocre musical and dance numbers, but White Christmas does indeed succeed at what it seemingly sets out to do  Instill nostalgia for care-free times and engage even a little bit of the `Christmas Spirit' in most viewers.  (How can Bing Crosby singing `White Christmas' not make you at least a tiny bit sentimental?)  Besides, at the very least, you can marvel at Vera-Ellen's five inch waist and the fact that Bing ALWAYS looked sixty.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"The best things...happen when you're dancing...","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The story opens during WWII, as two soldiers are putting on a Christmas Eve show near enemy lines. Flash forward a few years and the two soldiers (Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye) are now successful Broadway entertainers. They fall for a nightclub sister-act (Rosemary Clooney, Vera-Ellen) and the foursome spend Christmas in Vermont at an inn that just happens to be owned by their beloved old colonel (Dean Jagger) who's down on his luck.This wonderful musical is my favorite Christmas movie; it's sentimental and sweet and has four hugely talented stars. The Irving Berlin songs are upbeat and lovely and, of course, the classic White Christmas tugs at your heart. Bing plays the sensible, hard-working guy who funnyman Danny is always trying to marry off. Rosemary is a sensitive singer and Vera-Ellen is a dazzling dancer. They have such a good time together that viewers can't help but be carried away by the pure joy of it all.This movie is firmly-rooted in the fifties, purely G-rated and many call it corny, but I love this kind of movie. I can't count the number of times I've seen and yet it's never gotten old for me. The actors are beautiful, the romance is innocent, and the happy-ever-after finale with everyone dressed in red and white amid gently falling snow is unforgettable. If you like movies the way they used to be made, you'll love White Christmas. "},{"Title":"Christmas  cheer","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" You still see it on the DVD racks every year at this time of year and can also guarantee its appearance on TV over the Christmas schedules so is there anyone out there who hasn't seen this old warhorse of a Christmas movie? Well, me for one, so with the snow thick on the ground for the first Scottish white Christmas in 9 years, what better time to break my duck...Personally I'd have preferred to have seen its predecessor Holiday Inn with an in-his-prime Fred Astaire in the Danny Kaye part, but that will have to wait for another year. Besides I like Kaye and while he gets a few dances alongside Vera Ellen and her impossibly thin legs, he's principally there, of course as a less sour Bob Hope to old Bing's holier-than-thou straight man.The story is of course hokum on a stick but I'll temper any cynicism with the thought of the relevance of the tie-in of Christmas to soldiers to the US cinema-going public of the time, not only so soon after the end of the Second World War, but with the then current war in Korea under way (isn't that always the way with wars, they just keep on coming).The four stars all act engagingly, with good support too from Dean Jagger as the revered major-general and Mary Wickes as his owlish receptionist, although I would carp that some of the song and dance routines are fairly unexciting, the movie does look awfully set-bound and it was a shame to see some fairly obvious lip-sync-hing on the big numbers. I also didn't understand why in the resolution of the misunderstanding of Crosby's motives in staging the big holiday pageant at their old commander's financially ailing resort, the director missed the chance to show the dawning of the truth on mistaken messenger, Wickes, but by the time they open up the gates to let in the snow and the familiar strains of THAT song by the conclusion, there isn't a dry eye in the house.Irving Berlin's soundtrack is as ever, tuneful and pleasing, with the wit of the lyrics of his army songs, in particular, highlighting an underrated part of his talent. The photography is beautifully colourful and old maestro Micahael Curtiz unobtrusively and efficiently bringing this slight story to life.All in all, a pleasant release from today's wears and scares and I hope that anyone who watches it in the future gets to do so to a snowy backdrop outside, like I did as it somehow adds to the lustre of the film. "},{"Title":"An innocent yule tide talent tale.","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Legendary Michael Curtiz directs this showcase of talent in an attempt to capitalize on the song White Christmas that first appeared in the 1942 classic HOLIDAY INN. Quite innocent and evocative of the early 50's mindset. One of those let's save the day by putting on a show. A song and dance team will help keep their former commanding officer's(Dean Jagger)Vermont inn alive. A real talented cast that includes Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, Vera-Ellen, John Brascia and Anne Whitefield. How can you have Bing Crosby and not hear his White Christmas? Other memorable tunes The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing, Count Your Blessing Instead of Sheep and Snow.Note Curtiz four years later would direct Jagger in the Elvis Presley classic KING CREOLE. "},{"Title":"Cute story, catchy tunes ...and the best legs in the biz!","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Story original, sentimental, wonderful.Songs memorable, melodic, fun.Vera-Ellen's legs COLOSSALLY PHANTASMAGORICALLY GORGEOUS. I was riveted from the moment she does her first twirl. And the early number of The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing features quite possibly the first pole dancing routine ever filmed in Hollywood. Amazing, simply amazing stuff. I can't believe I had never heard of Ms. Vera-Ellen before, and I can't believe her career was so short (barely 10 years long). You must see her in action. You simply must.That is all you need to know. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Entertaining Holiday Classic as Comfortable as a Security Blanket","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Although Frank Capra's It's a Wonderful Life deserves its place among the pantheon of Christmas movies, this comparative confection from 1954 still deserves special mention. Granted the plot, what there is of one, is rather thin, it is splashy good fun directed by the dependably versatile Michael Curtiz with several Irving Berlin standards and four superb variety performers in their prime. As much as Capra's film is an annual tradition, it is really this film that I look forward to the most of all the holiday classics.The storyline focuses on two former soldiers, Bob Wallace and Phil Davis, both song-and-dance men who become best friends when Davis saves Wallace from a falling building during WWII. After years of post-war success on Broadway and the nightclub circuit, they become reconnected with their gruff but lovable former army commander, General Waverly. The general now owns a Vermont ski lodge, but he is treading water financially since there is no snow as Christmas approaches. As it turns out, the Haynes sisters, Betty and Judy, are playing the lodge during the holidays, and of course, romantic entanglements ensue all the way through the big finale when all four star in a show that they hope will save the general's lodge.All of this seems rather incidental to the musical numbers showcased in the then-revolutionary widescreen process called VistaVision. The most relaxed of actors during this era, Bing Crosby plays Wallace with his natural élan, and he croons the classic title tune early on and leads the group sing of the same song at the end. In contrast, Danny Kaye plays Davis with his mercurial style intact, though compared to his other films of the period, he is relatively subdued here. With her smoky, silken vocal skills on display, Rosemary Clooney plays Betty, Wallace's love interest, with aplomb and complements Crosby easily on Count Your Blessings (Instead of Sheep). She also delivers a nice torchy Berlin tune with Love, You Didn't Do Right by Me despite some silly man-choreography.I have to say the most impressive performer of the quartet is Vera-Ellen, a phenomenal dancer who was the equal of Astaire and Kelly at her peak. She makes even Kaye look good in their musical duets - The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing and the amusing Martha Graham riff, Choreography. However, her best numbers are with dancer John Brascia - the elaborate Mandy number where her pliable, slender frame seems to be everywhere on the screen, and the brief rehearsal number, Abraham, where she and Brascia snap, pop, clap, kick and swing with unerring military precision. It's worth noting that her singing is dubbed by vocalist Trudy Stevens, which is pointed out by Clooney on the less-than-informative audio commentary track in the DVD package. Much better is the 16-minute retrospective interview with Clooney where her natural sense of humor emerges.There are other numbers worth mentioning in the movie - the duet, Sisters, done first straight by the women and later by the men as a comedy routine in half-drag (Kaye steals this bit handily with his over-the-top clowning); the foursome on the vintage Berlin Snow and Gee, I Wish I was Back in the Army; and of course, the title tune at the end. Way over on the sidelines, Dean Jagger lends his warm dignity to the role of the retired general, and Mary Wickes plays Emma the housekeeper in her typically sarcastic manner. Special mention needs to be given to Loyal Griggs's vibrant Technicolor cinematography, which makes the entire movie look appropriately like a bright red candy box, and the print transfer in the DVD almost fully captures the original visual quality. This is undemanding entertainment and a dependable holiday classic that feels like a favorite well-worn blanket. "}{"Title":"It touches.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Plenty has been written about this movie. For the record, I disagree with those who say that Danny Kaye's performance was a disappointment. It's a little understated, for him, but it's the right foil for Bing. Rosemary's a knockout. Vera's amazing. And Bing was at his Basset Hound best. When Vera and Danny dance, you can tell they were having fun with it. Sure, it's a corny flick, but it works because it touches people at an emotional level; it's easy to overlook the few noticeable gaffes. As cheesy as it is, it's perfectly easy to suspend disbelief and go with it; we get caught up in the story, and we like the people in the film. It amazes me how little Mary Wickes changed between this film and Sister Act, nearly forty years later. All in all, it's great fun, and hundreds of thousands of American families have made this film an essential part of celebrating Christmas. "},{"Title":"Wonderful White Christmas","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have watched White Christmas, a hundred times, and to me it is a Classic. It's a feel good movie, with four top notch entertainers. Crosby is great. Danny Kaye is my favorite guy, he was wonderful as usual. RoseMary Clooney was terrific,and what a great shape she had, and such a velvety voice, and Vera-Allen was superb in her dancing but ghastly thin. Also I thought she really played to the camera way to much, always turning toward the camera, when she should have been looking at her dance partner, or when the four of them were singing Snow. I have so many different favorite parts to the movie that I love, one is Danny Kaye & Vera-Allen dancing to The best things happen when your dancing. Danny's Choreography number.I like the Abraham, number, but found myself watching John Brascia more than Vera-Allen. What a talent he was. I loved watching Mary Wickes, she was such a delight. It was so cute when she kissed Danny and Bing, she held that kiss a very long time. Loved Barri Chase as Doris (Mutual I'm sure) Loved when Danny announced his engagement, when she said, I sure wish it would happen to me, the guy she was dancing with heard her say that, and quickly moved away from her. LOL I'll be watching this movie for a long time, one of the best Christmas Movies of all time. Ruth "},{"Title":"Slick and Fluff and all that stuff..","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ..That make for a very enjoyable movie.I have watched White Christmas on televison for as long as I can remember.  While I can say that the music (Bing and Rosemary) is great and the dancing is out of this world (Vera and Danny), I must admit that this movie touches me in a different manner.My grandmother loved Bing Crosby.  Watching  this movie brings back many enjoyable memories of her and I sitting around the Television together to enjoy some clean wholesome viewing.Many will say that White Christmas was only made to showcase Berlin's music.  And in a sense they might be right.  If this movie had been done without the title song sung by Bing, it would have a whole different feel to it.The music defines the movie, but the actors bring it to life. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have been watching White Christmas for as long as my memory goes back. Thanks to my music-loving mother, I grew up watching wonderful Hollywood musicals.White Christmas is filled with Irving Berlin songs which are magnificently performed by Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, and Rosemary Clooney(Vera Ellen lipsynched).  Perhaps even more wonderful than the songs themselves, is the production numbers.  Vera Ellen and Danny Kaye make a wonderful couple and dance so well together.  Everybody should see the movie simply for The Best Things Happen While You'r Dancing scene.  This is quite possibly the most beautiful scene ever filmed, in my opinion.  Another thing about the film that I love is the costumes.  They are all beautfully made and worn.White Christmas is not only the essential Holiday movie, but also essential to film history in general. "},{"Title":"good, clean, entertaining","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film is good, clean entertainment for the holidays. Not just a story of boy meet girl, fall in love etc., this film focuses on service and good holiday spirit. There is lots of great singing and some good dancing. Reminicent of the holiday hustle and bustle. This is truly a classic film. On top of that, with legends like Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye involved, there's bound to be great stuff. "},{"Title":"Nearly as good as the original!","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I like most people watch this movie every Christmas Eve. It is a holiday classic that my wife can't stand but I love dearly. The scene at the end where the generals troops show up for the party always brings a tear to my eye.The remark that it is almost as good as the original is referring to the movie Holiday Inn. It was done with Fred Astaire instead of Danny Kaye. The story is a bit different but it is all Irving Berlin songs and the music is performed by Bob Crosbys swing band. It is a must see and I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Bad Movies Ever","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pour yourself out a nice big boatload of gravy to go with this gigantic slice of holiday ham....I love this movie, and I'm not ashamed to admit it. I don't even feel like doing a critical analysis of it, or talking about the acting, or anything of the kind. It's not even a good movie, really, and it suffers from that ugly 50s look from which so many movies from the decade suffered, when they thought the way to compete with television was to build enormous screens and cram them full of saturated color...Michael Curtiz and company make only the barest attempt at adhering to anything resembling a plot, and what plot there is could hardly be called coherent. This film was one of the last gasps of the Let's put on a show! genre, as well as one of the last shameless attempts to tearjerk a WWII recovering audience into submission.This movie contains more corn than Nebraska, and God love it for that.Grade A "},{"Title":"A great way to appreciate older generations","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Every time I see White Christmas, I think of what a special generation my godparents' is.  This is a warm, admittedly sentimental movie, that just plain old makes you feel good.  Today, that is not such a bad thing.I agree with the previous post about what a great scene it is when the general walks in.  But the scene that moves me even more, and to me is a great piece of camera work, is when the cast begins singing White Christmas again (after the large doors have been opened to expose the snow).  As they sing, the camera pulls back and over the tables to show different people at each table rising to toast each other.  It is a remarkably  poignant scene for me.  Friends toasting old friends.  I tell you it brings a tear to my eye every time and makes me want to go out to dinner with friends and toast them to let them know what they have meant to me in life.  Something like this actually happened.  On my god parent's 50th anniversary, we took them for a weekend at the Lodge at Pebble Beach in Carmel.  During the dinner, someone came in and played I'll be Seeing You for them on the piano as they danced.  Wasn't a dry eye in the house.That may be a little deep for such a light movie, but it is what makes is work for me.  Any movie that makes you appreciate the important people in your life is all right in my book.  I give it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Adorable","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I know, I know, this film is corny, but I love it anyway.  I first saw it at a very young age, and it has now become a year round tradition for my sister and I.  The songs are catchy and the dancing is good, but that does not explain the special something in this film.  For some reason, all of its elements combined make for a heartwarming, spirit-lifting experience.  Holiday Inn is often compared with it and is very similar, but I find White Christmas to be far better in music, story, acting, and, most of all, it is MUCH FUNNIER.The film's low points include the song about snow and the minstrel show, both of which are almost intolerably corny.  High points are the song about dancing and the Abraham number, which showcase Vera Ellen's dancing genius.I think the best way to view White Christmas is as a period piece.  It was made in a time when funny, light musical comedies were standard fare.  They have since fallen out of popularity, but this film is a great example of one.  If a person is picking between this and Holiday Inn, I would recommend watching White Christmas every time.  I would only recommend this movie to women.  It is not a man's movie and no man should ever be forced to put up with it.So, if you are a woman, make some cookies and cocoa when its cold outside, wrap up with a blanket, and put White Christmas in the VCR or DVD player.  Then, relax, laugh your head off, and take a vacation from reality.  You'll be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was told that 'Holiday Inn' (1942) from which this film was adapted was the better movie. Boy, was that a crock. I just saw it and it stunk.This film has Danny Kaye and Vera Ellen, the much more desirable pairing than Bing Cosby and Rosemary Looney, two schmucks who could not dance or act to save their lives - and they needed to in this holiday celluloid because they have all the personality of a couple of comatose slugs.Danny sings as beautiful as ever, and of course he's so funny. Vera is pretty and puts Rosemary to shame. Dean Jagger provides a solid block of dignity as a retired army general.Pass on Holiday Inn; this is the version to watch. It's 10 times more fun with more story and less random dance numbers. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"The price of fame","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I didn't saw this film on its premiere engagement at the Plaza Lower Regent Street in 1954'I have seen it a couple of times since,and have never highly rated it.Mundane story and forgettable numbers apart from the title numbers.I saw it again last Wednesday at the Regent Street cinema.I didn't change my view of the film.However I noticed how thin Vera Ellen looked.I looked her up on the Internet when I got home.I saw that she had suffered from anorexia.The film was on TV on Christmas Day,so I watched again.She appeared painfully thin,her legs was like matchstick.She always had her neck and chest covered,presumably to hide how thin she looked.She was a great dancer but paid a heavy price for fame. "},{"Title":"Absolutely delightful musical with great performances by the four leads and supporting cast","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is an Irving Berlin musical featuring Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney. There will be spoilers aheadThis musical is designed as a vehicle for the music of Irving Berlin, starring Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye as old Army buddies, with Kaye saving Crosby's life during the war. The opening musical number takes place during the war in their unit, at the company Christmas show, to celebrate their commander, who's being rotated out of command.Flash forward and the two are now prominent in show business, with a company of their own. The sisters (Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen) of one of the men from their unit contrive to get an audition of sorts when Vera-Ellen sends them a note telling them of their act at a club. Through a series of improbable events (the plot is like cotton candy-sweet but insubstantial) the four wind up on a train together and headed to the same inn in Vermont.The inn is owned by the former commander (played well by Dean Jagger) and the inn isn't doing well, given that there's no snow. Again, through a series of plot contrivances, a show is planned for the inn, with an invitation to the men of their old unit, at least those who can do so, to come up to Vermont to express their support for their old commander.As this is a romantic comedy, the quartet pairs off, Crosby with Clooney and Kaye with Vera-Ellen. The course isn't smooth, but true love wins out in the end. There's a Hollywood ending and all's well in the end.None of that really matters, because the chemistry between the leads is fantastic. Danny Kaye and Vera-Ellen look perfect together in The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing, Crosby and Kaye work well together and Crosby and Clooney are perfect as a couple.This film is available on disc and is well worth watching. Recommended. "},{"Title":"One of my Christmas favorites.","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am not a huge fan of musicals, especially those made in the 1960s and prior. However, White Christmas is one of the few musicals I would enjoy, as it always bring in the Christmas spirit in my home. The first time I heard of the White Christmas song by Irving Berlin was actually in this movie.Legendary actors Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye star as two successful song-and-dance actors, who try to save the failing Vermont of their former commanding general (Dean Jagger). In the mean time, they become romantically involved with a sister act, played by Rosemary Clooney and Vera Allen. There is witty comedy and old-fashion romance, provided by the four stars, and scores of toe-tapping musical and dance sequences one after the other.While this movie can be whimsical and some of the musical numbers can drag on at times, the story about the actors going through highs and lows to try to save the inn, with their romantic relationships intertwined in the process, is pretty entertaining to watch. The part where all four sing White Christmas together is my favorite scene - rich and vibrant in song helped by a children chorus, and a spectacular background containing a large Christmas tree and a beautiful snow scene.Again, I'm not a fan of musicals. But somehow, the Christmas references, albeit brief, made this a pretty enjoyable movie for me.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Still dreaming after all these years.","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Old Army buddies Bob and Phil become a hugely successful song and dance act once the war is over. Taking a much needed vacation to Vermont, they are saddened to find that the ski lodge run by their old wartime General is close to closing down on account of the lack of snow in the area. Falling in with two lovely sisters, Betty & Judy, the boys plan to put on a variety show with the girls to entice people back to the lodge. But misunderstandings and romantic leanings are not going to make this at all easy.Enduring, perennial, simple and beguiling are all words fit to be associated with White Christmas. It's directed by Mr Reliable, Michael Curtiz, features songs from Irving Berlin and stars Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, Vera-Ellen & Dean Jagger. Filmed in Technicolor, it's also notable for being the first film to be shot in VistaVision think wide-screen process. In truth the film is thinly plotted and doesn't remotely feature some of Berlin's best tunes, and I dare to be a touch more critical-the VistaVision is wasted on the studio led direction. Yet it's such a charming and heart warming film it feels churlish to let the negatives negate the overriding feeling of having been cheered after a viewing.So although it's not the brilliance it perhaps should have been, it's ultimately a picture that still reels in new viewers nearly 60 years after its release. That's something that is hard to argue with. So enjoy the title song and the likes of Sisters, The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing, Count Your Blessings Instead Of Sheep & Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me. Marvel at the zippiness of Vera-Ellen's dancing whilst lapping up the side-kick goofiness provided by the always watchable Kaye. Be emotionally involved with Dean Jagger's heavy hearted General, and of course there's Crosby too, seemingly ageless, he croons and simultaneously manages to melt the ice in your drink as you snuggle up by the fire.Smashing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Family tradition, classic","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Call it whatever you will tradition, family values, classic any label you chose to attach, you can't deny the fact that this movie is exactly what the holidays as well as our daily lives should be about. Give from the heart, give a gift that has no dollar value attached to it, make someone who has meant something in your life feel like they matter, they are loved respected and deserve a very special gift to cherish and remember always. Have any of us ever given a gift of the magnitude that is given in this movie, or done it just because and not due to the fact it was a holiday or birthday. Give of yourself everyday just because it's the right thing to do. Do the right thing even when nobody is watching! From my family to yours...May your days be merry and bright, and may all your Christmas' be white. "},{"Title":"This is one Christmas you will never forget","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is directed by Michael Curtiz, is a remake of the Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby film Holiday Inn and stars Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, Vera Ellen, Mary Wickes and Dean Jagger. Bob Wallace(Bing Crosby)and Phil Davis(Danny Kaye) become the best of friends after Phil saves Bob's life while entertaining the troops during World War Two.They become very famous and tour the States singing and dancing in nightclubs etc.On tour in Florida they meet the dazzling Haynes sisters, Judy(Vera Ellen)and Betty(Rosemary Clooney)who are also performing there.They all get talking and Phil falls in love with the bubbly Judy.Coincidence finds them all on the same train bound for the snow covered hills of Vermont,where they're all set to entertain guests in the same hotel over the holidays.On arrival the snow has yet to arrive and Phil and Bob are surprised to learn that the hotels owner is their old commander Major General Thomas Waverly(Dean Jagger).He's not doing so well financially, so the four put their heads together and decide to put on a surprise show to raise funds.Theu use Bob and Phil's dancer troupe and backstage people and invite many of the Major's former unit up to stay.Along with Waverly's tough as old nails housekeeper Emma(Mary Wickes)and the promise of some snow they put together an unforgettable Christmas treat.Filled with stars doing what they do best,dazzling costumes and musical numbers that include,Sisters,Mandy and the one we all know so well White Christmas, this is one film that you'll never forget.With great performances from the four leads and a chance for Vera Ellen to prove once again why she is one of the greatest tap dancers ever to appear in films. "},{"Title":"Excellent  and timeless Christmas holiday movie","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I can not believe that I did not see this movie before now. Maybe when I was 8, when White Christmas was on every year, I wasn't as into musicals as I am now, save movies like Annie, Wizard of Oz and Oliver! I am truly sorry, for this was an excellent film, that is perfect for the Christmas holiday season. White Christmas looks lovely, shot in beautiful Vista Vision with nice cinematography and wonderful costumes. The red dresses in the reprise of White Christmas especially were to die for. The songs and score by Irving Berlin is outstanding; the title song White Christmas is not only one of my all time favourite Christmas songs but also one of my favourite songs ever in a musical. But the other songs go without fault too, particularly The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing and Sisters.The script and story, serving as a partial remake of Holiday Inn, are top notch, if a little fluffy and implausible in places. Even better were the performances, with Bing Crosby his usual charming self as Bob, and while weak at the start Danny Kaye is superb as Phil. His dance routine with Vera Ellen, who looked gorgeous here and sang and danced a dream, was a knockout. Rosemary Clooney is positively riveting as Betty as well, in a suitably calm and subdued performance. I have to say I loved the choreography, it was clever, fast-paced and energetic. Overall, it may be fluff and a tad schmaltzy, but it is an excellent and timeless holiday movie. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Great musical","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is truly one of the most underrated musicals of all time. Although it is really not that unique for a film or a musical of its type, I found it completely enjoyable nonetheless, even more so than most musicals I've seen. By this time, the song White Christmas had become so popular that a musical about it would simply have to be made. This film is about as funny as an musical of its type, with scenes such as Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye dressing up as women to fill in for the Sisters act. I love the music as well. The title song is important of course, though the film includes one of my personal favorite songs, Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep, a meaningful, inspiring, and beautiful song that is unforgettable. It's a great holiday film that will make you feel good, guaranteed. It's touching, fun, and nearly perfect.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Me love Bing","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am not sure I can express how much I love Bing Crosby. I am not really familiar with him, but the more I experience the joy that is Bing the more I love him. I think this is such a great time period for him. He is a little older so he has a bit of wisdom to him that only a weathered face contains, but he stills has enough energy to pull off some pretty nice dance moves and has an on screen energy that just does not exist anymore. My favorite scene in the whole movie is near the beginning when Crosby and Kaye go back and forth after the show and it is pure magic. The energy and dialog has rarely been match in my eyes. Granted my eyes are young and have seen a lot of the greats, but what a great scene. I love this movie and it makes me feel good. It is a Christmas movie for me and I could not watch any other time of the year, but it is a fun movie. I loved the dance and musical sequences and watching Vera-Ellen dance is quite a site. That women is more legs than anything else and she can move. I could immediately tell who the singers were and who the dancers were, but I did not mind. Everyone has a great dynamic with each other and it is so much fun to watch. The movie does have some problems, but it is easy to overlook it because it is just so gosh darn fun. Honestly I love the ending with the general. It really gets to me. On the other hand I loved both Crosby and Clooney's characters, but I did not buy their relationship and its development. That would be the biggest complaint, but it captures a memory that reminds of me of home more than most other movies. Honestly I really think there is a lot wrong with the movie, but it personally it creates a comfort zone for me that reminds me of what it means to be part of a family. It sounds corny, but I am sounding more corny each day. Good movie and Crosby just shines in a way that men don't shine anymore. "},{"Title":"Fine Xmas movie","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Are these comments for real? Do the authors realize that this movie wasn't made in the 21st century. All movies made then, particularly the musicals seems somewhat strange in today's setting. But this was a very good movie and it doesn't matter if there wasn't a lot of fake snow, or, if virtuoso acting performances weren't given by some of the greatest acts of the day.Danny Kaye is perhaps in the top ten of all time film performers and perhaps the most multi-talented man who ever graced the screen. Vera Ellen is a dancer matched only among women by Cyd Charisse. Bing Crosby, other than singing one of the greatest Xmas songs of all time (I won't say best, even if it is the best selling) was a wonderful comic actor whose work here is of the same quality as it was in the Road movies. Rosemary Clooney, perhaps the least of the entertainers, was the best actor of the bunch. But, guess what, you critical Scrooges -- the movie was about the music and the dancing, not the plot or the fake snow or the acting.I missed this point once myself watching Oh Brother! Where art thou? I told a friend the next day after I watched it that it wasn't all that funny a comedy, but, strangely, I couldn't get the music out of my head. He said, you idiot, it's all about the music. Huh? I rented it again. What a great movie once I had my head on straight.So here's your Xmas assignment. Watch the movie again and stop looking for DeNiro. Singing, dancing. Irving Berlin. Come on, guys. "}{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" My father-in-law had looked at me crazy when I said that I had never seen this film. It's now 2008 and I've watch this absolutely wonderful classic! It has so much charm and wit! I loved it and would recommend it to anyone. My 8 year old son enjoyed it too. It is very family friendly. Danny Kaye and Bing Crosby really bring this film to life with their clever comebacks and such. The story line will have you wanting to know more every second. Even my 8 year old son (who thinks girls are yucky) was very interested in the flirtatious nature of the two couples in the film. So much charm and class. I can't praise it enough! The only thing I didn't like is that it had to have an end. I'll watch it again soon... Tonight!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Heart Warming Christmas Classic of all time !!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I agree with most of the comments, except those of the negative type. You can't accept this movie as great, then you ate too much fruitcake.I love this movie with all my heart. I just love the scenes, dialogue, the goofy corny stuff. Why must people be so serious all the time. Danny Kaye was masterful in this, as was Bing.I watch this movie about 15 times every year between Thanksgiving and Christmas. An uplifting, melodic movie with beautiful people with great thoughts. A must see. 10 out of 10. Vera Ellen dances with the grace of a Forrest doe, lightly on her feet. Her voice given to her is deep and trusting. I have since I was old enough to watch Rosemary Clooney in this movie, and appearing on Cincinnati's Bob Braun Show . A voice so lovely, and so cute. Acting together as sisters is believable, and wholesome. I love how this movie shows kinda how life was in this time. "},{"Title":"Great Family Movie","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" VISTA VISION...when I see that on the television screen I know exactly what I am about to watch...I used to have to beg the kids to watch it with me....Hopefully though now they are teens they will still want to view it with their old dad...If not I can steal my 8 month old Granddaughter...she's to young to escape. This movie always took me back to the time I was a little boy and watched it with my mom. Hot chocolate, cookies stringing popcorn for the tree and waiting for the movie to be shown on a local station. Thank goodness we now have our favorites on VHS or DVD, so we don't have to worry about time constraints, or cutting out pivotal songs or scenes that add to great shows like this. Just talking about this movie makes me want to start decorating the whole house. I always wondered why Rosemary Clooney wasn't on the soundtrack....Peggy Lee did a good enough job, but it took something away for me....when you are used to hearing Rosie ! Funny how today artists can guest on another artists label and no problem....such were the days I guess.....TV STATIONS if you are going to show the movie...please show the whole thing. May your days be merry and bright.Lee Pecue "},{"Title":"Family Tradition","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" So I'm 28 and for as long as I have been alive I have watched this movie with my family on Thanksgiving Day. It has been a long time family tradition that we have been able to see grow over the years with new additions to our family like neices and nephews brothers and sisters in law. It is a truly magical movie that really brings the whole family together and for a couple of hours nothing else in the world matters. From the beginning songs like We'll follow the old man wherever he wants to go. To Sisters to Snow all the way to the last song White Christmas With all of us singing along of coarse This movie will forever be in my families tradition.This is a truly memorable movie... "},{"Title":"Irving Berlin's White Christmas is wonderful holiday fluff for the ages","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" To celebrate Christmas and to pay respects to Mr. Bing Crosby who died a little more than 30 years ago, I decided to watch for the first time in its entirety, White Christmas. This movie made of Irving Berlin songs both old and new, also stars Danny Kaye, Vera-Ellen, Rosemary Clooney, Dean Jagger, and Mary Wickes with some familiar bit players like Herb Vigran and Grady Sutton. Also, George Chakiris, best known as Bernardo in West Side Story, is a dancing extra here. The story of two former army buddies-turned-musical-partners who meet a two sister singing act that's on their way to a lodge owned by the general of the former army pals is just a contrivance to put together various songs to fit in certain segments. Good musical performances abound with some of my favorites being Choreography with Kaye and Vera-Ellen making fun of Jazz-Ballet and the Count Your Blessings duet with Crosby and Clooney. While I said the story is pretty contrived, I also was mostly willing to go along with most of it as the performers made it all go down easy with director Michael Curtiz lending a brisk pace throughout. The now-classic song White Christmas was probably better handled in Holiday Inn by Bing some 12 years before but still, it's a good way to both begin and end this wonderful showcase to Mr. Berlin that's become a holiday classic for the last 50 years. P.S.-The picture that Vera-Ellen show of she and Clooney's brother that served with Bing and Danny is that of former Our Ganger/Little Rascal Carl Alfalfa Switzer! "},{"Title":"Beloved holiday classic a warm and funny charmer of a movie","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There isn't much to say about this movie that hasn't already been said by many other fans, but the gentle humor and wonderful dance numbers, the engaging personalities of the stars, and the feel good storyline make this a true classic. The four main players interact so easily and comfortably with each other that their friendships and romances seem believable and very appealing. Who can fail to laugh at the engagement scene, when a seductive Vera Ellen puts the moves on a terrified Danny Kaye, or not choke up when the retired General enters the dining room to thunderous applause, and tries not to shed a tear of gratitude when he sees his former troops reunited to honor him?In a more cynical world of today, this movie is a heart warming tribute to sentiment and sincerity, beautifully played by all the cast.A wonderful movie to be enjoyed every Christmas, year after year. "},{"Title":"Hands down, my favorite holiday movie...","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" WHITE Christmas is the classic re-working of the 1942 film HOLIDAY INN, which follows the story of Bob Wallace (Bing Crosby) and Phil Davis (Danny Kaye), army buddies who later become a successful showbiz team who find themselves helping out their retired commanding officer (Dean Jagger) who now owns a run down Vermont Inn and falling for a sister act at the same time. This colorful and entertaining musical has been a favorite of mine since childhood. I was unable to go to sleep on Christmas Eve until I watched this...now they hardly ever show it on Christmas Eve anymore. Crosby and Kaye make a great team and they receive great support from Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen as the Haynes sisters. Mary Wickes garners some big laughs as the general's housekeeper and future Oscar winner George Chakiris can be spotted in a couple of production numbers. Musical highlights include Sisters, The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing, Count your Blessings,'Choreography, and of course, the title tune. Some consider this film the bastard stepchild to HOLIDAY INN, but I absolutely love it and can watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"A WHITE Christmas 1954","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was a fun, feel good movie. The Dean Jagger finale brought tears to my eyes. Vera Ellen was as agile and beautiful a dancer as I've ever seen. Fred Astaire missed an opportunity to have some real fun when he decided not to appear in this film. Danny Kaye did an outstanding job. Rosemary Clooney was delightful and Bing was Bing at his best.THE Sisters tune, performed by Clooney and Ellen was especially memorable.Needless to say, I loved the movie and the performances of the cast.I can't wait to watch it again...Ron Harn "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Holiday Film","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Sadly, it doesn't feel so good that almost every member of the cast & crew of this film is no longer with us, but this work that they have left is very watchable. This film was shot in color & wide screen & it still looks plush & alive even now. The way to watch it is when Turner Classic films is running it in wide screen too. This film is one of the only times Danny Kaye & Bing Crosby worked together & it is a shame it did not happen more. They are delightful in this film. Rosemary Clooney & Vera Ellen are too. This Paramount production was one of the most expensive they produced the year it was released & it was also number 1 in the box office.While the story is very simplistic by today's standards & even when it was released in 1954, it doesn't matter. You put your brain away & enjoy this holiday film as a rare chance to see some veteran performers from the World War 2 era entertain you. There's lots of musical numbers & dancing from the era of the big musical. All of it is well staged, & the music is at the height previous to rock & roll era. If your into old films, go back to the mid-1940's when Bing Crosby did the song White Christmas for the first time on film in Paramounts Holiday Inn as there are a couple of comparisons to note. First, Bing sings the song solo in the first film where in this 1954 version the entire ensemble (cast) sing it together. Second, the Holiday Inn is the same set used for the Pine Tree Inn in the second film. Paramount saved some money on sets there. Funny, Crosby gets demoted too in a way. In the first film he actually owns the Holiday Inn where in this film, his former Major-general owns it. The scripts between the 2 are quite different too. Fred Astaire is in the first one in 1942 too. In a way, some folks consider this an inferior remake to Holiday Inn, but to me there are vast differences in the films. White Christmas fits the era it was made, as 1954 was a feel good era where every problem was always being solved. An interesting thing about this film, it incorporates the power of the television media into the plot already in 1954. Most folks then did not realize how far that power would grow into todays national fixation where if something is on TV, too often people believe it as true. Back in 1954, people were still intelligent enough to know when something was not true on its media. That is why you don't care about a strong story line in this film. Everything is fake, but back then fake was fine with people, as long as it was harmless & entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It was a certain era in Hollywood and since Hollywood is all about the facade and the imagery and the not the real lives of the people that play parts, this one has always been one of my favorites. I could see how some may not like it, but having headed to Vermont from the Philadelphia area at Christmastime for many years as a child and having moved to Vermont as an adult, there is a special connection to this. It was an interesting movie as it combined stage shows wrapped around a Christmas story (giving) and packaged in a Hollywood movie. I'd rate it up there with It's a Wonderful Life as one of my favorite Christmastime movies although I can see how every generation seems to grab on to their favorite stories at Christmas, be they the written word or on film. If you haven't seen it and like sentimental movies, you might like this one. "}{"Title":"It's Not A Remake of Holiday Inn!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am surprised at the number of people who continue to say White Christmas is a remake of Holiday Inn. Granted, both films include Irving Berlin songs, Bing Crosby, and the song White Christmas, but otherwise it's all different!! I happen to like the film, Holiday Inn, very much, and I like this film as well. But,the characters are different, the plot is different, and so are most of the songs.Both films are holiday classics. Each film can be judged on its own merits.There is one additional comment I'd like to make. Irving Berlin was a shrewd businessman as well as a great composer. For various movie studios, he'd pitch ideas for films (using his music of course and getting film credit above the title), and then not only write new material but revive some of his old songs. This was a very smart way of making money by re-popularizing mostly forgotten songs. By the way, the composer makes money every time his song is played on radio or TV.Not only is White Christmas an example, but also Alexander's Ragtime Band, Blue Skies, Easter Parade, and There's No Business Like Show Business. "},{"Title":"classic of all time","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've been watching this movie for 38 years. It's part of our family holiday tradition to watch White Christmas as well as Holiday Inn, Meet Me in St. Louis, not to mention the many other classics! Susan with her grandfather, Major General Tom Waverly brings me to tears every time. It reminds me of my grandfather who was a proud Marine and how much respect I had for him and still do. He, and his generation are almost gone which is saddest of all.The WWII Generation brought so much class to the movies. There aren't many classic movies anymore which is sad.I'm so glad we have all the classics like White Christmas on DVD to keep our hearts close to all those TRUE Hollywood greats like Bing, RoseMary, Danny and Vera.We miss you all and hope you know how much your performances over the years touched us all! Happy Holidays. "},{"Title":"My favorite Christmas movie","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I cannot remember a Christmas season when I did not watch White Christmas on broadcast television, cable and satellite, at least once. I purchased a VHS copy some years ago, when my job did not permit me to watch it during Christmas Eve with my family. The performances by Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, Vera Ellen and Dean Jagger are excellent. The Irving Berlin Music, Choreography, Cinematography, and Direction by Michael Curtiz are outstanding. The rich Technicolor on the film, in wide screen Vistavision format no less, the dancing, singing, the indoor and outdoor scenes(even those on a sound stage), the supporting characters and the staging are wonderful. Rosemary Clooney never looked so beautiful or Bing Crosby more handsome. Danny Kaye is marvelous, dancing and singing, and acting too. This film brings a tear to my eye at the end of the film every time I watch it. I love this film, and never tire of seeing it, year after year. I watch other Christmas movies during the holiday season, but this is my hands down favorite. I would love to find a DVD copy of this movie in a widescreen format similar to Vistavision, to enjoy this classic all over again. "},{"Title":"Count Your Blessings That You've Seen This Film","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I remember when this movie first came out, and a clip was played from the movie to promote it on television. It was the scene where Rosemary Clooney has been misinformed about what Bing is going to do to promote the show and she slams a chair on the stage and walks off. This was at a time when new Wide-Screen Movies were going a-muck and this was the first movie presented in Vista-Vision one of the many to come our way such as Cinamascope, Super-Scope, Cinerama, and Todd-A-O just to mention a few. So, we know the movie and how entertaining it is, but there is a little history behind it and one of it's stars.Rosemary Cloony, born and raised in Maysville, Kentucky, started singing here in Cincinnati, Ohio with her sister Betty on W.L.W. Radio, and then eventually Rosemary went to New York City and then eventually to Hollywood where she made a few films, but White Christmas was to be her most well known and successful film of her career. I remember when Rosemary made her debut in the movies in The Stars Are Singing and we were having exams in High School, so after the exams a friend of mine and I went to the Albee Theater and saw her walk in through the Vine Street Stage Door to the theater. Then between showings she got on the stage, sang some songs and talked about how it was so amazing to see herself on that big movie screen. So, years later, Rosemary's brother Nick would be our news anchor at W.K.R.C. television and then his son George Clooney, Rosemarys nephew, would make his mark in Hollywood as an excellent actor. Wonder where he got the talent from? So, Rosemary was on Tom Snyders Show on T.V. and he said, I guess you're very proud of George, aren't you? And she answered, Oh, yes! But when he first came to Hollywood, all he wanted to do was sit on my couch, watch T.V., and drink beer. So, I had to kick his ass out of the house tell him to get a job! So, back to White Christmas One thing that people don't know is that Donald O'Connor was originally scheduled to play the Danny Kaye part but couldn't so he eventually played with Bing Crosby in the remake of Anything Goes, and since Vera Ellen never really had a good singing voice, her voice double was usually Anita Ellis and for Call Me Madam, Carole Richards, who dubbed mostly for Cyd Charisse, but for White Christmas, when Vera Ellen is singing, that's really Rosemary's sister Betty Clooney dubbing for Vera Ellen's singing voice. By the way, Vera Ellen was born and raised in a section of Cincinnati, Ohio called Norwood! We can count our blessings that we have such wonderful entertainers from this city, including Doris Day, George Chakiris, Tyrone Power, and there's a rumor that Roy Rogers was born on the waterfront, and of course, the Looney Clooney's including George! "},{"Title":"A Christmas movie worth buying; nostalgia","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" and sentimentalism abound; but it is still a charming and innocent movie, marking the era it was made, 1954. My parents grew up in this era, and I have a remembrance of seeing this film at grandmother's house many, many times.While the story is predictable, it is peppered with musical numbers; interesting cinematography, and believable dialogue. It is also something suitable for young children, as it it creative and sentimental, without being completely saccharine-sweet.Rosemary Clooney is excellent when she sings Love, you didn't do right by me; the staging is very 50's, and kitschy. Bing Crosby is the straight man, Danny Kaye the comic relief; Vera-Ellen is the dance talent. The scenes where they take the train from Florida, to Vermont, hoping for snow, are pure Americana; The set decoration is original and nostalgic.The costumes and set decoration are quaint and somewhat familiar- It gives the audience a feeling of home, and security- Dean Jagger is the retired army general, and his ski lodge in the 1950's is something we all wish still existed, especially for Christmas in Vermont. If you need good Christmas memories, buy or rent this film- you should also let your kids see this while they are still young and not as cynical; it is a Christmas must, the music and dance numbers are very memorable. It reflects a Christmas past, and innocence we may never have again. "},{"Title":"Christmas in...well, August.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is, simply put, a holiday tradition- but you can certainly enjoy it any time of the year. Others have described the story and script as a straight-forward happy experience, and it is just that. It could've been conceived any time of the year, but as it is, the story bookends two Christmases over the span of ten years. After it settles into the current year of the film, it ends with a luminous Christmas Eve snowfall. Simple, uncluttered magic. The film *is* sentimental and a bit schmaltzy, and that doesn't hurt it one iota. And while Bing Crosby is the star of this one as well as 'Holiday Inn,' I don't entirely buy that this is a remake of that. (No other holidays are mentioned in this film.) But it does have the late Rosemary Clooney (a siren of beauty *and* song) playing nicely off Crosby, especially in the duet Count Your Blessings, as well as comic genius Danny Kaye- who is especially fine in the satirical Choreography and his glamorous, Astaire-like dance with Vera-Ellen to The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing. The film's one sour note is in its leaden third act. It rolls along at a marvelous light-hearted pace for roughly 70 minutes, the principals all approaching their material with an ever-so-sly wink to the audience and each other. (Snow is especially lovely, with the group's 4-part harmony on the train tempered by their deadpan comedy at the less-than-climactic revelation of the 68-degree 'winter playground.') Then a sickeningly small misunderstanding- which could've been resolved in 5 minutes instead of the final third of the movie- slows everything down. But that's nitpicking. Few things on earth can match the joy of a tapping Vera-Ellen or the pair of Crosby and Kaye on the brink of giggles as they lip-sync Sisters in their rhinestones and feather boas. Would've liked more singing by the gorgeous Clooney, and more than one dance with Kaye and Ellen (but I understand that to be a compromise from the producers, who originally planned for Fred Astaire- and then Donald O'Connor- to be in Kaye's role). The other numbers- The Army, Mandy, and the title number- are all winning. "},{"Title":"Trivia","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Early in the film,Crosby and Kaye meet Rosemary Clooney and Vera Ellen at a supper club, for the first time.  The girls ask the boys to review their act, as sort of a favor to their brother, who served with the boys in the Army.  While they're talking, the girls show them a photo of their brother.Look hard.  If the fellow looks familiar, it's because it's none other than Carl Alfalfa Switzer of The Little Rascals.Switzer appeared a number of small roles, but this, by far, is the smallest.  Another is the part of a mischievous high school student who opens the dance floor over the pool, as Jimmy Stewart and Donna Reed are dancing the Charleston in It's a Wonderful Life. "},{"Title":"Simply a Wonderful Film!!!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  *********MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*****White Christmas; a classic movie to many, though a bit misunderstood by those who don't necessarily care for it. So what is it about White Christmas that gets our hearts pitty pattering for the Christmas season to unravel itself? Besides the fact that it has a wonderful score, wonderful actors/actresses/dancers etc, and positive message, it's hard to understand how anyone could dislike a movie such as this.Though White Christmas is in fact one of my favorite Holiday movies, I have heard others say they didn't like it on grounds of it not being a Christmas movie, or that it has no Christmas worthy message. To all this I beg to differ. White Christmas has more to do with Christmas or the holidays than one would think. I mean, what really is the true meaning of Christmas anyways? Besides being a Christian holiday, it's also the season of giving. For doing things for one another for the sake of humanity, and that's exactly what this movie portrays.Alright so the real only Christmas thing about the movie is the beginning and the end, but think of the basic principle that serves as a catalyst up to the final tear jerking moment of the film.So let's rewind. Bob Wallace (Bing Crosby) and Phil Davis (Danny Kaye) are two soldiers serving under General Thomas F. Waverly (Dean Jagger) who is retiring from the army near the end of WW2. Under lucky circumstances Phil saves Bob's life during an unexpected air-raid leaving Bob obliged to make it up to Phil, who's one kooky idea is to team up with Bob in show business. The result being that they both become the infamous Wallace and Davis stage act.Along the way they meet The Hayne Sisters, who are the sisters of a fellow army buddy of theirs, and also just making a name for themselves as a performing sister act too. Phil wants Bob to settle down, so he tries to pair up Betty (Rosemary Clooney)and Bob, whom are both head strong, responsible and stubborn, while he finds himself getting whisked away by Judy (Vera-Ellen) Betty's younger, more impulsive sister.All of this happens within the first 45 minutes of this movie, but the story really doesnt go into effect until they all four decide to go to Vermont together where the Hayne sisters are to perform at an Inn that is in fear of going out of business. Ironically enough the Inn belongs to General Waiverly, who was Wallace and Davis's role model and mentor during WW2. From that moment on Phil and Bob decide to put their fame to good use, and help the ol' General out by sending for their stage show and crew, to use the inn as a rehearsal center. They rebuild the place, build a killer stage with an ochestra, throw the Hayne Sisters into their act, and bring on a ton of publicity for the General's Inn. See...the big reason the Inn is going under is because the unseasonably warm weather is keeping the snow away, and that's where the money is supossedly. Everything seems to be going rosey, or so everyone thinks, until the General, who's getting anxious again decides to go back into the army, only to be turned down because of his age. Or so the movie lets on to believe.Danny and Bing decide to give a pitch on television to all the men who served under the General during the war in hopes that they would come out to Vermont on Christmas Eve to pay their respects to the General to let him know how much he meant to them.And as the finale of the movie appears up on screen, those last tearjerking 10 minutes. You see the General get the best gift he ever could get.Of course there are moments that are so cheesy that they ooze velveeta all over the place, but all in all it does show you what this movie is about. The rewards for doing things for other, and giving them experiences that they will never forget.I guess I enjoy this movie so much because it comes from a time when things were simpler. Both of my Grandmother's love Bing Crosby so it's nice to sit down and watch a movie that isn't coated in sex and scandals or violence. Where real entertainment was with music and singing and dancing. The music, and colors, and morals portrayed are a kind of dying art. And regardless of whether this movie IS as Christmasy people want it or dont want it to be, it should just be watched as a whole. A simply wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A Christmas treasure!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a grand Hollywood salute to Christmas.  In addition to the wonderful Irving Berlin standard White Christmas there are many other great songs and dance routines.  When You're Dancing featuring Danny Kaye and Vera-Ellen is terrific; Danny could really dance, and partnered the fabulous Vera-Ellen is a way that can only be called magical.  My personal favorite scene in the film is the number Choreography with Danny and Vera-Ellen. The opinion it expresses  They're not dancing anymore; they're doing choreography. sums up the second half of the 20th Century!A film treasure! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Despite what some would pan as slick and lacking substance, White Christmas is by far the best holiday film ever made and should be taken for what it is pure musical entertainment. It was written to showcase the work of Irving Berlin, which it does admirably. It is a movie to which one may relax and enjoy the Christmas spirit and not worry about subtext and pretext. It is just an all-around fine American film. Christmas would not be Christmas without it. "}{"Title":"An Uplifting and cute musical for Christmas!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie very much.  I've seen it so much that now I sing and dance with the actors/actresses.  The musical is uplifting with some cute dance numbers.  My sister and I especially like the Sister number in the movie. Though we first saw this movie some decades ago when we were kids, we will especially watch and sing the repeated verse of Sister when that song is being performed - whether it's the Haynes sisters or the Wallace and Davis version. "},{"Title":"Clean White Christmas.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The scene with the White Christmas song will always be a nice comfort.  I watched this movie with pneumonia while away from my family.  I felt sympathetic with the drabby soldiers missing their white Christmas homes. And to see Bing and Danny's characters intent on entertaining as performers through the whole movie, one must give consideration to a boy out on the field or a forgotten general.  This homesick recognition mixed with the Christmas theme gives this movie a very familiar, melancholy feel.  I like it. "},{"Title":"I'm not sure...but daylight's beginning to glimmer...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best holiday films ever (granted, I've never seen Holiday Inn or Miracle On 34th Street, but it's even great in July! The scene with Vera Ellen and Danny Kaye dancing on the overturned boat is one of my favourites, and the joint gets jumpin' with the 'Abraham Number.' My only complaint is that there is *NO* soundtrack! That's just not right! "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I know my words may not be as authoritative, knowledgable or mockishly sly as the other review/comments posted about this film, but I just had to write something.I love this film.  I don't exactly know why.  I know this is the one film I've been waiting to appear on DVD and it will be out in November (if that means anything to anyone).  I guess I had to write just to say that I didn't find the film as schmaltzy or...I have to say it...as bad as the other reviewer did.  They didn't say it outright but it's kind of implied.I think Bing and Danny are great in this film.  I really liked Holiday Inn as well, but I like Danny so much better than Fred Astair (if we're comparing the films and their very loosely similar stories).  I liked Rosemary Clooney and Bing playing off of each other (I just wish that Rosemary's vocals could have been included on the soundtrack.  Her version of Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me is wonderful) and Vera-Ellen (though maybe not the best actress) makes the dance numbers pop through the screen.It might have been bigger and louder to compete with TV, but this is a great movie no matter how you cut it.  Just try it and see. "},{"Title":"A warm, delightfully festive holiday movie.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Irving Berlin's White Christmas is a movie that holds a special place in my heart. The music & dance numbers are fabulous, and the little comedy snipetts are super! It's a holiday movie about two Army pals (Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye) who join forces after WWII as a song and dance team. Their adventures take them to Florida where they meet up with a sister act (Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney) who are booked for the holidays at an inn in Vermont; which turns out to be owned by the guy's old Army General. The girls and guys team up to put on a dianamite show to bring business to the inn. In the process there are songs, dances, a little misunderstanding and of course romance! I have loved this movie since I was a little girl, it's a holiday movie no one should miss. It's become a personal holiday favorite of mine I hope it turns out to be yours too!    "},{"Title":"A Christmas Tradition","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It has become a tradition that every Christmas eve my dad and I pull out White Christmas and watch it.  I absolutely love this movie, especially the Sisters routine by both the ladies and the men.  Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye were a wonderful pair of comedians/crooners/dancers.  Bing Crosby will always be my favorite.  I have bought my dad almost every old Bing movie that I have found, and we love to kick back and enjoy them.  White Christmas is our all time favorite, though.  Christmas just wouldn't be the same without White Christmas.P.S.  Does anyone know of a fan club for Rosemary Clooney? "},{"Title":"Cheerful unreality - the best kind of Christmas movie!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Christmas movies (Second only to the black and white version of Scrooge), because it is cheerful, uplifting, heartwarming, and generally has absolutely no resemblance to reality whatsoever. Bing Crosby, of course, is the king of musicals, and he does not disappoint in this movie. "},{"Title":"It's a classic","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas is one of my all-time favorite films.  When I was just a little girl, my father and I watched it one night and ever since then, I've gone back to it time and time again.  The cast is marvelous (I've always had a thing for Danny Kaye) and the singing and dancing are superb.  It's one of those films that leaves your heart full and it will always be one of my favorite treasures.  "},{"Title":"Christmas in the domestic circle, in the dark days","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is one of the few films without faults. It is a pleasure to watch, and as the cover of my DVD says a lovely classic,in which dreams come true. The events work out well, in a credible way. Since the narrative unfolds in show business, all passions can be readily supported by magnificent sing- and dance-acts. The atmosphere of Christmas is captured extremely well, with Christmas trees, holly, snow, bells, Santa Claus costumes, and a cozy fireplace. Don't expect any references to the little child Jesus. The theme is the power of the old-boys network, in this case the strong bonding between the soldiers of a company, that fought during WW2. The general is a real peoples manager, and is adored by (most of) his subordinates We'll follow the old man wherever he wants to go. After the war he starts a hotel business in Vermont. Since he can use some publicity, his former subordinates Bob Hope and Danny Kaye, who are successful entertainers in show business, decide to do their rehearsals in the hotel. In addition they organize a giant reunion for the company there. It is actually not a dream, but good fun and nostalgia and re-bonding. On their way Hope and Kaye meet two sisters, Rosemary Clooney and Vera Ellen, and all experience love at first sight, in a compatible way. Even this is credible, considering the reputations of Hope and Kaye. In short the general, the four stars and the audience have a wonderful and self-assuring time. Luck reaches its climax, when suddenly the snow starts to fall. Snow in Vermont, this ensures a busy season for the generals hotel. Will the dream continue? Will luck last? Who knows? The hotel may well establish itself. Concerning the relations between Hope-Clooney and Kaye-Ellen I am not so sure, because from the start they look a bit shaky. But don't worry, thanks to their networks replacements will soon be found. All in all, the film White Christmas is a lovely film to watch in the domestic circle, during the darkest days of the year.Will the film itself last? The small number of reviews is astonishing. But it is indeed mainly the film of my parents, in a time when music and dance were still appreciated by the cinema spectators. Perhaps at that time the people craved for simple happiness, after the Depression and the war. I have inherited a liking for musicals and operas, but clearly the genre has become obsolete, at least in this shape. Modern people get bored by an indulgent narrative, that is devoid of any lessons of life. They expect drama or satire. It may well be, that White Christmas is a product of its period, that can not stand the judgment of time, and is eventually banned to the archives. "},{"Title":"You are not exactly Superman, but you are awfully available.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm dreaming of a white Christmas...who am I kidding? It will be 84 here today and the chance of a white Christmas is about equal to the Dolphins beating the Patriots on Christmas Eve eve.But, I always am a chump for the music of Irving Berlin and the singing of Bing Crosy. I'll even put up with the antics and Danny Kaye and the groaningly awful vaudevillian numbers to see this film over and over.Add to that the crooning of George Clooney's Aunt Rosemary, the absolutely cute Vera-Ellen, Oscar-winner Dean Jagger (Twelve O'Clock High), and seeing snow the only way I can.This is one I watch over and over. "}{"Title":"beautiful movie......legend","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie will live on as a ten out of ten, its a masterpiece and a small treasure, and every year millions of family look back on it during the holidays. I love watching it during the holidays because it gives me that cozy feeling, with my small cup of hot chocolate and the dresses up Christmas tree....what is Christmas without it? Anyone who dispises this movie, do you have Christmas spirit? It makes you feel warm, no matter what age, what year, what time it is, it always makes you feel at home and I don't understand how people can be disliking such a beautiful uprising movie. It's so indescribable, in a good way, I'm always going to love this movie. "},{"Title":"I don't know what he's up to, but he's got that Rogers and Hammerstein look again.","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Often, repeat viewings of a movie will reward me with a greater appreciation for it, however in the case of White Christmas, the effect may be the opposite, so I might better 'count my blessings' and stop with today's screening. Don't get me wrong, I'm all for nostalgia, but this one appears to have aged rather poorly, perhaps for no other reason than the passage of time and changing tastes.Probably the thing that works against the film the most is the choice of songs that have nothing to do with Christmas or the holiday season. Yes, there's the title song and repeated lines from 'Snow', but what's up with the 'Mandy' dance number and the 'Choreography' routine. Rosemary Clooney's Carousel Club song, Love, You Done Me Wrong seemed particularly troubling, even though it momentarily fit her situation with the Bingster. Also, another poster on this board had it right about What Can You Do With A General - I actually picked up the video sleeve to remind me what I was watching.Apart from the actual story, there's no reason not to admire the talent on display by the principals. To my mind, there's no finer singing voice than Bing Crosby's. Danny Kaye is spirited as Bing's partner, but he does tap that arm a bit much in the later going. Clooney's charm manages to come through her reserved character, but the showstopper if there is one would be Vera-Ellen in that 'Mandy' routine, watching leaves one almost as breathless as she should have been while doing it.Except for the title and the packaging, White Christmas has no claim on the truly great holiday films like It's A Wonderful Life or the Alastair Sim A Christmas Carol. The only thing I WOULD like to know is if Emma (Mary Wickes) ever DID resign from 'Busybody's Anonymous'. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I enjoy watching Judy dance, and Betty sing. Of course the quartet together is hilarious and beautiful in melody. Judy is amazing! She must have really, really been in good shape for her age. The dresses are beautiful...now if only we could buy them today!!! Good, clean fun. Not something they make anymore. The normal way of life back then is so evident in this movie. It was easy to make friends. Keeping them (Benny) was important. Helping others means a lot for the giver. Family and friends stick together. Respect is shown to everyone. Use your talents just to have fun. Wish I lived back then! My first old movie and I was hooked. At age 10 I sat at home on vacation and learned every word and every song. I was hooked. Its that good! Seriously. ~ Wishing for a White Christmas of my own in Wisconsin ~ "},{"Title":"Colorful, seasonal  remake of HOLIDAY INN","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was one of the last successful projects involving Irving Berlin. In 1943 he had made the film Holiday Inn with Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, as song and dance partners who split when Crosby decides to leave the act, and Astaire tries to settle down with the woman in the act that both men loved. Crosby turns his farm in Connecticut into an occasional bed and breakfast inn that is opened only on twelve national holidays, and produces special shows for the guests on those nights, with Marjorie Reynolds as his new partner. Astaire (after getting the heave-ho from his girlfriend) shows up with their agent (Walter Abel) and tries to romance Reynolds away from the inn and Crosby.Eleven years later Berlin decided the time was ripe for a remake, and originally planned to have Astaire in it again (it would have been the third Crosby-Astaire film, with Blue Skies as the center one). Astaire could not be in the film, and eventually the role went to Danny Kaye. One wonders if the original script of Holiday Inn would have been used or a version of it. As it was, the new film was also set in a New England inn (in Vermont this time), and the story borrows a shade or two from Berlin's World War I musical Yip Yip Yaphank as well as his World War II war morale film This Is The Army.Now Crosby is prominent singer and performer who was drafted and is a Captain in a regiment near the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944. The Major General commanding is Dean Jagger, although as the film begins he is on the verge of retiring. However, Jagger is present when the men, led by Crosby and assisted by energetic and talented private Danny Kaye, put on a Christmas show. Shortly afterward, Kaye saves Crosby's life when he knocks him out of the way of a collapsing brick wall, and suffers an injury. Crosby, as a promise, agrees to sing a song Kaye composed (as a duet - so Kaye has to sing it too) in his first performance after the war. As a result Crosby and Kaye become partners - eventually becoming like Rodgers and Hammerstein producers of shows as well.They meet a pair of singing and dancing sisters (Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney) in Florida, and end up with the girls in the latter's next booking at an inn in Vermont. The inn looks like it should be a success, but it is on the verge of bankruptcy, especially as the temperature has been too hot for snow in December. Also the inn is run by Jagger, assisted by a young granddaughter and Mary Wickes. The plot of the film runs into two slots - will Crosby and Clooney and Kaye and Vera-Ellen get together, and will they be able to Jagger become successful without hurting his pride.The film may have started as a clone of Holiday Inn, but it stands on it's own feet well. There is a nasty taste left in viewing Holiday Inn, with Astaire as bounder - villain willing to break up Crosby's romances because of his own needs. WHITE Christmas does not have that. Kaye is willing to remind Crosby about the act of saving his life from time to time, but he actually is quite protective of Crosby's interests, including hoping to help Crosby settle down with a proper wife (though, oddly enough, he never thinks of marriage himself). Their care for Jagger's plight is also well accepted by the audience. Compare it with Walter Abel's constant looking for some type of long term show-biz contract to take to his clients (especially Astaire in fact Abel continuously works for Astaire's benefit at the expense of Crosby in Holiday Inn). In short, the motivation of the leads in White Christmas is far more admirable.The tunes in White Christmas were actually far more memorable than the ones in Holiday Inn, except for Easter Parade and White Christmas.They include a revival of the song Mandy which had been sung in Eddie Cantor's film Kid Millions in 1937. The one real negative I found was that in White Christmas the lead-in to Mandy was a number glorifying minstrel shows. I doubt that African-American today would appreciate that number very much. But at least it was not done in black-face, as the Abraham number in Holiday Inn was. Somehow both films would have been different regarding those film sequences today if they were being remade. "},{"Title":"Carl Alfalfa Switzer","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you look closely, you see Carl Alfalfa Switzer from the Little Rascals/Our Gang comedies,sitting with the G.I.s watching the performance of Crosby and Kaye in the opening scene during WWII. Later, Alfalfa's photo is shown close-up to the guys. He is un-credited in the film as is dancer/actor George Chakiris from West Side Story fame. I also found some other goofs in the film; before the 2 guys escape from the theater through the window, they drop the feather fans used by the Haynes Sisters in their act; yet when the sisters later perform, the fans re-appear. Also, a taxi miraculously appears alongside the side of the theater to take the guys to the train station just as they exit through the window and they catch the train to Vermont. Incidentally,there is no train from Florida to Vermont. Finally, the great song Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me was omitted on the soundtrack listing. It was sung by Rosemary Clooney. "},{"Title":"BARRIE CHASE","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm happy to know that I wasn't the only fan who noticed Barrie Chase in a bit part in WHITE Christmas. I originally guessed at Barbara Nichols but the movie credits set me straight. Did she have any recognizable dance credits? I would have loved to have seen her perform. She is both lovely & talented & would have been excellent in a solo or with George Chachiris. My all time favourite Christmas movie, however is still HOLIDAY INN. I adored Marjorie Reynolds & the setting when Bing Crosby & her duetted on WHITE Christmas was very emotional for me. But, I now accept WHITE Christmas as a close second. Why doesn't some bright spark in Hollywood recognize the box office potential of new musicals performed at the same high level that was done in bygone days? There must be talented actors/actresses available to accomplish this - I hope. In any case my personal rating for this film is - EXCELLENT ENTERTAINMENT all round. "},{"Title":"Christmas isn't Christmas without it!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I know a lot of people think this movie is corny and schmaltzy, but hey, it is a 1950s musical - what else do you expect? Besides, there isn't anything wrong with schmaltz, especially at Christmas. It's a warm, fuzzy, feel-good movie and I never get tired of watching it at Christmas - my sister and I usually watch it several times around the holidays. As for the music, it's great too and definitely catchy - I especially love Bing Crosby & Danny Kaye's rendition of Sisters, which is definitely one of the funniest parts of the movie. And while I don't think it's a copy of Holiday Inn, there are some similarities, especially in the musical numbers (White Christmas obviously, but there is also an Abraham dance number that Vera Ellen practices later in the movie). A must-see for everyone at Christmastime! "},{"Title":"Class saved on film for us all","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Well many may see it as corny, but I see it as people showing their talents in a classy act. Rosemary's voice was beautiful and sexy. Bing, well what a smooth deep and melow sound. Even to listen to him talk was a pleasure.Vera Ellen she may have been anorexic, but what a dancer, her and Danny Kaye doing the The best things happen when your dancing routine is pure joy. My wife and all three kids enjoy watching it emmensely. As a matter of fact we are doing so tonight (11-13-2004). And the year, well so many great and wonderful things happened in 1954. My birth among others, a lot of good movies and hey one of the best Presidents this country has seen I like Ike. Well I wish you all a Merry Christmas this year and may it be WHITE of course. Keith L. J. "},{"Title":"Holiday Classic!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  White Christmas (1954- Directed by Michael Curtiz) Again starring Bing Crosby, only this time teaming up with the madcap Danny Kaye.  Partnering these show biz partners are sisters Rosemary Clooney (aunt of, yes, current heart throb, George) and Vera-Ellen.  Again, as with Holiday Inn, the plot is rather thin.  This time around, Crosby and Kaye play entertainers who went through W.W.II together and decide to host a fundraising event at the, again, Vermont Lodge of a their old commanding officer Dean Jagger.  Apparently, Jagger's lodge isn't doing great business and is about to close.  A very high profile fund raising event is just the ticket to draw national attention to Jagger's Vermont lodge and thereby, save the day!  Watch it instead for the fifties fluff. Lots of Technicolor being splashed about and each of the performers get to do their schtick with of course, the required holiday finale at the end of the movie.  Along the way, Crosby gets to sing the title song. "},{"Title":"Just Like The Ones I Used To Know...","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the most beloved of all holiday movies , WHITE Christmas earns its staying power not because it is great film-making or possesses a timeless story for the ages. Compared with Frank Capra's 1946 masterpiece IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE , the 1954 Paramount musical is a negligible trifle. I suspect what compels people to watch it year after year has more to do with nostalgia than anything else. WHITE Christmas is ultimately an enjoyable , even moving experience because it evokes a simpler , more innocent time. Produced less than a decade after World War 2 , the picture's screenwriters use the memory of the war to give the story some dramatic weight but most of the movie is a succession of musical dance numbers , some better than others. With song contributions from Irving Berlin , most written expressly for the movie ( the exception being the title song , which originally debuted in 1942's HOLIDAY INN ) and with great vocals by stars Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney , WHITE Christmas is really a must -see. Its hackneyed plot about two war buddies who form a song and dance act , meet a sister act , fall in love and then help save their old Army general's failing Vermont Inn is pure cornball. Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye play the song and dance team of Wallace and Davis with great verve , with the same kind of chemistry that distinguished the Crosby and Hope Road movies Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen compliment the two men beautifully , Clooney with her rich , expressive singing voice and Ellen with her considerable dancing pyrotechnics. These powerhouse talents can't supplant a woefully weak script but they do manage to take your mind off it often enough to enjoy all the professionalism involved. WHITE Christmas is the work of many seasoned professionals , starting with prolific director Michael Curtiz , a veteran of the silent days who went on to helm the Academy Award winning CASABLANCA among other notable entertainments ; the venerable Irving Berlin , whose songs , even the lesser ones that fill this movie , are never less than enjoyable ; the wonderful supporting performances of Dean Jagger , the epitome of the grand old army man , and Mary Wickes , the nosy but lovable Innkeeper. The movie became the biggest box-office hit of 1954 , opening in October and playing to full houses right through the New Year. It garnered only one Oscar nomination , not surprisingly for Mr. Berlin , who penned the lovely lullaby Count Your Blessings Instead Of Sheep. Rosemary Clooney was showcased not only as a splendid singer but a first rate actress as well. And of course Berlin's masterwork , the movie's title song , was given two terrific renditions , one sung by Crosby near the battlefield accompanied by a plaintive music box , the other a rousing Technicolor finale joined by the entire cast and chorus. WHITE Christmas is overly -sentimental , often silly and sometimes even preposterous. But it's a hard movie to fight. If you are feeling the least bit sentimental and start to watch this holiday staple , for better or worse you'll most likely succumb to its ragged charms. "}{"Title":"I hate reviewing classics especially when it doesn't blow me away","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I suddenly decided to work this epic Christmas classic into my routine this year because I had never seen it. I HATE reviewing classics because who am I to say whether it is good or not because just out of sheer respect and longevity, obviously timeless classics are so for a reason. So I am strictly going by how it made me feel. White Christmas was cute, and it was fun and it certainly has plenty of song and dance routines for those 50's and 60's dance movie fans. The problem is that I just found it sort of ho hum. It never really takes off, I found some of the performances rather sluggish and certainly the pacing for the movie was sluggish. It did not need to be two hours long by any stretch and it just felt like it went on and on with the same concept. Secondly I don't think this really had to be a Christmas movie. Obviously it was built off the insane success of the Christmas song classic White Christmas but the entire film feels like Christmas is an afterthought and almost forced into the story. It would have made a much better comedy-romance without the Christmas theme.Bing Crosby is a brilliant singer and this is the first time I've seen him acting and honestly I didn't think much. I thought his performance was wooden and monotone a lot of the time until he sang which of course is amazing. The romance focusing on his character felt lost because he just looked so unimpressed most of the time and just really not the acting type I think. He looked even worse next to Danny Kaye who is nothing short of brilliant as the boisterous and loud Phil Davis. Kaye steals every scene between them and is just more comfortable and so much more charismatic on screen. He had some edge about him and some machismo but delivered his lines perfectly. Legendary singer Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen are the sisters that capture the two guys' hearts. They are good, but I just didn't feel like they were great. The chemistry between the four of them was just okay although I thought Kaye and Ellen had better chemistry than the other two. Dean Jagger and Mary Wickes play decent roles but quite small, definitely supporting characters.The dance numbers are splashy and elaborate and fun to watch. However, after the first two you'll feel like you've seen it all before. Even some of the songs just feel like the same thing over and over again. The ending of the film was actually what really got me. It was a great ending and almost brought me to tears which is pretty good considering I thought the rest of the film was just all around average. I love musicals and this one just felt like it didn't try hard enough. But then I have to repeat what do I know because this is a timeless classic that has stood the test of time. I know that this won't make a permanent spot in my Holiday rotation, it just didn't impress me but I would never presume to tell anyone not to watch a classic, it simply didn't impress me at all. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Thought it would be better.","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I liked the movie a lot. There were some scenes that I thought to be a bit provocative for that movie making time period though. Although I was a bit disappointed that it was a very long movie, that they seemed to chase after women or so it seemed that way to me and my wife, and the movie did not really have a whole lot to do with Christmas at all. In fact not to spoil it much, the only mention of Christmas was in the last few minutes of the movie. With the exception of the very beginning. If it had a different title, it would be a much better rated movie. Overall though it was a very good musical. I am not sure if this is a good family movie though. Yet, if you like these type of musical movies you are sure to like it. "},{"Title":"I'm (partly) dreaming of a White Christmas...","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Every year at Christmas time we see that there's always one channel playing Irving Berlin's White Christmas. Bing Crosby's follow-up film to Holiday Inn is cheesy good fun from near the end of the golden days of Hollywood. The songs are catchy (a little TOO catchy) and the script is memorable (and predictable). But it seemed like the studio was trying very hard to throw a script together after they realized the actual song White Christmas (sung by Crosby in Holiday Inn) was a huge success.The memorable actress in the film shouldn't be Rosemary Clooney, but her 'sister' Vera Ellen. Clooney masks a great performance with awful lip-syncing that's not convincing even for a two year old, as well as a romantic lead role that she doesn't come out with until the very end of the film.Danny Kaye is a joy as usual, as is Bing Crosby with his mediocre acting but very entertaining singing voice. Kaye (in my book) is a greater Hollywood gem than Crosby who should have been the leads in many films, however he seemed to do better as the 'comic relieving sidekick.' White Christmas is always a holiday delight that's very unbelievable and not a good film. But always good to see just once a year before Christmas just to keep up your Christmas spirits! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie is a timeless classic. The story of two friends who end up in Vermont to help out an old army friend. Emotional, its the ultimate feel good movie. The singing and dancing is amazing. This is the type of movie everyone should see at least once. I've seen it dozens of times and still have not gotten sick of it. Every time Bing Crosby sings Counting my blessings I tear up. Far better then Holiday Inn This movie has a great plot line that combines humor and romance. Sure it could never actually happen, but thats what movies are all about There is nothing bad to say about this movie, it is exceptional..... Vermont, must be nice up there....all that snow "},{"Title":"SNow, sNow, snOw, snoW, SNOOOOW!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  	The spirit of Christmas is alive and well in this delightful musical which features a number of songs, as well as an original score by Irving Berlin, entertainingly presented by the crooner, the comic, the singer and the dancer-- and not necessarily in that order.  It's `White Christmas,' directed by Michael Curtiz and starring Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen.  One of the most popular films of 1954, it opens and closes with the title song, while in between it's filled with one great musical number after another.  It's just after the Second World War; the popular General Waverly (Dean Jagger) has retired to run an inn in Vermont, while a couple of his men, Captain Bob Wallace (Crosby) and Private Phil Davis (Kaye) have gone on to fame and fortune in show biz.  During a Christmas break from their successful show in New York, Wallace and Davis follow an up-and-coming act known as `The Haynes Sisters' (Clooney and Vera-Ellen) to Vermont, where they discover their former commander is in trouble; there hasn't been any snow this year, and no snow means no business at the inn for General Waverly.  But not to worry; with Wallace and Davis on hand, as well as the Haynes sisters, the General's problems are as good as solved.  It's just a matter of figuring out exactly how to go about it, which-- and, of course, it's not much of a surprise-- they do.  And along the way the audience is treated to some spirited and memorable production numbers.  They just don't make &#145;em like this any more, and it's a shame.  Because this is pure entertainment, and one great show.	Veteran director Curtiz, who directed his first film in 1912 in his native Hungary, consistently demonstrated his versatility again and again with films ranging from `Yankee Doodle Dandy,' `Life With Father' and `Casablanca,' to later fare such as `King Creole' in 1958 (which starred Elvis Presley).  And with this one he certainly proved that he knew his way around a musical.  Granted, it was hard to go wrong with Crosby, Kaye, Clooney and Vera-Ellen on board, but there's a big difference between delivering a finished product and making a great movie; and this one definitely falls into the latter category.  The story is solid, and Curtiz makes the most of the talent at his disposal.  Bing is at his best, and the antics of Danny Kaye are a joy to behold, as are the delightful song stylings of Rosemary Clooney.  But with all that talent on hand, the single element that truly takes this film to that higher plateau is the presence of the perky and winsome Vera-Ellen.  	Thought by many to be the best dancer ever to be a part of the studio system, Vera-Ellen is an absolute delight in this film.  Though she couldn't sing (her singing was dubbed by Trudy Stevens), what she could do on a dance floor more than made up for it.  Whether it's the `Sisters' number with Clooney, one with Danny Kaye or just with the guys in the chorus, she is mesmerizing to watch.  It may be a style that defines another era, but when she's dancing-- like Gene Kelley-- it's a timeless proposition and becomes entertainment that belongs to the ages.  It's just such a joy to watch someone like Vera-Ellen do what she does best.  It's transporting.  And when you consider that she is but a part of the equation here, it's easy to understand why this film remains so popular to this day. 	The wonderful Danny Kaye gives a terrific performance here, as well.  It may lack one of the tongue-twisting numbers he was famous for, but he still has ample opportunities to showcase his many and varied talents, which he most certainly does.  There was never any question that this was Bing's picture, but he couldn't have asked for a better second banana than the charismatic Kaye who, like Vera-Ellen, is virtually spellbinding when he's doing what he does best, which is just about anything he does in this film, whether it's singing, dancing, mugging or just throwing out a line to Crosby.  	Clooney's part may not be as flashy as those of her co-stars, but she sure can sell a song, and whether it's a solo or a duet with Bing or Vera-Ellen, there's no doubt that it's another of the many strengths of this film.  And she mixes well with the laid-back Bing who, though clearly the star of the show, demonstrates his generosity as an actor by always allowing and never begrudging his co-stars their time in the spotlight.  Crosby was a star and he knew it without having to prove anything; he also knew there was plenty of star dust to go around, and because he let it his movies (this one included) were all the better for it.  	The supporting cast includes Mary Wickes (Emma), John Brascia (Joe), Anne Whitfield (Susan), Richard Shannon (Adjutant), Grady Sutton (General's guest), Herb Vigran (Novello), Johnny Grant (Ed Harrison) and Percy Herbert (Train Conductor).  Thoroughly entertaining in the truest sense of the word, `White Christmas' is an engaging, enduring and uplifting film that will whisk you away to a magic place in your heart and in your mind.  It's so refreshing to take this journey to a time that may not have in reality been any easier, but at least seemed simpler and somehow less convoluted than our present era of `political correctness.'  A time in which films like this one were not only able to be made, but were subsequently welcomed and embraced by audiences everywhere.  Today, we have `Harry Potter,' a new kind of magic and a great film in it's own right; but there will always be a place for Bing and his bunch, because theirs was a magic all their own, the kind that's lasting and immortal.  And it's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.            "},{"Title":"lacking in true delight, but pays off with surface charm","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye play a pair of entertainers, who seem to be possessed of the songwriting talent of Rodgers & Hart plus the singing and dancing talent of..... Crosby and Kaye? Rosemary Clooney looks good and sings beautifully, and Vera-Ellen performs at her usual high-energy level (in several scenes she's paired with George Chakiris for dances that are clearly beyond Crosby and Kaye's skill level).The entire plot of the movie is that the sad-sack Dean Jagger is now sad because he's running a hotel instead of being a general in the army. Crosby and Kaye decide to put on a show to cheer him up, and Rosemary Clooney somehow becomes convinced that they are trying to embarrass him. That's it. Who cares? I guess. The musical numbers are pretty good, mostly dug up from Irving Berlin's endless box of old numbers from his Music Box Revue days. "},{"Title":"Okay, but only really memorable for its title song and final scene","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Okay, but only really memorable for its title song and final scene.Two former WW2 comrades, Bob Wallace (played by Bing Crosby) and Phil Davies (Danny Kaye), form a song-and-dance duo after the war. The meet a sister duo, Betty and Judy Haynes (Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen respectively) and romance blossoms. In courting the girls they go to Vermont, and discover that the hotel they're staying at is owned by their former division commander, Major General Waverley (Dean Jagger). They decide to throw a Christmas show for the General...Quite disappointing, even if watched at Christmas (as I did). I'm not into musicals, generally, and this doesn't ever rise above average as far as the music goes. Most of the songs just feel shoehorned into the movie, ending up with some pretty lame lyrics and scenes. The romance sub-plots felt trite and predictable.On the plus side, the performances are pretty solid. Best of all, the final few scenes are quite emotional, and are what make it a decent Christmas movie. The title song is great too. "},{"Title":"Solid family musical","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is a solid family musical with one ultra-famous Christmas song sung early on in the proceedings. For the rest of the running time it's a rather typical Hollywood musical of its era warm, good-natured, with lots of well-choreographed dance and singing routines, and a feel-good storyline. It's not my favourite of its type - I'm a sucker for Gene Kelly - but as a Christmas musical, it shines.Bing Crosby is the obvious draw here as the film belongs to him throughout, but the supporting cast are effective too. Danny Kaye has a fairly difficult role I reckon, playing second-string to Crosby, but he comes off as amiable enough. Rosemary Clooney and Vera Ellen are fine as the singing sisters. Like many of its type, White Christmas flags a little in between the songs, but the musical numbers are well staged and likable, so there's little to complain about overall. "},{"Title":"It was not a musical","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" i think the directors should review the true meaning of the musical. performing on a stage is not musical. if that was true then walk the line should be a musical. a musical means that the conversations be in form of musics like the phantom of the opera by sir Andrew Lloyd Weber. this movie was so boring that i do not think it is even interesting for kids.... i am so sorry for those people who gave a good point for this movie and then the Moulin rouge! should have a the same point!!!! what do you people use as a criterion for giving points? nothing in this production was OK... watch phantom of the opera, moulin rouge!, the king and i, Funny Girl, My fair lady, the sound of music and musicals like this so you can under stand the meaning of the musical. And for the love of god please be fair with giving points to these movies... "},{"Title":"The nicest Christmas gift he'll ever have, to the nicest guy we'll ever know","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I first saw White Christmas on network TV in the 70's, when average folks had no video recorders, so I put my cassette recorder on a stool in front of the speaker of our RCA color console, and taped the soundtrack of the movie, flipping the cassette over or changing it when it ran out after 30 minutes. Because of this recording I made back then, I memorized the lyrics to all the songs, and most of the dialogue. When the VHS tape came out, I bought it, and right now I'm watching the remastered DVD on my wide-screen high def TV. I've also seen the movie in theatres a couple of times over the years. You'd think after all that, I'd be tired of it. No way. It's hard to say what makes this movie magical. So many people have written about it, here, I don't have much to add. One of those times I saw it in a theatre, I was walking up the aisle behind a couple of young guys and one of them was saying he had never seen Bing Crosby before. I thought he was fantastic, he said. What a charming guy! Try to picture this film with someone other than Bing in the lead. It's the only time Bing and Danny Kaye did a movie together, and the only reason is that Donald O'Connor fell ill and the replacements considered - reportedly, Fred Astaire and Bob Hope - weren't available. Yet Bing and Danny make a really compatible team. It's too bad they never tried another musical together.The casting just works. Think about how it wouldn't work at all if Bing had been paired with Vera Ellen, or Danny with Rosemary Clooney. Bing and Rosie got together on several albums as well as a radio series and later a concert tour. Their personalities and voices go so well together. And Danny and Vera had been together on the screen before, too. Dean Jagger is perfect as General Waverly, as is Mary Wickes as his housekeeper, Emma Allen.And the script is great! The plot may be thin but when the dialogue is as smart, sharp and with-it as this is, a fussy, complicated plot only gets in the way. This is a musical, after all. Norman Krasna, plus the writing-producing-directing team of Norman Panama and Melvin Frank (employed here only as writers), give the stars so many good lines! And these pros do such a fine job of making it all seem very natural and like it was all happening for the first time. Rosie proves she has acting as well as singing talent - watch how she listens and reacts in the most spontaneous way. And, like Bing, she had a marvelous speaking voice as well as a singing voice. Since Danny Kaye replaced another actor, he doesn't have as much of his usual shtick to do and, more interestingly, he doesn't play as neurotic or offbeat a character as he usually did. Just a regular guy, for once. He's still very funny, but he's more of a charming, good-looking leading man. And even though he is, technically, the second lead, he's just as strong as Bing and therefore doesn't seem like he's in support at all. It's his picture too.Vera-Ellen doesn't actually have all that much dialogue compared to the other three leads, but she does make her scenes count, has a believable relationship with Clooney as her older sister (Rosemary was actually younger), and is clever with Kaye. Her dancing is of course terrific, and she gets several numbers, with either Kaye or John Braccia (who seems to have been hired when Donald O'Connor was out), or both. Watching this so many times, I've started to notice a few errors in continuity. For instance, when Bob and Phil get on the train and are told by the conductor there are no more beds to be had, but they're welcome to purchase tickets and sit up all night in the club car. Then they pass the drawing room that was going to be theirs until Phil gave the tickets to the Haynes sisters. The Haynes sisters are in it. The boys then proceed to the club car, the Haynes sisters join them for some food, and a song (Snow)...and the next scene is in Vermont. The next morning? And we now see the interior a sleeper car, Phil and Bob entering, with Betty and Judy getting ready to leave their bunks, having spent the night in an upper and a lower! How did they get there? What happened to the drawing room? Did Bob and Phil end up back in it, rather than staying up in the club car? If so, how did the Haynes sisters score bunks, when there were none available on the train to begin with? Seems like they cut out a scene. Of course it doesn't make sense either than Phil has packed, and is now wearing, a long a furry coat, winter hat, long underwear, etc. He didn't get to purchase any of this stuff before boarding the train in Florida. But don't think too hard about it. As Alfred Hitchcock often said, It's only a movie. Anyway, this one is beautifully staged and directed, with melodious songs by Irving Berlin (including maybe his last great one, the gorgeous Count Your Blessings), fantastic Edith Head costumes, and terrific orchestrations by Van Cleave. All filmed in crisp VistaVision and Technicolor. What are you waiting for? "}{"Title":"Tribute to Vets","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie seems like a sort of excuse to give lots of singing and dancing opportunities to its various superstars, but underlying the merriment is a bit of pathos. It starts on a battlefield in Europe in the winter of 1944, and a soldier with a beautiful singing voice gently voices a prayer for a white Christmas that perhaps says more about the state of mind of the troops than any terrifyingly violent action film could say. The movie ends up being about finding love, self and some measure of contentment in the period after the war, and for that it packs more feeling than it first appears. For all of its clunky moments, it helps us find a meaningful Christmas. "},{"Title":"A classic Christmas film and top selling song of all time","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Irving Berlin's White Christmas movie almost was a classic when it came out in 1954. That's because the title song had been out for 12 years, and was made hugely popular after its first use in the 1942 film, Holiday Inn. It won the Oscar that year for best original song. The song already had broken sales records and was an annual Christmas favorite. So, even with as long as it took 20th Century Fox to make the film, the movie was seen as a sure-fire hit musical and comedy romance. The delay was mostly in trying to fill the role of Phil Davis, played by Danny Kaye. Fred Astaire declined the role and Donald O'Connor became ill just before shooting began. Perhaps providence had a hand in the delay, because I don't think any long-time movie buffs today could imagine anyone other than Danny Kaye in that role. The movie premiered Oct. 14, 1954, and became the top moneymaking film for the year. It had $12 million in box office sales (about $105 million in 2014 dollars). The second highest grossing film that year was The Caine Mutiny, at $8.7 million. Moreover, the record sales of the song continued to ring up. According to Guinness World Records, Bing Crosby's recording of White Christmas holds the world record as the best- selling single recording of all time. As of 2014, Crosby's recording tops 50 million, and the total sales of White Christmas by all recordings tops 100 million. Today this movie endures, along with It's a Wonderful Life, as the two 'must' original films on all lists for annual family viewing over the holidays. Without a doubt, this is the best musical of the season. Charles Dickens's A Christmas Carol is the third movie that is on most lists for annual viewing; but viewers have a choice of several different renditions to choose from. Any of four of those are very good. What's not to like about White Christmas? It's a wonderful story of the early musical play versions where the entertainment is the profession of the stars. The plot is very good, with some sub-plots interwoven. It's a nice romance and light comedy of the everyday life variety. And it has wonderful music, singing and dancing. This film is packed with talent. It has 17 songs &#x96; all written by Irving Berlin, and several dance numbers. The songs are a mix of previous numbers and entirely new ones. Several were Berlin hits that are still played today. Some have been used or can be heard in movies in the 21st century. Besides White Christmas, these include Heat Wave, The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing, Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep, and Love, You Didn't Do Right by Me.Kaye has a couple dance numbers and one with Vera-Ellen who shows her dance talent in several other numbers. Rosemary Clooney plays half of the Haynes sisters act (as Betty) with Vera-Ellen's Judy; and she's also the romance interest with Crosby. Other top cast members include veteran actors Dean Jagger, Mary Wickes and Sig Ruman. Two future stars are in the music and dance cast &#x96; Barrie Chase and George Chakiris. This wonderful film never wears thin for viewing year after year. The songs and dance numbers will always entertain any audience. And the story is a nice holiday tale of friendship, romance, kindness and fun. It's a classic that families will enjoy for generations to come. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this any more - 72%","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In this time of year when tradition becomes so important, there are few things that say Christmas more clearly than old Bing Crosby crooning out White Christmas. Originally performed by Bing in the 1942 film Holiday Inn, it wasn't long before Hollywood realised that the song was a sure-fire winner and it has become the most recorded Christmas song in history. So it's only natural to produce a film based around the song, right? Well, not exactly - this glitzy musical does indeed feature Bing and the rest of the cast singing the song but it offers lots more besides such as unexpected comedy, a suitably schmaltzy romance and more Irving Berlin numbers than a Michael Ball compilation.Teaming up during World War 2, singer Bob Wallace (Crosby) and entertainer Phil Davis (Danny Kaye) form a highly successful double-act touring the US with a variety of shows once the war has finished. After meeting fellow double-act and sisters Judy (Vera-Ellen) and Betty Haynes (Rosemary Clooney) and helping them escape from their landlord, they move to Vermont and unwittingly stay at a hotel ran by their former commanding officer, General Waverly (Dean Jagger). But due to a lack of snow, the hotel's future is under threat and Bob hatches a plan to help his old buddy out. Phil and Judy, meanwhile, begin to hatch a match-making plan of their own...It's easy to forget that musical movies like White Christmas are part of a long-ago era where the films would stop altogether for a song and/or dance routine. Watching it today, I was amazed at the leading cast who were so incredibly versatile - Crosby and Clooney were amazingly talented singers, Kaye had a subtle but effective sense of comic timing while Vera-Ellen was an astonishingly flexible dancer but all of them could do so much more. Having never seen a movie with any of them in before (I know, shoot me!), it was a stark reminder that Hollywood today is a much less talented place than it was back then - hard to imagine who could be recast if a remake was forthcoming. But it shouldn't - the film's enthusiastic cast and exuberant musical numbers make this film a winner. The plot might be little to write home about and the obvious homage to the aforementioned Holiday Inn might be lost on most modern viewers today. And call me soft but the relationship between Crosby (who was in his fifties) and Clooney (still in her twenties) felt a little icky, given the obvious age difference. I guess some things in Tinseltown never change...But despite being cornier than a Jim Davidson joke, White Christmas just about pulls it off through a combination of old fashioned talent and unadulterated festive cheer. It lacks the magic of my favourite yuletide film It's A Wonderful Life and if you've got younger viewers with you then I suspect the film's pace might make them wish for the likes of Elf or Frozen. But if you've grown up with it, I can see why this holiday staple has bowled you over. If Chicago was a bit too stagey for you (and frankly, I didn't enjoy it at all) then settle down and enjoy this nostalgic slice of vintage Hollywood glamour. They just don't make 'em like this any more... "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is the sort of thoroughly enjoyable movie that Hollywood has long since lost the talent to make. It's mainly about the singing and dancing, which is all top-notch. The plot is kind of thin, but it is sweet and sentimental. This movie was a product of America's greatest generation, and it is a testament to the fact that that generation truly was better, in every sense, than the generations that followed. It sad that the stars of this movie are all gone, and this probably is true of most everyone who had anything to do with it. Every aspect of the production quality is first-rate. The film quality is superb and has not deteriorated, as evidenced by the superb picture quality on a modern HDTV. Sound recording has improved since then, but the sound quality is as good as it needs to be. Just a thoroughly movie, that allows you to relax for a couple of hours and forget about whatever it is that you worry about. There are no shoot-outs, robberies, rapes, ax murders, or autopsies. It is a sad commentary on where we have come in the sixty years since this movie was made, that Hollywood movies and television shows need to have those elements in order to be financially successful. Well, not always, but more often than not. Call it fluff if you want, but in spite of being fluff, and partly because of it, White Christmas is a unique, special movie, pretty much in a category of its own, and without question one of the better movies that was ever made. Merry Christmas. "},{"Title":"Bing At His Best!","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" And I really mean that. I watch this film almost every Christmas, and let's face it -- Bing is the focus of the film -- and he really was never better. For one thing, watch his face carefully during some of the musical numbers...he's visibly having fun. I'd have to say that at least in terms of film, he was at his absolute peak here, doing rather nicely in the dance numbers, and of course in the singing department.But aside from that, this is one of the best musicals...and it didn't come out of MGM. Paramount did this one up big! The Technicolor and Vista Vision (the first of the latter) are stunning.Despite having a fairly large cast, there are really only 6 main character. Bing and Danny Kaye play a song and dance team that headlined after the end of WWII, but it's especially interesting to see how nicely and sentimentally the battleground scene was filmed. Danny feels Bing is lonely, and is intent to match him up with a woman. Along comes the sister-singers -- Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen (although in reality, Vera-Ellen's numbers are dubbed, in part by Clooney herself!) As with many romantic comedies there are a number of misunderstandings, taking the story from Florida to the winter wonderland of Vermont...where there's now snow. Where they bump into the boy's old General -- Dean Jagger -- now a floundering lodge owner. And his nemesis is housekeeper Mary Wickes.Bing was wonderful in movies, and especially so here. I seriously dislike Danny Kaye as a performer, but I do admire this performance, including his wonderful dance number with Vera-Ellen (The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing). Rosemary Clooney was delightful in her somewhat spiteful character, but it all ends in romance, with a few spats in between. Her specialty number Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me is terrific. Jagger is at his most ingratiating here, and it was in this general time period that he did some of his best supporting-actor work. Vera-Ellen's dancing is stupendous, and it's easy to see why some consider her the finest of the female dancers.And then, of course, there are the Irving Berlin songs White Christmas (which opens and closes the film), The Old Man (a sentimentally wonderful tribute to the general by Crosby and Kaye), Sisters (by Clooney & Vera-Ellen, and then hilariously reprised by Bing and Danny), The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing (which includes a wonderful dance routine by Kaye and Vera-Ellen), the imaginative Snow (with Crosby, Kaye, Clooney & Vera-Ellen), I'd Rather See a Minstrel Show/Mister Bones/Mandy (Crosby, Kaye, Clooney,& Chorus; although it shows off Vera-Ellen's legs in a way that betray her anorexia); the timeless Count Your Blessings (by Crosby & Clooney; just why did Eddie Fisher's recorded version become the hit?), Choreography (by Kaye, and the one number in the film I despise and fast forward through each year), the sentimental What Can You Do with a General? (Crosby), and the nifty Gee, I Wish I Was Back in the Army (Crosby, Kaye, Clooney & Stevens). I'm not sure there has ever been a better cluster of Irving Berlin songs in any one movie (although, admittedly, some are recycled, including the title song).All in all, a smash film that was the top-moneymaker of 1954, and still wears extremely well. I treasure it!BTW, the Blu-Ray version of this is (for the most part) a real quality transfer...wonderfully vivid. "},{"Title":"A Must See of a Holiday Classic","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is definitely a must see of a holiday classic because this movie really does have that Christmas charm to it. The movie itself is loosely based on the 1942 film Holiday Inn., which I have never seen and it centers around two men from the war as they make a pair as performers in nightclubs, radio, Broadway, etc. I am not going into much detail about this movie because you already know what is so great about it, and to my own eyes it really is. I thought the cast were great, especially for Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye. The songs in the movie are a lot of fun as well as some of the dance choreography. The cinematography and the settings are fantastic, and it really not only it gives you the 40s look but more of that Christmas look. The movie is also well written; well edited; and well directed. Again, the movie really does have that Christmas charm and I really had a lot of fun watching this movie. This movie really deserves a lot of the attention as it is still getting today. I love White Christmas and I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"More about the music than the holidays.","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While this film certainly has a cult following, it really can't be counted as 100 percent a Christmas movie. Basically a remake of 1942's Holiday Inn where the title song from this movie was introduced (and deservedly won an Oscar), it adds color, camp, and Danny Kaye to the familiar story. Danny takes over in the role Fred Astaire played in Holiday Inn, and his character adds comedy into the mix, some funny, some cloying. Technicolor loves Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen, and they wear all sorts of gorgeous gowns. Unfortunately, this mixture of pastiche and Technicolor ends up being an extremely mixed bag that brings huge smiles in some scenes, rolled eyes in others.The campiest moment comes with the duet of Sisters, first seen with Vera-Ellen and Clooney, and later repeated by the mincing Crosby and Kaye. The later version was apparently done as a gag and kept in the film. A big production number saluting the old minstrel shows features the tackiest of jokes and the ugliest of costumes. It worked great in Kid Millions in 1934, but in the post war world of 1954, it is a major groaner of a number. Even duller is Kaye's Choreography, as pretentious as it sounds. He does get a nice duet with Vera-Ellen, The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing, while Crosby and Clooney get to sing the beautiful Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep. Clooney gets a good solo moment with Love, You Didn't Do Right By Me, a mediocre song which becomes better simply because of how she sells it.As for the Christmas sequences, they open and end the film, hence the reason for the title. Dean Jagger plays the retiring General who moves to the aforementioned Holiday Inn after the end of World War II, and is given a rousing send-off. Mary Wickes shines as his housekeeper, but then again, doesn't she always shine no matter what film she's in? The two major Christmas songs are the title song, first repeated by Crosby (who introduced it in Holiday Inn) and later utilized for the lavish finale where the hotel walls open up like a Broadway set. I guess you're supposed to really feel the Christmas spirit when this happens, but had the whole story surrounded the holidays rather than just the opening and conclusion, I would have been much happier. A minor little number, Snow, celebrates the season nicely, but its not one of Berlin's better songs. Michael Curtiz seems an odd choice for director of a big, elephantine musical. This was a busy time for Irving Berlin as he just had another catalog of his songs done on screen (the much better There's No Business Like Show Business) and the previous year's Call Me Madam, both with Ethel Merman. So while he may have been considered, as Jerome Kern called him, American Music, he was represented elsewhere. This musical certainly has its fans, and while I applaud much of what is in here, I have to consider this one a missed opportunity, much like Crosby's next remake of an old film of his, Anything Goes, where the same studio forgot that it was based on an old Cole Porter hit, and equally as disengaging. "},{"Title":"The Road to VistaVision","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" PRIOR TO THE American public's rediscovery of IT'S A WONDRERFUL LIFE and the ascendancy of A Christmas STORY, this WHITE Christmas was the number one Christmas picture. It far outdistanced such titles as FROSTY THE SNOWMAN (UPA), RUDOLPH THE RED-NOSED REINDEER and even SANTA CLAUS CONQUERS THE MARTIANS and we just can't understand why! Why? IN THE OLDEST and most steadfast tradition of Hollywood, the production crew took various bits and pieces from the previously successful movies and mixed them up a little, hit the plot from a little angle and, Presto! We have a new film.OTHER THAN THE two elements from the technological guys, there is nothing really new. The scientific guys came up with the wide screen, VistaVision; which was Paramount's answer to 20th Century-Fox's Cinemascope. To this they added the most beautiful Technicolor work imaginable. IN THIS CASE, it was Paramount Pictures that took some of the musical numbers from Irving Berlin's HOLIDAY INN. They then relocated in time and space to a Connecticut resort hotel, post World War II (in approximately real time, 1954). It was placed at that time of year leading up to the Christmas Season.ADDING SOME ROMANCE for the two male leads, Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye, in the persons of Singer Rosemary Clooney and Dancer Vera-Ellen as a pair of sisters, the story had its proper 1950s rationing of titillation and S-E-X.AND WHILE WE'RE on the subject of the principal Male players, we'd like to run this one idea by you. Let's see what you think.WE'VE LONG WONDERED if this was originally intended to be another of Paramount's Bing Crosby/Bob Hope collaborations, you know, maybe sort of like THE ROAD TO YULETIDE, or something like that.IT CERTAINLY HAS all the earmarks! "},{"Title":"Camp seasonal classic","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Version I saw UK DVD releaseActors 6/10Plot/script 6/10Photography/visual style 5/10Music/score 7/10Overall 6Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye are former soldiers turned stage stars who put on a show with love interests Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney to save their old commanding officer's hotel, while tiptoeing around his sensitive ego.To modern eyes it looks remarkably camp and curiously pro-military, but it's fun stuff and well put together, and the title song is an absolute classic. The campness is there if you are looking for it, but it doesn't interfere with the entertainment at all. I enjoyed it very much, and found it all the more interesting for the odd historically interesting relic of a bygone age (and I'm not talking about Bing). "},{"Title":"Great Family Flick","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I watched this for the first time last night on AMC and loved it. It lasted for 2hrs and 45mins with commercials but I didn't mind because I was having so much fun enjoying the characters and musical numbers. So this is Bing Crosby huh? I couldn't take my eyes off him every time he performed. His electric blue eyes drew me in like a moth to a light bulb. Danny Kaye was so charming and witty; a perfect balance to Crosby's serene personality.Rosemary Clooney was the picture of Class and grace. So beautiful and poised, and that voice! Even her hair had class! The only disturbing person to me was Vera-Ellen. She looked like an emaciated stray cat. She was talented no doubt but her 10 inch diameter waist looked a little freakish and they insisted on celebrating it by dressing her in costumes that cinched her waist even more! Honestly it was hard to look at her perform and not cringe.I still give this movie a 10. It was well rounded feel good movie that the entire family could enjoy. Too bad they don't make movies like that anymore. "}{"Title":"Railroad scenes in the movie","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is certainly one of my favorite movies during the Christmas holidays, and my family too. As a railroad train buff, I'd just like to comment on the scene when the gang is traveling by train from Florida to Vermont. The railroads they most likely would have used would have been either Seaboard Air Lines, Atlantic Coast Line, or Florida East Coast to at least New York. Then they would change railroads again to the New Haven to Boston and eventually Vermont. Instead, the director used a clip of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe's (ATSF) San Diegan passenger train as it raced along the Pacific coast between Los Angeles and San Diego. Then the film quickly showed a Southern Pacific train with Black Widow F units leading old heavy weight passenger cars speeding along near Beaumont Pass (Banning,CA) where, if you look quickly, you will spot the snow covered San Bernardino mountains in the distance. While it's not accurate as far as the railroads Hollywood could have shown here, it's still fun to see both these trains in color speeding along from so long ago. ATSF is no longer in business and has merged with Burlington Northern to form BNSF, and the Southern Pacific was swallowed up by the Union Pacific a number of years ago. Today's passenger service is, or course, Amtrak. "},{"Title":"Iconic music from Irvin Berlin","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Army buddies Bob Wallace (Bing Crosby) and Phil Davis (Danny Kaye) become a successful song and dance team after the war. They receive a letter from another army buddy introducing his sisters Betty (Rosemary Clooney) and Judy (Vera-Ellen) as singing act wannabe. They become fast friends with the girls and travel to Vermont for a Christmas show. They find a failing lodge run by their former commander, and decide to save it with a grand show.As a rom-com, it's strictly vanilla flavor. There isn't much heat, and there aren't any surprises. This is really only interesting for the song and dance. And there are some great songs. It's not just the iconic title song, but there are a whole bunch of others also written by Irving Berlin. And that's the real star of this movie. It's a showcase for Irvin Berlin's talents. "},{"Title":"A great musical but not a sequel to Holiday Inn","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas succeeds in spite of all its shortcomings and inconsistencies! That's because it is filmed in breathtaking Technicolor and the then-new wide screen process of VistaVision. Also, the soundtrack is an early attempt at hi-fi stereo, involving both magnetic and optical elements. O.K. the story is thin A successful song and dance team travel from Florida to Vermont because Danny Kaye plays matchmaker for Bing Crosby. They happen upon their former Army general who now owns a Vermont ski resort on the verge of failure due to no snow and no business. So, naturally they bring their entire New York Broadway show up there, at great expense so the general will be a success. A grist mill and barn are transformed into a theater. A full set of lights and rigging are installed. (Sure, anyone can install a full set of counterweights for curtains and scenery--it's a snap!) The songs range from wonderful to awful. The worst Choreography and What Do You Do with a General...? The awkward Mandy and Abraham are minstrel numbers done without blackface make-up. (Thank God!) Several great songs Count Your Blessings, The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing, Snow, White Christmas, and more. Several cameo performances including the funny and beautiful Barrie Chase. (Mutual,I'm sure)Why does this film work? Well, Vera-Ellen is fantastic, sexy, and wow!...can she tap dance! Michael Curtiz is a brilliant director. The cast is fabulous. Most of the production numbers are great and the film plays like a variety show--uneven, but with some showstoppers along the way.Production shortcomings Obviously filmed entirely indoors on soundstages, the battlefront scenes look entirely artificial. Vera-Ellen is painfully-thin, so Edith Head costumed her in over-sized clothes and bulky sweaters. Bing is almost the same age as the general. Why couldn't they get the real Ed Sullivan? The ballet children in the finale look unhappy. (I suspect a very long production-day (or days) with several re-takes.)Amazingly filmed in only three months, a great movie musical anyway! Fun to watch if you don't take it too seriously. A beautiful presentation which has made millions for Paramount in video sales.Holiday Inn (now available colorized) is actually a better film with better songs. (In that film, Bing Crosby is on the verge of bankruptcy because his dinner-show inn is failing.) Note Fred Astaire passed on White Christmas because he didn't like the script. "},{"Title":"Still a Christmas Tradition!","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I remember when the Christmas season came after Thanksgiving and the networks all began showing Christmas films especially White Christmas and It's A Wonderful Life. Anyway, I liked White Christmas but only for the ending. It was kind heartwarming and sentimental at times but still you can't beat this cast featuring Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, and Vera Ellen. Of course, there is romance in the air and a plot to help an old friend out. The film is dated but still beautiful in color and should be seen to be appreciated. Stay till the end of the film when you see those four wonderful stars of yesterday sing White Christmas with the white snow in the background. It's worth watching during the holiday season. Rosemary Clooney used to say that Bing would see her on Christmas Eve. You think they're all in heaven serenading God and the angels with White Christmas. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Delightful Christmas Movie","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Great move, great music, great fun.Is the movie, perfect? No, of course it isn't. But the missteps, and continuity problems can be forgiven. I have watched this movie every Christmas since I was a girl (many moons ago) and still love it.This year for the first time I noticed some problems. For example, some of the male dancers that are on staff with the Wallace and Davis show, are the same guys who dance in the night club act with Rosemary Clooney's character. Nevertheless, it can all be forgiven.I look at these old movies as stepping back in time to something less complicated-a time when women wore fancy dresses and night clubs were a great form of entertainment.Men, Women, Romance, Good Music, No Serious Problems--it's all good for me. "},{"Title":"Pleasant as a musical, but not very Christmas-sy","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I will have to say that I do agree with many of the more negative comments posted here about this movie, however, there is something about the film over-all that still seems to be entertaining, to a point.Perhaps because I am a big musical film fan, this movie still appeals to me , despite its flaws.I do have to say that seeing that Michael Curtiz directed this still seems to be a bit of a surprise, given all the other (more dramatic and even early horror films that he was responsible for).The film itself has a very feel good air about it, and the many numbers by Irving Berlin just goes to show what a very prolific and talented songwriter he was, even this late in his career.The number Best Things Happen While You're Dancing with Danny Kaye and Vera Ellen is probably the high point for me in the movie, it truly is a wonderful and entertaining duet, with the two of them hopping over the walkway and over the water, and around the poles.By contrast , the 'Mandy number is a bit too overblown of a production for my taste, although, again, Vera-Ellen is a joy to watch, even though she is a bit dwarfed by all the chorus boys and girls surrounding her.I do like this film to a degree, but I feel that Holiday Inn(1942) is a bit better, and lastly, I do not quite see how this later film is considered a re-make of the first. They do not have the same story line at all. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Christmas Movie","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love White Christmas. It's just a real good feel good movie. The music is GREAT!!!! If only they made movies like this now. Danny Kaye, I think, is one of the most underrated actors ever to be on screen. He is just fantastic in everything that he does, and so natural and always looks like he's having a ball. I love the story within the story in this movie. And no matter how many times I watch it, I always have tears when General Waverly comes into the dining room and all of the men are there that served under him during the war. Everyone should watch White Christmas during the holidays, it will put you in the Holiday Spirit. "},{"Title":"total schmaltz, but worth every minute","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Action none. Sex none. Plot weak.But there is no denying, this is a wonderful family film. Besides the stars (Bing Crosby, does it get any better), this is a wonderful film to view on Christmas, Thanksgiving, or any evening when there's a fire in the fireplace and your family is gathered around you. The music is fantastic 1950's and the dance numbers bounce out of the screen. The war was not that far from many people's minds in 1956 when this was made, so that makes is even more endearing. I doubt the twenty something's or even some thirty something's will really appreciate this until they have children or grand-children, but the reality is that the more I watch this movie the more I can appreciate the more I can identify with my parents' generation.Enjoy. Don't be too critical, just enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Joyful Holiday Film","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I grew up on Bing Crosby films, and this was one of the best!  What a delight to see Danny Kaye, Vera-Ellen got her start in this, I believe; and of course the lovely songstree Rosemary Clooney got her big break here also! My vote will be 8/10 "},{"Title":"The BEST Christmas movie EVER","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I had seen White Christmas several times on TV and later on VHS.  This movie is at THE TOP of my list of Must Watch Christmas movies/specials. Having never seen Holiday Inn, so I cannot make any comparisons and do not wish to. The four leads in the movie are acted beautifully and the music is wonderful.10/10 "}{"Title":"May all your Christmases be white........","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to imagine Christmas without Bing Crosby and the song White Christmas, so embedded in pop culture is that combination.  Here (though not for the first time), Crosby croons the title song as an entire film is built around it.  The plot is very thin, almost a throwback to the Hey!  Let's put on a show in the barn!-type of Mickey Rooney/Judy Garland films.  Here, Crosby and war buddy Kaye have developed a major variety act and, as a favor, help out Vera-Ellen and Clooney who find themselves in a jam.  The latter two are Sisters (as the song says.....and SAYS throughout!) who are booked into a ski lodge that has no snow in sight!  When Crosby and Kaye find that it's owned by their old general (Jagger), they decide to draw crowds with a huge Broadway-level show at the lodge.  A few minor romantic connections and complications are sprinkled in between the lavish musical numbers.  Casting is downright bizarre with relation to the script, but somehow the actors pull it off. Crosby, at 51, is way too old to be playing a recently discharged soldier who just hasn't found the right girl to settle down with and have nine kids!  He gives the film his patented slick performance (and there's a lot of make-up here!)  Kaye, in for an eleventh hour-departing Donald O'Connor, does a decent job.  He and Crosby do a somewhat uncomfortable number in partial drag with Crosby practically cracking up near the end of it.  Clooney, though younger than Vera-Ellen plays the older sister.  She is paired with Crosby who is twice her age.  Her stellar voice is given a decent workout on several songs and she's a lovely, natural presence in the film.  Vera-Ellen is undeniably talented as a dancer and really gets to strut her stuff here.  However, she is ghastly thin, with a waistline that gives new meaning to wasp-waist.  Her costumes all come up to her chin (and it was later revealed that Edith Head had to costume her this way to cover up a neck that was practically ruined by anorexia.)  In fact, it's rather sad to think that the stars who worked so hard to provide a charming, pleasing, perennial film fought such harrowing demons themselves.  Aside from Vera-Ellen's anorexia, Clooney suffered a nervous breakdown, Crosby had a tumultuous relationship with his sons and Kaye was reported to have some difficult sexual proclivities.  But, in any case, they left a colorful, sentimental film behind which, for many, is a yearly must-see.  Not every song is a stunner, but enough of them score a bullseye to make this worth viewing.  Also of note are Jagger's sentimental turn as the retired general and Wickes' busy-body housekeeper.  There are some nice costumes throughout, but none more dazzling than the ladies' long red gowns with white fur trim at the end.  It all ends as one would hope and no one is going to strain his brain trying to figure out the storyline, but for a cup of Christmas cheer, it hits the spot. "},{"Title":"Simply the BEST!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  My all time, number one holiday movie without a doubt, and the one that keeps the Christmas spirit going!  Never did like, It's A Wonderful Life; waaaay too dark for the uplifting mood I am looking for around the holidays. White Christmas will just make you feel good, and quite frankly makes me nostalgic for the 50's and a time when movies like this were made...  If you haven't seen this, it won't let you down!  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Such a gem","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Some things to note while watching White Christmas Now that we know Danny Kaye was gay, it's fascinating to watch him recoil in what must have been genuine horror from Vera-Ellen's advances. Vera-Ellen herself was anorexic, and supposedly wore high-necked clothes in every scene to hide the ravages of the disease (apparently the neck is the first to go).  Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen go to bed at night in full shining make-up and styled hair.  Take note of Rosemary's sequined gloves during her nightclub song; they look like oven mitts, especially when she lays them dramatically on the shoulders of the gentlemen dancers.  Old Bing looks almost the same age as the general, who's a grandfather.  And where are his granddaughter's parents?  They never say.  The housekeeper never gets her come-uppance for her destructive nosiness. What can I say?  I watch this movie every Christmas and love it. "},{"Title":"Brief Comments","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I thought that I would like this movie, as a fan of 1940s and 50s musicals, but it didn't live up to my expectations.  In comparison to the 1942 Holiday Inn, White Christmas is flimsy, artificial, and boring. In comparison to more recent holiday fare, however, White Christmas is a harmless dose of sentimental, post-WWII sugar. "},{"Title":"Not that Good","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Okay, let me first start off by saying that we are all entitled to our own opinions and we can disagree about things. With that being said, I didn't really like this movie. The songs were random and we seemed to go about the whole thing without a point. What's the plot? Is there any plot? I don't really like things without a plot and I couldn't find one in this film. It can be a nice story and all. Other people can certainly like this. But I don't. I don't really get it. I'm sorry if you disagree with me, but I thought that I would say what I wanted to. What else can I say? Maybe it's not actually bad as much as it is a movie with no real purpose to itself. "},{"Title":"Not everyone's favorite, sorry to say","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is a seasonal favorite cherished by many, but not by all. The single biggest gripe may be that it is yet another of those pictures built around one song, leaving much to be desired in terms of plot and characterization. Danny Kaye has nothing to do with the picture's failings. In fact, he is easy to like in it and in a number of things. His countless awards, movie ticket sales and television ratings indicate that a lot of people like him in a number of things. Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney have nothing to do with the picture's failings, either. This is Bing Crosby's film, and he carries it off with the assuredness of an accomplished performer. But with the obvious exceptions of Technicolor and VistaVision, this is not a marked improvement over Holiday Inn, where he previously costarred with Fred Astaire. According to some sources, Mr. Crosby had asked Mr. Astaire to return for this outing, but Mr. Astaire, possibly fearing a terrible case of déjà vu, politely declined. "},{"Title":"Not The Sum Of It's Too Many Parts!","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Like a few posters before me, I truly wanted to like White Christmas. Sadly, I cannot, at least not very much. Set mostly post WWII, this one has Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye as discharged army buddies who make it big in show business, eventually winding up in a far-too-balmy Vermont (for December) trying their best to help their retired general (Dean Jagger) to make a go of his debt-ridden inn. Bing is the driven one, Kaye more the playboy, with Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen falling into line as the sister act/plot device that ushers in the cliché-ridden romantic complications. A noble effort to be sure, the film struggles mightily to overcome its paint-by-numbers script and leaden direction, but all to no avail. Lacking even a modicum of genuine on-screen chemistry between Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney, this bloated, lugubrious mishmash simply staggers from one over-produced dance routine to the next, literally at times 'stopping the show.' Yes, there are a few shiny bobbles to be found thanks to Bing's excellent vocalizing, the multi-talented Danny Kaye's sharp comedy timing (and hoofing), Vera-Ellen's superb dancing, and costumes icon Edith Head's wardrobe expertise. But that is it! All too often Bing Crosby looks decidedly uncomfortable and out of place, Rosemary Clooney appears to be auditioning to be the next Hitchcock 'ice-blond' and Michael Curtiz seems to have been bizarrely seized of the notion that 'sledgehammer directing' was the only way to ensure musical comedy success. Oh where was Stanely Donen when we needed him. Being a lover of musicals, and genuinely respecting the many great talents involved in this enterprise, it makes me very sad to come on as the Grinch with this one. But try as I might, I just can't be very positive about it. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Every Christmas holiday that I can remember, my cousins, my grandpa & grandma, and I would sit around my grandparents television and watch this movie. I really, really enjoyed it; we all did. My grandpa is a HUGE fan of Danny Kaye, and whenever my grandma was alive, she really liked the dancing and everything. I enjoyed it because I liked the plot and the singing of White Christmas at the beginning of whole movie.A great movie for watching with your family, especially on Christmas Holidays. I recommend this movie for everybody to see, because of it's great actors, plot, and music. Enjoy the movie ;)-WellCooked "},{"Title":"zany comedy and the true spirit of Christmas","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie is a Christmas tradition for me, and has been for many years. The four main cast members form a drawing card-Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, and Vera-Ellen; the latter two are very pretty ladies. Dean Jagger comes across as the stereotype army general, though he is a caring man too. Mary Wickes does her part so well, as the New England busybody, that it was easy to hate her. Both the Florida setting and the New England setting are beautiful. some of the songs are classic, such as Snow, Count Your Blessings, and the biggie White Christmas. The comedy comes about primarily because of miscommunication, mainly between the easy-going Bob Wallace (Crosby) and the hot-headed Betty Haynes (Clooney), started mainly by Emma the housekeeper (Wickes). The movie does have a good resolution and a wonderful ending. What stands out to me is the attitude that there should be concerning Christmas. While the movie is not religious, the What's-in-it-for-me? attitude is, in one sensed, denounced, while the attitude about giving to someone is strongly emphasized. A great movie. A wonderful story. "},{"Title":"every household should own it! get the DVD","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is the top Christmas musical classic ever made,there is none other,or will ever be.It's so full of Americana, classy,wholesome,funny. But you must get the uncut version of this movie to really enjoy it.The television version is so cut up,you miss so much the dancing,like in the only when your dancing, there is a whole dance scene with Vera Ellen And Danny Kaye dancing out on the veranda. Mandy number is cut out. This is a dance scene so rich in color, this is what colored TV was all about. Also the funny part of showing the picture of the ugly war buddy brother of two beautiful Haines sisters. There is much more. I can't remember them all, I watch the DVD only. the TV version is to depressing. "}{"Title":"Should be seen but I don't guarantee you'll like it","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Hey, hey, White Christmas doesn't have much of a story, but it does have Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, an all-Irving Berlin song score, classy direction by Hollywood vet Michael Curtiz (Casablanca, The Adventures of Robin Hood), VistaVision (the very first feature ever shot in that widescreen format), and ultrafestive Technicolor! Crosby is cool, Clooney is warm, Kaye is goofy, and Vera-Ellen is leggy.Lots of the reviewers here question it's being called a Christmas movie. Hey, hey, it is technically, although it's not the must-see that It's A Wonderful Life, Miracle On 34th Street, or Alastair Sim's A Christmas Carol are.Songs include Sisters (Crosby and Kaye do their own drag version, too), Snow, We'll Follow the Old Man, Mandy, Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep, and more. Christmas would be unthinkable without White Christmas. "},{"Title":"Christmas Tradition","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is one of those movies that has it all. I love it for the music (I am a self-professed musical theatre geek) but also for the special holiday feelings it generates (even in the middle of July). The world has become very informed and critical, which I read as guarded and cynical. When I watch this movie, it gives me a sense of hope. It speaks to the common good in us. To our shared humanity. Are there dire and scary events and bad things happening in the world today? Yes. Is this an exaggerated Hollywood take on a bygone era? Yes. But the messages of peace, love and looking out for each other (not to mention the wonderful tunes) are timeless. I cry for joy at the end of this movie every time. I do not apologize for that. "},{"Title":"One where less is more","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As many here have previously indicated, this is a genuine feel-good Christmas flick - one of the several which appear many times each December. Now that it is more than a half century since its release, the nostalgia of the 1950's-style movie, as well as seeing a cast no longer with us, adds to the enjoyment.The fact that there is absolutely little in terms of plot complication, much less any suspense - the hi-jinks simply provide a good time for all, and a vehicle for the many songs and production numbers.In this case, the absence of deep plot or complicated characterizations makes it a better movie, where less is actually more.Bing and Danny are calm/cool, and zany, respectively, as one would expect, and the two female leads excellent counterparts.It may be somewhat hokey, but its music, cast and the feelings evoked are outstanding.A good companion to Jimmy Stewart, the kid wanting the air rifle, and the other Christmas movies which appear every season. "},{"Title":"Watch it buster","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was a really good movie. Watch it buster. Buster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterbusterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster busterBuster buster buster Buster buster buster Buster buster buster "},{"Title":"Stick with Holiday Inn","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas (1954) ** (out of 4) Simple tale of a song and dance team (Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye) who travel to a rundown Vermont inn owned by their former Army general. They decide to try and bring some new business to the place and they also add a sister act (Rosemary Clooney, Vera-Ellen) to the lineup, which soon leads to romance. By the time this film was released Crosby's song 'White Christmas' was already a legendary classic so I guess it should come as no surprise that someone would try and wrap an entire film around it. I know this film is loved by thousands of people across the world but I wasn't all that impressed with it. For starters, this semi-remake of HOLIDAY INN doesn't hold a candle to anything in that movie. Every single item in the earlier film is much better than anything here so director Michael Curtiz isn't able to match anything. That wouldn't have been a problem had more simply been done here. There's no question that there are some good dance sequences as all four stars really give it their all. I think it would be fair to say that Kaye and Very-Ellen steal the film with their various dance scenes, which are clearly the highlight. There's also no denying that both Crosby and Clooney sound terrific together and they also have a nice spark that works in the romantic scenes. The biggest problem with the film is its screenplay, which is just one cliché after another and it just never sparks to life. It also doesn't help that the majority of the Irving Berlin songs just seem like a poor imitation of something he would write. WHITE Christmas is loved by many and disliked by many so ones mileage is going to vary in regards to how they take the film. I will add that the film, the first shown in VistaVision, at least looks great but you just wish there was a tad bit more meat on the bone. "},{"Title":"An okay film - no Singin' in the Rain!","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was slightly disappointed with 'White Christmas'. It was fun, but that's about all it was. You see this is sort of part of a group of movies 'Singin' in the Rain', 'An American in Paris' and 'White Christmas'. White Christmas is over the worst of the three.The plot is simple (so simple you can predict the ending and the plot twists before the film starts) two men get out of the army and decided to star a two man show. They receive lots of success and then they meet to young ladies and decide to go on vacation during the holidays with them. It would be a lie to say the acting was bad, Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney were fabulous and everyone else was also good.Perhaps the best part of 'White Christmas' is the costumes and musical numbers. Edith Head designed some of the most stunning costumes I've ever seen in a 50s movies. The songs aren't very catchy except for two 'Sisters' and 'Count Your Blessing Instead of Sheep'.If your looking for an upbeat movies to celebrate the Jolly season, here's 'White Christmas'. I give it 7/10 for being an okay musical. "},{"Title":"Friendly, wholesome, patriotic...and a little bit dead","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A would-be successor to 1942's Holiday Inn, this film begins and ends with Holiday's Oscar-winning song White Christmas but otherwise doesn't have much of a seasonal theme. A song-and-dance team, best friends since their Army days, partner themselves with a tuneful and attractive sister act; together, the frolicsome foursome save a dwindling Vermont inn owned by the boys' favorite General (whom they still salute!). Bing Crosby (with his hand on his hip) looks awfully wooden or unsure of himself here, though he works rather amiably with the looser Danny Kaye. Still, there are no romantic sparks between Crosby and Rosemary Clooney, nor Kaye and Vera-Ellen, which causes the love story half of the picture to be left wanting. The colorful production (though a bit elephantine) is lustrous and glossy, and a few of the musical numbers are fun, yet there isn't enough plot on hand to cover two hours on the clock. The final military celebration seems unnecessarily overblown, but the film's technical aspects and choreography are marvelous. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Surprisingly cold... for a Christmas movie.","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Bing Crosby is certainly one of the finest singers of the 20th century and he was simply charming and magical as the priest in Going My Way. However, he seems terribly miscast as a workaholic showman in this tale of two ex-army pals who decide to help out their old general by doing a show at his winter lodge in Vermont that is starting to tank. Of course, Crosby sings and he is great, but as an actor his face is quite expressionless and he seems very stiff with the other actors.The comic relief to his straight man is Danny Kaye, who comes off more as whining and annoying than funny. They do sing and perform well together, but I got tired of him rather quickly. The ladies are Rosemary Clooney and Vera Allen, again both good at dancing and singing but needed help in the acting department.One other thing that bothered me about this movie is that it didn't seem to have the warmth and sincerity most Christmas movies do. Films like It's A Wonderful Life penetrate deep to our feelings and really make us care for the characters and their situations. This story feels more like a complete set-up in order to get these four to sing and dance. Even then, I wasn't real impressed by the numbers, particularly one rather unnecessary one that feels taken right out of Monty Python.I would still recommend others to see it if only for the final act which is both emotional and lovely. But, I think it is safe to say that this does not need to be considered a traditional holiday viewing like It's A Wonderful Life or A Christmas Story. "},{"Title":"A film with good moments and a lot of squandered potential.","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Watching White Christmas has been a holiday tradition for my parents, but I did not sit down and watch the whole thing with them until last month. In the initial scenes, I had a great time. There are some great jokes and good character interaction, and the setting is nice. Then they get on the train....Put simply, after that, the film's pace slows down dramatically, the plot becomes a lot less interesting, and it feels more like a framework meant only to show musical numbers (Some good, some bad). There is much less of the character's personalities shown, and the overall feeling I got is one of boredom.If you're curious, you can watch the movie up until they get on the train and think of it as an enjoyable featurette. Or you can risk watching the whole thing and possibly enjoy it. "},{"Title":"It's hard to imagine that this was the #1 box office film of the year.","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is a pleasant but quite formulaic musical--a decent time-passer but not a lot more. However, rather inexplicably, the film turned out to be the #1 box office champ of the year--something I just don't understand when I see it today.The film begins during WWII. Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye play soldiers who are entertaining the troops during Christmas. Soon, the war is over and the two go on to Broadway and become a huge musical team--absolutely huge. The problem is that Kaye is dissatisfied, as they are always working---and his partner is always thinking of business. So, he comes up with a plan--get Bing married and then they'll have to take it easier! And, when the duo meet two musical sisters (Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney), Danny and Vera just decide that Bing MUST marry Rosemary---just like that! Not surprisingly, there are MANY bumps and misunderstandings along the way--as, after all, it IS a very formulaic relationship. What is not exactly formula, however, is the parallel plot involving Danny and Bing's old commander--the General. The General is running a hotel in Vermont--but it's failing due to unusually hot weather. So, the four decide to get together and perform a show--just the sort of thing Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland would have done a decade and a half earlier.The film has a lot of pluses and minuses. As I mentioned above, the film is easy to predict due to its strong use of traditional film formulas. However, the actors did a nice job with what they had. My biggest complaint about the film were all the song and dance numbers. There were just too many and many were quite forgettable. Several could have been cut and more emphasis should have been on plot--but, considering how successful the film was, what do I know? I just know that today the film is a bit sluggish because of this. You cannot trim the title song, but a bit of trimming would have tightened up the film and kept a better pace. Overall, it's uneven but enjoyable. "}{"Title":"A Christmas film in name only","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It is shown every Christmas season, and it features the title song, but this movie isn't really about Christmas in any meaningful way.  Nor is it a rejuvenation of spirit story, like one expects with Christmas movies.  It's a musical, and a comedy, and a romance, but it isn't really a christmas movie.It's really best as a musical, part of a genre of films in which a plot is contrived in order to string together a catalog of songs, usually from one composer.  The result is seldom a great film (Singin' in the Rain being the notable exception), but in this case, the end product is entertaining and pleasant.  The comedy is fitful and sometimes annoying; Bing Crosby was in his full-blown hepcat phase, and the stupid lingo gets old fast.  Danny Kaye was (fortunately) subdued here compared to his solo comedies.  Because of their personalities, the men don't fare as well as the ladies in the romance department either. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Christmas Movie","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Many people claim that It's a Wonderful Life or How the Grinch Stole Christmas are the ultimate christmas movies. If White Christmas isn't at least number 3 on the must see Christmas movie each year, you are gypping yourself from a true classic.White Chirstmas has classic scenes that the whole family can participate in. It is the Rocky Horror Picture Show of the Christmas movies. The family can sing such classic songs as Snow and Gee, I Wish I Were Back in the Army and can act along with the Sisters act (women first, then the men).For those in college, this is the perfect movie to play drinking games. Find a line in the movie that is repeated a lot (It must be beautiful this time in Vermont) or a repeated gesture and take a shot when it is done. You'll be drunk in no time.Besides the fun that can be had throughout the movie, this movie has all the shumltz that a typical Christmas movie should have. The movie is cheesy and wonderful. It leaves you wanting more.A GREAT CHRISTMAS MOVIE "},{"Title":"Um. . . . . . yeah","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Not-so-hot remake.Danny Kaye makes Bing Crosby look like dog food in this tired Christmas contest of dullness and dance numbers. Some very misplaced arrangements, like 'Choreography', are coupled with a jumbled story about a retiring army general to bury this holiday film in a dirty stocking under a dead tree. Kaye and Vera Ellen are good, but Crosby and Rosemary Clooney thoroughly stink. Whoever told Crosby he could dance? Like the slow and sloppy Gene Kelly, Crosby's lame dancing belongs on the back of a truck to be carted out in the woods somewhere and dumped.There are much better Christmas films to watch; this one is for fans of the stars only. "},{"Title":"Good fun, but not one of the great Christmas Tales","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of the old famous classic movies, that one ought to have seen at least once. It is lavish with many extras, wonderful costumes, big song and dance numbers - the best of course being the very fine end number when they perform the title song - etc..Apart from that, this Christmas movie is not at all in league with the great Christmas movies that one can watch year after year without tiring, such as The Bishop's Wife. There is no deeper message here, except I suppose some general one should help each other out- thing. The main story is too silly, and so are the two love-stories, the ending is too predictable, and apart from the title number there is not really much Christmas spirit to it.I find the two women entertainers very mediocre and uninteresting, and it does not surprise me that they never became great stars on par with their male co-actors. Danny Kaye is fun to look at I suppose, but I have never been a fan of him. Bing Crosby is the only one who lifts this production! He is as always very likable - he seems so decent and wholesome, and you become glad and full of hope when you see him. (Of course I have no idea if he was such a wonderful person in reality.) To sum it up this is worth watching once, but just once, in Christmas time, except for the end number which can well be included in some kind of Christmas medley and watched every year. "},{"Title":"Good moments in a bad movie","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie is like torture to watch. It's such a waste of the great talents. The plot is just plain stupid. Why would a general open a lodge in Vermont and then keep it going when there are no customers. The magic appeal of the leads is evident when they sing or dance but the storyline makes them seem just plain silly. The Sisters number is a classic and congratulations to the guy who persuaded Bing to leave it in the picture. Danny Kaye sings and dances but he is outdone by a professional dancer and no one sings as well as Bing Crosby. His wit and charm is not a factor in this movie. It has the loveliest melody of Berlin, Count your Blessings. Other songs are less melodic but still lovely to hear in the colorful settings. Overall this could have been a much better picture with a total rewrite. "},{"Title":"Like a duck that is dying","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Here we see one of the later examples of a subgenre that now seems to be extinct &#x96; the backstage musical &#x96; a song-and-dance movie in which the characters were themselves players in a show, and rather than bursting into song at any given moment, the musical numbers would all be in-context stage pieces. Plots would usually be flimsy and repetitive, and most of the effort would go into spectacular musical presentations. Even though it's now looked on as a rather outdated way of doing things, the backstager gave us many of our finest musicals &#x96; the Busby Berkeley pictures of the early 30s, the Fred Astaire/Ginger Rogers vehicles, and more recently the Arthur Freed production of The Band Wagon. As with any picture, it's all about getting the key elements right&#x85; or wrong as the case may be.The story of White Christmas is appropriately light, just enough to make an excuse for a string of musical numbers, allow for some romance between the principle players, as well as a bit of post-war nostalgia. It was perhaps this latter that made White Christmas such a big hit in its day, although it's a bit too underdeveloped to really wring out any emotion for audiences who don't have that context. The director Michael Curtiz was never really at ease with the musical genre, instead focusing more on bringing clarity to the story. He makes a rather noble effort, using smooth tracking shots to keep various character story arcs interlinked, but really there isn't enough of a story here to warrant that. And although Curtiz was a master at lifelike and meaningful crowd-shots (as best witnessed here in the final scene) he fails to make best use of the neat Bob Fosse choreography, and just distracts us with a lot of pointless dollying in and out of the musical numbers.Of course, cast matters massively in any picture like this, and Bing Cosby is always welcome &#x96; a wonderful singer as well as a fine actor. But he's underused on both counts here, appearing older, tired, and without the spark that he brought to his pictures in the 30s and 40s. Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen make lacklustre support, each one of them looking like second choices (which was more or less actually the case). Here and there is a hint that Clooney might actually be a great dramatic actress. If that's the case she's wasted here. On the non-musical side of things, Dean Jagger surely has the most important job as an actor, as he has to carry that poignant strand in the picture. Fortunately he manages this with naturalism and sensitivity. Beady-eyed musical fans may also spot a promising young George Chakiris (Bernardo in West Side Story) as a backing dancer in a couple of numbers.The title of this picture would naturally have us thinking of this as a Christmas movie. However, despite its theme it really lacks the cosy, glowing feeling of It's a Wonderful Life, Miracle on 34th Street, or even the less openly Christmassy Holiday Inn, in which the title song was first heard. But here White Christmas (the song) just comes across as another little presentation &#x96; it's far from being the heart of the picture. Irving Berlin was one of the finest songwriters ever to lend his talents to Hollywood, but unfortunately White Christmas (the movie) sells him short.And on that unseasonably gloomy note, here's wishing all IMDb users a merry and bright Christmas ;) "},{"Title":"White Christmas","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Bing Crosby's most well-loved and Oscar winning Christmas song came from the film Holiday Inn, it became so popular, director Michael Curtiz (Casablanca, Mildred Pierce) was given the job to make a whole film out of it. Basically, in World War II, after leaving the army, Bob Wallace (Crosby) and Phil Davis (Danny Kaye) team up to become successful song and dance stage act, and also manage to get into Broadway as producers. In a night club, Bob is introduced to the Haynes sisters, Betty Haynes (Rosemary Clooney, George's aunt) and Judy (Vera-Ellen) who also sing and dance on stage, who end up following them all the way to a small Vermont lodge. Bob and Phil are really surprised to see their old commanding officer, Major General Thomas F. Waverly (Dean Jagger) as owner of the lodge, but he isn't having much luck with business. They come up with a plan to save his business with a song and dance act they created for Broadway, but brought to the small lodge instead. Obviously things don't go smoothly, there is a rift forming between Bob and Betty, even when they were originally smitten, and happy Phil and Judy try to get them back together. Eventually the whole show is brought together for a big surprise for Waverly as all his soldiers come to the show, and they sing and dance their Christmassy show with the snow falling outside. Also starring Mary Wickes as Emma Allen, John Brascia as John, Anne Whitfield as Susan Waverly and Sig Ruman as Landlord. Some of the dance sequences are fun to watch, and songs like The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing and Geee! I Wish I Was Back in the Army are catchy, and the performances are alright. It wasn't a bad film in any way, I did enjoy myself, and I can see why it would be given four stars, but the best part is indeed Crosby's treasured song, for that I would probably watch it again. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Count Your Blessings Instead of Sheep. It was number 37 on The 100 Greatest Musicals, and it was number 17 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments. Very good! "},{"Title":"Powerful Rosemary Clooney","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" White Christmas is based on or influenced by at least two Paramount films from the 1940s. Holiday Inn (1942) introduced Irving Berlin's White Christmas, which won the Oscar for Best Song. It also plotted the story of a country inn only open on holidays, and, of course, starred Bing Crosby with his pipe and Fred Astaire as his dancing co-star. The non-singing though not bad dancing Marjorie Reynolds was cast as the female lead in what seemed to be Paramount's attempt to make a star of her in the same style that had recently failed with Mary Martin, who returned to Broadway to made show biz history.Another film, Here Come the Waves (1944), had twin sisters (played by Betty Hutton) who were a singing act and who each got respectively paired with the film's male stars Crosby, as a successful crooner, and Sonny Tufts, as, well, Sonny Tufts, as all of them go off to win World War II. The twin sisters element gave Betty Hutton the opportunity to play one sister as serious and the other in Hutton's popular bombastic style.These elements more or less combine in White Christmas, a typical movie musical enhanced by Technicolor and the new widescreen process VistaVision, which I believe Paramount initiated with this film. White Christmas never really interested me much, but I always liked the number, The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing, danced by Vera-Ellen and Danny Kaye.Rosemary Clooney's performance, however, grew more and more interesting with each viewing. This woman was not only strong but angry. About what is not so clear, but can be read as pre-women's movement discontent that somehow had seeped into a mainstream Hollywood musical, and may have been one of the reasons Clooney's film career lasted only several years. (Audiences' growing dissatisfaction with traditional movie musicals was also a factor.) Clooney and Crosby perfectly balance each other and I find it interesting to imagine them in a more serious film attempt at mid-1950s male/female relationships, although sometimes these unexpected subtexts play more successfully than a feature film which is often cursed by having to be serious drama. Still, I liked Crosby in the lesser known drama Little Boy Lost from this period while I've never been able to sit through The Country Girl, even with William Holden. "},{"Title":"Snow Joke","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Once again I appear to have watched a different film from the majority of posters making it a contest between the hard to please and the easily pleased. I watched it as I watch any and every movie i.e. with the best of intentions and hoping to like more than I dislike. On paper it had plenty going for it beginning with the score. Given that it's a Berlin score we know going in that 1) there will be a healthy slug of his back catalogue melded to a handful of new material and 2) that there's absolutely no danger of us mistaking it for Porter sophistication, Hart wit, Arlen verve and that schmaltz and sentiment will be the order of the day. That's fine. No one's trying to put anything over on us, we know it's going to be The Sound Of Music without the nuns and the kids so let's sit back and let it unspool. Crosby is usually a good bet and when he's teamed with Astaire he's an even better bet. Fred couldn't make it this time around so after trying everyone else they finally settled for Danny Kaye which would also be fine but not, of course, Slyvia Fine, with whose words and music he is most comfortable. It was probably asking too much to expect Kaye to play it straight so we keep getting the Kays schtick whether we like it or not. Rosemary Clooney is adequate as one of the female leads but Vera Ellen has never quite convinced as leading lady material and nor does she here. For acting we have Dean Jagger who is so good he tends to overbalance things. Pleasant? Sure. Engaging? Well ... Painless? More or less. "},{"Title":"I've never really liked this","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Two old army buddies (Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye) are a successful dancing and singing act. They try to help their ex-general (Dean Jagger) from loosing his Vermont inn. The love interest is provided by Vera Ellen and Rosemary Clooney.I've seen this multiple times (once in a brand new print at a repertory theatre)--and I've never really liked it. It starts off great with Crosby singing the title song to soldiers during WWII--that scene really works and is quietly powerful--but then the film falls to pieces. The script is--to be nice--pretty terrible with a totally predictable plot and tired comedy. None of the actors are given roles to play. Kaye seems lost and Clooney and Ellen try to inject life into their characters. Jagger is also far too mild-mannered to play a tough Army general. Only Crosby with his easy-going charm and Mary Wickes (with the few funny lines) really pull off any acting. The songs are pretty unmemorable--What Can You Do With a General has got to be one of the all time worst songs I've heard in a movie. All the sets look impressive--but they're very obviously sets--especially the outdoor ones. And there's no snow or anything Christmas-like until the last 5 minutes! This film does have its good points. It was the first film shot in VistaVision (a wide screen process) and the movie takes full advantage of it with a few elaborate production numbers in bright beautiful Technicolor. Also Kaye and Crosby do have a funny number in drag (sort of) and the beautiful, bright color and some interesting costumes keep you mildly interested. All the singing is good and some of the dancing is just incredible (especially with Ellen).But all in all this is too long (a half hour could have been chopped off), too slow and too badly written for me to like it. Give me It's A Wonderful Life or Holiday Inn over this. I give this a 5. "}{"Title":"Just not very good","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Michael Curtiz does a good job directing this picture, but the script, music and performances just don't add up to much.First off, this isn't a holiday movie at all. Other than the ending, there just isn't much holiday atmosphere to be found. Secondly, every five minutes another song or dance routine is thrown into the mix. With SO much music, it's only logical that there's gonna be some padding and this flick is loaded with lousy songs... What Do You Do With A General, Sisters, Gee I Wish I Was Back in the Army. Ugh. The only worse piece of work by Irving Berlin was Mr. President in 1962 and that was truly horrid.Then there is the right-wing, militaristic theme we see everywhere in this picture. Sure, you can't avoid it with a plot device like a retired general, but the flag waving would make even Fox News fans want to hurl red, white and blue.Other things about this picture are disturbing... Vera Ellen's high neck-wear (to hide tell-tale signs of her bulimia) and her emaciated waist and legs, the ridiculous romance between a young and pretty Rosemary Clooney and Bing Crosby who was well into his 50's by this point. Bing's absurd hep-cat language. It's as if we're just supposed to ignore all this stuff because it's a big budget, technicolor songfest by happy, shiny people. Look at Bing's reaction shots and he looks like he's about to fall asleep. And watch him at the end of the film. He looks like a retired clown in that red outfit.There ARE some bright spots. The title track is one of the best holiday songs ever and Bing acquits himself well. The dance sequence with Danny Kaye and Vera Ellen is done very well and Kaye doesn't get his due in this picture. But these things just can't make up for a movie that wants you to suspend disbelief, but can't pull it off. Once something gets rolling, the next three scenes fall far short. I cringe when I see Bing talking to his old army buddies about how great things were in the war, it's just so fake. No infantry man in the history of the planet ever walked, talked or felt that way about the hell of combat. Then there's Dean Jagger's haggard, old General routine, always falling into military jargon that sounds false and hollow. The way the old troops cozy up to him at the end of the picture is nauseating - not because there's anything wrong with those patriotic feelings, but because the script can't pull it off.This movie just doesn't gel and you're really pulling for it to do so, but it just never comes. Star power alone isn't enough to make it work because this movie believes in its own falsehoods. It really DOES think its a great, classic musical. It really DOES think its funny and it really DOES believe that WE will believe the convoluted plot devices, laughable romantic scenes and terrible dance routines with Crosby-Kaye. Really? We're supposed to believe that a vaudeville team is the hottest act in show biz in the mid 50's? Elvis, Chuck Berry, Martin and Lewis and Little Richard might beg to differ. Look, really LOOK at how un-entertaining the showbiz schtick really is. Bing and Danny don't really entertain much at all. Why this horrible movie is a classic is beyond me. I guess it's because it's supposed to be. Not enough for me though. See Holiday Inn, Christmas In Connecticut or the 1951 classic Scrooge with Alistar Sim in the title role if you want to see a real classic. White Christmas is crap. "},{"Title":"Maybe its because i'm a limey","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I really really tried. I really really wanted to love this film. I'd been wanting to see it for ages. I got myself all cosy and ready and put it on ready to immerse myself in Hollywoods golden age and then...I was subjected to nearly 2 hours of schtick, disjointed ideas and a few set pieces wedged together for some reason. I didn't get it at all. Its not that the films aged particularly badly or anything. It's a product of its time, I understand that and the film does have its charms there's some fizzing dialogue. Bing Crosby is never going to be dreadful and neither is Danny Kaye the set pieces are great its just the way they get to them doesn't really make any sort of sense. It all feels a bit contrived and a bit clunky. I'm happy to admit that its me thats at fault and actually i'm not watching the film correctly. I don't really like Superman because he's just a bit too nice. This film is the same. Its just a bit too nice I know its supposed to be but they do everything but ladle on the schmaltz with shovels and build the stage with candy canes. Its all just a bit too much. There's just too much everything. That said maybe with repeated viewings you build up a tolerance to it and it starts to make sense. I can't give this a 1 because its not an awful film. Its got heart and charm and its hearts in the right place but its by no means the film I hoped it would be and it certainly doesn't flow or make any sort of sense. Sorry. Guess i'll need to force a few more viewings and see if I can make myself love itEdit- Since I wrote the initial review I rewatched the film and on repeated viewing I liked it much better. It really is a musical in the truest sense of the word, the bits between the songs are there to get you to the songs kind of like the biscuit bits of Oreos are there to get you to the cream. Once I understood that I was a lot more forgiving toward it. Also really its Bing Crosby and Christmas, you can't be criticizing it too hard, you'd be a coal hearted creature if you didn't warm to it at all. It is a feelgood film, it does leave you warm and fuzzy and it is likable, good natured and the sort of film they will never make again purely because there are no actors like these and the sort of schmaltz we have now is just not as sincere as this. I was wrong to give it a 2, i'm sorry IMDb. I change my mind and give it a 6. Its far better than I initially thought but still not what I want it to be or hoped it would be but the fault is entirely mine "},{"Title":"You can't deny that it's good.","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Irving Berlin's White Christmas is a classic. You can't deny it. Until I run out of them, I am going to be writing reviews for Christmas films. I have already done a few. But here I am, reviewing White Christmas starring Bing Crosby and Rosmary Clooney. I am going to make this review nice and short. This isn't my favorite Christmas film. It is a good film, but I can't call it the best. I think my favorite is Scrooged with Bill Murray or even Jim Carrey's Christmas carol. Who knows? A lot of Christmas films are pure cheese. Watch Jingle all the way and Christmas with the Kranks and you'll know. Of course you could call Die hard a Christmas film. This is a Christmas film but when I first saw it I was really in the Christmas spirit until the very end. Because it didn't really seem Christmasy. I know that isn't a word. Though the film is a classic, I don't love it. But it's a good film, no doubt about it.White Christmas***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Not Much to do With Christmas","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A successful song-and-dance team (Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye) become romantically involved with a sister act (Rosemary Clooney and someone else) and team up to save the failing Vermont inn of their former commanding general (Dean Jagger).This is pretty decent film. Despite not having almost anything to do with Christmas, and having two of the ugliest women as female leads (one of whom is beyond anorexica dn the other who was born as a man), and having the relatively unknown Danny Kaye overshadow Bing Crosby... it has enough good moments to carry itself. Kaye is really the reason to watch the film. He is the better dancer, possibly the better singer. The Theater skit is excellent. I could have done without hearing the Sisters song so many times (though seeing the men perform it was a nice touch -- even if it is not explained how they had the female voices -- were the ladies lip-syncing all those times?).This probably sums up the film, more or less. While it is quite good as a romance or musical, it is not a strong Christmas film. The story could have taken place at any time and it would hardly have mattered. And, as I understand it, this was the third film that Crosby sings White Christmas in -- so why is this one deserving of the title and not the other two? Hmm. "},{"Title":"It's amazing what used to pass for entertainment...","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I watched about 35 minutes of White Christmas today. I've never seen it, and with it being a classic and all, I thought I'd give it a try. It is unwatchable.Everything, including battlefield scenes, seems to be shot inside with cheap sets. And the plot is horribly boring. It's just an excuse for Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye to sing and dance together. And two guys up on stage singing and dancing together like they do in this movie looks really strange to the modern eye.Everything about the movie is dated. From the unrealistic dialogue to the horrible acting, nothing about this movie holds up. And it doesn't have to be that way. There are movies from over 50 years ago that still hold up pretty well, like Gone With The Wind and some old comedies. But so much of what was made back then consists of horrible movies with bad plots in which stereotypical women end up with the male lead.Sometime in the 1960s things started to get better. Realistic movies shot on location and truly funny comedies like the Rock Hudson/Doris Day movies started to emerge. But White Christmas falls into the category of dated movies that nobody today would pay to see. These movies look like someone filmed a bad play. "},{"Title":"The movie seems to capitalize on the title song","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Somehow I missed this when it was showing in the theaters---I was home with a new baby. So this afternoon many, many years later I saw it on TV for the first time. A lot of people love it and while I have always loved both der Bingle and Danny Kaye--I didn't feel they worked too well together. To me, the movie seemed an attempt to capitalize on the success of the song, White Christmas, written for Holiday Inn  I'd like to see that again I felt that Irving Berlin was rather off his game------the only really big song is White Christmas and it wasn't written for this movie. Of all the songs in the movie, only 2 of them Count your Blessings and Sisters I could even dimly recall! I guess you can't please everyone. Perhaps my problem is that I don't have any happy memories connected with it. "},{"Title":"I'm dreaming of a one reel White Christmas.....","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Okay.......so it took me 40 years to watch this movie.......I've heardabout it my whole life.........I think this would have made a great 47minute movie...........it was just too darn long........Bing (did he EVERlook young??) has that beautiful voice and of course Irving's titlesong is beyond awesome.........but man! the stuff in-between theChristmas parts is more painful than being the turkey onThanksgiving Day.........you find yourself praying for snow 30minutes into the movie so the dumb thing will end!   I could not take that anorexic babe dancing........she was so skinnyto watch that I found myself stuffing extra cookies in my mouthtrying to telepathically put the weight on her........those legs werescary looking......Clooney, who sings like an angel looked like oneof those 60's clay-mation characters from Rudolph the wholemovie........and I think she just might have man-hands.Anyway.........it's still worth the watch for the 10 minutes ofChristmas material........the sets look like cheap plastic but thatworked for me in a strange way........my advice would be thisIf you've never seen White Christmas.........make your self somegood eggnog, put a Santa hat on and watch Holiday Inn!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Stick with Holiday Inn","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Having seen HOLIDAY INN at least a dozen times, I realized that I'd never seen its reworked version, WHITE Christmas until it showed up on TCM the other day. Aside from some great musical numbers (esp. the dance sequences) this was an overlong snore. The plot was so convoluted for such little payoff -- all that secrecy/misunderstanding for the General's surprise party. And nothing says Christmas cheer and warmth better than a stage recreation of a bombed-out European landscape! By contrast, HOLIDAY INN, had a nicely paced inherent structure in its telling of an inn open only on holidays and some truly memorable tunes and musical numbers. That film's atmosphere and warmth seemed genuine and not wrapped up in the false sentimentality and schmaltz of the remake. The only reason to buy a DVD of WHITE Christmas would be to have the ability to skip to the dance scenes. "},{"Title":"The title should not be White Christmas.","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Based on the title, I anticipated this movie would be about Christmas. I was very disappointed. The film seems to be a collection of various non-Christmas night club performances set around helping an old army comrade stricken with financial woes. Most of the songs are ones I had never heard before watching this movie. I only recall the title track relating to Christmas. Given the films popularity, I was surprised this film was not any better than it was. I found it to be average with few memorable moments, memorable music or memorable characters. If you are looking for a great old Christmas movie, I recommend It's A Wonderful Life. Perhaps if this movie had been titled, Saving The General's Inn or December in Vermont, my review would have been more favorable because my expectations would have been different. "},{"Title":"another Holiday Inn...NOT...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If it weren't for a few good song-and-dance routines, some great looking scenes at a Vermont lodge, and the fabulous Rosemary Clooney delivering some real professional song numbers, 'White Christmas' would be a forgettable, routine bit of Holiday fare.The trouble is--even though everything is all prettied up in technicolor and the cast includes four pros like Danny Kaye, Bing Crosby, Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney, there is an artificial flavor to the sugary script--as well as a weak performance by Danny Kaye who is usually so non-stop great.When the Irving Berlin numbers take center stage everything is all right--but the minute they're over we're stuck with the dreary plot that begins in a highly artificial stagebound set supposed to be a war zone and ends in an equally artificial and artless manner when a barn door is opened to reveal the fake snow of a Vermont winter while our stars wear their Santa caps and do a reprise of the title song. It's all so obviously contrived and manipulated to bring tears in celebration of a plot to have the retired General and proprietor of the lodge (Dean Jagger) honored by fellow servicemen. Too much false sentiment cannot dim the charm of some of the song numbers, however. The film's greatest strength are the Berlin tunes sprinkled throughout Count Your Blessings, The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing, Sisters, and a wonderful torch number performed to the hilt by Rosemary Clooney (the title of which escapes me at the moment!)The most surprising moment of the film occurs when Vera-Ellen and Danny Kaye dance gracefully to The Best Things Happen While You're Dancing, the kind of number one would expect Fred Astaire to do with such ease. But Kaye is exceptionally talented here, matching the professional moves of Vera-Ellen with verve and fine form. It's too bad the rest of his performance lacks his customary comic flair, except for the in drag routine, Sisters, performed with an uncomfortable looking Bing Crosby.Way below the standards one expects from a film directed by the great Michael Curtiz. It sure has a handsome look to it in technicolor--but except for a few good Berlin tunes, the story is as phony as the artificial snow the size of tennis balls that falls at the finale.  "}{"Title":"It would take a Scrooge to dissent, but...humbug!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It is sad to see a once sharp talent flab out into harmless amiability and compromised flatulence.  Michael Curtiz was never a great director in the way Hitchcock or Hawks were - he never stamped his own mark on the material he was given.  But he was an inventive craftsman, always prepared to enliven and sometimes deepen the most generic of subjects with pace, good humour, an inherent sense of drama and elegantly complex camerawork.  The hothouse intensity of MILDRED PIERCE seemed to exhaust him, and after a decade of brilliance, which included THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD and CASABLANCA, he settled down to untiring hackwork, which, while easy on the eye, was indifferent to inspiration or interest.WHITE CHRISTMAS is better than most, its predictability and dubious ideology made palatable by likeable leads, the title song, and a plot with a degree of complication.  The opening sequence is a bit of a pleasant surprise.  In the middle of of a shell-shocked wilderness during World War Two, Captain Wallace (Bing Crosby) and Private Davis (Danny Kaye) are entertaining the troops with energetic, Christmas Eve vaudeville on a makeshift stage.  A group of senior officers drive up; the incoming general deplores the lack of discipline and demands that the soldiers are prepared for inspection.  The outgoing general Waverly (Dean Jagger), a soft-hearted grouch, gives him wrong directions to extend the show a little bit, and after some manly sentimentality, Bing sings 'White Christmas'.  The straining for pathos is obvious, objectionable and irresistable.  Later, during a bombing, Davis accidentally saves Wallace's life.  The latter is a famous singer in real life; Davis calls in the favour so that they become a double act.The war over, Wallace and Davis become a huge success, first as performers, than writers, than producers.  Immensely rich, but lonely, Davis keeps trying to set Wallace up with bimbos.  Tricked into watching a sister double act, Betty and Judy Haynes (Rosemary 'aunt of George' Clooney and Vera-Ellen), the pair become smitten, and an extended double romantic plot ensues, with all the usual, enjoyable twists and turns.  This is bound up with a putting-on-a-show plot, when our heroes try to help Waverly, who has bought a snowlodge in a Vermont that stubbornly refuses to snow.It would take a more cynical viewer than me to reject this cosy fun.  There is something very traditional, almost Shakespearean about the film, in which plot and incident are subordinated to the celebrating of the titular feast day.  In this way, WHITE is less a narrative than a pageant, in which difference and difficulty are set up only to be ironed away in a finale of reconciliation.  It is a strangely secular pageant though; spirituality or the birth of Christ don't get a look in - this film, as much as Coca Cola, embodies the very American dereligioning (sic?) of this most fundamentally religious of festivals.There is much that is difficult in this.  It IS a very white, exclusionary Christmas, that only has room for the talented, beautiful, rich, heterosexual (even if Bing and Danny go ill-advisedly drag) and white.  This is only to be expected in a Hollywood film of the 1950s, and WHITE is a highly revealing marker of American ideology of the era, and, through nostalgia, our own.  What is worse is that this is all underpinned by a celebration of the military, which is hard not to see as a sycophantic tribute to President Eisenhower.  Early on, Wallace joked that it would be impossible to find a Democrat in Vermont - this had seemed like mild satire; by the end of the film, it's a relief.  The militarism isn't scary a la Riefenstahl; the soldiers are regular Joes, shabby, jokey.  In WHITE's penultimate number, the easy-going army life is favourably compared to the vicissitudes of real life, but this only normalises and makes acceptable the uncriticised adoration of the military that the plot crises work towards.  In the same way, the seeming criticism of capitalism in Wallace and Davis' unselfish deeds only serves to vindicate it.  Only capitalism can afford to be philantropic enough to achieve the selflessness it does.As a musical, the film is a complete failure.  Its critique of the American need for performance to conceal reality is half-hearted, while it admits that its own power as a genre has been much diminished by the emergence of television, which, strange for a 50s film, is not an object of fear.  WHITE  is little more than an excuse to string together some Irving Berlin numbers, few of which are very memorable, and many of which sound like advertising jingles.  Curtiz directed one great musical - YANKEE DOODLE DANDY, a model of vibrant invention - but is completely lost here.  Although made at Paramount, WHITE bears all the marks of a Fox musical - vulgar sets; flat compositions; dull rendering of movement; the substitution of noise and clutter for originality and style.  MGM were the only studio in the 1950s who could make musicals - Minnelli used sets and colour to create emotional depth; Donen had a way of pulling off the most elaborate sequences with clarity and truth; Gene Kelly burst forth with vigour and ideas.  A second-rate MGM musical puts everything here to shame - all the big dance numbers are lumbering because Curtiz does not know how to film them.  The two male leads are fine Crosby has an inoffensive croon that puts you at ease, even if you'd never listen to it as MUSIC; he is a relaxed comedian in whose company you don't mind spending a couple of hours.  At the risk of losing my cool, I have always adored Danny Kaye, his physicality, his facial movements, his voice and vocal gymnastics, his versatility.  He is totally wasted here - the one or two sequences (eg the fall down the stairs) showing what might have been.  The girls are bores, but could it be any other way.  I watched this on Christmas Day after dinner and it was perfect.  I don't think I could have swallowed Tarkovsky. "},{"Title":"Stephen Colbert said that the Black Christmas remake ripped this movie off (PS the carousels are taking over)","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you've read any of my reviews of musicals, then you'll know that not only are they possibly my least favorite kind of movie, but that I watch them mainly to heckle them a la Mystery Science Theater 3000. Among my rude comments this time were You don't think I'm repulsive, do you? - Not next to Bob Dole you aren't.(while the old woman is handing out glasses of champagne) Champagne? - Yes it is.(at the train station) Betty left this for you. - Dear Judy, an alligator bit off my head.As for the sign telling people not to leave cigarette butts and ashes lying around, you just have to blur the scene a little bit to make it say butts and asses. That's an immature thing to do, you say? Well, White Christmas is a pretty immature movie.As for that comment about Stephen Colbert. When a remake of the horror classic Black Christmas (considered by many people to be the very first slasher) got released a few years ago, he asserted that it ripped off this movie. In his right-wing commentator persona, he declared something like, if anyone's going to get chased by a psycho killer, it should be Rosemary Clooney. I wonder, would it have swayed his opinion either way to remind him that Rosemary Clooney's nephew stars in movies like Syriana? I should say, however, that George Clooney had a fine-looking aunt.What I mean - as a joke, natch - about carousels taking over is this. A few days ago, I saw the 1956 version of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Carousel (which I heckled). The next day, I saw Carosello napoletano (Neapolitan Carousel in English, it was one of Sophia Loren's early movies). Finally, this movie contains numerous references to carousels. Next might there be a movie in which carousels come to life and go all Freddy Krueger on everyone? Yes, I admit that this review barely makes any sense. I just like to do this when reviewing these kinds of movies. I don't like Bing Crosby one bit, while I consider Danny Kaye a genius. But a really cool Christmas movie that I recently saw is Silent Night, Deadly Night; an appropriate one with Halloween approaching. I also recommend the original Black Christmas. "},{"Title":"D'oh!  This ain't Holiday Inn","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...and that's the problem. No, that's one of many, many problems. But where to begin? How about a boring, insipid plot and script, pretentious and boring, without an ounce of humor or cleverness.Flat, uninspired characters, written as if the writers had a gun held to their heads to create a plot for these four actors. Yuch.Staging, musical direction, off the sappiness scale of dullness and lack of inventiveness. Kind of a portent of those awful TV variety show specials of the late 1960's. Ugh.Predictable ending? How about sickeningly predictable ending. But then, who cares? If you are still watching this mess to the end you deserve it. And, as much as I love Crosby, Clooney, and Kaye (Vera Ellen doesn't belong on the same planet as these folks, though here it hardly matters) I can't give this film more than a two, and that's a stretch.For the people who luv this film, I'm sorry. To the people who haven't seen it, stay away. This is not what classic Hollywood musicals are about. "},{"Title":"How did so many bloopers get thru in this movie!!!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Watching White Christmas tonight and besides the cheap sets, bad acting and shmaltzy dialog, this movie is riddled with inconsistancies.When the 4 main characters board the train to NY, they are on an old 1920s style train car. During the trip, they show a train racing along, in the Orange and Yellow Santa FE (West Coast) colors. A minute or so later they show another train... Silver and blue, then they are seen getting off an old green Pullman car.The girls are occupying the guys sleeper room and every available space on the train is taken... Why then, a few minutes later, are they sleeping in berths along the corridor?When they arrive in Vermont, a red station wagon with a white roof pulls into the station, magically it becomes a tan colored, wood paneled wagon.The movie ok okay, I guess... fantasy fluff... The best part of the movie is Barrie Chase with her lines... Mutual, I'm sure and the Well I like that, not even a kiss my foot or have an apple We roar with laughter every time she opens her mouth. When she dances off with the fat guy, the look on her face is priceless.Mary Wickes is also wonderful in that movie, like everything else she does.Bing Crosby...eeeeeew!!!Danny Kaye...just there for a paycheck and the free buffet.Vera Ellen and Rosemary Clooney... 2 men in dresses who were the inspiration for a thousand drag queens over the years.Watching R. Clooneys acting made me wonder if she was doing a clinical study for Lithium or Prozac. She was truly awful. That black dress she wore in her Love, you didn't do right by me number was probably a true inspiration to John Waters in designing a dress for Divine.Aside from that... It was a decent flick. "},{"Title":"My own personal movie Hell","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  My wife & I were in the Christmas spirit last night and decided to rent a Christmas DVD.  Having heard little about White Christmas other than knowing it is a classic and knowing the Christmas song by Bing Crosby, we eagerly brought this one home.SPOILERS TO FOLLOWWe are both curious as to how a movie can be considered a Christmas classic (and even have a title with 'Christmas' in it) when, of the 120 minute running time, only approximately 7 minutes of actual Christmas events/songs are included.  The other 113 minutes consisted of bad acting, horrific editing and above all... really bad music, singing, dancing etc.I apologize to people who actually love this movie (and there appears to be quite a few!), but please, what exactly was the point of this movie?  Was there a heart warming message?  I guess one can argue the soldiers reuniting to honour the General at the end did attempt to tug at one's heart strings, but what else was there?  It appears to me that whomever approved this project was looking at showcasing Mr. Crosby's 'White Christmas' song.  It is sung at the beginning and end of the movie and as mentioned there is not much in between.I don't mean to disrespect the legends associated with the film.  My wife & I are not fans of musicals and I was aware that the majority of the film would be music & dancing.  The problem here is that it is considered a Christmas movie and I disagree.  I thought that there would be Christmas songs throughout and that just isn't the case.  Sitting through 2 hours of this is my own personal movie Hell. "},{"Title":"White Christmas (1954)  *","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" So this was supposed to be a Christmas Movie, eh? Bah! Humbug! 98% of this ho-ho-ho-hum flick had nothing whatsoever to do with Christmas once you get past the deceptive title and classic theme song. All of the other musical numbers were embarrassing for the most part, and I really felt gypped. It's really disappointing when you seek out what you presume to be a holiday film and get something non-festive like this. But I'll tell you something - I was somehow attracted to the young Rosemary Clooney throughout the film (go figure; and heck, there had to be SOMETHING to keep me awake)... but no, this one I'll never want to see again. Not Christmas, Not New Year's, Not Groundhog Day. "},{"Title":"Terrible and joyless affair","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a surprisingly sloppy film! The continuity is terrible- not just  the shots, but also in character and story. And the plot! The songs! It also has to be the LEAST Christmas-y holiday movie ever made! Not worth its classic status... "}]