[{"Title":"Good But BY NO Means Great","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was the last feature for Universal that the two box office champs of the 40s did.  Having met Frankenstein, Dracula, the Wolfman, Dr. Jekyll, Mr Hyde, and the Invisible Man...Universal paired the two comedians with their mummy for one last go-round.  The effort is not entirely satisfying, yet all together bad either.  Bud and Lou seek their fortunes in Egypt when brought into a circle of intrigue, murder, and a curse of a mummy.  The rest of the film centers around their bumbling, situational comedy, and a couple of dance hall numbers.  The sets are pretty good, but the make-up for the mummy is definitely sub-par for the studio that brought us The Mummy in 1932.  Richard Deacon stands out in a supporting role.  Some pleasant scenes involve Bud and Lou playing hide-go-seek with a dead body(much like was done in A&C Meet the Killer), a trio of mummies treading through a hidden fortress, and a routine of Bud and Lou playing revolving hamburgers.  Not their best to be sure, but sure to bring a smile to you. "},{"Title":"The Shovel is My Pick","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considering how late in their career this came, and how lame some of its predecessors were, this one is not too bad. And it's a joy to see some of the wordplay they were famous for make a welcome return amidst the routine slapstick. Sure, Take your pick The shovel is my pick is not on the same level as Who's On First?, but it's still amusing enough, and it's fun to see them deal with one last Universal monster. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Fond Farewell","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When the murder of an archaeologist puts a valuable medallion into their hands, Abbott and Costello waste little time in trying to sell it--only to find themselves pursued by police, a slinky adventuress, an Egyptian high priest, and the mummy himself. The concept is amusing, but the real charm of any Abbott and Costello film is the charismatic comic interplay between the stars. Unfortunately, the 1955 MEET THE MUMMY finds the two at a creative low ebb.Featuring such notable character actors as Richard Deacon and Marie Windsor, the film is competently made and very easy to watch, but to say it lacks the inspiration of Abbott and Costello's best work would be a tremendous understatement. At most, MEET THE MUMMY is mildly amusing in a broadly slapstick sort of way, good for an occasional chuckle at best. It would be their last film at Universal and their next-to-last screen appearance together, so it might be best regarded as a fond farewell.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Laid back","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How stupid can you get? How stupid do you want me to be?I thought this movie was better than I anticipated.  It's a gentle comedy of 2 buffoons who stumble into an adventure in Egypt after one is mistaken for a murderer. It is relaxing and laid back but if you want funny Abbott and Costello then look else where.  There's a cute scene which uses their poisoned drink routine where instead they use hamburgers and a cursed medallion.  Again, Costello directed his comedy at the children by pulling faces and doing far too much talking at the camera. This was funny in some of their other films but not in this one. Another good scene is where Abbott and one of the bad guys dress up as the Mummy, this isn't laugh out loud comedy but one or two scenes should put a smile of any fan's face.  Their last film for universal.  "},{"Title":"A good time for their last major movie together","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Abbott and Costello meet the Mummy is less of a movie then an episode of the Abbott and Costello show.  Marjorie Windsor is a terrifically determined villainess and she helps to give the movie some drama and dark charisma but the movie is too unstructured otherwise.  It's more on a final, undisciplined romp for Abbott and Costello.  Even though their chemistry is long since gone, they are still brilliant comedians and they fake their way through the movie with a plethora of stand up bits.  The good, clean comedy is a nice breath of fresh air.  The opening slapstick gets the movie off on a good foot and the stage act (three women and one man) that performs is INCREDIBLE.  The cult of Klaris is a major bore, ranging from the incredibly non-Egyptian Egyptian Richard Deacon to the cult, itself, that features a man who is clearly either Tibetan or Chinese.  The routine that Costello does with the lady is hilarious and high spirted and the bit with the amulet is well timed.  The plot point of Costello eating the amulet (in pieces) and then it appearing intact in his stomach is meaningless here as the whole movie is not for purists. The mummy is a major disappointment as the bandages look like a pajama outfit with a bandage pattern.   Abbott gets into mummy's wraps for pretty much no reason other then to have three mummy's running around at one point.  As if sensing that this is their last big blowout together, Costello is very natural with his criticisms of Abbott and Abbott seems almost too real with his abuse of Costello.  Whatever dysfunction they had in their later years, they do their best here to slug it out.  Costello acts like a man ready to jump off ship and he seems to be lightening his load for his journey.  He gives a very light and a very funny performance.  Abbott is sharper then he has been in years.  Abbott was so sharp in his younger days that he looks bad in comparison here but his worst is still better then most people's best.  The plot is pretty much garbage and unenthralling and the mummy is completely impotent but the performances of Abbott and Costello and Marie Windsor help move the show.   "},{"Title":"Hold That Mummy!","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET THE MUMMY (Universal-International, 1955), directed by Charles T. Lamont, is true to its title for a change, considering the comedy team of Abbott and Costello actually using their own names instead of what's listed in the closing credits, Bud Abbott as Pete Patterson and Lou Costello as Freddie Franklin. Although they do encounter the 4,000 year old mummy, he's hardly in the story until the final 20 minutes or so. Following the tradition of Abbott and Costello Meet titles and the cycle of fright comedies that all began when they met Frankenstein (1948), with Dracula and the Wolf Man as added bonuses, followed by them meeting The Invisible Man (1951), all of which they enact character names, their venture with the Mummy was, in fact, long overdue, coming very late in the cycle, yet released at a time when the team was in need of something better than the weak comedies they've been turning out in recent years. With Universal finding great success with its Francis the Talking Mule and the Ma and Pa Kettle series in the 1950s, it appears that Universal kept Abbott and Costello on payroll longer than anticipated. As it appears, Meet the Mummy, demonstrated, too late in fact, that they were still capable of making a good comedy, even when appearing opposite a Universal monster to do it.The monster in question is a mummy named Kharis, now renamed Klaris. Unlike the film series of the 1940s, there's no Tana leaves, no flashbacks recalling how Kharis was condemned to death, buried alive and cursed for all eternity, nor is there a high priest assigning or swearing in another to guide the mummy to murder anyone who gets in his way. In this venture, the story begins with this narration, It has been said that a man's best friend is his mummy. In Egypt today, this theory is to be in great dispute for two bold adventurers are about to discover a new kind of mummy. The two bold adventurers in question turn out to be Abbott and Costello, a couple of stranded Americans in Egypt (there's no explanation as to how they got there and why). In the opening segment set at the Cafe Bagdad where an Apache Dance is being performed, archaeologist Dr. Gustav Zuma (Kurt Katch) is interviewed by the press for his discovery of the tomb of Klaris, the sacred medallion leading to the valuable treasure, and his anticipation in hiring a couple of trustees to act as chaperons for Klaris's venture back to the United States. His interview is overheard by a Bud and Lou, who learn that the only way for them to return home is to take the job. When they come to meet with Dr. Zoomer for the job in his hotel room, they find he's been murdered (killed by a poisoned dart in his ear) and the mummy in his possession gone. More troubles arise when Abbott is accused of the murder, thanks to Costello's blunder in picture taking that has found its way in the newspapers. Costello unwittingly holds the medallion, believed to be cursed, leading to the dual's encounter with rival villains Madame Rontru (Marie Windsor), her henchmen, Charlie (Michael Ansara) and Josef (Dan Seymour); and Professor Semu (Richard Deacon), leader of the Followers of Klaris, and his associates, Iben (Mel Welles) and Habid (George Khoury), who will stop at nothing to obtain the medallion. Taking Abbott and Costello with them to the ancient pyramid where the treasure is buried, they come across numerous surprises, including the mummy (Eddie Parker), who's alive and well.Typical Abbott and Costello comedy with the team coming off best with their familiar comedy routines, whether they'd be old, new or indifferent. Costello continues to be the master of comic timing with his frightful expressions (yelling Hey, Abbott!) while encountering a bat, skeleton in the closet, a giant lizard, a run-on gag involving an asp, and, of course, the Mummy. Abbott and Costello offer some fine comic exchanges (The shovel and the pick coming off best), with fine support by comic villains, especially femme fatale Marie Windsor. The big climax occurs with Abbott and Charlie going under wraps as the mummy, leading to a merry chase around the temple. Aside from all that, the script takes time for entertainer Peggy King to sing You Came a Long Way from St. Louis, and some Egyptian dance numbers performed by The Mazzone-Abbott Dancers. With some gags ranging from good to silly, with portions of the story not making any sense at all, this Abbott and Costello venture is sure to guarantee laughter for children and devotees of the comedy team. who, with this comedy, have ended their 15 year association with Universal Pictures. They starred in one more film together in 1956 before parting company.One final note Eddie Parker's Klaris is no way related or parallel to Lon Chaney Jr.'s Kharis of the 1940s. Kharis was mute with one eye exposed while Klaris roared like a lion with his face nearly exposed with limited bandages around his body, looking like something purchased from a bargain basement store. Overall, a one piece rubber suit or rejected Halloween costume. Aside from these flaws, the movie gets by, with Abbott and Costello, older but not wiser, doing what they do best.Formerly presented on Comedy Channel (1990s); American Movie Classics (2001-02) and later Turner Classic Movies (2004-05), Meet the Mummy can be found in either VHS or DVD formats, compliments of Universal Home Video. Happy Mummy's Day. (**) "},{"Title":"Not that bad of a pairing","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy is a pretty underrated effort from the pair.**SPOILERS**Egyptian-based archaeologists Peter Patterson, (Bud Abbott) and Freddie Franklin, (Lou Costello) overhear of an expedition to a new tomb that has unearthed a new mummy. Getting themselves onto the expedition by offering to watch it brought back to America. When they arrive, the doctor is killed and they are framed for the death. While trying to clear themselves of the false charge, Peter comes into possession of a sacred medallion. Chased by different groups who want them, including Madame Rontru, (Marie Windsor) who wants to use it to resurrect an ancient mummy. As the two travel to the tomb to return the medallion, the different parties converge together for their own reasons.The Good News This isn't as bad as it's reputation says. There are a lot of gags in here that don't work but do. The hamburger-switch sequence is a justifiable classic routine, and the earlier dead body discovery is a gut-buster. A couple of other similar silly scenes are spread throughout the movie that are just as hilarious, including several snake-charming scenes and some humorous physical gags at the beginning. The usual humor of the team is on full display here, and it should be pleasing for fans of the group. There is quite a rapid pace to this, and it flies by without any real problems. The gags come at a nice enough pace so that when it might start to dip into a lull, you're back into the film because of what has happened. The ending is complete madcap insanity, and provides some great laughs as well as being one of the best creative series of sequences in their history. It's one of their most impressive scenes, and is the highlight of the movie. There are a couple of nice scenes that could be construed as suspenseful, and are quite nicely realized. Add to that a nice part with a hidden skeleton and it has a little horror to the proceedings.The Bad News Most of what's wrong here is mostly just budgetary concerns. The sets look cheap and small, the locations are pretty much hampered by lack of design, and most of the time it looks dreary. When everything should look big and grand, they instead come as looking like cheap sets on a back-lot that where hastily filmed to get it out in a hurry. There's never a sense of anywhere they've been as a large place. This is mainly due to the budget, as their's no doubt that it could've been much more. The mummy costume looks incredibly bad, and is a far cry from the wonderful look of the original and isn't scary in the slightest. Looking exactly like moldy bandages wrapped up, they don't even cover his entire body, as there are several spots missing that weren't covered. It only elicits laughter when viewed.The Final Verdict While not the travesty many claim it is, it is still one of the better ones Abbott and Costello have done. Mummy fans might not like the look here, as it's pretty abominable, but the rest of the film is just fine. Worth at least a look for hardcore fans of the comedians, while others who aren't fond will probably want to advance with caution.Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy (1955) ***","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bud and Lou are two down and out adventurers in Egypt struggling to get some quick cash for a trip back home. They learn that a certain Dr. Zoomer has recently unearthed the mummy known as Klaris, the Prince of Evil, and requires two good men to help him transport it back to the states. But before they can volunteer their services, Zoomer is murdered by two devoted followers of Klaris. Abbott and Costello then become absorbed in a three-way tug of war to secure the mummy and possess a sacred medallion which could lead to the discovery of the tomb of Princess Ara and her treasure in the bargain. Also competing for the prize is the dangerous Madame Rontru (played by sultry Marie Windsor) and her two henchmen (one played by Michael Ansara). But the Cult of Klaris (headed by Richard Deacon, who seems awkward in this part) is determined to intervene and reclaim the mummy and the medallion of Princess Ara for themselves and preserve the legend.This was the next-to-final film for the aging Abbott and Costello, but yet it works quite well and emerges as one of their funniest from this period. The crazy plot helps to create some humorous shenanigans including a classic routine where Lou accidentally eats the sacred medallion which is hidden inside his hamburger, and another where he gets frustrated when Abbott keeps choosing to dig with a shovel even though Lou repeatedly tells him to take your pick. The murder of Dr. Zoomer and the attempt by the killers to hide the corpse allows Costello another chance to go through his patented disappearing bodies shtick, though it's better done and not as repetitious here as it was in ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET THE KILLER. Both comedians are in great form throughout this comedy, and they're given some funny lines steadily throughout the picture (BUD How stupid can you get? LOU How stupid do you want me to be?) For monster movie fans, the mummy Klaris (one wonders if this name was intentional or an error by the writers if they really meant to call him Kharis as in the Universal mummy series) is pretty bad looking; his bandaged carcass looks more like an over-sized pair of white pajamas, and his mushy face resembles a left-over egg roll. Klaris is played by Edwin Parker, a stuntman from back in the heyday of the classic Universal monster films who used to stand in as Frankenstein's monster, the Wolf Man and even Kharis himself. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Last Picture For Universal","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was the boys last picture for Universal. Actually it is better than some of the prior ones.It has a better supporting cast than some with Marie Windsor & Richard Deacon. It has a better drawn story line than others too, as the script almost gets the idea right.For the first time in many pictures, it has some of Abbott & Costellos better comic dialog which had been missing for several films. It includes the crisp take your pick routine and it is a breath of fresh air for the first time in a while.There is a clever sequence where A & C pull a clever escape using some stunts that are cleverly done. There is a little music but it is not as obtrusive as some previous films. Overall, this is just slightly below their best films, much better than their worst ones. "},{"Title":"Minor Abbott and Costello","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A formulistic entry into the Abbott and Costello Meet... series.  Lou sees moving corpses, hidden passageways, etc., while Bud disbelieves everything. Although mildly amusing, it doesn't hold up to their earlier films. "}{"Title":"Their Day Had Passed","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For their final film with Universal Studios Bud Abbott and Lou Costello visit Egypt and get themselves in one beautiful mess where the police think Abbott murdered Kurt Katch and both of them get caught between two rival gangs.The first is the cult of Klaris, an ancient mummy buried alive and still alive through many incarnations at Universal in the horror film days and a gang of treasure hunters headed by Marie Windsor doing a poor girl's Gale Sondergaard imitation. Marie is so much better in modern noir films. Her henchmen are the well cast Michael Ansara and Dan Seymour, a menacing pair as ever graced the screen.Richard Deacon plays the cult leader, an archeology professor by day and a high priest of the ancient Egyptian religion by night. I take my hat off to him for keeping an absolutely straight face through some of this insanity.A&C sad to say were getting old and tired. In those last few films Abbott was developing as big a paunch as Costello. The team was running out of gas and Universal was now pushing to the forefront such young juvenile stars as Rock Hudson and Tony Curtis who were the big breadwinners for the studio the way Abbott&Costello were in the previous decade. There were still a few laughs left in them yet. In fact Abbott in this one is almost as much a target for the physical comedy as Costello. Best bit is towards the end when Abbott and Ansara both disguised in mummy bandages meet the real Klaris.Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy is nowhere near the kind of sparkle these two had in their films for Universal in the early Forties. Sad that their time had passed. "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello All Wrapped Up.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy (1955) Dir Charles Lamont / Cast Bud Abbott, Lou Costello, Marie Windsor, Richard Deacon, Dan Seymour Bud Abbott and Lou Costello have encountered many monsters in their amusing adventures. Here they do not just meet one mummy, but they encounter several with hilarious slapstick hijinks in full affect. They end up in Egypt within a simplistic setup tailored to the duo's antics. It regards the tomb of the mummy and a medallion that winds up in their possession, as well as a treasure that is under search by many. The plot is just an excuse for our heroes to embark upon many slapstick visual elements that often work to comic effect. Director Charles Lamont is accompanied by a detailed structure and a climax that has everyone in and out of doors within the tombs. Abbott is the straight man while Costello is the victim of the slapstick elements. They discover a body for which they are framed for murdering. The medallion ends up in Costello's stomach after a great hamburger switch. Marie Windsor plays the villainess seeking the medallion and treasure and commits numerous double crosses to obtain it. Other roles are the standard villain buffoon thugs or police that fail to connect the dots several times. The result is hardly a classic but the duo provide decent slapstick that unravel much more than a mummy. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"The End Was Staring Abbott & Costello Right In The Face","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Released in 1955 - Like desperately trying to breathe some life into a centuries-old, Egyptian mummy, this 28th, and final, Abbott & Costello comedy (through Universal Studios), was a very sad swan song for the floundering careers of these 2 Hollywood funny-men.The overall inferiority of this production made it very clear that Abbott & Costello's flailing careers had, by this point, reached their zenith and had been completely drained of all comical life, whatsoever.I think it's really unfortunate to see that this tired, run-of-the-mill picture was Abbott & Costello's way of bowing out of their contracts with Universal, which had successfully endured since 1941's Buck Privates.Set in Cairo, Egypt, Abbott & Costello play characters Pete Patterson & Freddie Franklin (respectively), a pair of bumbling fortune hunters who can often be found lazily hanging out at one of the local cafés dreaming of somehow striking it rich.Before they realize what's happening, Pete & Freddie inadvertently find themselves caught up in a tangled web of crime that's out of their control. This wicked scheme involves a ring of ruthless crooks who are searching for the sacred medallion of Klaris whose hieroglyphics are a map to an ancient treasure buried within the tomb of Princess Ara.This lacklustre comedy was very short on laughs. One gets the clear impression that none of the actors' hearts were in their roles. They were only doing this in order to collect their pay cheques and, then, go home. Filmed in b&w, Abbott & Costello Meet The Mummy had a running time of only 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello meet the Mummy is less of a movie then an episode of the Abbott and Costello show. Marjorie Windsor is a terrifically determined villainess and she helps to give the movie some drama and dark charisma but the movie is too unstructured otherwise. It's more on a final, undisciplined romp for Abbott and Costello. Even though their chemistry is long since gone, they are still brilliant comedians and they fake their way through the movie with a plethora of stand up bits. The good, clean comedy is a nice breath of fresh air. The opening slapstick gets the movie off on a good foot and the stage act (three women and one man) that performs is INCREDIBLE. The cult of Klaris is a major bore, ranging from the incredibly non-Egyptian Egyptian Richard Deacon to the cult, itself, that features a man who is clearly either Tibetan or Chinese. The routine that Costello does with the lady is hilarious and high spirted and the bit with the amulet is well timed. The plot point of Costello eating the amulet (in pieces) and then it appearing intact in his stomach is meaningless here as the whole movie is not for purists. The mummy is a major disappointment as the bandages look like a pajama outfit with a bandage pattern. Abbott gets into mummy's wraps for pretty much no reason other then to have three mummy's running around at one point. As if sensing that this is their last big blowout together, Costello is very natural with his criticisms of Abbott and Abbott seems almost too real with his abuse of Costello. Whatever dysfunction they had in their later years, they do their best here to slug it out. Costello acts like a man ready to jump off ship and he seems to be lightening his load for his journey. He gives a very light and a very funny performance. Abbott is sharper then he has been in years. Abbott was so sharp in his younger days that he looks bad in comparison here but his worst is still better then most people's best. The plot is pretty much garbage and unenthralling and the mummy is completely impotent but the performances of Abbott and Costello and Marie Windsor help move the show. "},{"Title":"A favorite as a child","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello get mixed-up with tomb robbers, a dead archaeologist, and a cult of mummy worshipers in this, their last of the Meet the Universal monster films. Growing-up, I thought A&C was the height of comedy gold. I couldn't wait for this movie to appear on the local television listings. Not being 7 anymore, I realize now how unoriginal and tired much of the comedy in A&C Meet the Mummy is. Most of the comedy had been done before and better. For example, the The Shovel is My Pick skit is an obvious and inferior rip of their Who's On First? bit. So even though my brain tells me the movie probably isn't as good as the 6/10 rating I've given it, there's no counting for nostalgic value in things like this.As a 7 year old, my favorite bit in the movie (and it still is today) is the whole notion of three mummies (one real, two fake) running around the tomb. I still chuckle to myself at the scene where the three mummies back into each other.Also, I get a real kick out of Richard Deacon (best known for playing Mel Cooley on The Dick Van Dyke Show) as the leader of the mummy cult, Semu, playing it straight instead of for laughs. I can't think of a more unlikely casting decision. "},{"Title":"Well... the kids liked it!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Try to forget the far superior Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein, and you'll make it through with much of your sanity intact.There are humorous moments (a few), and painfully lame moments (too many).  If you want to show your age, shout out Mel! when the cult leader appears.I'll admit, though I have liked A&C since I was a kid, I was (so to speak) looking at my watch a fair bit.  One is too conscious of sets, really thin plotting, bafflement at characters' motivation.... But my kids laughed a lot, particularly my 4 and 8 year old boys; they howled at points, and the older ones chuckled as well.  So, from that perspective, it was a good family movie. "},{"Title":"Klaris and the two expendable idiots.","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the last hurrah for Universal Pictures from the dynamic duo of Bud & Lou. Tho the film finds them long past their best, with the overall material having to be severely stretched to sustain a feature length movie, it does however have some merit. The plot sees the lads mixed up in a murder mystery with an Egyptian cult. Cue lots of Mummy like staple scenario's as our bumbling duo bluster their way thru by luck more than any sort of guile. In the hands of lesser comedians this production would have sank without trace, but such is the vibrancy and comedic knowing of the pair the film at least remains watchable to the end. It may well find them on auto-pilot, but a couple of scenes show why they were such well loved comedians. With medallion hamburgers and a triple whammy of Mummies for the typically frenetic finale, the movie, if not even close to doing justice to their great careers, does remain engaging and thankfully stays above average. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Your Anticipations Become Mostly Let Downs","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You visit the movie hoping for a fine funny film like some of their 1940s ones, but almost every scene in it is a let down or a formulaic rehash from their earlier pictures. This movie is typical of the early to mid 50s films of 'The Bowery Boys', 'Francis the Talking Mule' as well as Abbott and Costello's fifties films-- you go expecting something good and get mediocre unfunny humor instead.Nostalgically, it's interesting to see the comic interplay between them that was so funny in the forties. Some of the routines seem like they're taken from their TV or even earlier radio shows (such as Lou's meeting the café show girl). Others are too familiar-- the done to death scenes of Costello unknowingly sitting or being in front of a dead body or monster, his running for Abbott and their coming back to find nothing (done three times in the first part of the film); the 'point and switch' plate switching routine; and the obligatory final chase sequence (this time with three mummies, one of whom for some reason is Bud Abbott). The difference here is that they still have energy and some edge, and that makes their interplay watchable. unlike the final films of the Marx Brothers, Martin and Lewis and of Laurel and Hardy.B movie queen Marie Windsor has a major role, but Richard Deacon as the High Priest of an Egyptian cult is totally miscast; he exudes about as much menace as an archeology text book. The boys give a brief nod to their 'Who's on First?' fame with 'The shovel is my pick,' but it doesn't really get very far. Peggy King, a vocalist from the George Gobel television show, appears for no reason and sings 'You Came a Long Way From St. Louis' while showing us her semi-butch hair do and zero stage presence.I guess we're been so spoiled by 'Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein' (1948), that we really lament any hint of spookiness, horror, or dark shadows that are so clearly missing from this film. It's almost as if the movie's best part is the dancers! The funniest moment comes when Bud promises and then shows the high priest that he, Abbott, can keep the legend of Klaris alive by turning the tomb site into 'Kafe Klaris' complete with a dance band wrapped up as mummies! But that's about it. We've come such a long way from 'The Mummy' (1932) that it's not even funny. Even though it's fun to watch them together one more time, I'll sadly have to give the movie a 3 and four fifths, or one out of four mummies. "},{"Title":"With gags as dry as the dust in a mummy's pocket","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the team's second to last film of a career that should have ended far sooner, or at least might have been better if their hack writing pal John Grant had been cut loose earlier. This one is another in their tepid horror-comedy cycle that is neither scary or funny, just horrifyingly bad. Perhaps it has an appeal to young children, but otherwise it is as painfully unfunny as they come. Every gag is stale; obviously Grant couldn't be bothered to even try at this point. You get the Who's on First retread with a pick and shovel, and you get the positively ancient snake charming routine as a running gag, and also the point-and-switch-stuff-on-the-table routine that is not only not funny but makes no sense. All this tired patter is surrounded by cheap sets and even cheaper-looking mummy costumes. A & C can't even be bothered to call each other by their character names half the time, using their own more than once. And a perfect example of the mindless agony of these two is the final scene wherein Costello arrives improperly dressed at the new nightclub then cleverly suits himself up---which elicits a startling slap to the face and angry shove by Abbott for no apparent reason. It's that kind of violent, ugly behavior consistently attached to Bud Abbott's character throughout his career with Costello that made this team so annoying to watch. "},{"Title":"Pretty-Good Abbott & Costello Movie-Weak Monster Movie","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Mummy looks like he's wearing an unpressed pair of baggy pajamas. He hobbles around and growls a bit. Very poor mummy make-up. Maybe this was done on purpose, as it seems to be more of an A&C chase and pratfall comedy than a monster movie! (Most critics complained the Jekyll and Hyde film was too scary.) Other than that, it's almost the last film made for Universal that spanned more than 14 years.A bunch of really tired comedy routines and gags. Only A&C Meet the Killer, Boris Karloff is worse. It kind of plays like a cheap Three Stooges short in a haunted house! Silly exotic dancing and singing. Costello, as always, is pursued by the pretty female villain. Tacky sets (nice marble floors) and a very fake-looking indoor dessert backdrop. Only the last 15 minutes are memorable, with three Mummys prancing around and secret passageways everywhere. The running gag is an animated and flying bat and of course a disappearing corpse. Lou eats the cursed medallion of Klaris and, after the dynamite explodes, the memory of the now-blown up mummy is celebrated at the night club Club Klaris with a mummy-costumed jazz band. How stupid! (Sadly, Lou Costello died four years later from his life-long heart condition and his ongoing weight problem.) I loved this stuff as a kid. In the 1950's it ran for a mere quarter (or a Mars candy wrapper) at a Saturday morning movie matinée! Note Richard Deacon is best remembered as Lumpy's Dad on Leave it to Beaver! His role as the Egyptian Priest is beyond terrible! "}{"Title":"Super Fun Film","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy (1955) is a spoof on the Kharis films. Instead of the mummy Kharis, Abbott and Costello will meet the mummy Klaris - a single letter change makes all the comical difference in the world. I don't think you will ever see a cuter mummy movie than this one.If you enjoy any of the Abbott and Costello films and love Universal Monsters or simply love comedy-horror in general then this film should tickle-your-fancy. It has all the things that you would ever want for a good mummy story and a comedy-horror.The funniest part of the film comes towards the end where there are three, yes three, mummies! I won't tell you why or how you'll have to watch the film to find out.If you want a fun day I would recommend A&C Meet the Mummy along with Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948) and Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man (1951).9/10 "},{"Title":"Bumbling Fools and a Mummy","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bud and Lou find themselves pursued by an Egyptian cult for a special medallion linked to a walking mummy.Abbott and Costello made a large number of films, and a good number of those involved Universal's monsters. This was towards the end of that run, but no less fun or interesting than those at the beginning. Sure, there are no big names here. No Karloff. And a mummy called Klaris rather than Kharis (not that this matters).The fun of the two heroes is still here, with a few of those word jokes we love. There is the obvious mummy / mommy joke, but then another one that might be less obvious involving a pick and a shovel. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"A sad end for a great comedic duo","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello are in Cairo and get mixed up with a mummy named Klaris (although he was KHaris in earlier films). It also involves a sacred medallion that Klaris wears, a cult that worships him and an evil woman (Marie Windsor) who will stop at nothing to get it.This was the second to last film that Bud and Lou did for Universal and it's just terrible. The guys were easily in their 50s by then and their age is showing. It's full of tired slapstick and routines that were old even back in the 1950s. I didn't even crack a smile once (although the pick/shovel bit is kind of fun). The plot makes little sense and the special effects are terrible. The mummy getup has to be the worst I've ever seen in a mummy movie. Truly laughable. For the most part the acting is lousy too--Richard Deacon is the worst offender. Bud and Lou do what they can but the material isn't there for them. Also Marie Windsor (a brilliant character actress) has nothing to work with. Boring, unfunny and a waste of time. Skip it. "},{"Title":"Endearingly dated","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite being one of the later films in the Abbott and Costello series, it remains one of their most entertaining movies &#x96; thanks to a fast-paced plot, a touch of clever scripting here and there and gags which come thick and fast all the way through. The story is as light as ever, involving scheming gangs of nefarious villains, people being chased all over the scenery, lots of secret passages and sarcophagi, a murderous mummy (a pretty poor shambler to be honest) and our duo getting involved in their usual hijinks; namely, Costello seeing all manner of weird and scary stuff, and straight man Abbott missing all the fun each and every time.Although it's a low budget movie with some unconvincing Egyptian locales, not to mention actors (I guess they got through a fair few tins of boot polish here) there is much to enjoy here. Costello is less irritating than usual and is funny on occasion and more than a few jokes are successful; the dinner-table routine with the cursed medallion is a particular highlight and many moments recall the glory days of vintage comedy, in the Laurel & Hardy era.The film does have some longeurs, namely the incessant musical interludes &#x96; apparently they had to pad the running time out, even though it only clocks in at seventy-five minutes &#x96; and supporting talent from a better-than-usual cast, including a young Mel Welles. Cheesy special effects add to the movie's endearingly dated appeal; an animated bat is even worse than the effects in ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN and a plethora of rubber snakes only add to the jokey fun. Made with a tongue firmly in cheek and with gusto from the cast and crew, this is one of the most straightforwardly enjoyable Abbott and Costello films out there. "},{"Title":"A&C's last Universal pairing together is rather bland but a long way from bad","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Meet the Mummy is nowhere near Abbott and Costello's best(personal favourite is Meet Frankenstein) but while it is the weakest of their Meet...outings it is not quite one of their absolute worst. Compared to before Meet the Mummy is rather bland, but it does have a number of things that keep it from being terrible.The good news is that Abbott and Costello still work very well together and both are still good, Costello is the funnier of the two but Abbott provides amusement too playing it straight. The supporting cast aren't too bad either, Marie Windsor coming off best, playing her villainess character with waspish authority. Michael Ansara and Dan Seymour are suitably menacing henchmen. Meet the Mummy is briskly paced(mostly) and not without funny moments, in fact the script is still smart and a lot of fun to watch, not as quotable as before but the style's the same. The physical comedy is fun if not as energetic as the best of their outings and there's plenty of enjoyable scenes, especially with the trio of mummies, the dead body hide-and-seek, the slipping the mickey-like scene with the medallion and hamburgers.However, Meet the Mummy does have a number of problems. The plot is tired and very rarely makes sense(the whole cult idea could have been intriguing but was messily handled), and there are a couple of moments that do come across as a touch cheesy like with the iguana and skeleton in the crypt(the skeleton is a little cheap-looking). The Peggy King number was pleasant but not very memorable and it didn't add very much to the film, likewise with the dance numbers, while Richard Deacon looks rather ill at ease in his role. But the budget hindrances were the main problem, the sets are nice but the film looks a little dreary and the effects are well below the standards of the ones in many of their previous and best outings. This is especially true of the Mummy, who is by far and large the worst-looking Monster and has the worst Mummy make-up in any Universal film. The Mummy itself exudes little personality let alone menace, athletic sure but that's it really.Overall, Abbott and Costello's last Universal pairing together is rather bland, but it has some entertaining moments is and a long way from terrible or bad. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Splendid Film For Abbott And Costello Fans.","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bud and Lou find themselves pursued by an Egyptian cult for a special medallion linked to a walking mummy.This movie was Abbott and Costello's 35th movie, as well as their 28th and final movie for Universal Studios, which resulted many great movies from the duo, as well as where they got their breakout in the movie business. You'd think that after nearly 3 dozen movies, Bud and Lou would by now have lost or would have been beginning to lose their comedic touch, but this movie disproves that. Abbott And Costello Meet The Mummy was an effective sendoff for Bud And Lou (although they would make one more movie after this one) from Universal. This movie was also the last of their Meet The Monsters series, and out of all of those, this one is one of my favorites, although I do think that Meet The Invisible Man was my favorite one overall. And of course, Bud and Lou provide us with some laughs throughout the movie, which proved that even in their later years, they were still capable of making people laugh. So if you are a fan of Abbott And Costello, then you will definitely get your enjoyment out of this one.Are there some funny scenes? Oh yes there are. There is a really funny bit where Abbott And Costello are eating hamburgers, and while Abbott's is just fine, Costello's is all crunchy. The reason? Costello's eating the medallion. There's also a very funny gag in the movie which involves Costello playing a flute and frequently getting scared at the sight of a snake. I was really surprised at how Bud and Lou still managed to be funny after 35 movies and around 15 years in the business. Abbott and Costello were two people who once they got their humor, they never lost it. In the movie, they manage to bring out many laughs, and unlike some of their earlier films, it's all comedy (not that that was a problem in their earlier classics). 1955 was a good year for Bud and Lou, as they made this movie, along with Meet The Keystone Kops (which was also funny).All in all, while this movie isn't as hilarious as Buck Privates, Buck Privates Come Home, or Hold That Ghost, it is still very funny, and I can say that it's one of their best of their later films, and one of my favorites of their Meet The Monsters series. It was a nice way for Abbott And Costello to say farewell to Universal Studios, the studio that they had been signed with since their first movie back in 1940. After this, they would make one more movie, Dance With Me, Henry, before they broke up. Costello suddenly died in 1959, and Abbott survived him by 15 years, dying in 1974. So in short, if you're an Abbott And Costello fan, then you'll enjoy this movie, and like I said, it's a nice way for them to end their work at Universal Studios.8/10 "},{"Title":"End Of The Line.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott & Costello play Pete Patterson & Freddie Franklin(though refer to each other as Bud & Lou throughout!) two fortune hunters in Egypt who become mixed up in murder when they become suspects after an archaeologist is killed for a priceless Medallion that leads to the tomb of the living mummy Klaris, which is also cursed(of course). The usual pratfalls and mishaps ensue. Sad horror spoof is entirely unfunny and utterly pointless. The mummy series ended ten years previous, and this update has terrible makeup, stale gags, and sloppy handling. This was the team's final film at Universal Studios, which unceremoniously dropped them after this flop. "},{"Title":"On the Downgrade","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clearly this great comedy team is near the end of their movie road here. It's like they have no script, instead relying on a constant stream of pratfalls. The trouble is the non-stop physical comedy is not very funny. In effect, the film lacks comedic shape, which is surprising since the premise is ready-made but sloppily developed. Plus, Lou was just getting over rheumatic fever (IMDB), and I'm afraid it shows. Unlike so many previous outings, he doesn't look like he's having fun at all. The movie does have cult figure Marie Windsor (Mme. Rontru) parading around in a fetching gown, along with a few elaborate sets Universal popped for. Other than that, I'm afraid there's not much compensation. Too bad, considering the team's many triumphs together. "},{"Title":"Costello swallows a sacred medallion...and nobody knows how to get it out?","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Awfully tired Abbott and Costello comedy, their 28th (and final) film for Universal, benefits from a good supporting cast--although the script is cluttered with villains who don't end up doing much. Two pith helmet-wearing Americans in Cairo get hold of a medallion which points the way to hidden treasure once owned by a princess (but in hieroglyphics!). Soon, they're on the run from the mercenary Madame Rontru and her stooges, plus three roaming mummies guarding the princess's tomb. Lots of frantic activity, but not enough jokes. As the nefarious Madame, Marie Windsor gives the proceedings a much-needed shot in the arm, however Bud and Lou phone their performances in. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"What is it with Costello and Dead Bodies???","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What is better than an Abbott and Costello movie with a mummy? How about an Abbott and Costello movie with THREE mummies? Two of them are faux mummies, but it still adds to the excitement.The boys are soldiers of fortune in what looks like Egypt, although at times like India. They resolve to get work with an archeology professor who abruptly leaves the business to become a corpse. Then, we have the busy body routine, much like A & C Meet the Killer. One swallowed medallion later and they are up to their necks in intrigue.They don't rely as heavily on routines in this flick; but, it is still funny. One obviously vaudeville routine was an attractive woman who haughtily refuses Costello's advances by announcing that she's a dancer, shaking her stuff, then giving him her address, marital status and hours she is home...A few modern dance numbers in this movie. A lot of running and screaming. Definitely in their top ten... "}{"Title":"Wrapped up in Mummy","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Their last of the Meet the Monster series and their second to last film together, Mummy has some of the teams best bits. There is some nice verbal wordplay between Bud and Lou, especially the the shovel is my pick skit. I also like the scene with Costello in Marie Windsors room and A & C pulling the old switcheroo with the medallion.The only problem is that the film makes the Tarzan movies look like National Geographic in comparison. Mummy is supposed to take place in Egypt. The waiter and some of the Klaris supporters wear turbans. (Turbans are really associated with the Sikhs-from India) The dance the Klaris followers perform and the costumes worn by some of the girls belong more in a Bollywood film than Egypt. Bud and Lou hang out at a place called Cafe Baghdad that serves hamburgers and features American torch singers. And who in god's name wears a suit and tie in the desert? That aside, Mummy is a perfectly enjoyable picture if you just set your mind on cruise control and relax. "},{"Title":"Funny film!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, this was just about the last of the Abbott and Costello films for Universal. It's also quite a funny film, not quite as funny as A+C Meet Frankenstein but pretty good stuff.This time, the boys get mixed up with a sacred medallion that belongs with a mummy that supposedly guards a large cache of treasure. There are gold-diggers after the boys, and then the guardians of the mummy and the medallion are after them, too. As you can imagine, there are a bunch of chase scenes in this film, including a hilarious sequence at the end involving three(!) mummies!This film isn't meant to be scary, and the mummy is pretty much played for laughs. Abbott and Costello are as funny as ever, giving us variations on their Who's on First routine (this time with a shovel and pickax) and the food-switching gag that appeared in Pardon My Sarong. Plus, it wouldn't be an Abbott/Costello film without at least one throwback big band musical number (it's a nice one, too).I'd rate this one 6/10. It's clean fun from a more innocent time. "},{"Title":"One of their better ones","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy is one of the better A and C vehicles and perhaps the best of their frequently sad last efforts.  The movie often plays out like scenes from their television show (which is smart) and the boredom is kept to a minimum.  A and C completely sleep walk through some of their flicks but not in this one and the humor is legitimately funny and not just for die hard fans.  A and C are more physical and faster on their feet and the villains, especially Marie Windsor, are excellent.  The mummy is disappointing, not only in appearance but also because he doesn't really do too much.  A and C also call each other by their real names throughout even though they're listed by character names at the end.  Still, pretty good stuff.6.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not their best...","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... but an OK film. The laughs are few, but most are worth the wait. To see Lou eat a hamburger is priceless. Film is mostly for diehard A&C fans but anyone who enjoys classic comedy might find it interesting. For a scarier, funnier movie I recommend A&C meet Frankenstein instead.  "},{"Title":"Good clean family fun.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My seven year old is a A & C fan and really likes the antics.  This was by far the tamest of the Meets... series, but the slapstick and nonsense are what keep us coming back.  The really odd thing is that the boys are listed in the credits as Bud playing Peter Peterson and Lou as Freddie Franklin, but they refer to each other as Abbott and Costello throughout the film.  Did they forget who they were supposed to be? "},{"Title":"An amusing and brisk film with a good number of enjoyable A&C routines","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Peter Patterson and Freddie Franklin are Americans travelling across Egypt. When they go to visit archaeologist Dr Zoomer to get a job, they find him murdered and, in trying to disentangle themselves from the crime, they end up getting deeper than they expected. In possession of a medallion, Peter and Freddie end up pursued by an Egypian cult who wish to protect the undead Mummy to which it belongs, but somehow Freddie cannot do anything without getting into more and more trouble.In revisiting the old Abbott and Costello films of my youth, I have discovered that their films do have noticeable periods where the quality is distinctly lower than when they were at their best &#x96; even fans will acknowledge this. Seeing that Mummy was made in the mid-50's suggested to me that perhaps this was going to be one such film &#x96; perhaps rushed out with the stars not really having the energy, commitment, chemistry or timing that they once had. The return to meeting monsters was also a worry as it made me think that the pair were perhaps returning to an old vein hoping that that in itself would make things work again. I'm not sure how much if any validity these worries had but the film does actually stand up as an enjoyable film of theirs. The plot is more or less clear from the title of the film but it does a solid enough job of providing a structure to the film and from there it depends what they manage to fill it with outside of narrative.The good news for fans here is that the two stars actually appear to have a certain amount of chemistry together and also have several good routines. Abbott is good and, as others have suggested their is a certain edge to his harshness that may have roots away from the scripted lines, while Costello does well with his usual double-takes and playing up his baby-faced personae. The supporting cast are solid enough to provide a plot but not particularly memorable beyond that &#x96; although I did like a performance from Peggy King at one point.Overall this is a brisk and amusing film that has a good number of fun routines and the stars appearing that they are actually putting effort into it beyond just showing up. A solid A&C film despite the late stage it was made. "},{"Title":"I shot the body three times and the head twice.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The mystery here is the names attributed to Abbott and Costello in the closing credits as Peter Patterson and Freddie Franklin. They repeatedly refer to each other by their real names in the film, and I can't recall their character references in the movie at all.Universal rounds out the boys' monster pairings one last time with The Mummy, after previous and better team ups with Frankenstein, The Invisible Man and Jekyll & Hyde. Marie Winsdsor appears as the evil Madame Rontru, leader of a gang attempting to acquire the sacred medallion of the Mummy Klaris. Besides the boys, her nemesis in the movie is Richard Deacon's character Semu, an Egyptology student who wants to save the treasure of Princess Ara for the true believers of Klaris. His first appearance is rather ridiculous, dressed as he is in an Egyptian costume, though he trades it in for better suited business attire later in the film. The Klaris name is a knockoff of the Kharis Mummy portrayed in the original 1932 film by Boris Karloff.For their part, the boys get some mileage out of gags with the dead body of Dr. Gustav Zoomer (Karl Katch), an expected dancing cobra and a take your pick and shovel routine. But a one is good, three is better attempt at providing a trio of mummies falls a bit flat, with Bud and a Windsor henchman (Michael Ansara) providing a plethora of bandaged ones.For one of their last efforts, A&C Meet the Mummy provides it's measure of laughs, but most have been said and done before. What it proved to me though was what I've thought all along about the casting of the sequels to the original Universal Mummy, why have a name actor like Lon Chaney Jr. portray the title character, when anyone under wraps would have done as well at half the cost? "},{"Title":"Nightclubs, Clever Pardoy of Egyptian and Mummy Films, A Funny Film","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I find it remarkable and sad at the same time that a generation who has been afforded worse and worse examples of discontexted special-effects displays and puerile bad acting masquerading as movies would be unable, as they apparently are, to enjoy 1940s and 1950s comedy teams' movies. Case in point Abbot and Costello Meet the Mummy. The film was obviously a studio back-lot effort; but what is surprising about the film is not that it was a low-budget effort made for fun, verbal, physical and other sorts, but how well everything else in the film was done. For instance, the movie begins with the world's best apache troop at work, the Mazzone-Abbott dancers, as Abbot and Costello enter a nightclub in Cairo. There is also later a fine nightclub scene where Peggy King sings a knockout version of You've Come a Long Way From St. Louie, and another fine troupe, the Chandra Kaly dancers. In between musical numbers, the film boasts Richard Deacon as an Egyptology student, lovely Marie Windsor as a serviceable Mata Hari-type femme fatale, Michael Ansara as her evil cohort, and such fine talents as Veola Vonn, Mel Welles, Kurt Katch and Jan Arvan in the supporting cast. The ramshackle but clearly-made narrative has the leads getting involved with an attempt to find a lost treasure, the tomb of an ancient princess. Of course she was loved by a now-rampant mummy, and Costello becomes involved when he swallows the medallion that presents directions to the long-dead lady's tomb. Deacon wants the mummy, Klaris, honored; Windsor and her group use him to get directions to the tomb--but he cuts himself in on the proceedings for his own reasons. This film is filled with clever verbal humor, low-grade and not, based on misunderstandings of words, commands and the like; Windsor is quite good at parodying the bad-girl roles she was usually allowed to play and Deacon is surprisingly good in what is almost a straight role. Those who complain that this film lacks imagination need to remember that this is not just an Abbot and Costello vehicle movie; it is an intelligent potboiler, using the talents of the two master comics rather nicely. Moreover, it was made just after the great color Universal Grecianized Near-Easterns such as Veils of Bagdad and The Golden Blade, etc.; and just after the late 1940s-early 1950s B/W classics such as Lost in a Harem and Babes in Bagdad. Moreover, the film introduced the Mummy to a new generation, centered its tale around a large nightclub (a feature of many later Egypt-based) movies, and also spotlighted a lethal lady, a professor translating hieroglyphics, archaeologists searching for a lost tomb, criminals after a potential treasure, nameless dangerous henchmen in alleyways, the murder of a man who knows too much, etc., etc. The dance numbers are first-rate in this film, and John Grant's script is full of hilarious comedy dialogue and gags. My favorite occurs at the film's ending, when a way is found to satisfy the viewers and participants alike. A running gag in the film has had Costello playing a flute and a snake appearing behind him. As a joke, to get even with Abbott (who is being mean to him as usual) Costello challenges him to play the flute; he does and from a large urn rises a gorgeous blonde, who kisses him. Costello tries the same flute on another urn--and you'll have to see the film to find out what happens. Director Charles Lamont keeps the narrative's action moving; Lee Loeb supplied the serviceable storyline. Art Directors Alexander Golitzen and Bill Newberry and costumer Rosemary Odell deserve credit for their first-rate contributions to a simple B studio effort. This un-epic comedy probably needed more camels, and more scenes such as the one where the team, dressed in unconvincing burnooses, are pursued by two large policemen. But I enjoy this film for what it is; and I believe the film pointed the way to the Martin and Lewis efforts of a later era, as well as to many another Egyptian, North African and comedic effort made with more money than this was but with a great deal less good humor and genial entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Ah yes, abbott and costello at their best","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A lot better than the invisible man movie, at lest they are more active in this movie. The two bumbling idiots are basically running from their mummy. Costello is hilarious in this movie not short after the invisible man which the comedy was more implied and not too much scripted. This movie is a riot to the classic duo. The tomb diggers find a mummy that has a surprise to go on the chase controlled by the women to get the two goofs who saw too much. If you liked abbott and costello meet the werewolf, you'll like this movie. The great era of Abbott and Costello bring laughs and side splitting humor in this classic movie "},{"Title":"The least of the monster versus Abbott and Costello films...but it's still pretty good viewing","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Starting in 1948, Abbott and Costello began appearing in several films where they were paired with monsters from the Universal Studios repertoire. The first film, ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN was the best and actually featured this monster as well as Dracula and the Wolf-Man. Next, they did a film where they were featured with the Invisible Man. Then, they did a send up of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Now, in their second to last film, they did their final monster-themed film. ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET THE MUMMY is certainly the least of the four films but considering the other three are so much better than a typical Abbott and Costello film, this still means that the film can be a very good one.Klaris the mummy is about to be stolen...and brought to life by some strange cult headed by....Richard Deacon?!?! To get it, his cult members kill without remorse. Talk about strange casting--Deacon seems about as Egyptian as Bill Cosby! At the same time, a rich adventurer (Marie Windsor) is seeking a cursed amulet, as she hopes it will lead her to treasure...and she's very willing to kill to get it. So, in the midst of a fanatical cult and amoral adventuress come our two stupid heroes, Bud and Lou. At first, the police think Bud killed the Doctor (the man who had the amulet and Klaris), but later they discover the real killer. In addition to either of them killing Bud and Lou, now that Klaris has come to life, they are as good as dead. Is there any way that they'll escape and this will have a happy ending? See the film yourself to find out the answer.What's to like about the film? Well, most importantly there isn't all that much singing (a serious problem in most Abbott and Costello films) nor is there an irrelevant romantic subplot. Also, while it's all pretty silly, the mummy sequences are pretty cool and the film actually does make you laugh.There are some cheesy moments in the film, such as the giant lizard and the skeleton that is chained up in the crypt. Oddly, this skeleton is fully articulated and you can see the little screws holding it together!! This is one of my favorite dumb clichés, as in real life, once the tissue has been eaten away, a skeleton has nothing holding it together. Fortunately, such scenes are the exception in the film, not the rule.Overall, a very good film. Sure, Bud and Lou are looking a bit old, but it's a nice way for the team to say goodbye to Universal Studios--there home for most of their previous films and where they got their big break. "}{"Title":"Abbott and Costello meet Mummy!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This Abbott and Costello movie is a great one and in My opinion its a classic. The duo are excellent in this film! Also starring in this one is Marie Windsor, Madame Rontru, Michael Ansara, Dan Seymour, Richard Deacon, Kurt Katch, and Eddie Parker. Marie Windsor has a great performance in this picture. The movie is hilarious and has some terrific moments! The mummy make up is really cool! The film also has great a musical score! If you like Abbott and Costello then I strongly recommend that you see Abbott and Costello meet Mummy today! MovieNuttball's NOTE If you love mummy films I recommend the following The Mummy (1932), The Mummy (1959), The Monster Squad (1987), The Mummy Lives (1993), Tale of the Mummy (1998), The MuMmy (1999), The Scorpion King (2002), The MuMmy The Animated Series (2001), and The MuMmy QUEST FOR THE LOST SCROLLS (The MuMmy The Animated Series (2001) VHS movie), and Bubba Ho-Tep (2002)! "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Fools","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Adequately amusing, this is another attempt by Abbott and Costello to meet one of the former Universal monsters. Already having met Dracula, Frankenstein's monster, The Wolfman, an invisible man who wasn't quite Claude Rains for his imitators, & a non universal monster in Mr. Hyde, they now had to Egypt where they become involved in another attempt to get ahold of ancient Egyptian treasure. This leaves them into contact with such nefarious characters as femme fatale Marie Windsor and alleged Richard Deacon, they end up in a chase with an alleged mummy locked up in a closed off tomb where nothing scary really happens and you know pretty much what the results are going to be. It's all pretty juvenile and while there are some funny moments, I'm afraid this is more for the kiddie crowd than adult movie crowd. obvious Caucasian chorus girls attempt to be Arabic harem dancers and fail miserably. There certainly is not one moment of authenticity, so you must go into this with an open mind with your eyes taped to the front so they don't roll to the back of your head, and a bag of popcorn to munch on, because this is a perfect Saturday or Sunday matinée film, and little else. I remember Abbott and Costello films fondly from my childhood and even into my early adulthood, and while some of them are much better than others, this one falls somewhere in between. It isn't a disaster, but the humor is a major repeat of everything that they had already done and better. The exotic looking Marie Windsor makes a great villainess and Deacon is properly dour. if it wasn't for the presence of these tractors, I think I would have been totally bored. "},{"Title":"Fag End.","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abbott and Costello were a popular comedy team in the early 40s, with their dumbed-down burlesques of life in the Army or Navy. Occasionally they'd branch out, when Universal Studios let them, and make a film of more substance -- and funnier -- as in The Time of Their Lives. But after a few years they began to fade, until they were revivified with Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein in 1948. Universal's monster genre, which began in the early 30s, had run its course and there was nothing left to do but parody them, and Abbott and Costello were the instruments of that parody.Here we are in 1955, with Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy and it's the dead edge of yonder for both the comedy team and the line up of monsters. You can't parody a parody.This may be the only film -- it was the next to their last -- in which Bud Abbott is almost as thick as Lou Costello. Abbott's voice is harsher and a little gravelly. When he insults Costello or order him around, it's a little unpleasant because he doesn't sound like a vaudeville straight man anymore; he sounds really mean.The story is dispensable except for Marie Windsor. What is she doing here, taking a vacation from being a moll? She looks mighty fine, in an Ileana Douglas sort of way, with those big and inviting eyes. Yes, eyes. Nobody else really counts. And the plot redoes some earlier successful gags. The Who's on first routine here is morphed into a lesser breed of gag involving pick a shovel. I used to get a kick out of Abbott and Costello when I was a kid, and maybe the kids would find all this running around, being chased by thieves and mummies, bumping into dead bodies, and so forth, amusing. Although -- I don't know. I'm not attuned to the tastes of today's kids but my general impression is that they prefer violence to comedy or, better yet, slaughter that is presented as a joke. "},{"Title":"great Abbott and Costello film.","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this another great bud Abbott and Lou Costello movie and because of all the same reasons it has great comedy in it the acting in it is good the actors in it are good it has a good story line to it the way they did the mummy in this movie is pretty good as well everything about it is good. so i'm sure that you will not be disappointed with bud Abbott and Lou Costello meet the mummy. so make sure that you rent or buy bud Abbott and Lou Costello meet the mummy because it is really good. and i'm sure that you will have a good time watching it and you will watch it over and over again.overall score ******** out of ********** ***1/2 out of ***** also this is bud Abbott and Lou Costello's second last film together and it is really funny. "},{"Title":"better viewed when not sleep deprived(as i was)","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i just finished watching this movie(sort of)and it just failed to hold my interest for more than few moments at time.to be fair though,i hadn't slept all night,so might have influenced things.i did however get the bulk of the story,which in nutshell,involves Abott and Costello meeting a Mummy in Egypt.a lot of the film involves sight gags,such as Abbot repeatedly slapping Costello for something stupid he says or does.after hearing Abott insult Costello for the umpteenth time,i sort of wondered why they even hung out together.silly, i know,but that's what i kept thinking.Costello constantly screaming Abott's name whenever he perceived he was in trouble got a bit grating.there is also a lot of (pointless,i thought)running around crazily.there is one particular sequence which i found very ridiculous(not in a good way)involving a dead body being moved from room to room each time Costello stumbles upon it.naturally,he runs screaming in hysterics to Abott,telling him he found a dead body.just as naturally,it is never where he saw it.this should have been funny,but wasn't.i also felt they just seemed to be doing the same shtick over and over ad nausiam.yet the movie wasn't boring,just sort of beige.i have listened to many of Abbott and Costello's radio shows and find them much funnier.but i will view this film again under more optimal viewing conditions and maybe i will have a much more positive experience.for now,6/10 "},{"Title":"I Consider It One Of the Best A&C Horror Spoofs...","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Abbott and Costello, the famous comedy duo from the late forties through late fifties. They were an excellent comedic pairing. I think the worst film they made was Lost In Alaska, but I'm straying off the subject.I will always consider Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy one of their best Universal horror spoofs, if not THE best.Charles Lamont directs.5/5 stars -John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"THE BOYS' LAST HURRAH FOR UNIVERSAL","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET THE MUMMY (1955) **1/2 Bud and Lou mix it up with an Egyptian cult, crooks and a very much alive mummy.  FYI Bud and Lou actually have character names but refer to themselves throughout as Bud and Lou; also the last film the team made for Universal. "}]