[{"Title":"That extra bow!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" 20th Century Fox was no match for MGM when it came to musicals. Daryl F. Zanuk decided to gamble with this film where the talents of a Broadway star, Ethel Merman, would be showcased. Ms. Merman in spite of being the toast of Broadway, never made it big in Hollywood. After all, she was not a radiant beauty, but oh, could she belt a song that could be heard at the top of the balcony! Phoebe and Henry Ephron were brought on board to write the screen treatment and Walter Lang directed.The musical was also blessed in that Irving Berlin's music is heard throughout in all its glory. Ms. Merman was the perfect actress to interpret the songs written by Mr. Berlin. They made a perfect duo, even though, for some viewers not used to Ethel Merman's singing style, it might prove an uneasy combination.The story is simple enough. It follows the Donahues from the early days of vaudeville through some glittering years after. Molly and Terence Donahue had two sons, Tim and Steve, and a daughter, Katy. As the children grow up, the parents' popularity began to recede. The film deals with Tim, as a young man, as he falls for Vicky Parker, a beautiful singer who makes it big on her own. Vickie, who is more interested in her own career neglects Tim. As a result, Tim goes on his own to find himself, away from his family and Vickie.The best thing in the film is Ethel Merman. She was a legendary figure and as Molly Donahue, she is at her best. Dan Dailey was the perfect partner for Ms. Merman. Donald O'Connor is also seen doing some fine dancing. Marilyn Monroe was a lovely woman to look at. As a singer, she had a small voice, but she used it well making the songs her own. Mitzi Gaynor plays Katy. Johnnie Ray, a popular singer of that period is terribly miscast. His Steve is the worst thing in the movie.Although predictable, this film has some great things going for it. Some of the musical numbers are well staged and will not disappoint. On the whole as the camaraderie expressed by the title of the film is evident in the musical. "},{"Title":"Pushing the Limits","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Two scenes surprise, both with Marilyn Monroe her singing of the After You Get What You Want... number in a ultra-tight, combination flesh-colored/white gown. It's obvious that the image portrayed is that she could be nude, with the frilly white covering her talents. The second is the famous Heat Wave number, in a skimpy outfit, with her navel appropriately covered, yet below is a flesh-colored window for more erotic symbolism. In 1954 nudity could NOT be shown, but those scenes probably BARELY squeaked by the censors. The film depicts the traveling, singing/dancing Donahue Family, headed by brassy Ethel Merman and Dan Dailey, with sons Donald O'Connor, Johnnie Ray (who wants to be a priest), and daughter Mitzi Gaynor. It's obvious the Monroe character was an afterthought to boost the film's success; the actress really didn't want to do the part, the studio allegedly counteracted by upping her salary and promising her the lead in The Seven Year Itch (1955). Nevertheless, Monroe looks great and is unforgettable, comedically, dramatically and musically. O'Connor is great fun and Gaynor is a knockout dancer. Between some slow stages, musical numbers are expertly staged, with magnificent sets and superb color schemes all throughout. The finale is surprisingly touching with a rousing title tune reprise by all; only way to watch this is on the pristine-restored widescreem (255 to 1) DVD. "},{"Title":"Classic musical drama!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"26 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The first time you watch this movie, you'll think it's long, boring, and stupid.  The second time you watch this movie, you'll love it.  I can't begin to tell you why, but it's the truth.  (I had the chance to show this film to an audience during a Donald O'Connor film festival.  People came up to me weeks later to say that they had caught it again on cable, and loved it the second time through.)Marilyn is definately ehh.  This movie was filmed during her worst years of personal abuses, and it shows all over her face and her work, lending a shadowy sadness to her character for modern audiences.  Donald O'Connor's character also takes on a new depth for modern viewers familiar with his own life's history, oftentimes with a sharp poignance that helps him grab control of so many scenes, and turn his character's story into the strongest sub-plot of the film.Merman is BRILLIANT as the real head of this family, giving us a wonderfully unique character.  Her role as the strong, smart, powerful, and loving mother is truly a standout for the 50's in general, and musicals in particular. "},{"Title":"Marilyn was deliciously charming, seducing and very appealing&#133;","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The film was, perhaps, the splashiest of the year's musicals&#133; It dealt with the joys, loves and heartaches experienced by a vaudeville family called the Donahues (spending their lives singing and dancing and touring) with Merman and Dailey as mother and father, and Ray, Gaynor and O'Connor as their talented offspring&#133; All of them get to perform a large catalog of new and old songs by Irving Berlin in sumptuous arrangements, beautiful settings and on a big Hippodrome extravaganza&#133;Daily and Merman hit the top; O'Connor&#151;who had liked to build a barbed-wire fence around Marilyn&#151;did it Scottish and came with some fine dances; Gaynor's love was dancing&#133; and she was really cute; and while Ray got some thinking to do, he sells a very beautiful song (If You Believe). Marilyn (appearing after 29 minutes screening) was deliciously charming, seducing and very appealing&#133; She sang After You Get What You Want and Lazy, and did that tropical version of 'Heat Wave.' "},{"Title":"Good, Could've Been Great","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Contrary to what a lot of people seem to think of this film, my biggest complaint with it is Marilyn Monroe.  The studio shoehorned her into this film in their attempt to make the biggest musical extravaganza ever, and she just doesn't fit.  She's so out of sync with the other characters that she might as well be from a different planet.Don't get me wrong.  I'm not a huge Marilyn fan, but she was good (and well-cast) in Some Like It Hot.  She's just all wrong for No Business Like Show Business, and she looks and sounds ridiculous.To be fair, Johnnie Ray often doesn't hold up well before modern audiences, either, when he sings.  It's not that he's bad; it's that his style has come and gone and hardly been seen since.  Everything in this movie tends to be at least a little overdone, and asking Johnnie Ray to exaggerate his singing does not produce flattering results.Still, Donald O'Connor and Mitzi Gaynor are as brilliant and exuberant as you could hope.  Ethel Merman is, well, Ethel Merman, and exactly right for her part.  Dan Dailey is like a reliable locomotive that never disappoints.The story is a bit plodding at times, but it only exists to set up one gala musical number after another.  It only really bogs down when it gets caught up with Marilyn's character.  If the studio had just left Marilyn out of it, perhaps giving Mitzi Gaynor the love interest role, and toned down the general effort level just a hair, this would've been one of the all-time greats.It's still absolutely worth seeing -- in widescreen format, if you possibly can. "},{"Title":"Another Irving Berlin Songbook","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There's No Business Like Show Business has the distinction of being the last of the Irving Berlin songbook musicals filmed. It came out the same year as White Christmas, also of the same genre. Take a listen to the background music of films like Holiday Inn, Blue Skies, Alexander's Ragtime Band, and this one. I defy you to find one non-Berlin note in the film and that's no accident. The more songs of Irving Berlin used, the more money he made. He was one shrewd businessman Irving, most of the time.The title song is identified with Ethel Merman and it was introduced in Annie Get Your Gun. Merman like Mary Martin had a conspicuous lack of success in Hollywood as much as she was an icon on Broadway. She only did the screen version of two of her Broadway hits, Anything Goes and Call Me Madam. That's two more than Mary Martin did.Anyway, I think the genesis of There's No Business Like Show Business probably came about when Call Me Madam became such a hit and the movie money people saw how the chemistry was between her and Donald O'Connor. So O'Connor was signed to play one of her three children. The other two children were Johnnie Ray and Mitzi Gaynor.The plot such as it is, is the story of the Donahue family between both World Wars. The father of the aforementioned children is Dan Dailey and he and Merman do some good Irving Berlin numbers together. I've always marvelled at how graceful Dan Dailey moved on the screen in his musical films. He was not a creative sort in the same way Fred Astaire or Gene Kelly were. Probably if he had been, his reputation would be higher today. But he was a pleasing entertainer every time you saw him.By all accounts it wasn't a happy film for Ethel. Marilyn Monroe is in the film and Ethel was jealous of her. Not that Monroe wasn't her usual difficult self. Probably that helped the plot because it does call for the two to be at odds. Merman believes that Monroe has led Donald O'Connor astray.Mitzi Gaynor was a wonderful talent as well. Too bad she wasn't born twenty years earlier, what a big star she would have been in the thirties and forties in Hollywood musicals then. Good singer and one fabulous dancer.The plot does get kind of sticky in spots and Johnnie Ray didn't set the screen on fire when he wasn't singing. No accident he didn't become a film star.Still for those of us who bless the day Irving Berlin put down his first notes of an original song, it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Inexplicably entertaining","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When I began watching There's No Business... I had fairly low expectations. To be honest, I was watching it because of Donald O'Connor and Ethel Merman (her acting, not her singing, although I don't mind that too much) and I figured that it would be mediocre at best. However, by the end of the movie, I was just very very... happy. There's really no other word for it. The majority of the reviews for this film cite its thin plot and melodrama as a negative, but I think that's just because most musicals have a more contrived and contained plot. TNBLSB has a more general story (which I won't recap) that, in my opinion, gives it more of an emotional impact by the end. All ends well, of course, but because of the nature of the problem (a lost child versus the typical lost love), the final resolution is more satisfying. Acting-wise, Johnny Ray isn't so bad that he ruins any scenes and I've always liked Ethel Merman's kind of maternal smart-aleckiness. Personally, I didn't think the musical numbers were anything spectacular, but that greatly depends on the taste of the viewer. Anyway, despite all the bad reviews of this film, I definitely think it's one to check out if you're a fan of any of the actors or of the musical genre. "},{"Title":"There really IS no business like show business!","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There's No Business Like Show Business was never intended to be great film-making or storytelling, so please do not watch it with those things in mind.Sure, it was over-staged, over-produced, in some cases over-acted and any other overs you can think of, but it's just fun to relax and watch and listen to. I've seen the film maybe dozens of times (I own the DVD) and it's obvious to me that despite a few on screen gaffes and off-screen problems for at least a couple of the actors, Hollywood had a whale of a good time making it. Some of the characters are unrealistic and I'm sure if you could ask the actors, all would say it was by far not their best work.Furthermore, if we didn't know it before, Show Business proved that Johnnie Ray, the part crooner, part rock belter of the era, couldn't act his way into or out of a paper bag. But so what?? This ain't Hamlet. Ray was cast to do here what he did best sing the heck out of a couple of songs that were arranged precisely to suit his performing style. And he also just managed to pull off an unusual plot twist that I'm sure audiences of the era did not expect.We're all asked to suspend temporarily all logic and reason when we turn on our TVs or go to the movies. Why stop with There's No Business Like Show Business? So grab the munchies, sit back and let Ethel Merman and Gang entertain you for a couple of harmless, gaudy hours. "},{"Title":"The BEST show-biz movie EVER!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Yeah, yeah.  It's hokey, it's sentimental, it's gaudy and it's loud.  It's also the most entertaining, involving and unpretentious movie about Show Business ever filmed.  The cast is perfect, particularly Merman, Daily and O'Connor.  (Ethel Merman and Dan Daily as Donald O'Connor's Mom and Dad? Well, maybe it shouldn't have worked, but it does.)  Marilyn is not at her best in the dramatic scenes, but all 3 of her big numbers are memorable. Johnnie Ray plays a priest(!)  Well, at least he could sing.  And Mitzi Gaynor hardly sings at all (thankfully), but is given the opportunity to dance quite often (thankfully). It's big, it's garish and it wear its great big heart on its sleeve.  A movie to love and watch over and over.NOTE  For all TNBLSB buffs, one of the numbers that was deleted from the release print for time, has recently been unearthed.  It is included in an American Movie Classics' special documentary, entitled Hidden Hollywood. It includes many musical numbers that were edited out of 20th Century-Fox musicals of the 30's, 40's and 50's.  This one is Anything You Can Do, I Can Do Better, and is the ONLY number to feature the FOUR Donahues Ethel, Dan, Mitzi and Donald.  It's great.  (I don't think anybody would mind sitting through an extra 5 minutes of running time to catch this delightful musical moment.) "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. It's a nice portrait of a show business family. It's a little on the corny side, but that's what's great about it. This is a great look at a family that began in Vaudeville, and worked their way up to headliners in their own act. The Film does a good job portraying the families closeness, and while it's a little hard to swallow a good looking actor like Dan Daily with someone like Ethel Merman for a wife, the two share a definite chemistry and a lot of humor.This is probably the best that Ethel Merman ever looked and she is fantastic as the family matriarch and her comic talents work great with her hard-to-handle brood.Although her part is pretty much left to singing and dancing, Mitzi Gaynor gives a spirited performance that we later see her give in the hit movie South Pacific as Nellie Forbush.Donald O'Connor takes a more dramatic turn as the troubled son Tim. I have to admit, while some of his attempts to act like a drunk are a little hard to believe, his performance is one of his best, and his dancing in the film is almost as good as it was in Singing In The Rain.The odd duck out is the eldest brother Johnny Ray, who could certainly belt out a song with all the flamboyance and gusto that made him a star in the fifties. However, his acting skills left a lot to be desired. Still, his bad acting works for the character who was struggling to find his own identity when he decides becomes a priest. Perhaps Johnnie projected his own struggles with his bisexuality to guide him.The most memorable aspect of this movie is Marilyn Monroe, who star was at it's zenith when this movie was being made. In a smart move, Monroe agreed to star in the film if the studio allowed her to also star in The Seven Year Itch, but in a lot of ways, I feel this is one of her best movies.First of all, she was clearly head and shoulders above the rest of the cast in terms of molten sexuality. An example is in the number Heatwave, which was initially intended for Mitzi Gaynor. The studio made a wise decision handing it over to Monroe who performed the number with so much heat that it's hard to envision the sweet Gaynor conveying that kind of performance. The number After you get what you want you don't want it was also a standout and Marylin's costume was amazing and a precursor to the outfit Britney Spears would later make famous.Marilyn also brings her tremendous vulnerability that no other comic actress could convey with believability, Marilyn could play wounded characters, perhaps because she was so wounded herself.Watching her character suffer over her love for Tim and her desire for a career is very believable.For me, the most amazing part of this movie are the gorgeous costumes. This movie, surprisingly has fantastic costumes made by the famous Travilla, who had already worked with Marilyn in almost all of her films including River Of No Return, Monkey Business as well as Gentleman Prefer Blondes and The Seven Year Itch.Every costume seemed tailor made for every character.This is a treat of a movie, with great music, great dancing, wonderful costumes and mostly Marilyn, who proves she could make anything work. It ranks right up there with some of her greatest work. "}{"Title":"Mr. Berlin, Madame Merman and Miss Monroe in unequal measure!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When Darryl F. Zanuck virtually forced exhibitors and most of his fellow studio mogul rivals to adopt CinemaScope as a panacea for TV's devastation of Hollywood's weekly box office bonanza, he dictated that virtually all of Twentieth's output was to be filmed in that eye-stretching process. There's No Business Like Show Business, directed by that old pro, Walter Lang, seems to be the prime example of Darryl's minions saying to their boss You want wide? We'll give you W-I-D-E!!Everything about it was designed and lensed to emphasize the original ratio of the CinemaScope process and viewing it on a video that isn't letterboxed must look like what a one-eyed person must experience in everyday life. I never did see it in a theater but I have seen it on a TV broadcast which more-or-less recreated its widescreen ratio. It's a glorious mish-mash. Every Berlin tune that could be stuffed into it is given at least one run-through; John de Cuir's production design must have occupied every inch of several of Twentieth's West Los Angeles soundstages; Ethel Merman, after her terrific movie repeat of her Broadway success in Call Me Madam for Fox (and now, as of 2005, available on video), trumpets away in number after number (Must have been an ear-rending experience over those original four-track stereophonic sound systems.); Dan Dailey, Donald O'Connor and Mitzi Gaynor give it their energetic best; and then there's Marilyn. What can we say, with all that so sadly, in her personal life, came after she reluctantly fulfilled her contractual obligation in this one? She dazzles in, let's face it, a rather vulgar way, and seems shoehorned in to boost the potential box office. And they even added Johnnie Ray, a huge jukebox success at the time (and, due to his hearing deficiency, performing his songs at an even greater volume than La Merman.)All in all this one shouldn't be missed if you want to view an example of Hollywood at its brassiest, in a production fairly bulging with elements that may not coalesce very harmoniously but which was, no doubt, worth the price of admission to those movie palaces before they were carved up to become the precursors of today's sterile multiplexes. "},{"Title":"The Case of the Dueling Vicki's","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Perhaps it was not even noticed 60 years ago, when the trees blocked the view of the forest, but Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe BOTH played singing Vicki's in 1954 movies (via A STAR IS BORN and THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOW BUSINESS, respectively). Stranger yet, both of these Vicki's screen partners wreck cars in drunk driving accidents toward the end of these flicks. Strangest of all, both films close with their Vicki's singing at benefit shows for aged actors. Unfortunately, while STAR is a great classic, BUSINESS is just so-so entertainment, despite its montage of numbers from that prolific Tunesmith, Irving Berlin. Some of these ditties suck big time, particularly inept debuting actor Johnny Ray's solos. On the other hand, Monroe provides the main highlights, especially with her first solo, After You Get What You Want, You Don't Want It (which perfectly sums up the feelings toward her of Marilyn's real life husband around this time, Yankee Clipper Joe Dimaggio). Hollywood chewed up and spit out Frances Ethel Gumm and Norma Jean Baker, leaving Garland and Monroe to shine on forever as American icons whose personal truths were washed away in seas of private tears. But, as they say, THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOW BUSINESS! "},{"Title":"Splashy, colorful, underrated movie musical!","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie tells the story of the Five Donahues, a vaudeville family, and their trials and turmoils. Their eldest son, Steve, leaves the act to become a priest; although Terry and Molly, the parents, object, Katy, the daughter, gets them to change their mind, because Steve could eventually become something bigger than a priest. The youngest son, Tim, meets a beautiful blonde hatcheck girl named Vicky, who is trying to further her career and become a Broadway star. Unfortunately, Vicky isn't all that interested in Tim, as she is focused on her career. This leads to trouble for Tim and the family. Fortunately, in a big splashy finale, everything works out for the best.This is one of the best movie musicals (in my opinion), and it is a shame that this movie is not more well-known as it should be. It has several wonderful Irving Berlin songs expertly performed by the 20th Century Fox orchestra under the baton of Alfred Newman, and it sounds glorious in a rich stereophonic soundtrack. An all-star cast, featuring Ethel Merman, Donald O'Connor, Marilyn Monroe, Dan Dailey, Mitzi Gaynor, and Johnnie Ray, sing those classic songs to perfection, and provide energy to their songs, dances, and scenes. The musical numbers make good use of the wide CinemaScope screen. Seeing Ethel Merman perform the legendary title song (which she had earlier performed in Berlin's ANNIE GET YOUR GUN) is a thrilling moment, and Monroe displays sadly under-utilized musical talents. I wish she had done more musicals (her last one, LET'S MAKE LOVE, would come in 1960, and she had earlier done the more famous GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDES in 1953). It also has one of the happiest of endings in any movie. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Another star-filled Berlin extravaganza","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" By now, Fox's musical comedy stars of the -40s and very early '50s(Grable, Miranda, Blaine, Haver, Como) were gone or nearly gone. They needed new faces. In this extravaganza, we have a collection of 5 proved extraordinary musical comedy talents, plus a pop singer, whose film debut would also be his last. In addition, we have access to Irving Berlin's vast treasure chest of old songs, as well as a few new ones. Should be a shoe in for a classic! Marilyn Monroe was still a relatively new face, but already hot property.Her starring character is the only one not included in the Donahue vaudeville family, and clearly was written in later, as insurance for audience enthusiasm. As other reviewers have emphasized, she turned out to be the crown jewel in this film, with her 3 very sensual musical numbers and occasional inclusion in the dialog. She would be the only one of the 6 stars to do a future Fox musical comedy.Ethel Merman was a long time fixture on Broadway stages, with her more than ample vocal cords, brassy stage presence, and excellent comedic timing. She was also Berlin's favorite female interpretor of his songs. However, she had largely been avoided for film making, because she carried her brassy stage persona onto the screen, not everyone found her often rather harsh singing voice with vibrato to their liking, and she was considered relatively plain looking and heavy. Nonetheless, her Fox musical of the year before Call Me Madam was considered a success, and Fox decided it was worthwhile to bring her back with another Berlin extravaganza.Unfortunately, Fox lost millions on the expensive film, and critics generally weren't kind. Today, it is generally considered a classic. Donald O'Connor had finally achieved long overdue fame in the MGM Singing in the Rain, costarring with Gene Kelly. But, apparently MGM didn't feel they had long term room for O'Connor, along with Kelly and Astaire. Thus, aside from being loaned out for a few more musicals for Fox, MGM and Paramount, he was mostly stuck talking to a mule, however popular and profitable for his home studio of Universal.The previous year, he had costarred with Merman in Berlin's Call Me Madam. In that film, and the present one, he was asked to play essentially toned down versions of Kelly or Astaire.Singing in the Rain was unique in that we had both Kelly and O'Connor performing together, as well as individually. In these Fox films, O'Connor had no male dancer to partner with, although a great female dancer.In the present film, the nascent O'Connor-Monroe romance didn't look like it was more than a brief flirtation. He was much more comfortable with Vera-Ellen(in Call Me Madam), with Mitzi and Debbie Reynolds presumably somewhere in between. Mitzi Gaynor was another vastly underutilized talent in film. Whereas Monroe exuded her unique blend of smoldering sensuality and child-like innocence in her dialog and unbridled sensuality in her musical numbers, Mitzi was cute, pixie-like, a very lively dancer as well as a good singer my kind of ideal stage woman! Here, we get to see her dancing, singing and comedic talent. In the I'm Lazy number, although Monroe is the central focus, Mitzi and O'Connor add considerably to the liveliness of the scene with their gymnastic and dance maneuvers around the reclining Monroe. She and O'Connor would again costar, with Bing Crosby, in the Paramount Anything Goes This would be Dan Dailey's last musical for Fox, after costarring with Betty Grable or June Haver in a number of musicals.Tall, easy going, likable, with good all around vaudevillian talents, he was Grable's favorite male costar, and ideal for his part, having played a similar role in Mother Wore Tights. In this film, his vaudevillian talents were mostly displayed only in the first portion.I don't know why Johnny Ray, an eccentric pop singer of the times, was chosen to play one son. His partial deafness is said to partly explain his unusually intense style of singing. I didn't think his acting was bad. He just had to play the morally good son, who decides being a priest is his thing, and smiled a lot. His rendition of Alexander's Ragtime Band sounded rather bizarre, while his If You Believe was a spirited spiritual. They become less exotic-sounding with repeated viewings.Four of the songs had been included in the 1938 Alexander's Ragtime Band, in which Merman also costarred. Besides the title song for that film, When the Midnight Choo-Choo Leaves Alabam(also done in Easter Parade), Heat Wave, and A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody were again featured. However, Merman sang only the last in both films. Unfortunately, this was perhaps the worse sounding song she did here,with her voice sounding harsh, with excessive vibrato. The second of these was done twice in this film, with Mitzi doing a good job mimicking Merman's very different voice in the second version.The title song comes from Berlin's Anne Get Your Gun, which Merman did on Broadway, but Betty Hutton did in the film. Sorry, but I much prefer Hutton's more exuberant(believe it or not!) version...Berlin composed several counterpoint duet songs. Merman did Your Just in Love with O'Connor in Call Me Madam. Here, she does Play a Simple Melody with Dailey... O'Connor does his MGM-like solo dance to the ironic tune A Man Chases a Girl Until She Catches Him, with a bit of help from an off stage Monroe an interesting novelty dance worthy of MGM, in which the courtyard female statues sometimes come alive, after a coconut hits O'Connor on the head...Favorite comedy bit Mitzi got rid of her unwanted date by having him hold both their drinks on the backs of his hands. Very clever! "},{"Title":"The Show Must Go On and On and On&#x85;","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Married vaudeville duo Ethel Merman and Dan Dailey (as Molly and Terry Donahue) continue their success over three decades when children Johnnie Ray (as Steve), Mitzi Gaynor (as Katy) and Donald O'Connor (as Tim) re-join the act as adults. But The Five Donahues are rocked by Mr. Ray's desire to become a priest and Mr. O'Connor's involvement with bawdy stage rival Marilyn Monroe (as Victoria Vicky Parker Hoffman). Seeing these six people perform a string of Irving Berlin songs live on stage would be an unimaginable treat, but they are rendered gross in 20th Century Fox' weakly plotted CinemaScope extravaganza...O'Connor and Ray are the most mismatched. The former, playing the youngest kid, has no romantic chemistry with Ms. Monroe. Ray is too vague in in the reverential role, with both his wailing ballad and sexualized jazz sounds underused. Monroe's sex appeal is thankfully on display, with her Heat Wave being a highlight, but she arrives on screen after you're first yawn. Nobody thought about letting Monroe and Ray cut loose in a duet. The show does go on, however, with Ms. Merman belting them out and never letting go. Mr. Dailey and Ms. Gaynor are overshadowed, but all remain game, Even with a turkey that you know will fold... ****** There's No Business Like Show Business (12/16/54) Walter Lang ~ Ethel Merman, Marilyn Monroe, Donald O'Connor, Johnnie Ray "},{"Title":"Few Highlights in Overlong Musical","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Memo to Twentieth Century Fox Leave the musicals to MGM. On paper, this big-budget musical extravaganza filmed in CinemaScope must have looked like a sure-fire winner. Unfortunately, if not for the presence of a delicious young Marilyn Monroe in a small but showy role, There's No Business Like Show Business would have been relegated to the forgotten-films bin. Overlong at 117 minutes, the corny story of a vaudeville family is regularly interrupted by musical numbers that lumber on interminably. Even standards like Alexander's Ragtime Band and the title tune are botched.Besides Monroe, Donald O'Connor survives the film; however, his perky performance and effortless hoofing call for a partner like Gene Kelly. Dan Dailey and Mitzi Gaynor also do well, but Ethel Merman has always been too much for the big screen; a stage icon, she plays to the rear seats in the fourth balcony. Which brings us to Johnnie Ray. The man may have an important place in music history, but definitely not in movie history. To be fair, the subplot about the eldest son becoming a priest is cloying and unconvincing to begin with; James Dean would have gagged on the lines. But Ray's voice and demeanor are just grating. When asked why he never made another film, Ray replied that he had never been asked. A viewing of There's No Business Like Show Business makes it perfectly clear why he was never asked.Devotees of Marilyn Monroe want to see her every performance, and she is charismatic eye-candy here. Although her sexy Heatwave number is already famous, she acquits herself well even in a silly routine with O'Connor and Gaynor. Beyond Monroe and O'Connor, however, little stands out. The storyline is too thin to bear scrutiny, the characters are superficial, and the direction by Walter Lang perfunctory. The best scenes have already been included in Monroe compilations; the rest can be relegated to the bin. "},{"Title":"A very interesting movie","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is a very nice one. I've seen better. But I've definitely seen worse! If you love musicals (like me), you will adore this movie (also like me). But if you aren't a big fan of musicals to begin with, don't even think about watching this one! It's the most extravagant, over-the-top, extreme musicals I've ever seen. The costumes are colorful, the sets are colorful, and, most importantly, the personalities were colorful! I had never seen or heard Ethel Merman before seeing this film a few months ago. I personally love her. I don't think her voice is the most gorgeous thing I've ever heard. But it's so powerful, you forget she might not have perfect pitch. She's also a great actress, making me laugh often.Dan Dailey was very nice. I had a slight grudge against him. But it's a long story. Let's just say, Donald O'Connor (a co-star in this, and my favorite actor) was in the process of divorce from his wife, the beautiful, yet intolerable Gwen Carter, while making this. Gwen, being pretty clueless, began dating Dailey during the making of this film. I had a negative view on Dailey for quite some time. But, boy, he can sing! And dance, for that matter! His acting is certainly top-notch. I enjoyed him greatly.Johnnie Ray isn't much. Don't get me wrong. He's a remarkable singer. But his acting is so low-key, he almost doesn't seem to care. He can't act, that's for sure. His character isn't even in it that much. But he needed to be there to add to part of the story. But his bad acting can be overlooked because of his singing.Mitzi Gaynor. What can I say? This girl is great. Her dancing is amazing. And she's a cutie! Her acting is much better than I thought. She manages to sing like Merman in one scene, which is quite a feat! She is so good! I loved her! Marilyn Monroe...hmmm...well...let's just say it's a good thing she's gorgeous! Her singing is alright. Nothing to applaud about. But it's just plain alright. She can't dance. Then again, nobody can dance next to Gaynor and O'Connor! She's not a bad actress. But it's still hard to imagine her and O'Connor as a couple. I think they were both very good looking. But in completely different ways. Monroe's is so prominent, she almost explodes with sex appeal. O'Connor, is more of a boy next door style. But they made them work pretty well. Not the worst one screen couple. But certainly not the best. Monroe was good. But the only reason she standed out form the others at all is from her looks, not talent, in my opinion.I saved the best for last Donald O'Connor. This film shows all of his talents in one movie. His singing is shown in A Man Chases A Girl. His dancing is shown in anything he dances to. He never disappoints me. His acting really good. The drunk scenes had me laughing out loud. Again, begin partnered with Monroe certainly was something we will never completely understand. But it actually worked out alright. Back to O'Connor. I loved his Midnight Choo Choo Reprise with Gaynor. One of my favorites from the film. The A Man Chases A Girl is so great, I recommend to go watch it on Youtube right now! He is actually quite graceful, which was a surprise to me. I would have never thought that the loose-limbed, running-up-walls O'Connor could have grace! But believe me, he does! I personally adore his singing voice. This film showcased it quite well. (For better singing from him, Check out Call Me Madam, also with Merman.) In my opinion, it is O'Connor's performance that single-handedly makes this a great film.So, to summarize, this is a screen-full of greatness! I recommend it very highly. Only, you might want to be careful with little kids about this one. With Monroe involved, there's bound to be something in there. The Heat Wave number is probably the most revealing. Also is Monroe's After You Get What You Want and Gaynor's Paris version of Alexander's Ragtime Band. But other than that, a great, great movie! (Mostly because of Donald O'Connor!) "},{"Title":"See it for The Merm , Mitzi and Marilyn!","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This decades-spanning tale of a vaudeville family was a big hit in 1954--but not big enough to cover the cost of the film. So it came to be known as a flop. In fact this is nifty family entertainment--very corny, sentimental and obvious. It is tremendously appealing. Merman, Dan Daily, Donald O'Connor and Mitzi are all terrif. Merm socks out a performance that is proof positive she would have been sensational in the film version of Gypsy. (Despite my admiration for that unjustly maligned movie and Miss Roz Russell.) Believe me, when she finally gets around to belting out the title song, prepare the hankies.Miss Gaynor just never got the right breaks. She is triple-threat and a knock-out.This leaves Johnny Ray and Miss Monroe as the movie's two surreal question marks. Ray was a briefly, hugely popular singer. He could not act. And being almost stone deaf gave his acting and his singing a weird intensity.As for MM, she did not want to make this movie. Fox blackmailed her with the promise of The Seven Year Itch. If she did There's No Business... she could have Itch. She agreed. She was horrified to see how sketchy her character was, and how she would be forced to mock her own serious ambitions and play the Fox vision of her as a viciously aggressive sex-pot. (Her character is on the receiving end of plenty of rude remarks) MM's acting is often strained--she was still in the grip of a dramatic couch who insisted on over-enunciation. But the script said sexy and MM was obedient to that plot point. She thrusts herself every which way. Jack Cole, who had choreographed MM so well in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes here leaves her to lead with her pelvis. Monroe's Heat Wave number is a high-camp scorcher. It shocked 1954 audiences and even today it's something to see! Vocally, Monroe is very strong. Especially on After You Get What You Want, You Don't Want It. And her Lazy is awfully good. But with MM in a beaded flesh-colored bodysuit, thrusting herself against patrons in a nightclub, or wedged into skin-tight black leotards lolling around on a chaise lounge, who can concentrate on her voice?As to her Heat Have get-up, it looks like something Carmen Miranda would reject as too much--suffice to say, Monroe makes startling use of the flamenco skirts and her bare legs. (This was the movie that finally propelled Monroe out of Hollywood and into forming her own production company.)I always enjoy this film. It has heart. And courtesy of Miss M, heat! Here's my viewing suggestion--watch the full-screen rather than the letterbox version. This was very early Cinemascope. On TV, the wide-screen version leaves everybody with heads the size of postage stamps. Very few close-ups. The color, however, is gloriously vivid and unrealistic. Just the way I like it. "},{"Title":"Brash show biz musical...the good, the bad and the ugly...","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" If it weren't for the fact that Irving Berlin wrote some of the best pop songs of the 20th Century and that ETHEL MERMAN and her co-stars know how to belt them, this would be a dismal mess.The backstage story is one we've seen hundreds of times before, but never on such a grand scale. Furthermore, MARILYN MONROE fans get to see her do two of Berlin's numbers, even though her role seems to have been penciled into the script as an afterthought. Box-office insurance? Of course. And she does heat up the screen to sizzling effect with her own version of 'HEAT WAVE'.But it's DONALD O'CONNOR, MITZI GAYNOR and DAN DAILEY who prove once again what troupers they are, totally professional and exuberant in all of the musical numbers. Among the Berlin hits, 'Alexander's Ragtime Band' gets special attention, sung in a variety of ways for maximum effect.And then we have to contend with the sappy role offered to JOHNNY RAY, the pop singer who jumped to overnight acclaim with his Little White Clouds That Cry. Here he plays one of the Donahues who decides that the church has had a long run and decides to become a priest. This, of course, is met with protests by his loving mom who shares an excruciatingly sentimental scene with her boy when she finds out.But when the songs come to the fore (and they often do), it's fun to watch these troupers belt out a familiar song-and-dance routine. Only then does the hackneyed plot take a back seat to the otherwise dandy proceedings.This musical can ride on its generous amount of Berlin songs. "},{"Title":"Eh, So-So","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" A harmless enough movie, but at the same time without much to recommend it.There's No Business Like Show Business provides one of those backstage musical frameworks on which to hang countless flashy production numbers. The stars (Ethel Merman, Marilyn Monroe, Donald O'Connor) take back seat to the CinemaScope and Technicolor -- this was one of those films that Hollywood dutifully dragged out to convince everyone that movies were still better than that pesky competitor, television.Too bad that Show Business came out at a time when musicals based on Broadway shows -- which integrated plot and music in sophisticated ways -- were coming into vogue and making quaint little musicals like this seem antiquated.I'm not recommending it exactly, but you could do worse on a rainy day.Grade C+ "}{"Title":"BIG musical with a highly contrived plot","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" this is a film for people who love big song and dance numbers (as well as Marilyn Monroe and Mitzi Gaynor fans). it almost is 'pre- reminiscent' of Bollywood in how it moves from one song to the next, with only the most meager connections between song and storyline. the storyline itself is thin enough, that in slow moments i was struck by how contrived the plot was. the purpose of this movie seemed to be to have several Irving Berlin songs choreographed into vaudeville-like song and dance numbers. what better way to do this than by following the lives of a couple of old vaudeville stars who met, married, had babies, and stayed on the road all the while. it all leads to the climactic scene (here's the spoiler, if this film can be said to have one) of ethel merman paying homage to herself and her role as Annie Oakley by singing 'there's no business like show business'. pay attention to how they managed to jigger the storyline such that ethel got her solo for that number (remembering that the family had five members plus a confounding love interest at that point, and the script writers had to somehow get all of them but ethel off the stage). another number, where johnny ray sings a gospel tune, has 'vehicle' written all over it. and as mentioned by the reviewer above, Marilyn Monroe was hot enough property that she was given two 'vehicle' numbers--although her character does not appear to have been penciled into an otherwise completed script, as suggested above. Marilyn's character is critical to the unfolding of the plot, such as it is. notice also how the script writers cleverly played upon Marilyn's reputation for a breathy, contrived diction.so if you like BIG musicals with huge song and dance production numbers and little plot, this is for you (9 or 10 stars). if you do not, skip this one (1 or 2 stars, this is a bomb). averaged out to about a 6, but really more likely a 'love it' or 'hate it' movie. but then again . . . there was something in the 'exposed ducts' construction that made me curious enough about how and why it was made the way it was, that i looked up the answers to many of my questions. were the songs composed specifically for this, or a jumble of odds and ends? (the latter). why was ethel merman given the climatic solo? (as mentioned, she was reprising a big number from her signature role as Annie Oakley in 'Annie Get Your Gun', which was one of the most successful Broadway shows ever at the time). who was that guy who played Steve Donahue, and please explain the strange juxtaposition of his commanding stage presence when singing, and that effete concealment of androgyny when not--as well as the 'cast-to-type' plot twist that sends him into the clergy . . . ? (look up a biography of johnny ray). so, if you want a peek into the movie-making process at the tail end of the studio-system era, this movie has a barely concealed super-structure that reveals how a hoped-for 'blockbuster' was constructed in those days. "},{"Title":"Left me wanting more......","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Stage legend Ethel Merman is one of those acclaimed stage actors that never made it big in Hollywood. In fact, most of her successful Broadway roles were given to other actresses for the film adaptation. Fortunately, Call Me Madam, her film comeback after 15 years of absence from screen, and one of her 2 Broadway roles she reprises(the other being Anything Goes), gives audiences the best idea of how she would look like on stage.After the successful Call Me Madam, this film was suppose to recreate the magic by re-teaming Ethel Merman, Irvin Berlin, Walter Lang, Donald O'Connor, and choreographer Robert Alton, among others. However, this film feels half-beat off, perhaps due to the intrusion of Marilyn Monroe(she was hired just to boast its box office potential).The altered storyline manage to come off well, but it sometimes felt like she was a miscast, since she could not pull off a musical number like the way Ethel Merman does(Heat wave was meant for Merman), and she makes an ironic love interest of Donald O'Connor. In contrast, the pairing of Donald O'Connor and Vera-Ellen in Call Me Madam was one of the key things that people praised about the film. Also, anyone familiar with Johnnie Ray, in his only notable film appearance, may find him playing a priest weird. Dan Dailey and Donald O'Connor are very likable in their respective roles.Still, the film is worth watching for the fine Irvin Berlin's songs(I would love to cut out Tattoo though), great choreography, and the talented cast(despite of my casting issues). It is shot in widescreen format and is very well transferred to DVD. Proceed with caution, though, as it is rather corny. "},{"Title":"Merman is Merman","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Granted this is no MGM Musical - but I think that Donald O'Connor is absolutely fabulous in this. We see acting depth from him in this movie that we don't see in any other movie he made. The scene in the hospital with Dan Dailey is probably his best moment on film. And I don't think you can call yourself a musical fan if you don't appreciate the finale. Merman is Merman and that's all there is to it. She doesn't need any explanations or excuses. She can carry a scene with her singing any time! And as far as the Donald O'Connor and Marilyn Monroe romance, they just seem sweet at the end. And that's not a bad thing is it? The supporting cast is wonderful. Dan Dailey is as he always was - even and steady. His scenes with his sons are priceless. Mitzi Gaynor was beautiful and in the final backstage scene with all Five Donahues her reactions seem almost real!I think this is one you should see on a lazy Saturday afternoon and truly appreciate the whole picture. "},{"Title":"God Created Woman. And Hollywood Made The Heat Wave Number !","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Oh God. I know so well that this is a movie from the good old 1950s, but hold every thing ! Did you see the Heat Wave number ?!!!!! This is like the greatest sexy dance in the history of mankind! I got feelings for that one since the very first time I watched it (I was 17 by the way, too rough I know !). And still with my heartbeats in front of it I feel alive. It takes allurement cinematically to extremes. It's vivid, unrestrained, firecracker ! And most of all surprising, always surprising.Just imagine; a girl has the heaviest sexual charisma ever, dances erotically in close to bikini's custom (Ouch!) with obvious dirty moves, kisses one of the dancers during a song confirms that her anatomy makes the mercury RISE !, moreover to be (Marilyn Monroe) in the same time !! Actually everything is rampant, the fire comes in pink this time, diffusing electrifyingly from the screen to you ! However the biggest part of its strong sexiness is that it's produced in 1954 ?!!!!! That gives me the highest joy already ! It has all the hot and humid time you want. There are many sexy dances all over the cinematic history, but according to this one; they all come as a second best. I'm a huge fan of Marilyn. She's not only sexy, No, she can define sexy. And in that certain number she was MADLY SEXY. Look at her here (and I'm sure you will !!) from doing a simple quiver for her shoulder (which doesn't still simple when it's made by her !) to opening her dress, separating her legs and showing her black underwear to the half naked male dancers while talking about the hot deep south (OH MY GOD !!). Let alone seeing her setting on someone's legs. Or the way she pronounces What's Your Name Honey? or Pablo, Chico, Miguelito!, this is too wild for the 1950s or anytime ! Till declaring The temperature's rising, it isn't surprising, I certainly Can ! that makes any thermometer prove that she definitely and defiantly CAN ! This number is inordinate definition of her as inordinate sex goddess. Frankly you'll never find any hotter dance or woman. Moreover, I loved  Mitzi Gaynor' look to her supposedly brother Donald O'Connor in the start of the dance like she's saying So this is your love?, wow, too hot you wicked!, the male dancer's costumes and reactions, the song's naked Jazz, Marilyn's fervent dazzle, her cheeky moves like she was making love (in fact the whole vulgar sense of it), and her black underwear-like; that was historically expositional (she said it herself I Started The Heat Wave !). Yet nothing stands comparison with her kiss to the male dancer; which was super saucy to an extent I deeply adore. She'd make it again 6 years later at the number of (My Heart Belongs to Daddy), but not with the same steam or the gutsy antecedence, which made me deem it Marilyn's sultriest second in the movies (refer to my list of Marilyn's 10 Hottest Moments On Screen EVER! at the IMDb's pages of Something Got to Give to know that there is a too rare but forgotten moment that overcomes this one, yet not in a movie !).What did I hate here ? Hmmm, well  the fact that Marilyn's hair didn't appear (her golden ringlets can do wonders). And the paranoiac thoughts about something was deleted from it (it's evident that there were moments that the intro of the 4 other leads, then their talking, had covered !). It's hard to believe as well that Marilyn got nothing to perform in the last big number ?! Anyway, they (the censorship, the procedures, whatever..) did it already with a whole number, or numbers, for Marilyn one year earlier in (Gentlemen Prefer Blondes) ! Though let's be optimistic, because I've been craving about the fate of her lost footage from the unfinished (Something's Got to Give &#x96; 1962) to know that there was nine hours footage sat in the vaults at 20th Century Fox. And we had to wait till 1999 to get a glance through (Marilyn The Final Days). Ahhh, when will it be for the rest of her treasures to show up ?! Wanna talk about the movie ? After all of that I must say  what freaking movie ??!! Truly, was there anything else to be watched ?! Maybe MM's Lazy and kiss to O'Connor. Originally they must've named it (There's No Sex Symbol Like Marilyn Monroe). Or rather (There's No Sex Goddess But Marilyn Monroe). Yes, she's the ultimate sexy female ever appeared on the screen, and this is her zenith; beating My Heart Belongs to Daddy in Let's Make Love, the feast of kisses in Some Like it Hot, or even being nude in the unfinished Something Got to Give (at least she didn't dance there !). This exceeds the most daring numbers of that time, and still over the top of what any sex symbol of our days can do.It masterly gives a friendly warm air that moves in to the deep south! Yes, the 1950s was so wicked and you'd never find clearer or raunchier proof than this BOLD number, if not the BOLDEST. In one word  if Hollywood ever made a sex scene in the 1950s, so that was it. Thanks to everyone was a part of it; you surely made an immortal tropical Heatwave.P.S  If you are as crazy in love with MM, so this number, as me and want to talk about it?, imagine how it could be sexier?, or who could make it good in a remake?, or even if you know any hot &#x96; that hot &#x96; numbers from Hollywood of the same era..Please e-mail me. "},{"Title":"Great business","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" TNBLSB is one of my favorite musicals. It has everything one could hope for in a musical...good story, great sets, sensational music and dance, a more than competent cast and above all MARILYN. She makes the picture what it is, even though her role is quite minor. She lights up the screen every time she's on. I guess that's what made the the icon she is today. She WAS special. Just wish there were more of her. I hear that over 20 minutes were cut, including some early scenes of the kids learning to dance by the Dan Daily Character. Also and important meeting of Marilyns with the family after her HEAT WAVE number. She is terrific in AFTER YOU GET WHAT YOU WANT, YOU DON'T WANT IT number. Rivals her DIAMONDS ARE A GIRLS BEST FRIEND. For a rip roaring mucsical with some drama with family values, TNBLSB is a MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"fantastic musical","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The story of Molly and Terry Donahue and their three children.  Tim, played by Donald O'Connor meets hat check girl Marilyn Monroe and the family acts begin falling apart.  This was the film I enjoyed most with Marilyn Monroe. This music and songs by Irving Berlin are wonderful, and Ethel Merman, mom, Dan Dailey, father, and Jonny Ray, brother, and Mitzi Gaynor, sister, are a very entertaining family.  I will always remember the film for it's great entertainment!  8/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst classic-period movie musical made.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie is over-the-top without ever being entertaining. A vapor thin plot punctuates the inane parading that is to signify song and dance. One groans to see familiar show tunes berthed into position under the brooding glare of whatever talent is called upon to pilot the ship. Most numbers fall exceedingly flat, unenlivened by what must be the most frenetic, jam-packed, overdressed, over staged and over lit production ever. Ethyl Merman seems about to explode and each number she is in is an exercise in underwater breathing. Marilyn is demeaned and ghoulish in her most pornographic presentation. Donald O'Conner's talent is evident, but smothered by poor casting and staging. Dan Dailey is, as ever, a smug non-entity. This movie weighs a ton, and sinks like an anchor. "},{"Title":"There's No Business Like Show Business is a mostly entertaining tribute to the one and only Irving Berlin","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" After previously teaming with Ethel Merman and songwriter Irving Berlin in Call Me Madam, Donald O'Connor was back with them for There's No Business Like Show Business. They're joined by Dan Dailey, Mitzi Gaynor, Johnny Ray, and Marilyn Monroe. There are both old and new Berlin tunes here but they're all enjoyable. Monroe's Heat Wave number certainly deserves most of the attention that's been paid-both negatively and positively-to it. Compared to many of today's raunchy musical numbers, this one isn't so dirty. Ms. Gaynor certainly also puts the steam in her numbers particularly Lazy she does with both Monroe and O'Connor. Speaking of the latter, he's as funny as you'd expect when watching him and is as nimble as always when dancing up a storm especially during a number taking place in a fountain with statues. Johnny Ray isn't much of an actor, but he's still a good enough singer when his numbers are being performed. Dailey does well when teamed with Merman in their numbers. As for Ms. Merman, well, she's every bit the legend that she deserved to be when one listens to her just belt it out all over! Now the story was pretty entertaining most of the time, at least until the O'Connor character gets in big trouble and is missing some of the time. Still, There's No Business Like Show Business is very much worth seeing for all the performances of the numbers with fine lyrics by the one and only Irving Berlin! "},{"Title":"empty spectacle","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I recently reviewed Jack the Giant Killer, a blatant ripoff of Seventh Voyage of Sinbad. I'd never seen There's No Business Like Show Business, and wasn't aware it ripped off Singin' in the Rain.The latter was inspired (if that's the right word) by Arthur Freed's desire to exploit the many songs he and Nacio Brown had written. Betty Comden and Adolph Green provided an amusing script about Hollywood's transition from silent films to talkies, and (as they say) history was made.Though MGM was the king of musicals (Freed headed its musical unit), Fox must have longed for the same kind of success. Why not a film tapping Irving Berlin's huge library of successful songs? Unfortunately, the story is nothing more than the usual romantic claptrap, with a young woman (MM) threatening to disrupt a show-biz family. Who cares?Unless you enjoy watching lavish production numbers featuring Berlin's songs, and/or hearing Ethel Merman (whose voice could crack titanium) belt 'em out, there's nothing of interest for most viewers -- then or now. The critics mostly panned it, and the production was so expensive No Biz didn't turn a profit. Whatever current respect it holds is probably based more on nostalgia than quality.* It's generally considered the best musical ever made. I find it a bit tedious. It's funny (Jean Hagen is hilarious as the silent actress with a silly voice), but there are too many songs. And Gene Kelly's athletic, self-conscious dancing has never appealed to me. "},{"Title":"A decent musical drama that dazzles a lot but with a few flops along the way","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There's No Business Like Show Business is not a great film. The story is very contrived with the mismatched chemistry between Monroe and O'Connor not ringing true at all, the script is a lot of melodramatic fluff and not much else, the film is a little overlong and Johnny Ray's performance is a failure in almost every regard. What it is though is a decent one, the music, choreography and most of the cast being what salvages it. The score is sumptuous and catchy and Irving Berlin's songs are literally like a song-book collection and a truly delightful one at that, Heat Wave and the title number coming off the best. If you love Berlin's music as I do, you'll love the music here. The choreography is lively but with grace also, Heat Wave just sizzles. Apart from Ray the cast are fine. Marilyn Monroe oozes beauty and sex appeal, with her glory moment being in Heat Wave, as mentioned already the number sizzles just as much as its title and Monroe literally smolders in it. Donald O'Connor dances wonderfully and his acting is quite touching, and the same can be said with Mitzi Gaynor, who provides the emotional moments without feeling fake at all. They are far more believable together than O'Connor and Monroe, and they're good singers too. Dan Dailey performs with much professionalism and Ethel Merman's warm personality and big brassy voice brings thrills up the spine. Walter Lang directs efficiently if more in the musical numbers than the drama ones and the film is a very well-made one, the colours just leap out of you, the costumes and sets look beautiful and the photography compliments all those in a great way. Overall, far from flawless with a few things like the story, script, length and one performance that fall flat but the things that There is No Business Like Show Business gets right are numerous and they do dazzle. 6.5/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"'A sailor's not a sailor 'til a sailor's been tattooed.'","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is a great little entertainment family musical. Released in 1954 it is set in the Jolson era of vaudeville, mainly the 1920s and the 1930s and leading into the years right before WW2.It is about a husband and wife who started off as an entertainment duo, and gradually expanded the act as the kids come along, two boys and one girl. The story moves through family issues, alienation, and reconnection as the kids grew into their 20s. It has a great cast and Irving Berlin songs like 'A Sailor's Not a Sailor' and 'There's No Business Like Show Business' with Ethel Merman's iconic rendition.Ethel Merman is the mom Molly Donahue and the dad is Dan Dailey as .. Terence Donahue. Their kids are Donald O'Connor as Tim Donahue, the fabulous singer Johnnie Ray as Steve Donahue, who becomes a priest, and the cutest lady ever on stage, Mitzi Gaynor as Katy Donahue.The story also featured Marilyn Monroe as Vicky Parker, a hat-check girl who wants to be a star, and she becomes the love interest for Tim.Just a wonderful story with great songs and some of the best actors of that era. I watched it on the 'Movies!' TV network. "},{"Title":"Terrible, but watchable when Marilyn is on screen","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" A pretty weak, overlong musical chronicling the Five Donovans, a family vaudeville act who make an uneasy transition to Broadway after vaudeville collapses (as far as I can tell, this is not a biopic, but fiction). Dan Dailey and Ethel Merman are the parents. As adults, the three kids are played by Donald O'Connor, Mitzi Gaynor and Johnnie Ray. Marilyn Monroe joins them, much to Merman's consternation, as O'Connor's love interest, later in the picture. The songs are by Irving Berlin, but the arrangements are awful. Ethel Merman's shrill renditions of Alexander's Ragtime Band have been haunting me since I saw this picture. I never want to hear that song again. The film only really comes to life when Monroe is center stage. The costumes and production design are pretty good. Unbelievably, of the three Oscar nominations this received, one was for its screenplay! "},{"Title":"Sometimes white elephants come in many colors.","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" With Betty Grable slowly moving out of the film industry into live appearances and television, somebody had to take over the matriarchal stages of 20th Century Fox movies, and after her smash hit with the movie version of Call Me Madam, Ethel Merman was just the one to do it. There's No Business Like Show Business is almost identical in one way or another to practically every Fox musical dating back to George White's Scandals. It's a show business story, of course, focusing on a vaudeville family which started with mother and father (here played by Grable's former partner, Dan Dailey), and continued with their grown children (Donald O'Connor, Mitzi Gaynor, and Johnny Ray). Obviously, O'Connor and Gaynor have musical theater talents, while crooner Ray wasn't much of an actor, his character here taking a higher calling which for some reason upsets mama Merman.Coming into this wake of family drama with Irving Berlin music behind it is the sexpot Marilyn Monroe who wins the wrath of Merman by taking on their big number, Heat Wave, for herself. Merman isn't too happy that other son O'Connor is obviously nuts about Monroe, but this is a 20th Century Fox musical, and nobody stays mad at nobody for long. To make this a bit different than all of the other similar musicals, 20th added Cinemascope into the mix, and packed every musical number with every available extra on the lot, especially for the lavish finale set in the now long gone Hippedrome.Musically, There's No Business Like Show Business can't be beat, with a blonde wigged Merman very funny while singing A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody and being ignored by husband Dailey, squiring around the chorus girls as she falls off a stage bench. Merman and Dailey are also ripe for a little parody from their own children who amusingly imitate them in a reprise of When the Midnight Choo Choo Leaves for Alabam. Monroe not only heats up with Heat Wave but serves more electricity with After You Get What You Want. There will probably be a mixed reaction to Gaynor and Merman in military drag when they sing the somewhat tacky A Sailor's not a Sailor 'till a Sailor's Been Tattooed. To add to the audaciousness of it all is a huge elephantine revisit to Alexander's Ragtime Band which, in set as well as length, seems to go on forever.Overall, this is a nice big entertainment that misses something if not seen in its original Cinemascope presentation, and should probably be caught on the big screen if revived. When the entire company gets together for the title song finale, you'll feel relieved that the lengthy movie is coming to a close. But I guarantee, you'll be humming one of the songs before you've even removed the tape or DVD from your player and shut off the T.V. "},{"Title":"Monroe is ready for her close-up","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Despite her fabulous vocals, There's No Business Like Show Business is nearly bogged down by Ethel Merman's over-the-top acting style. Also, 20th Century Fox seems to be showcasing costar Marilyn Monroe much more favorably in this picture. For instance, scenes with Monroe give a generous amount of close-ups of her. But scenes with the other characters when she is absent from the action are devoid of close-ups. The viewers should have an intimate relationship with all the characters in the story, not just with Marilyn Monroe.Merman and costar Donald O'Connor previously appeared in Call Me Madam, a year earlier at Fox. And back in the 1930s, Miss Merman appeared in the studio's smash hit Alexander's Ragtime Band, which also featured her singing classic Irving Berlin tunes. She wasn't so flamboyant in that production, and Marilyn Monroe was still Norma Jean Baker in those days. "},{"Title":"Lots of singing and dancing...LOTS!","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There are two main types of musicals--those where the emphasis is clearly on the music and others where the music is incidental to the story. While which style you like is up to you, for me, I much prefer those with less music--where the story is predominant. So, because of my personal preference, movies like There's No Business Like Show Business are NOT exactly my cup of tea, so to speak.The film is about a fictional show business family, the Donohues. When the film begins, the three children are young. But then through the miracle of movie magic, soon about 15-20 years pass--and the children are now grown (and include Donald O'Connor and Mitzi Gaynor). Oddly, the parents, Dan Dailey and Ethel Merman, didn't seem to age a day. Even more noticeable is Marilyn Monroe--you see her early in the film and after all those years she looks as if she hasn't aged a day. Even if it was only 10 years--still, she looked EXACTLY the same! While the film follows the family with their ups and downs (and the third child when he decides to become a priest), all of it seems to be there just to provide a chance to sing and dance...a lot. Many of the songs are very familiar. Overall, very glossy and enjoyable if all you want is lots of singing and dancing...which I didn't. Watchable for a guy like me, but only just, as the story didn't seem strong enough to handle all the songs. "},{"Title":"A movie about, and mostly made of, musicals...","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Recap The Donahues are a married couple and and a popular performing act in the show business in the early twenties. As they get kids they teach and incorporate them into their act. In the end the Donahues has become The Five Donahues, with the parents joined by their two sons and daughter. But show business is unlike any other business and you don't know what to expect next. Youngest son reveals his desire to become a priest, and the oldest son is almost torn apart between his family and the beautiful blond rising star that he keeps running in to.Comments A movie heavy on the musical but much lighter on the story. Indeed , the story seems mostly to be there as an excuse to have as many musical and dance performances in the movie. Sure, as dancing acts go they probably is as good as it gets, but sometimes it is good to tune it out. Some acts and songs do got a humoristic edge that it pays to pay attention to though.Marilyn Monroe is heavily featured on the DVD and menus (according to trivia to boost attendance and sales), but doesn't show that prominently in the film. It's almost halfway through before she even appears, and even though her character is important to the story, it is a supporting character. The real star of the movie is mother Donahue, Ethel Merman. She seems to be involved in any situation and any scene, and an opinion about everything.It is a good movie, albeit not a great one. It has gained a lot of reputation because of the (musical) show, the title song and probably in hindsight, because of Monroe. It is not as good as it's fame promise. Nice to have seen, but nothing to really go out of one's way for. If you don't love musicals, that is.5/10 "},{"Title":"Heart-warming fabulous entertainment","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Heart-warming family fare with fabulous music and happy ending all complete.Caring talented parents and their woes don't worry says the doc, yeah, right, says Mom Merman that's a LAUGH.  Ya worry the moment they're born. Even after ya die I'll bet ya still worry about 'em.When the overture first hits, you know you're in for a musical treat.  The heart-felt storyline only adds to the enjoyment.  A MUST SEE if you want a feast for eyes, ears and heart. "},{"Title":"Was this the Hollywood musical that jumped the shark?","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" That expression, jumping the shark, refers to doing what you've done well just that one time too many. Suddenly the spell is broken and can never be recast.I'm a fan of MM sex comedies like Blondes and Millionaire but this one came across as overblown and shallow. It left a bad taste in my mouth. It was the Donald O'Connor character that I couldn't abide. He seemed like the creepiest kind of low-life, plying women with liquor and lies to get them into bed. And when a film makes a sunshine boy like O'Connor seem sleazy, it's got to have something wrong. The cast, score, musical production, none better anywhere. What brings the film down is its screenplay. The story centers around what men will do to win MM's sexual favors, and how she plays on their schemes to get what she wants.I couldn't find romance here. Or wit, or the sense that the people involved were enjoying themselves. Quite the opposite -- all the overdone Berlin tunes can't hide the weariness that lies just beneath what is so superficial. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I love Irving Berlin and in fact, all of the stars in the movie. But I find it hard to watch. Despite the spectacular song and dance numbers, the movie is a bore-fest. It would have been better to limit the dialog and scenes in between the musical numbers to a minimum, like they do in a Broadway play. Instead, we are treated to a scene of Merman dunking O'Connor's head in a sink. Or pseudo-drama when a son says he wants to become a priest. So the father was an idiot. Who cares? The first number was Berlin's Alexander's Rag Time Band. They sang it over and over with different nationalities in different sets. Yes, this was Berlin's first big hit, but it's not that good that we want to hear it played over and over and over again. Even Paul McCartney's Yesterday would get old after about the 5th consecutive replaying.The only reason to watch this movie, as others have pointed out, is to see Marilyn Monroe. Is there any scene in any movie where she is not wonderful? Obviously, my view is slanted towards her. Her voice is so rich, her singing, dancing and movements so sensual, anytime she's on the screen is magic. After her fabulous Heat Wave number, all Merman can do is run it down. As in the cheesiest of scripts, the characters remain fixed in their bold, brassy, rah-rah something characters. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but off kilter","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  There are two numbers in this movie that are standouts, and fortunately, they come close together.  Marilyn Monroe singing Heat Wave, (anybody else notice how her navel was covered but there was a cutout below revealing part of her abdomen?) and the charming Donald O'Connor singing (and dancing!) A Man Chases a Girl (until she catches him).  Other than that, there's practically no plot, Johnnie Ray exaggerates his lyrics (one wonders how the bisexual Ray felt about playing a priest), and Ethel Merman is typically loud (I love it when Dan Dailey says, Who are you, Whispering Jack Smith? when she tells him not to raise his voice to her) but looks fabulous.  I remember Ethel Merman as an overweight woman with big hair and had seen photos of her in her youth she knew she was pretty in her young days, but in her middle years (she was 46 years old when this was filmed) she was still quite shapely and rather attractive. But as good as Ethel and Dan looked together, Donald and Marilyn just didn't go together.  Marilyn looked much too old and worldly for Donald, even though I believe they were born the same year.  Together they didn't work, but separately they were great.  Too bad Donald really isn't given credit for his fine singing voice in addition to his wonderful dancing. "}{"Title":"The Hoke's On Us","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Irving Berlin was the only one of the so-called 'Big Five' (Porter, Rodgers, Gershwin and Kern being the other four) songwriters associated with Broadway who never had a biopic devoted to him. Not as such, perhaps, but time and again - Alexander's Ragtime Band, White Christmas, Easter Parade, etc - Hollywood mined his back catalogue and prevailed upon him to supply a couple of new numbers in each case so that arguably he was better off this way than he would have been in a kosher biopic. This, alas, is pretty dire whichever way you slice it; you get the feeling that Merman and Dailey owed Fox a movie apiece to fulfill contractual obligations and whilst Dailey did make a couple more musicals Merman never made another, indeed, it's a wonder she made as many as she did, given the limitations of her one-trick pony appeal. Both Lamar Trotti and the Ephrons should have been ashamed to take the money let alone a writing credit for such a sloppy effort. Although Marilyn gets the showcase spots it's Donald O'Connor who comes off best in his own showcase A Man Chases A Girl. A huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"One of Irving Berlin's best","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When I rate films, I use what I call the chill factor. In other words, if it makes the hairs on the back of my neck and on my arms stand up, it's a good film. If not, it's not that great. Well, this film was emotional. It deals not only with the breakup of an act...but also with the breakup of a family. First, one leaves to become a priest. Then, the other two siblings break to perform with Monroe's character. Tim (O' Connor) gets jealous and gets in a car accident driving drunk. After a conversation with his father, he disappears. The family searches for him, but with no luck. The priest is called to war, while the father leaves his wife to search for his son.Now it gets really interesting. There is a benefit in which Molly Donahue (Merman) performs. The Hippodrome, which the family used to perform at is being torn down. The priest has been given a 24-hour pass, so he goes to see his mother perform. Then, Merman goes on stage for her stirring performance of There's No Business Like Show Business. As she performs, Tim returns. When he asks where his father is, he hears his father's voice saying, Right here son. These are moments that really make my hair stand on end. It's a heart-warming film that I think everyone will enjoy. I know I did. "},{"Title":"Big and bouncy, but a little banal","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It's fun, but it won't stretch the imagination too much. Essentially a showcase for Irving Berlin's wonderful songs and for the talents of the big star cast. Ethel Merman is excellent making up in pazazz and power what she lacks in vocal subtlety. Donald O'Connor not only sings and dances sublimely but acts pretty well too. Mitzi Gaynor is a delight is every way, pretty as a picture and multi-talented too. If you get the DVD freeze frame on her astonishingly narrow waist! Marilyn sings and moves well and is quite convincing in character also. What plot there is is pretty banal and the one dramatic scene (a clash between father and son) seems curiously out of place amid the froth. Ibsen it isn't (it isn't even Hammerstein) but it is jolly, colourful and full of melody. Not a bad way to spend a couple of hours on a dark winter's evening. "},{"Title":"Viva La Merman","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The only reason I watched this film, available on DVD, was to see and hear Ethel Merman.  Known mostly for her successful Broadway stage career, she also made over twenty films, mostly in the 30's, and then again in the 50's and 60's  She was a legendary performer with a unique and forceful singing voice.In this musical film from 1954, she and Dan Dailey are mom and pop, in a traveling show-biz family called The Five Donahues.  The three grown Donahue kids are played by Johnnie Ray, Mitzi Gaynor, and Donald O'Connor.  Marilyn Monroe shows up later in the film as an aspiring singer whom O'Connor falls for.The film's plot is paper thin, and is really just an excuse to showcase the singing and dancing talents of the cast.  Mitzi Gaynor is quite good as a dancer, and Johnnie Ray's singing style is, well, different.  Marilyn Monroe tries to sing and act.  But mostly what she does best is --- smolder.  The musical numbers are colorful and splashy.  The costumes are colorful and tacky.I could have wished for more of Ethel, and less of the others.  For me, the film's last seven minute segment is the best.  We get to watch Ethel Merman on stage alone, singing There's No Business Like Show Business as only viva la Merman can sing it. "},{"Title":"There's No Business Like Show Business","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" White Christmas, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and Cabaret are musical films with famous title songs to sing along to, and this another one I had heard about, from director Walter Lang (Cheaper by the Dozen, The King and I). Basically this is the story of the Donahue family, starting first with husband and wife Molly (Call Me Madam's Ethel Merman) and Terrance (Dan Dailey) the vaudeville team, and then their three children, Tim (Singin's in the Rain's Donald O'Connor), Steve (Johnnie Ray) and Katy (Mitzi Gaynor) to become The Five Donahues. Throughout we see some small dilemmas with the family members, including Molly concerned for her children, Steve wanting to become a priest, Katy is dating lyricist Charles Gibbs (Hugh O'Brian), and Tim meets and falls in love with up and coming stage sensation Victoria Hoffman (Marilyn Monroe). Victoria, now Vicky Parker, often shows up to be at certain family occasions and events, and without Tim the family have become The Four Donahues, and some other situations occur on and off screen with the family as they try and settle things. In the end, after worrying them, Tim returns, as do Katy and Steve to rejoin parents Molly and Terrance for a return performance as The Five Donahues, along with Vicky, to reclaim their fame. I will be honest, the story was rather patchy and I paid more attention to the songs and dances. Also starring Richard Eastham as Lew Harris. Merman does have some good dramatic style moments, and Monroe as always is beautiful but not quite as appealing as usual, the choreography for most scenes is really good, and one or two of the songs are catchy, especially the title song by Merman of course, I don't quite agree with the four stars from the critics, but it's not a bad musical. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design, Best Music for Alfred Newman and Lionel Newman and Best Writing, Motion Picture Story. It was number 86 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Good! "},{"Title":"Mid-level entertainment...","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This musical is of the run of the mill variety. The plot is average which isn't saying much even for a musical. The song and dance numbers are more than competent but not exhilarating. Double M's role could've been larger. On the plus side the costumes and sets and colors are marvelous and Double M is as glamorous as ever. Let's face it. People will only watch this in the future because she's in it. Still it's a fair diversion. Just don't expect anything spectacular. 6/10. "},{"Title":"There's No Picture Like This One","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Ethel Merman and Dan Dailey- a perfect movie couple in the rousing There's No Business Like Show Business.The Donahues sing on the stage and raise a family along the way.As adults, Johnny Ray, who could really act as well as sing, chooses the priesthood. Mitzi Gaynor is on stage, but she soon weds and a child follows (after the appropriate time)The problem is Donald O'Connor. In trouble as a child, he is definitely the difficult one. He grows up and meets showgirl Marilyn Monroe, who is just perfect here. He gets into a car wreck before his big break on stage can take place. Admonished by Dailey, who slaps him across the pace, O'Connor disappears.Dailey hopelessly searches for him. The end when the family is reunited will make you shed plenty of tears.The chemistry between Merman and Dailey is perfect-far better than what I had in high school. Seriously, their musical talents are greatly depicted. Merman belts out the title song as no one else can.This is one great musical family and film. **** "},{"Title":"Overblown, overdone and overlong--but still fun!","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Movie about a show biz family called the Donahues. There's mother Molly (Ethel Merman), father Terence (Dan Dailey), brother Tim (Donald O'Connor), daughter Katy (Mitzi Gaynor) and brother Steve (Johnnie Ray). There's no real plot but most of it deals with Tim falling in love with singer Vicky (Marilyn Monroe) and his problems with drinking.I've read about this movie for years. It seems everyone says it's loud, stupid and overblown. I finally caught it on the Fox Movie Channel (a GREAT print--colorful and letterboxed) and I can see why people don't like it. The plot is--to put it mildly--slim and ridiculously melodramatic. Despite the acting talents of the cast the dramatic scenes just don't work. The dialogue is full of groaners and it just falls flat. To make matters worse Johnnie Ray is a VERY untalented man. His voice is annoying, his acting atrocious and his singing is just so bad that it had me staring at the TV slack-jawed! Seriously--he can't sing at all (even he admitted it)! Thankfully he only has two songs. All this aside I still like the movie.The production numbers (and there are LOTS of them) are big, colorful and full of energy. The Alexander Ragtime Band number is certainly an eye-opener! All the stars (even Monroe!) belt out the songs with plenty of energy and life. Also the numbers never stop moving--it's impossible to get bored. Gaynor and O'Connor throw in some truly incredible tap-dancing in the movie and work well together. The costumes are---interesting. They're so garish and tacky that they become sort of fun to just look at! Also (with the exception of Ray) the acting was great. Merman and Gaynor steal the show--especially Gaynor when she starts crying at the end. It all ends in a HUGE production number with the cast belting out the title tune.So it IS a bad movie but the singing and dancing are great, the acting is wonderful and the elaborate sets and costumes keep your interest. Worth catching. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"One big flimsy plot excuse to hoof and holler and boo hoo hoo","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  My GOD ... I find Ethel Merman as likeable as the next person, and her semi-grating voice much more endearing than annoying.  And the woman could even act.  But this bit of Irving Berlin fluff was SO pointless and silly that it might have been conceived by a five-year-old!Apart from a few (a very few) witty lines and Marilyn Monroe's buh-die-YAM-a-sewious-actwess scenes, and of course a Berlin score that is, at worst, musically interesting, I found myself rolling my eyes at random leaps in time and logic, underwhelming characterization and some of the worst editing I've ever seen in feature film.  This eye-rolling occurred, by the way, when I wasn't closely examining my much-more-interesting cuticles.If you get off on observing American cinema wallow in the very waste and self-aggrandizement that gave rise to the modern horror film, pick this one up.  If George Romero saw Show Business in his youth, I'm sure he also imagined that only four zombies chasing Ethel and her brains could nudge the dreck back toward reality. "},{"Title":"Super Irritating Movie","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The first 25 minutes of this movie are a barrage of musical numbers meant to launch you into the narrative and to sum up the hoofers life in vaudeville. There's only one narrative development resentfully included (the kids go to catholic school), but the daring musical gambit is a flop &#150; It just keeps the movie shallow for way too long.There are musicals where people breaking into song don't look awful. The Donahues preoccupations did not become my preoccupations. Their trivial story did not draw an ounce of interest from me. The musical numbers are an odd mix of triviality presented with boundless energy. All of them clown their way through the 'performances' in an effort to be funny or likable. Does it really need to be said again that having to watch people mugging and clowning just sucks? The movie is notable as a casting trainwreck. Audiences who want to see Johnny Ray, Marilyn Monroe, Ethel Merman, Donald O'Connor, and Dan Dailey are distinctly different. All of them give it their all, believing that ten thousand volts of personality will put this flimsy idea over, but they're wrong. Despite Merman and Dailey frantically working to persuade you they have charm, they're both just strident. The 3 male leads are all annoying. Daily is tepid and unlikable. Ray is a wussbag. O'Connor is a smidge less annoying than usual. And Merman? Ugh! What is the appeal of a homely guttersnipe whose singing voice sounds like a heel dragged across a floor? "}{"Title":"Dazzling but forgettable musical.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This musical certainly has everything money can buy; you can almost see money dripping from the screen. The use of colors is truly dazzling (and best appreciated on the new DVD), and some of its musical numbers are showstoppers (my favorite was Monroe's Lazy - oh, the way she pronounces the word!). But the story is flimsy even for a musical, and the direction is impersonal throughout - there are virtually no close-ups in the entire film! The wide-screen framing certainly helps the musical numbers, but when we have a scene with two people just talking to each other and the camera STILL refuses to go closer to them, the result is a frame with a lot of empty space on the sides and two figures that you can barely see in the center. Honestly, if some of the dramatic scenes were played by impersonators of the stars, nobody would know the difference! (Monroe not included, of course).   (**1/2) "},{"Title":"After you get what you want...you don't want it","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Marilyn Monroe is the only worthwhile thing about lousy, gaudy, brassy Fox musical about vaudeville family going from playing dives to headlining at the Hippodrome (!). What? They didn't take on Hollywood, too? Ethel Merman is the unlovable head of the household, and she's so tight with the apron strings that it's amazing anyone else can breathe. Donald O'Connor has a big dance routine with female statues who come to life, and Monroe sings Lazy while crawling up and down a red divan (there's a small audience gathered to watch, but we never see their expressions--just the backs of their heads). This is the kind of old-fashioned, shoot-the-star-and-move-on style of film-making which was out of date by 1950--four years before. It was Ethel Merman's last movie musical; she or her managers must have realized it was time to move on. Too bad 20th Century-Fox didn't get the same message. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Calling Gene Kelly and Alice Faye","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  	The problem with trying to describe this movie is coming up with the right adjectives.  Words like flashy, colorful, gaudy and flat keep coming to mind; but the essential fault with `There's No Business Like Show Business,' directed by Walter Lang, can best be summed up by borrowing a line or two from Ernest L. Thayer's immortal poem, `Casey At the Bat,' which ends with the lines, `But there is no joy in Mudville, Mighty Casey has struck out.'  Because, what this movie lacks-- and it's hard to fathom why-- is joy.  Like Casey, it strikes out, big time.  And it's a shame.  It's like having all of the resources to construct the most magnificent building the world has ever seen, including the greatest architects available, and the contractor ends up with a hut a child could've made out of tinker toys.  There's a story here, of course, but it's obvious that the main intention of the project was to showcase the talents of the stars and some very mediocre songs by Irving Berlin, and to dazzle the audience by filling the wide screen with brilliant, colorful images (CinemaScope was the latest, greatest rage at the time, and the studios wanted to make the most of this revolutionary technological advancement).  Someone should have reminded the filmmakers that what they were filling that screen with counted, as well.	The story begins in 1919, whereupon we are introduced to the Vaudeville team of Molly and Terence Donahue (Ethel Merman and Dan Dailey).  The next few years are touched upon briefly as Molly and Terry add three children to their family, as well as their act; the toddlers hit the stage with mom and dad almost as soon as they make their entrance into the world.  The story begins in earnest when the youngest Donahues hit legal age, or there abouts.  `The Five Donahues' include eldest son, Steve (Johnnie Ray), daughter Katy (Mitzi Gaynor) and the youngest, Tim (Donald O'Connor).  They get bookings and do shows, and eventually cross paths with a wanna-be performer, hat check girl Vicky (Marilyn Monroe) who, after Tim falls hard for her, gets her big break and begins her rise to fame.  The road for all concerned is not smooth, of course, but not to worry-- there's plenty of singing and dancing to go around, and meanwhile Steve surprises everyone with a personal life choice, Tim falls into a jealous funk and Katy meets the handsome Charles Biggs (Hugh O'Brian).  And along the way, Molly and Terry find out what parents have known since the beginning of time  Raising kids is no picnic.  But at least they have singing and dancing and singing and...	For the first fifteen minutes or so of the film-- or maybe longer; it seems MUCH longer-- we are `treated' to Molly and Terry's Vaudeville act.  And about five minutes of Merman's singing should be enough for anyone; her voice fairly grates on the senses.  After this extended opening the film moves along, but seems flat and stays that way until Monroe makes her entrance.  Once she's on, the screen belongs to her; but it's still not enough to save the day.  She does, however, contribute the single memorable number to the show, `We're Havin' A Heat Wave.'  But her `Lazy' number is just that, and not even the contributions of O'Connor and Gaynor can help it.	The production numbers suffer from poor staging, uninspired choreography and some of the worst costumes you're likely to ever find in a movie.  Even the best song the film has to offer, `Alexander's Ragtime Band,' (done terrifically by Alice Faye in the movie of that title) is terribly abused here, presented in a lengthy and contrived manner that is beyond repair.  Even `Heat Wave' was saved only because of Monroe, whose sensuous delivery outweighs the actual blandness of the number.  And the costumes for the grand finale, especially, are embarrassingly ridiculous (and quickly take the `grand' out of it)-- particularly the white dress Merman wears while delivering the title song; a creation so horrendous it defies description.  Overall, it's a sad commentary on the lack of originality and quality of the film when the likes of Monroe, Gaynor and especially O'Connor can't even save it, even though individually and collectively they do have their moments; the problem is those moments are just too few and far between.	The one believable aspect of the film is the casting of Merman as a Vaudeville star; and after seeing her `act,' there is no longer any mystery as to what killed Vaudeville.  If this is a sample of the real thing, talking pictures had nothing to do with it's demise.  It simply inevitably imploded.  The burning question that remains is, how in the world did Ethel Merman ever become a star?  And what about Johnnie Ray?  A relatively successful recording artist with a unique style, he was nevertheless dreadfully miscast in this film.  Frequently asked why he made only this one movie, he would reply, `Because I was never asked to do another one.'  Which is quite understandable; he could sing, but he simply could not act.  And it's hard to discern whether it was just the part or his acting that made his character seem so ludicrous. 	The supporting cast includes Richard Eastham (Harris), Frank McHugh (Eddie), Rhys Williams (Father Dineen) and Lee Patrick (Marge).  With a cast including the likes of O'Connor, Monroe and Gaynor, and with songs by Berlin, `There's No Business Like Show Business' inherently promises great things, but fails to deliver.  There's no getting around the fact that in the end it's a lackluster, forgettable contribution to a genre known for liveliness and joy.  Not the least bit satisfying, it is perhaps the biggest misfire in the history of movie musicals.  And it leaves you with a single, burning question that demands to be asked  Where's Gene Kelly when you need him?  I rate this one 4/10. 	   	     	     "},{"Title":"Ya Muthas Ethel Merman","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Although one of the most visually stunning and lavish musicals of the 50's, TNBLSB sacrifices story and characterizations for a glossed over travelogue (with countless musical interludes) of the times and trials of the Donahues, an all-singing, all-dancing, all drinking, all praying, all angst-ridden Irish Catholic family of vaudevillian troupers.Complete with every imaginable clich for both the Irish Catholics and for a clan of show business kinfolk, the plot quickly becomes agonizingly plodding. Fortunately, about a quarter of the way through the film, you realize that the plot is incidental and that you should really just be paying attention to the staggering amount of extravagant musical numbers being hurled at you. And extravagant they are!!!!  Looking at each frame individually, you come to appreciate the magnificent pastel works of art the technical staffs devised. From make-up to costumes, set design to lighting, choreography to all-important cinematography, you witness the careful blending and joining of each area to form the perfect whole. Even the weak numbers are such astonishing eye-candy that you'll sit mesmerized. Stunning!Now, here's the 411. MGM OWNED the musical genre in the 50's (check your film lists). Someone at Fox decided that they were going to outdo the lion with the biggest, splashiest musical of the decade. So they started with the endearingly familiar Irving Berlin's songs; added Broadway Diva Ethel Merman, singing for the first time on film, the title song she had already established as a beloved standard in Annie Get Your Gun; blended in Donald O'Connor, fresh off his critically acclaimed Singing In The Rain; spiced it up with Johnny Ray, the hottest singing pop star de jour; sprinkled their under contract dancing ingnue, Mitzi Gaynor, into the mix; garnished it with grade B stalwart hoofer, Dan Dailey; and finally topped it off with their ultimate, scrumptiously sensual cherry - Marilyn Monroe. It didn't work. The pitiful script, badly miscast roles, and lack of direction (and acting talent) in the dramatic scenes proved to be this endeavors undoing. The only soul to rise unscathed above it all is Miss Monroe. She turns in a little gem of a comic performance, handles the musical numbers beautifully, and gives us a peek at the star to be. On the other end of the spectrum, Ethel, as your mom, chomps, chews and swallows every scene she's in (she's scary to watch), and poor Mitzi and Johnny just don't have it (watch Mitzi's tear wrenching scene at the end).Even with it's flaws, this is a film well worth watching - but only in it's original WIDESCREEN Cinemascope dimensions - pan and scan versions are disastrous.  "}]