[{"Title":"Was I influenced by this Movie?","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  I was 7 years old when this movie came out.  I had a coonskin cap and wore it until it cut off my circulation.  I'm now 50+ and have seen exactly three professional basketball, one hockey, two baseball and no football games.  I built and hunt with a 1775 flintlock, horn and bag.  My focus these days is Lewis and Clark but it was Fess Parker and Buddy Ebsen who captured my imagination and have kept me dreamin' for nearly half a century.  Sure there were some Hollywood inaccuracies but the flavor, feeling and freedom of the eastern woodlands and the early frontiersmen were portrayed good enough to make me, and a lot of others, life-long Crockett admirers.  Be sure you are right then go ahead.    "},{"Title":"Eternal Movie","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"    How can you say anything bad about a movie that gave you so much joy as a child and one that you can watch over and over again? The acting is a little bad and the script is a little stupid.  Reference General Jackson stoppered? But even thought those things I feel are true, the joy is still there and you hate to see it end. Since no one knows how Crockett really died, not having him dead at the end but knowing it was only moments away was the best way they could have done it. The movie even had some historic truths which other movies about the Alamo lacked such as the attack before dawn. It seemed longer when I was a kid and I know they have cut some; yea even important scenes, which I wish they would restore to DVD or VHS.  "},{"Title":"Exceptional film and very factual for its day.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this film in 3 half hour segments over a 3 week period in 1956 and have seen it so often I can almost recite the dialogue.  Fess Parker has been and always will be Davy Crockett, and even though George Russell was a ficticious character, he also did a super job.  I reccommend this film highly, and its so much nicer to see at one time. "},{"Title":"Have loved this film, flaws and all, since it came out in 1954!","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I first saw this movie, over the 3 Sunday nights it ran on THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF COLOR, as The Disney show was then called, and fell head over heels with the character of Davy. He was so honest and good to my 5 year old mind and now, 50 (50!?!?!?) years later, I still admire the man and all he stood for. I was living in San Antonio, TX, at the time these 3 shorts came out, so I had my parents take me to the Alamo after the last installment and today I own a model 1816 Flintlock musket that was carried by a Mexican soldier in the second wave of the morning assault of March 6, 1836. The soldier; Eduardo Escalon's Great-Grandson furnished me written provenance from his Grandmother, who died in 1924, that her father had carried this particular rifle in the assault, and when he mustered out of the army after San Jacinto, he brought it with him when he emigrated to the US (Texas, of course), in 1838, and documents the history of the weapon during the battle, and it is in Fine shape for a rifle that's 179 years old and is still very accurate, though only for maybe 5- to 75 yards. And the tie-in to this film is obvious, and yes, I sometimes sit with the rifle in my hands when I watch the now DVD that just came out and think about the history of the whole scene. "},{"Title":"A major success for Walt Disney","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" The life of Davy Crockett is told in this popular Disney television series that introduces Fess Parker as the resourceful backwoodsman from Tennessee. Crockett's exploits as Indian fighter are detailed in the first part of the series as he and partner Georgie Russel save the soldiers from being wiped out by the Creeks in that Indian war. Crockett as a Congressman from Tennessee comprises the middle part which sets up the third and exciting finale as Crockett and friends battle the Mexican army in the famous battle at the Alamo. The Appalachians of North Carolina where the Creek War skirmishes were filmed show beautiful mountain vistas and add realism to this fine film story of an American legend. "},{"Title":"A 50's Classic that created a craze.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  The mid fifties television production of Walt Disney's Davy Crockett struck a nerve in the physic of American children. This three part TV mini-series launched the Davy Crockett Craze, a phenomena that swept the Nation for some time.Davy Crockett collecting cards, coonskin caps, toys, other assorted memorabilia, and the ever popular recording of the Ballad of Davy Crockett, were only some of the outward signs of it's vast popularity. Actors, Fess Parker, as Davy Crockett, and Buddy Ebson as his sidekick, Georgie Russell became popular with almost most every child in America, practically over night. The show was so successful that the original three part series was clipped together and released to theaters as a full length movie.  Then the Disney Studio produced a two part TV sequel the following year.There is little doubt that by today's standards there was nothing special about it's plot, or dialog, or the acting, etc. Some critics might go as far to say it was rather silly, childish, and a mediocre production at best.Perhaps that's all true, but it would miss the most important point. Seldom has any TV production cause so many young people to love a couple of screen characters so deeply, and with such spontaneous joy. In this regard it is a Classic and holds a special place in the history of television art.  "},{"Title":"A film that created a hero for a generation!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  Fess Parker's Davey Crockett provides an entertaining story of his Tennessee origins to his final act of courageous devotion at the Alamo. Serious historians can certainly dispute the film's adherence to the facts of Davey Crockett's life. This portrayal made Davey Crockett a hero to the men of the US's baby boomer generation. "},{"Title":"Bad Grammar And Coonskin Caps - Those Were The Days!","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" Wow, was this big stuff back in the mid '50s. I remember my little brother walking around with his coonskin cap on all day. This was exciting material back then, and when we were young boys. When we first saw this, it wasn't one film but three episodes on the weekly Disneyland TV program.Looking at it 50 years later was a bit disappointing, but I should have expected that. It looks so dated and the story ends so abruptly. However, it was still fun to watch, not just a piece of nostalgia.It's almost refreshing to see such a likable, old-fashioned, God-honoring hero on screen again. You certainly don't see a lot of that today.The grammar is so bad in here with Davy (Fess Parker) and his buddy George (Buddy Ebsen) and the expressions so country-corn pone that you can't believe some of the things you hear!The best part for us old codgers might be that Davy Crockett theme song. Tough to get that out of your head, once it's in there. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  probably the best movie ever made. i grew up watching this movie. i have always loved it and i always will. Fess Parker was great in this film he is the perfect davy crockett. i didn't any of the other crockett movies, but i bet they are pretty good. i recommend this movie to anybody who likes history. "},{"Title":"Simple yet BIG-hearted hero in Davy Crockett...","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  1st watched 9/23/2001 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Norman Foster) Simple yet BIG-hearted hero in Davy Crockett is represented here as doing many bigger than life things than dying as a martyr for the American old west at the Alamo but living on in the hearts of others.  Fess Parker displays this hero with much humor along with his partner played by Buddy Epsen which helps because we have a hard time believing all of the stories of grinning a bear down(or 'bar' according to Crockett) and fighting injuns with his bare hands and winning.  Light-hearted fare with wonderful character shown in the Davy Crockett legend should always be appealing to the American spirit. "}{"Title":"For any generation.","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I've noticed most of the comments on this film have come from guys who saw Davy Crockett back in the fifties and sixties. I just want to assure those folks that Fess Parker was still working his magic years later.In the early eighties, when I was about nine years old, HBO or one of those channels ran the entire series. After we watched it, us kids around the neighborhood were piling up firewood behind our fences to make a sort of rampart upon which to stand while we defended the Alamo from old Santy' Anna. We didn't have the coonskin caps, but we did have active imaginations. Some of us even took it upon ourselves to learn more about the battle. Surely our teachers were mystified when, at that years history fair and contest, half of the boys entered carefully constructed miniatures of the battle, composed of Play-Do, pencils, and toy soldiers.I guess the show still had an impact on me later on when I was in the military. I learned from Fess Parker to make every shot count. When the time came, I did. I suspect quite a few of our nation's finest marksmen learned that from him as well.I won't go into the artistic or historic discrepancies of the film. Nor will I ramble on about politics in the so-called Age of Jackson, the causes of the Texan war for independence, or the speculations made about the death of David Crockett. This is a film for kids (regardless of age), and should be enjoyed as such. But one more thing has to be thrown in.On a late autumn night about six years ago I got the news that my grandfather had passed away. I went home and sat alone in the dark in my living room feeling that terrible numbness that we've all known at such times. I must have sat there a couple of hours before I found the TV control and hit the switch, mainly so there would be some light.On the screen were Fess Parker and Buddy Ebson, just beginning their adventure with the river pirates. For an hour or so I was able to smile a bit and feel a little of what I once had when I had first seen re-runs of that show twenty years before. Then I got some sleep and was able to wake up and face reality with a little more grit than I might otherwise have had.If Fess Parker ever reads this, I hope he knows how grateful I was, and am. "},{"Title":"There is magic in this movie - old fashioned Disney magic!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" There is something great about a movie that can cause an entire generation to let loose its imagination with pure adventure. Oh sure, there will always be those few dunderheads who will complain about the killing of Indians and Mexican soldiers. However, as much as they would like to change it, history is history regardless of results. There have always been, and will always be, clashes and wars between various peoples throughout the world. Both the white man and the black man fought and killed Indians and all manner of nationalities all the way from the East and throughout the history of the American West. Then there will also be those who will complain about early day special effects and stunts. Well hey, that's why they were early day and that is how show business people learned to improve movies and technology over the years. So get over it and just enjoy the movie. I'm not going to go through the story line, most of us are familiar with following Davy Crockett and his pal Georgie Russel as they tamed the Indian uprisings, through Congress and on to the Alamo in Texas. I just bought and watched the movie on a DVD which also includes Davy Crockett and the River Pirates and a Chip & Dale cartoon. The picture on this DVD is absolutely beautiful, it looks like it was made yesterday instead of 1954. My nine year old grandson came in when it was just starting. He began watching and sat all the way through and loved it. So it stands the test of time. I haven't seen it for quite some years and it took me back to the days when we knew who the good guys were and who the bad guys were. Not like many movies today where the distinction is a blur and bad guys are made to look like good guys. No wonder so many kids are confused, but that's another subject. I actually picked up on a couple of bloopers I hadn't noticed in younger years. In the scene where Davy is about to fight Red Stick and an Indian offers him the choice of a sharp hatchet or a blunt stone ax, the weapons magically switch hands from when the Indian is seen from the front and from the back. Also, at the Alamo when Davy shoots the two Mexican soldiers working the cannon using Betsy his single shot musket, he does it quickly as if he had two barrels or a breach-loader. So quick there was no time to reload. Allow me to focus on some of the actors in the movie. Fess Parker is the only Davy Crockett to me. In fact, so much so, that when I saw John Wayne playing him in the first Alamo, it was hard to believe he could be Davy. As good as John Wayne was he was no Davy Crockett compared to Fess Parker. Although Fess Parker certainly did some great film work other than Davy Crockett, he didn't stay with it and at one point seems to have dropped out of the movie/TV scene and went into business. Maybe he figured it was hard to top his fame as Davy or maybe he just figured to go out on top. What is noteworthy is that Buddy Ebsen, who played the second part as the side kick, actually did much more in film. He was one heck of a dancer in his younger days if you've seen him in Shirley Temple's Captain January and others. He gained fame also as Jed Clampett on the Beverly Hillbillies and Barnaby Jones on TV. He was to be Davy Crockett until Walt Disney saw Fess Parker in Them and he was also to be the scarecrow in The Wizard of OZ until he became ill from the metallic makeup. Regardless, he did well for himself. Fess also did well in business and has owned a winery for some years in California. A big thanks to Fess and Buddy for a job well done! Other actors in the movie were Mike Mazurki as Bigfoot who was a wrestler before movies and usually played a tough guy, even back in an early Dick Tracy. Hans Conried was Thimblerig and a familiar face in many TV and movies including Uncle Tonoose in TVs Make Room for Daddy and the voice of Captain Hook in Disney's Peter Pan. Jim Bowie was played by Kenneth Tobey whom I remember in his own TV show in the 50's show titled Whirlybirds. Most of the other actors did not appear to go on to bigger and better film work. One can watch this over and over and never tire of it. So grab your musket and coon-skin cap and enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Definitive Crockett Movie","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I'm rating this review not as myself, today, but as the six-year old kid who watched it in three installments on TV's Disneyland show in 1954-55.First of all, it's the longer TV version you need to see. The version released to theaters is too condensed and moves much too quickly. But when it comes to Fess Parker and Buddy Ebsen, anything is better than nothing.Parker played supporting roles in a few other movies and later played Daniel Boone on NBC for several seasons, but in Davy Crockett he delivered his best work by far - a wonderfully warm and believable portrayal of an idealized American hero. Parker's Davy fights for right - settlers' rights, Indians' rights, freedom from tyranny in Texas. His motto is Be sure your right, then go ahead. Be *sure* you're right that admits the possibility you could be dead wrong unless you think carefully about what you stand for. In fact, without reflection, you don't really know if it's the other guy who's right. The Disney Crockett's insistence on the unreliability of simple gut feelings may make him the most philosophical western hero on film. But when you're sure, you go ahead and do the right thing as you see it. You don't shrug your shoulders and measure personal inconvenience. Davy doesn't want to leave his family to fight Indians, but he does want to help protect settlers in Mississippi from a repeat of the Ft. Mims massacre (a genuine historical event). In this fantasy take on history, Davy ends the Creek War almost single handedly through a combination of physical courage, man-to-man fighting skills, and the kind of diplomacy that recognizes the common humanity of his adversaries. In Congress, Davy stands up to the System to defend the rights of Indians and white settlers alike in West Tennessee. At the Alamo, he sacrifices himself for Texas independence.Parker is far more appealing as Crockett than is John Wayne in The Alamo a few years later, though I do agree with another reviewer who praises Billy Bob Thornton as being a little closer to the historical Crockett.This is one of Disney's greatest film achievements - almost certainly their finest live-action movie. I could go on, but you get the idea. If you're a kid of any age from 8 to 80 you'll enjoy Davy Crockett. If you're young enough, you may just come away with a new hero worthy of the name. "},{"Title":"Born On A Mountain Top In Tennessee............","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" It took almost 50 years for films to get Davy Crockett right, when the latest Alamo film came out, Billy Bob Thornton came the closest to capturing the real Crockett. It's not Fess Parker by any means.But you ask any kid who was a baby boomer what his conception of Davy Crockett was you will inevitably find some 6 to 10 year old who back in the day insisted his parents get him a coonskin cap like Fess Parker wore on the Wonderful World of Disney. For better or worse its Fess Parker who is the image of the frontier scout who fought in the Creek War, went to Congress, and then died at the Alamo.Crockett's name is inevitably linked with the other legends of Texas who died in that mission in March of 1836. Of the group of them he was probably the best of the lot. He wasn't a compulsive womanizer like Travis, nor a land swindler/slave trader like Bowie.Davy Crockett was an ordinary fellow, Mr. Average Man, on the frontier who had a good record in the volunteer militia. Liked by his neighbors he got himself elected to local office and then, running as a supporter of Andrew Jackson, ran and won for Congress in 1826. Jackson himself, was the titular head of the Democratic political machine in Tennessee and at that time he had a lot of followers who competed for his favor. Crockett whatever else he was, never really learned the political game. He got outmaneuvered in the Jackson camp and eventually broke with Jackson when Jackson became president in 1828.Before he lost his seat in Congress for good in the 1834 off year elections, Crockett had drifted into the nascent Whig Party and was anti-Jackson. One issue that drove them apart was the Jacksonian Indian policy. Crockett fought the Indians, but felt we ought to respect treaty rights. Not a popular position to take on the frontier. He was an honest man.He drifted to Texas looking to pick up the pieces of his life after his political career ended in Tennessee. The part of the film devoted to that aspect was somewhat real, though Fess Parker was way to kind to Jackson here. In real life Crockett said some really nasty things about his former commander.Davy Crockett made Fess Parker although he could never escape the type casting. Eventually he gave in and became another coonskin hero Daniel Boone in a long running television series. The film also marked something of a comeback for Buddy Ebsen. Playing Georgie Russell, Crockett's sidekick, revived Ebsen's career. Ebsen eventually got two long running television series himself, The Beverly Hillbillies and Barnaby Jones.Walt Disney couldn't let the Crockett mania go even with Davy getting killed at the Alamo so he produced Davy Crockett and the River Pirates the following year. By that time the Crockett mania died down and Disney and Parker went their separate ways. Don't look at this film and think you're seeing the real Davy Crockett. But for the kid in all of us who once pestered their parents for a coonskin cap, it sure takes you back. "},{"Title":"Great for kids even modern day ones.","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I first saw this film as a nine year old living in London back in 1955. This was at a matinée performance and the cinema was filled to the rafters with kids and we loved it. This was the era of the baby boomers and we youngsters had no shortage of friends to play with. After the film about thirty of us went to our local park and re-enacted scenes from it even forming two sides, Mexicans and Americans, for the attack on the Alamo, an old air raid shelter. But my most prominent memory is of the Davy Crockett hat my Dad made me. This was the 'must have' of 1955 for us kids and so many were made it led to a very sharp decline in the cat population. My dad also made me a very credible musket that I kept for years. Happy memories of a great movie and a great time to be young. "},{"Title":"Davy, One More Time","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" Hadn't seen this picture since it was on TV. I was 12 at the time and my brother was 5 - he had a coonskin cap which he wore until just recently, I think. If you weren't around in the 50's, the Davy Crockett fad was huge - Everybody under the age of 10 was into it, with coonskin cap and other frontier paraphernalia. It seemed a very innocent time in the life of American society.Davy Crockett, King Of The Wild Frontier is quintessential family entertainment. It is a triptych, so to speak, as it is three consecutive shows strung together to make a movie, and I can tell you it is as good today as it was in 1954. It has an episodic quality more apparent now than when it was presented in three separate shows and there are the expected plot holes, but one makes allowances after all these years. Nevertheless, it is still a crowd-pleaser and all the fun and excitement is intact. Fess Parker makes a fine Davy Crockett and Buddy Ebsen is even better as his sidekick, George Russel. And don't forget 'Big Foot' Mason (Mike Mazurki), Thimblerig (Hans Conreid) and the villainous Red Stick (Pat Hogan) - they're all here. Yessir, a mighty fine movie. An added bonus is the catchy theme song. As Davy kept saying (he was partial to simplistic aphorisms), Be sure you're right, then go ahead. If your decision is to see this movie, go ahead. You're right. "},{"Title":"Crockett...An Introduction to a Full Life","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" Spoiler/plot- 1955, The story contains many major plots dealing with American settling of the west. While exploring ever westward, Mr. Crockett sadly discovers that his wife, Polly has died from a 'fever' and his two young sons are now peacefully living with his sister-in-law. He decides to make another new home in this newly settled western county o Tennessee but finds out a local frontier bully is stealing the homes and land deeds of the settled Indians. Crockett is asked to become the local magistrate to bring law to the area. He becomes the lawgiver and stops the land stealing. This sets Mr. Crockett to state office and then Congressional national office in Washington Town. While on a speaking tour arranged by some crafty city slicker Congressional election manager Crockett is tricked to be out of Congress, and these politicians try to pass an anti-Indian law without his vote or presence in Congress. Mr. Crockett learns of this sham and returns to speak and vote against the law in Congress. In disgust, he resigns and leaves politics. Crockett decides to explore the new Texas Territory and gets involved in the Alamo freedom fight. Many historic Texan figures are brought into this part of the saga that eventually leads to the massacre at the Alamo for all.*Special Stars- Fess Parker, Buddy Ebsen, Hans Conried, Kenneth Tobey, Nick Cravat, Mike Mazurki.*Theme- Honesty will win out every time.*Based on- Crockett, Red Stick, President Jackson, and Travis & Bowie are legendary tales of history.*Trivia/location/goofs- Look for obvious continuity changes of Davey Crockett's coonskin hat in many fight and battle scenes. This film is features more violence in the fights and battles than the usual Disney productions. Crockett, Red Stick, President Jackson, and William Travis & Jim Bowie were real men and historical folk heroes. This is the first feature film released from Watt Disney Buena Vista Productions consisting of several Disneyland ABC TV show episode material. The Mike Fink keel boat race and the river pirates were another feature film. The second Davey Crockett feature film was 'Davey Crockett, And the River Pirates'. Look for less of the typical Disney on screen battle non-violence in the fight and war scenes. Also the film ends with the obvious heroic moral to the actions of the series heroes at the Alamo end.*Emotion- Rather well made movie and thoroughly enjoyable especially for those who lived through this era of Disney TV history in the first ABC network series. The 'Davey Crockett' fan mania was huge in America due to the popularity of Fess Parker and Buddy Ebsen with this TV show. Disney went on to create more of this public fan 'mania' with Guy 'Zorro' Williams and many other folk heroes. These actors were now for making personal appearances at Anahiem's Disneyland theme park and across the country. Full of fun and good memories for the 'Baby Boomer' crowd, hopefully new ones for the younger set. This film is what made coonskin hats so popular with the 'under 10 years old' set. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I grew up in the 50s when this came on TV and was glued to the set when it was on. I loved Fess Parker's accent, and still do to this day. I have bought and watched this Crockett series many times (and anything else that Mr Parker was ever in. If you were a baby boomer like me, you owned a coonskin cap and could sing the words to the song. The death of Fess Parker has brought back many good memories for me and this character. The other characters were memorable too, very well created and acted. This is a must watch for fans of Fess Parker as well as Buddy Ebsen and of Davy Crockett the man himself. All other actors who have portrayed this character, in my opinion, do not hold a candle to Fess Parker. And that includes another of my all time favorite actors, John Wayne. "},{"Title":"Disney's  Davy Crockett","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" Watching Disney's Davy Crockett at the impressionable, ripe old age of seven in 1954 started me on a lifelong love affair with American History. I now have in my den a flintlock Kentucky long rifle on one wall replete with arrowheads, powder horn, etc. and lots of Civil War (my other interest) books and just historical stuff in my room/retreat. Interestingly, I gave my co-worker (much younger than me) the Disney DVD to show his son. He gave it back to me stating he didn't want his son saying Injun or Redskin and wondered why the term Native American hadn't been dubbed in. I told him history was history and wasn't politically correct and that if the PC crowd had their way American history would indeed be revised. And by the by, I, as a person born in the USA was a Native American. What a shame...am sure his son would have been enthralled!!! Watching those DVD's today brings my childhood rushing back to me and as I get older a keener sense of appreciation to Walt Disney and a gratitude to him for sparking my interest in our nation's history...thanks Walt!! And thanks Fess Parker and Buddy Ebsen!!! "},{"Title":"I'm half-horse, half-alligator, and a little tetched with snapping turtle.","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I'm far too young to have experienced the Davy Crockett craze that kids in the '50s got to experience. However, I did first see this movie (which is compiled from three episodes of the TV series Disneyland) as a boy. In the small town where I grew up, teachers would often show movies to us kids whenever it was raining outside and we couldn't go out for recess or if there was a substitute teacher or maybe if the regular teacher just didn't bother with a lesson plan that day. Whatever the reason, they would show us movies and cartoons from time to time. Usually these were Disney movies and among the ones I have the most distinct and pleasant memories of is Davy Crockett, King of the Wild Frontier. As I said, the movie is compiled of three episodes from TV so it's broken into three parts. The first part deals with Crockett the Indian fighter. The second part is about Crockett the politician. The third part is about Crockett at The Alamo. Not surprisingly, this final part is the best and most exciting of the three. The first part is fun, too, if you're not an easily offended type. The second part is a little dull but amusing at times. Fess Parker is great in the role of his career. Buddy Ebsen is fun as his comic relief sidekick. Hans Conried, Kenneth Tobey, Mike Mazurki, and Don Megowan are all part of the good cast. It's a beautiful-looking movie, filmed on location with that wonderful Disney polish. Love the timeless theme song, too. It's a little corny and aimed at kids but lots of fun if you're in the right frame of mind for it. Those with sanctimonious attitudes towards historical figures will hate it. "}{"Title":"Review of Davy Crockett King of the Wild Frontier","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I saw this film when I was a lad and along with the coonskin cap it was so coolfor a young boy of the mid fifties. The Film was and remains funny, full of action, with great scenery and a good musical score with of course the great catchy Title song which was a big pop hit. Although the acting was at times not great Fess Parker and Buddy Ebsenm were great together and it remains my favourite all time film despite all the movies since then to 2012. My children have watched it with me several times and enjoyed it while commenting at the acting such as much delayed Indians falling down when shot. But hey it was fun, it was entertainment and I think was and is just great! "},{"Title":"Davy Crocett living on the clean frontier","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I would rather be beaten and be a man than to be elected and be a little puppy dog. I have always supported measures and principles and not men. I have acted fearless and independent and I never will regret my course. I would rather be politically buried than to be hypocritically immortalized. In a letter following his defeat in the 1830 elections, as quoted in David Crockett The Man and the Legend (1994) by James Atkins Shackford, p. 133 Made in the Studios at Disney, Wowed the Audience in the 50's. Showed in the Cinemas, Showed on TV It's just as fun watching it on DVD Davy, Davy Crockett, Having fun on the clean frontier.In watching 'The Far Pavilions' ( a film chronicling the journey of Lewis and Clark with the Absent Minded Professor and Moses )with my mother , she noted that everything looked so clean. The pioneers were clean, the Indians were clean and even the trees were clean. Film makers of the 50's researched and portrayed very accurately how clean the frontier really was. There was some supper strength cleaner they brought with them that eliminated all dirt and grim. I believe it was called a production assistant.The same research was used and portrayed in Davy Crocket. At some point in my life I saw 'Davy Crocket King of the Wild Fronteer'. The only scene I remembered was Davy letting his best buddy George Russel kiss his beautiful wife, just because he saved his life. I don't know any friend of mine who would let me kiss their beautiful wife. The film may not be historically accurate or maybe it is. It is however a film full of fun and high adventure. Davy is a likable fella. Someone you would have a beer with if he drank beer. He is funny, smart, adventures, humble; bear wrestler, has a cool coon cap, a good congressman (seriously) and a good Christian. The film is a tad bit choppy in parts due to the film being put together from 3 episodes of the Disney TV series. The action is very Disney Esq, for the audience of the time period but still dishes that adventure out rousingly. The other cool thing is that instead of straight narration, a group of singers sings the glories of Davy Crockett as a map is shown of his travels. Indiana Jones may have a cool orchestra theme, but doesn't have a Ballad about his exploits with his name. Take that Dr. Jones. Davy Crockett deserves a place among the other movies in your book shelf. It's fun and gives you a brief glimpse into an American legend. It also reminds you how dirty the world has gotten since the 1800's.Pop, pop, pop! Bom, bom, bom! throughout the day. No time for memorandums now. Go ahead! Liberty and Independence forever. Last entry in his diary, (5 March 1836) "},{"Title":"Life and death of Davy Crockett in his own words in all sincerity","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" This was the classic Davy Crockett film by Walt Disney, an astonishing world success at the time, almost creating a cult lasting until the 60s, with an overwhelmingly realistic Alamo finale (end of siege today March 6th 1836 with all heroes fallen), inspired the mammoth Alamo film 5 years later with a bleak John Wayne in comparison with Fess Parker, while the great performance of that film was Richard Widmark as Colonel Jim Bowie. The Disney production was above all extremely well and carefully written originally for television, with such a success that is was turned into a major film, and Fess Parker's impersonation of the very simple and common but totally straight-forward frontier man is perfectly convincing, even and especially his appearances in congress. The film is wonderfully sincere in its simplicity, and you never forget the few but intimate family scenes. Buddy Ebsen as George Russell makes a perfect buddy all the way through, and Basil Ruysdael is a formidable Andy Jackson. There are also some great hard fighting fisticuff style, both with Indians and more blatant crooks, the Bigfoot scoundrel being perfect as a flamboyant villain. The music adds to the charm of the sincerity of the film, it's only one tune all along, with the exception of the more lyrical, intimate and unforgettable Farewell to the Mountains in the Alamo pause of fighting; but at one time the Davy Crockett song even masquerades in an arrangement for string quartet. In its simple adventure genre, it remains as a film a timeless classic, this is great film story telling, offering plenty of after-thought and all true, which it will always be a pleasure to return to in one decade after another... "},{"Title":"Kind of a cheat, but entertaining all the same","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" Davy Crockett King of the Wild Frontier may have been the first made for television production to be deemed worthy of a theatrical release. Walt Disney was shrewd enough to have filmed the production in color, as well as to have given the movie strong enough production values so that the end results certainly don't look like a typical television production at the time. And the movie is certainly entertaining. It's certainly not perfect - the movie feels very episodic due to the editing of three TV episodes together, some depictions of Native Americans don't feel very PC, and the character of Davy Crockett in some aspects feels kind of thin. But the movie is never boring, having some good action sequences (especially the Alamo segment), some welcome comedy relief here and there, and while episodic, does feel breezy and without any lulls. It's no wonder this made an impression on me when I first saw it as a child during a theatrical reissue in the 1970s. "},{"Title":"The Ballad of Davy Crockett","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" In the early 1800s, fearless frontiersman Fess Parker (as David Davy Crockett) fights and kills a bear. His real job, however, is killing Native American Indians in the Mississippi Territory. During a break in battle, Mr. Parker goes home to see his wife and sons in Tennessee. He often wears his famous coonskin cap. Back in action, Parker must rescue loyal side-kick Buddy Ebsen (as George E. Russel), who is captured by Indians. This leads to a confrontation where Parker cites the commandment Thou Shalt Not Kill and stops killing Indians. He begins to stand up for the Native Americans' right to a portion of land; he wants Red and White Man to respect each other's way of life...His fighting skills and ability to see both sides in a conflict leads Parker to politics. Davy becomes an advocate for Native American rights and American freedom, in general. Finally, Parker, joins the battle for the Texas Alamo...Quickly capitalizing on the Davy Crockett craze, producer Walt Disney commissioned this feature film edit from three episodes of his Disneyland television program. The studio does a nice job piecing it together, and it's presented in color. The TV show was, then, being broadcast only in black-and-white. Parker is endearing and the character grows to respect Native Americans. They aren't portrayed with a lot of dignity, however. Davy Crockett King of the Wild Frontier is not factual. However, the story gets an honorable pardon for acknowledging the fact when Parker dismisses, as fiction, a contemporary pamphlet purported to record folk hero Davy's adventures.***** Davy Crockett King of the Wild Frontier (5/25/55) Norman Foster ~ Fess Parker, Buddy Ebsen, Basil Ruysdael, William Bakewell "},{"Title":"Does The King deserve the Crown still?","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" When I was 5 I absolutely loved this film. Davey Crockett was one of my idols next to Arnold Schwarzenegger and The Ninja Turtles as a kid. It was hard for you not to see me and not hear The Ballad of Davey Crockett now and again. However that was nearly 10 years ago and that is about the same amount of time it's been since I have seen it. I looked over it recently and I know now why I liked itso much now. The film is humorous at points, dramatic at others but the action can be cheesy. Also I didn't liketheir use of stock footage. However over all the movie was pretty good.I suggest re watching it for those who watched it as a kid and eventhose who haven't seen it will enjoy it if they are up for watching a classic from Disney that isn't a cartoon. "},{"Title":"an old friend","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":" I had not seen the movie since I was a kid. I purchased the DVD and wondered if it would remain on the shelf forever with the many I must watch one day movies. At first I thought how bad the movie was. I have found before that Disney early movies were not really well made and the effects are pretty awful. There are scenes that are terrible, such as the alligator attacking sequence. Even the late, great Steve Irwin was not that good.The early scenes of the Indians were terrible.The white guys come across as racist bigots. I found myself just hoping the indians would win. I felt angry with Crocket for killing a beautiful bear. The world has changed and so have our attitudes. Thank heavens. At first I thought that this movie is terrible and in many ways it is. The history is woeful. The funny thing is that as the movie grows on you and you start to warm to it. The reason is simple. Fess Parker is delightful. It is him and him alone that carries the film. THe man is handsome and gives a superb under stated performance. He is Davey Crocket. Buddy Epstein is great too. There are scenes that are just too awful for words but sit back and enjoy the central performance. He is superb and very under rated. THe scenery is lovely; I wonder if its covered by real estate today. I hope not. "},{"Title":"Davey Crockett can whup Sonny Crockett's ass!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Western, Adventure","Review":"  When I first watched this production back during the stone age, I thought it was a grand epic. I find out all these years later that it was indeed not so grand. The fight scenes were totally faked looking, the dialogue was way beyond corny, and, obviously, much of the scenery was painted. If this turkey ever gets re-released the price of ham and corn will skyrocket. I enjoyed seeing it again, but it was definitely a fourth rate film by today's standards. I'll wager the real Davey wasn't as handsome as Fess, and stunk like a piney woods rooter in a mud waller. And did he really have such a clever, amusing, home-grown wit? Also, why was he killing all those hispanics? It was their property. "}]