[{"Title":"An Actress Comes of Age","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here in The Last Time I Saw Paris an interesting thing happens. Elizabeth Taylor becomes a woman. Before this picture there were really only two other outstanding performances by Miss Taylor. Or I should say where she was allowed to rise above the material. The first being of course the rhapsodic National Velvet and the second the astonishing A Place In The Sun. The films in between those and The Last Time I Saw Paris were mostly along the  `Isn't she beautiful?' line of movie making, and, why not?  That was the main engine of most Hollywood star vehicles of the day.  A Star didn't have to be a talent. But it was essential to possess a presence that reached out from the screen and touched the audience in a primal way. Miss Taylor had that in spades but she had much more that was often eclipsed in the dazzling explosion of her extraordinary almost alien beauty.     But here in the hands of director Richard Brooks (who would later lead her to her triumph in Cat On A Hot Tin Roof) Miss Taylor finds a new level in her abilities as an actress.  Her Helen is a woman of many layers and dark corners, of mercurial flights and deep sadness.  Elizabeth at the tender age of 22 grasps all the aspects of this tragic woman and illuminates not only the screen with them but the whole enterprise as well.  She shows us where she, as an actress is going in the future. And who she will become in her later films, one of the best screen actresses of the twentieth century.  This is the real beginning of the Elizabeth Taylor of legend. She fills the role as no one of her generation could. Never again after this film would she sleepwalk through a film, a beautiful shadow to dream over.   She is aided in what is perhaps one of Van Johnson's best performances. Donna Reed scores high in the role of Helen's bitter sister and Walter Pidgon is a delight as her roguish father. A standout cameo is presented by Eva Gabor, (not Zsa Zsa) the only one of the famous sisters who had any real talent. The only false performance in the film comes from child actress Sandy Descher. When you compare her forced and overly cute performance to that of the child Elizabeth Taylor in `Jane Eyre' then you see what a treasure Miss Taylor has always been.    There is something so essentially wonderful in this gem from MGM and it is this. The Last Time I Saw Pairs is the perfect example of the last flowering in the 50's of the `woman's picture'.  Films where women could be multi faceted and complex and drive the story on under their own steam as whole human beings.    This is a window to the 50's and a style of filmmaking that seems gone forever, great stories of strong women who fill the screen with power and grace.  But with `Far From Heaven' and `The Hours' I may be wrong about forever.    I recommend this admittedly dated but charming film for anyone who wants to see what screen acting is all about. It is about thinking and Miss Taylor is a master at the craft.    "},{"Title":"False and dated Fitzgerald but hard to resist nonetheless","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Advancing F. Scott Fitzgerald's Babylon Revisited from the jazz-age Paris of the `Lost Generation' to the late 1940s and early 1950s looks logical enough, one World War being much like another, but a certain piquant period flavor gets lost.  The madcap behaviors and post-Victorian motivations that made sense in the age of corset-free flappers and expatriate wastrels seem dated in the more efficient, streamlined age of jet travel.  The way the characters ruminate about life back home in the United States, you'd think they'd colonized Mars rather than taken lodgings near the Eiffel Tower.Amid the city-wide orgy of V-E Day, Army correspondent Van Johnson meets two sisters  Donna Reed, who gives him the eye, and Elizabeth Taylor, who catches his.  Their happy-go-lucky father (Walter Pidgeon) isn't rich but lives like it (`It's cheaper that way,' Taylor explains).  Taylor and Johnson marry, have a daughter, and party in an upper-crust social whirl, while he types out multiple drafts of The Great American Novel.  How they (or Pidgeon) can afford their high life goes unmentioned, and when they suddenly come into money, thanks to some Texas oil wells that start gushing, there's little detectable change in the texture of their lives.Except for disaffection.  Johnson drinks more heavily as the rejection slips pile up (Pidgeon advises him that the secret to success is mediocrity). Taylor starts ditching the kid at bistros while she's off jumping into fountains.  Three sheets to the wind, Johnson speeds off in his sports-car with Eva Gabor riding shotgun, but his reckless driving comes to naught (twice).  Both partners play at adultery but never actually engage in it.  Occasionally Reed, a frosty smile frozen on her face, pops up to register her smouldering resentment against Johnson.  But then Taylor, of such delicate constitution that she has been known to contract &#145;flu not from microbes but from a gentle rain, gets soaked to the skin when she's locked out of the house at dawn and slogs her way through the slush...Given these melodramatic excesses, Richard Brooks keeps the movie refreshingly low-key; he draws a subdued and affecting performance from Taylor (at the dizzying pinnacle of her young beauty).  There are some missteps (Johnson having a drunken argument with himself; Roger Moore as a tennis-pro gigolo; a comfy wrap-up that comes off as forced and abrupt), but Brooks keeps the proceedings passably watchable. This heady, romanticized peek into the life of Americans abroad has its allure, and, though you don't believe it for a minute, it makes you want to sip a Pastis and light up a Gitane. "},{"Title":"A great romantic classic","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great romantic classic.  I saw it again now in 9/2001.  Some would say that it is a little slow. I still loved it.  Liz Taylor looks as beautiful as ever.  But the real star is Van Johnson.  Great acting.  The emotion that he shows is outstanding and very real.  I am an older man now...57 years old.  I had to reach for my hanky several times.  The love...the joy...the tears... and the sorrow of a man for his wife and his child. Well...well...it is too bad they don't have movies like this anymore.  I miss them.  This is one I will save and enjoy seeing again someday.... "},{"Title":"The movie betrayed the dry-eyed spirit of the original material&#133;","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Last Time I Saw Paris converted the author's sensibility downward, to compassion and soap opera&#133; The movie therefore betrayed the dry-eyed spirit of the original material&#133; The first mistake, though, was in changing the era from the Lost Generation Twenties to post-World War II&#133; The jazz age ambiance, recollected in the story, the mystique of Paris in the Twenties&#151;these key tokens of Fitzgerald's sensibility were missing&#133; Even more damaging than the switch in era is the attempt to expand the characters whose motivations are only sketched lightly in the short story&#133; Told in flashback, the story centers on a successful American novelist (Van Johnson) who returns to Paris and a reunion with the child he left in the custody of his sister-in-law (Donna Reed), since the death of his wife...The movie and the actors do not move the characters from point A to point B why, for instance, do husband and wife reverse roles, she transformed from party girl to sober wife who wants to go home to America, he collapsing from serious writer to disappointed drunk&#133; Van Johnson lacks the mythic stature to suggest other than a poor man's version of the great, doomed Fitzgerald&#133; And Liz was too young and inexperienced at the time to embody an arch-neurotic, part a malicious temptress, and part an aiding angel&#133; The role is a cumulation of the Taylor ingénue the goodtime flirt, cunningly stealing a man from her older sister; the spoiled daughter of a fast living phony; the irresponsible party girl with a good heart underneath it all; the sober young mother and wife; the defiant adulteress; the frail spirit cut down by the forces of nature&#133; At each station, she is on home ground, but the part comes out in bits and pieces rather than a coherent whole the character, finally, does not add up&#133; It may be partly Taylor vapidity (Beverly Hills didn't prepare her for Paris), but it's also the script and the direction that saintly woman, forgiving all, has very little connection to the blithe spirit who steals her sister's man and parties with non-stop frenzy&#133; "},{"Title":"The Last Time, the billing was reversed","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Last Time I Saw Paris was the second of two films that Elizabeth Taylor and Van Johnson co-starred. What a difference in four years from The Big Hangover where Johnson was billed ahead of Taylor. Which is odd in this case because the film is really about Johnson. It's based on F. Scott Fitzgerald's story, Babylon Revisited which takes place in Paris after World War I. MGM apparently thinking that the audience would be more amenable to a story taking place after World War II, so the plot was updated for France of the Fourth Republic.It doesn't quite work though, France of that era was a whole lot different than France of the Roaring Twenties. They partied then also when Paris was liberated and the Germans chased out of their country, but on the whole it was a time for more sober reflection of what France's role in the post war world would be. The Roaring Twenties that Fitzgerald wrote about were not the Roaring Forties.Van Johnson is a GI who comes upon a family of expatriates who lived in Paris right through the occupation. Walter Pidgeon and his two daughters, Donna Reed and Elizabeth Taylor. They both are interested, but Johnson has eyes only for Liz. And the film is their story.It's a tragic story, you can see Fitzgerald himself in Van Johnson, the would be writer who becomes a dissolute playboy. Partying right along with him is Taylor who is the image of Fitzgerald's party girl wife Zelda. MGM did this one on the cheap. There are some shots of Paris, but on the whole the Paris you see is the Paris that was created by the studio for their classic musical An American in Paris. View the films side by side and you'll have no doubt. Look for Eva Gabor as a divorcée who likes Johnson and a very young Roger Moore as a tennis pro who'd like to be a kept man by Taylor.It's a nice story, but it could have been a whole lot better if MGM had actually shot the film in Paris completely and really set in the period it was written. "},{"Title":"A very solid film worth seeing.","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Last Time I saw ParisReviewed by Dan CooperThis film was made in 1954, and by virtue of its age it becomes an easy target for those who would use it as a vehicle to pump up their own egos with a verbal bashing that will likely go unchallenged. The film has indeed been bashed, here on this database among other places, as unimportant and unworthy of your time as a possible rental choice.I disagree completely with the uncalled for bashing, and with the judgement that the movie is unworthy of your time. See it for yourself. And if you are young enough to be completely unfamiliar with all of the actors, so much the better for you to judge it fairly on its merits rather than be snowed by the reputations of Hollywood personalities.The plot has depth and very few weaknesses, the acting is good to very good, and the story has interest value in both historical and social frames of reference.The plot concerns the uniting of two people whose tragic flaws are not well matched, with the obligatory tragic results. The pair gets together spinning out of a near-miss love triangle. The man (Van Johnson) has no idea of the existence of the triangle, as he is completely taken with Taylor and just as completely forgets his earlier attraction to the other woman (Donna Reed). Reed, the rejected third wheel, is actually not rejected, per se, but becomes the odd man out none the less when her sister (Liz Taylor) successfully steers the affections of the duped Johnson in her own direction instead.Reed adopts the persona of the rejected party to a relationship that never was, and exacts her revenge later in the film.While the big name actors of the day are no longer influencing moviegoers today, they undoubtedly sold the film in 1954. I find some weaknesses in both acting and directing, but the film is definitely worth seeing if you have never had the pleasure. Van Johnson's role is that of a fairly shallow character with a good heart but no follow-through to carry him to victory until way too late to do much good. Johnson possibly could have done more with the role, but the weakness of the character should not be confused with some partially perceived weakness in Johnson's delivery of the part.Taylor does a nice job as the sly and experienced older sister, the one with the better looks and the Machiavellian technique to get whatever she wants, again at the expense of little sister Reed. The film is actually carried more by the acting of the supporting cast than by the efforts of the leads. Two very strong performances are put forth by Walter Pidgeon and George Dolenz. Pidgeon plays the opportunistic pretender to wealth and father of the two women. Dolenz is the earnest lover of Reed, who inherits her full-time attentions only after Johnson is fully occupied with Taylor. Dolenz marries Reed and in the end does a very nice job of becoming the film's heroic figure.Eva Gabor at the peak of her youthful beauty does a good job as yet another love triangle component for the easily side-tracked Johnson after his marriage to Taylor. Another triangle develops with a very young Roger Moore finding the eye of Taylor.Do yourself a favor and see this movie.Dan Cooper is a freelance writer/editor. He has been writing for over 30 years and has done book and movie reviews sporadically since the 1970's. "},{"Title":"Seriously flawed movie still worth watching for Taylor, Reed, and Pidgeon.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Elizabeth Taylor, Donna Reed, and Walter Pidgeon turn in fine performances in this updated adaptation of F.Scott Fitzgerald's short story, BABYLON REVISITED.  Two serious flaws keep this good movie from succeeding completely.  One is a seriously miscast Van Johnson.  His limited talent does not include the ability to portray a writer, much less one who struggles with intellectual despair.  The second and more serious flaw is the movie's ending.  The happy ending constructed for the movie is completely out of line with the story's point of view and makes no sense for the motivations of all the characters as written by Fitzgerald or adapted by the screenwriter.  The title song is nicely sung by Dinah Shore. "},{"Title":"pretty dull","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I went into this one not expecting much, and I wasn't disappointed. Basically you have a pleasingly low-key performance by Van Johnson as a hard-working American G.I. who decides to stay in Paris, under the spell of a lovely bohemian (Liz Taylor) and her anti-pragmatic father (Walter Pidgeon), but his performance eventually veers too deeply into the maudlin as we're expected to believe that his inability to write a successful novel has brought about an existential crisis for the protagonist as well as a marriage crisis for the couple.The most irritating thing about the movie is the way that the writers tried so hard to make sure that the audience wouldn't blame either of the lovers for any of the bad things that are happening, all the while expecting us to buy that each lover blames the other at least at one point or another. That makes me suspect more than anything that some radical changes must have been made to F. Scott Fitzgerald's original story.It's even hard to say if the film has any visual beauty to compensate for the lack of believable characters, at least on the DVD I saw (where it was coupled with Father's Little Dividend) the colors were very faded and there were visible scratch lines and so forth indicating that this DVD was made from a print and not a negative. So I couldn't possibly take away or add any credit to the film because of photography because it's very hard to judge the quality of the images. However I found the directing in general to be good with regards to the actors' performances but pretty nondescript in terms of visual sensibilities. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Taylor Stands Out in a Downbeat, Though Generally Well-Crafted, Drama","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though downbeat and sometimes sad, this is a generally well-crafted human drama that explores several aspects of family life and relationships. Elizabeth Taylor is the standout in a good cast, with Van Johnson also getting some good scenes. The postwar Paris setting is used in a number of well-conceived ways in the story.Johnson plays the main character, a reporter and would-be novelist who begins the movie with a trip back to Paris, and begins reminiscing about the past. The character's career disappointments and family crises give much of the story a markedly pessimistic (if not depressing) tone, yet Johnson plays the part believably, and the story brings out some worthwhile thoughts, as his character gradually loses his perspective on things.As his wife, Taylor's appeal and energy stand out every time she is on screen, but more importantly, she develops the character consistently throughout the story, often in interesting contrast to Johnson's character. She starts out as a rather spoiled, fun-loving young woman, then gradually takes on more depth and character. Her performance adds considerable meaning to the rest of the movie, and it also help in making the other characters more believable.Walter_Pidgeon (sorry, otherwise can't get it past the spell-checker) seems to be having fun as the easygoing father, and Donna Reed does a solid job in a rather thankless role as Taylor's more serious, sometimes envious sister. Eva Gabor and a young Roger Moore play characters who are one-dimensional yet important to the plot.Overall, everything works pretty well. The pace is just a bit slow at times, which occasionally makes for heavy going during the sadder stretches. But these always have a point, and as a whole it is a worthwhile drama with some interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Romantic drama about the troubled relationship between a war  journalist and a feisty young girl","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A successful writer ( Van Johnson) remembers about his love story with a gorgeous American girl ( Elizabeth Taylor ) in post WWII Paris . As we watch bright scenarios from Paris as the Arc of Triumph , river Sena , Cathedral of Notre Dame , promenade of Eliseos ; furthermore a horsemen race and Montecarlo car race , among others . Based on a semi-autobiographic novel titled ¨ Babylon revisited ¨ by F. Scott Fitzgerald who is well incarnated by Van Johnson and in which Helen played by Elizabeth Taylor represents Zelda , Scott's wife .This interesting movie reminisces the love affair between a wealthy war reporter and a feisty young woman ; it packs romance , drama , and colorful scenarios . Good support cast as Donna Reed , Eva Gabor , Kurt Kasznar , John Ducette and Walter Pidgeon who steals the show as joyful and sponger father . Glamorous cinematography in glimmer Technicolor by Joseph Ruttemberg and adequate musical score . The motion picture is professionally written and directed by Richard Brooks . He's an American filmmaker and screenwriter who won an Oscar for ¨ Elmer Gantry ¨ writings ; Brooks so consistently blended the good with average which it became quite impossible to know what to expect from him next . In the 50s , the harder his movies impacted , the more successful they were ; and the gentler they were , the less effective as ¨The last time saw Paris ¨ . Thus , the Brooks pictures that have the biggest hit in the 50 are the following  ¨Blackboard jungle ¨, ¨Something of value ¨ ¨The Brothers Karamazov ¨ , and in the 60s are ¨ Sweet bird of youth¨, Cat on a hot tin roof ¨, ¨In cold blood ¨ and ¨ The professionals ¨ ; in addition during the 70s a special mention to ¨ Bite the bullet ¨. Rating   Good film that appeal to Elizabeth Taylor fans . "}{"Title":"Tragic and beautiful, Paris is my favorite city","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" and this film, while dated, captures some of its aura. I am saddened as I write this, realizing a no-talent celebrity has marred the name Paris in America, but perhaps Americans will soon come to their senses.But I digress. Other reviewers have analyzed Ms. Taylor's performance, and she does quite well; her father is portrayed by Walter Pigeon as a shallow lothario, Donna Reed is the angelic sister, and Van Johnson the writer/husband. While I agree with a previous review that the persona of F. Scott Fitgerald is not completely manifested, Johnson does a good job of being a conflicted writer, loves his wife, but needs more, eventually spiraling downward into alcoholism.One scene with their young daughter is particularly touching, she is on a merry-go-round in the park, near the Seine, it is cold, Johnson is trying to reconcile with Elizabeth Taylor; He will change, he will stop drinking, he will redeem himself;(he promises, to no avail).The hope and sadness are projected on screen. The moods and cinemascope coloring from 1954 are classic. We do not see such subtlety today. The incidental music is also haunting. Highly recommended, especially if you love Paris. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and sensitive portrayal by the late Van Johnson","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How anyone could indicate that Van Johnson is wooden or miscast in this film is an incredible conumdrum. With his usual innocent charm, he builds the character with an authenticity which is totally suited to the screenplay. He is totally credible and authentic. If no other success can be perceived, surely the later scenes with his concern for both wife and daughter are amazingly touching; his tears are touching and beautifully demonstrated as no actor in my memory. The breadth of his performance stands out, with this character being fleshed out and fully developed. I hope that in his later years at the nursing home he did not read some of the uncharitable reviews of his performance. A highly underrated actor who deserved better. This is his very best role which he embraced fully, sensitively and beautifully. What a guy! "},{"Title":"Well made, but it does seem to lose its way towards the end...","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a rather annoying film. After all, the first 80% of it is very good--with nice acting and a very compelling story. Then, oddly, the last portion of the movie seems to fall apart and is a bit of a confusing and saccharine-like mess.The film begins with Van Johnson meeting and falling in love with Elizabeth Taylor. Considering how incredibly beautiful and sweet she was, it was easy to see why he dumped Donna Reed to pursue Taylor. Johnson's ambition it to publish a novel, but in the meantime he has married Taylor, has a lovely little girl and a well-paying job in Paris. What more could he want? Sure, his book has been rejected by some publishers, but considering everything he is still clearly a lucky man. But Johnson is NOT happy and is a self=indulgent idiot (to put it mildly). All he can do is feel sorry for himself for not being published. To bruise his shallow ego, he begins taking Taylor for granted and spends way too much time with his new friend--sultry Eva Gabor. Gabor is NOT the 'just friends' type, as she's been married multiple times. How any sane man could chose her over the sweet wife is beyond me and you really, really hate Johnson's character--a big switch for the guy who usually played such likable guys.All of this drama was compelling and I really got into the film--and wondered why the film had a mediocre score on IMDb. But then, late in the film, I saw exactly what the problem was. The film began to make no sense at all and decided to use clichés instead of decent writing. Out of the blue, Johnson locks Taylor out of the house and it's raining. In the real world, she'd get mad but that's all. Here in this Bizarro World, instead she gets sick and dies!!!! Folks, in real life standing in the rain does NOT cause death! And how she died with him rushing to her and having her die in his arms was dreadfully schmaltzy and stupid. And, what happened next was worse. Not one minute of the last portion of the film rang true or made sense. Considering that Johnson was cheating on his wife and locked the wife out in the rain, you'd THINK Taylor's father (Walter Pidgeon) would be at least a tiny bit angry--but he wasn't!! And, when Johnson CONTINUES to feel sorry for himself and neglects his daughter (necessitating her being cared for by others), you think this guy is a total bum--and yet they have them reunite at the end of the film and there's a 100% phony Hollywood ending!!! The first portion of the film I give a 9--it's that good. The last, I'd give a 2 or a 3--at best. An overall score of 5 seems reasonable as the actors do a nice job with a bubble-headed script--but frankly, the end just ruins the film for me. "},{"Title":"Only for hardcore fans of older romance flicks","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Last Time I Saw Paris- Starring Elizabeth Taylor and Van Johnson with Walter Pidgeon,Donna Reed,Eva Gabor and Roger Moore- from a story by F. Scott Fitzgerald with music by Jerome Kern- we track a reporter from Post WWW2 Paris and his relationship with a family with 2 lovely daughters and an eccentric father(he drinks and gambles)- The reporter chooses the carefree Helen as his life partner and then tries his hand at being a reporter and novelist(he has 3 novels rejected)-finally the family lucks into money through Texas oilwells- but there is disension cuz they are rich and bored and cuz Charlie feels like he is a failure- clocking in at 116 minutes- this movie tires to tell several stories-some are romantic,others are vaguely tawdry and some are tragic- but in the end the movie feels like a pretty outline of a deeper story- I got the general idea of the plot- but I was left apathetic towards the characters by the end. "},{"Title":"Suffers from its lenght","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is the end of WWII. Van Johnson, a reporter in the military, celebrates together with all of Paris. At a café he meets a friend and his girlfriend. The girl, played by Donna Reed, immediatly fells in love with Van Johnsson. Unfortenatly for Donna Reed, Van Johnsson is bound to meet her sister, a young beautiful girl played by Elisabeth Taylor. There is love at first sight, They get married and their marriage has its ups and downs but results in a baby girl. In the most troubled period in their marriage, Van Johnsson no longer works as a reporter but as a novelist. All he gets is rejections and this affect both of them to that he moves back to the states. After a year he understands where he went wrong and goes back to France for his daughter.The movie features good actors, especially Walter Pidgeon as the father of the two sisters. We also get to see a young Roger Moore in his first American movie. sadly the movie suffers from its lenght, almost two hours. At times it seems dull and uninteresting. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Lovely Elizabeth in empty soaper","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lush not terribly faithful rendition of Fitzgerald's Babylon Revisited is hampered by the miscasting of Van Johnson in the lead. There is no way other than script demands that Elizabeth Taylor would pick the vapid Johnson let alone stay with him throughout the increasingly boorish behavior he subjects her too. Donna Reed fulfills the requirements of her part but it asks little of her skill. The film is beautifully shot with that MGM sheen and Walter Pidgeon gives a terrific performance as Elizabeth's madcap father. Fitzgerald is hard to adapt to begin with and the script writers don't have a firm grasp on the material so it becomes a colorful soap opera but little else. "},{"Title":"Paris as you've never seen her before;","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer of The Last Time I saw Paris, F. Scott Fitzgerald (1896 - 1940) and director Richard Brooks (1912 - 1992) brings us this star-studded cast unto the streets and hearts of the city of amor. With bright young things such as a very beautiful Elizabeth Taylor (aged 22 years) and Van Johnson taking the lead roles as the poor but vitality filled youths who must, and in the case for poor Charles Wills retrace his paths and once again revisit this Babylon city. Filled with the likes of Walter Pidgeon, Donna Reed, Roger Moore and a young Eva Gabor (sister to Zsa Zsa), and too, the tiny tot Sandy THEM! Descher, this fairytale of love, relationships, resentment, jealously and rude awakenings is a glam fest of lost love, missed opportunities and bitter rivalries; these are, at times, shallow people who have to deal with deeper consequences that climaxes into a most touching ending indeed. Each has their own skeletons hiding, and what makes this movie work is the way in which the bitterness shows no remorse for its self-inflicted victims, and too, the excellent acting from all, bare with it till the end, and you will see alcoholic Van Johnson begging for his young daughters return both captivating and his breathtakingly agonising plight only builds up the finale to a higher level. Wonderful stuff. Great performance's from all; tight, constant and believable, and given a script and dialogue that can be both acid tongued and emotional from the very start, we also see, very quickly, that this movie belongs to Elizabeth Taylor. As movie legend denotes MGM bought into this project from Paramount to propel this evergreen beauty further into the glamour and beauty that is the Elizabeth Taylor myth, no expense spared; the best gowns, chic hairstyles and the look of the Goddess Aphrodite, oh, and her acting is also superb, playing the lovelorn woman with graceful respect of her role and showing depth and maturity to boot. Ms. Taylor's script, Ms. Taylor's role, is empty of the panache of the Hollywood style of being over-produced, but it is a lovingly small and tender rendition of how one can turn less into more. Tremendous stuff. Working on human emotion rather than gimmicky egos, The Last Time I Saw Paris is a charming novella that will take you far beyond the walls of Babylon and have you reminiscing the beautiful nights in the City of Love. Have you your one-way ticket bought yet? "},{"Title":"First Time I Saw Last Time I Saw Paris","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing this on the shelf of my local library,I decided to give this movie a chance and hope for the best. The title first of all told me that this would be a tear-jerker,the kind of movie I'm not really into but I checked it out just the same.No doubt after it started I could certainly see why men in Hollywood wanted to be with Liz. I asked myself while watching though,why would a free spirit like her want to tie herself down with an overly-serious person like Van Johnson's character? I'm not saying he doesn't show emotion but sharing a kiss on the street hardly seems a plausible way for two to fall in love with each other. (Then again,in life,strange things do happen.)I did get caught up in their romantic and idealistic ways but of course was waiting for the disaster to strike.Then they hit  His inability to sell a novel to a publisher. Her still carrying on as if she weren't married. His friendship with Eva Gabor making her (Taylor) jealous for no good reason. His alcoholism and (what we're clued into in the first scene of the movie) her untimely demise from pneumonia. Quite the soap opera.I found Taylor's character dying from this to be a bit ridiculous. Okay,she got locked out and caught in the rain and the cold with snow on the ground. She gets to her sister's place soaking wet and passes out. Now,why not just get her upstairs and into a hot bath for Pete's sake?!Any believability the film had before that went out the window for me and after her character is gone,the only thing one is left with is Johnson's character getting his daughter back from Donna Reed. I couldn't stand her character at all for she seems to hate Van Johnson's character without good reason,though she has one later.I will admit when it comes to scenes of parents and kids,I do get sentimental & a little emotional but then seeing Johnson & daughter reunited is a wonderful touching end to the film. One laughable scene in the movie is when Johnson & Gabor are in the Monte Carlo car race and they skid in the rain into a wooden fence. The skidding is clearly a stock-recorded sound effect,that sounds like it's from a Warner Brothers cartoon!I rate five stars for the above listed reasons,the acting is good here but some aspects are just too unbelievable to accept. (Beware of $1 DVD copies of this movie,their quality is poor.) (END) "},{"Title":"The only thing tragic about this tragedy is Van Johnson's acting","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a terrible case of bad casting. Van Johnson has the emotional range of Herbie the Love Bug. There is no chemistry between him and Taylor, who is as gorgeous as ever and makes you wonder why SHE could fall so hard for HIM. Why in the HELL is HE in this movie!!The rest of the cast is near perfect by comparison. The story... er, well... it's terribly contrived and predictable. Aside from Johnson making his character a big baby, I could follow most of it with my disbelief suspended. This role calls for someone who 1) is loveable, 2) is a rake, 3) is a believeable drunk, 4) is physically at least half as attractive as Taylor, and lastly, 5) can act worth a damn. Needless to say, the person they chose fits none of these characteristics. William Holden would have been perfect in this role. I'd like to hear the back story of how Johnson got the part, because he must have been blackmailing someone. "},{"Title":"There is a reason it was a short story...","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story is not so in depth to allow it to come to life as a novel or a feature length movie.It is interesting to read the reviews after seeing the movie. No 2 reviews are alike. This speaks volumes as to how the film actually affects those who see it. The viewers take away vastly different aspects of the film to discuss.The opinion this reviewer has is that the film is not as drudgingly long as some reviewers have noted. Also, while Van Johnson is always a bit wooden in his roles, he is not as awful as he is made out to be in some other reviews. The film boasts a fine cast and had some money behind it and there are some nice aspects to the story. This reviewer did not particularly mind watching the film.The problem is that the story is not fully fleshed to be a full length movie. There is no central point to the story to carry it to the length of a feature film. There is little purpose or philosophy that comes through as an overriding thematic. Van and Elizabeth play self destructive characters who suffer tragedy via doing some dumb things but...so what? Who really cares about dumb people doing dumb things? The emotional draw of the story never comes out. The emotion is stifled by the story; not by Van Johnson's acting. But...that is why this remained a short story that delved into the mind of the character pining for his lost daughter. There's just no emotional payoff with the characters that warrants nearly 2 hours of screen time.Still, compared to most of what passes for drama these days the film is far superior to what is released today. That's a sad commentary on film making and story writing today.One other note For a story that is set in Paris there is little sense that any of the action occurs in Paris. This ties into the script. Rather than using known aspects of Paris to enhance the flavor of the story there is little to utilize the location. The title of the film could be The Last Time I Saw New York City and nothing would materially change in the film.If you are interested in film and story telling and the history of cinema I recommend giving the movie a viewing to familiarize yourself with it. Some parts work well (Elizabeth Taylor as the woman in the fountain immortalized in a full wall mural in a bar) but some parts...notably the father\daughter\aunt relationship at the end...just comes off flat. The film is a mix of good and not so good and the mix of good and not so good reviews is a good reflection of the movie. "}{"Title":"skip it.","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Donna Reed plays an American-ish girl in France whom Johnson obliviously throws aside for her slutty, bimbo sister played by Liz Taylor. The movie becomes an endless series of similar scenes that have Van Johnson meeting with Liz Taylor. It has little forward momentum. Having never said a word to Van Johnson about her love (& the screenwriters not supplying her with a personality or any likable quality), Donna Reed carries a torch for like a decade and behaves as if Liz stole her man - despite the fact that Donna only knew him, at most, an hour longer, and only said about twelve words to him. Admittedly Liz is a crappy, evil sister, and Johnson is a heel, but Reed is passive & prematurely bitter. So no one really carries your interest. It's a rare movie that asks you to consider two figures as unlikeable as Johnson and Taylor as the leads. And it's maudlin.The DVD transfer is very bad. It looks like you're watching the movie through wet gauze after someone punched you in both eyes.I love Paris but there are other, better ways to enjoy a cinema trip to France. "},{"Title":"All the complexity of Fitzgerald's story has been wrung out.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of one of F. Scott Fitzgerald's greatest short stories is a conglomeration of every bad melodramatic plot twist known to the movies. You have to keep watching just to see what they'll throw in next. Van Johnson is perhaps even more wooden than usual and Donna Reed has little to do in a thankless role. Walter Pigeon does as well as could be expected, considering his one-note bluff and hearty character. But Elizabeth Taylor manages to seem genuine and natural most of the time, despite being saddled with a perplexing character whose ever-changing motivations seem to come out of nowhere. Especially during her serious scenes with Johnson in the first half of the movie, she manages to hint at a believable inner complexity. "},{"Title":"Two Reasons Why the Studio System Failed","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reason # 1 - Lousy casting. The Last Time I Saw Paris is an expansion of F Scott Fitzgerald's elegiac short story Babylon Revisited, a lightly fictionalized depiction of the aftermath of Fitzgerald's marriage to Zelda. If MGM stretching a melancholy, intimate portrait of a flawed man into a feature-length romantic extravaganza was a bad idea, casting Van Johnson as the Fitzgerald character was a worse one. Charles Wills, the Fitzgerald stand-in, is a journalist who marries a beautiful but impulsive debutante in Paris right after World War II, lapses into drunken self-loathing after writing a few failed novels, and wastes his wife's inheritance on the way to becoming a puffy, alcoholic playboy. Johnson is certainly believable as a spineless gigolo, but he's too light in his loafers to play an angry husband and too light in the head to play a brilliant, tortured artist. Plus, he was in his late thirties by the time all this celluloid was wasted, so his celebrated boyish good looks were turning flabby. Thus, there's no reason Charles would attract two hot prospects like Liz Taylor and Donna Reed, the expatriate sisters who fight for the pudgy pretty boy's love in post- WWII Paris. Liz wins, of course, and while she's not bad as Wills' erratic wife Helen, she didn't have the acting chops to connect her character's wild, fountain-swimming side and hurt, vulnerable, wronged- wife side. At least she's having a lot more fun than poor Donna Reed, another beautiful actress hagged up to make Liz Taylor even prettier (I don't think Shelley Winters ever forgave George Stevens for frowzing her up in A Place in the Sun). The normally effervescent Miss Reed is asked to play Helen's repressed, embittered sister, and just in case she didn't get the hint that her character was emotionally distant, the studio decided to style and costume her like a constipated schoolmarm. Why MGM would waste an Oscar-winning knockout like Reed on such a drab, thankless role indicates some discombobulated priorities. Veteran actor Walter Pidgeon, as Liz and Donna's penniless bon vivant father, manages to project the necessary seedy charm, but since that's all he has to do, his near-constant presence makes him a well-manicured bore. Compounding the absurdity is Zsa Zsa Gabor, who by 1954 already looked like she'd just emerged from her seventh face-lift, wandering on screen as a wealthy socialite who has a tryst with Charles (why not just cast a drag queen - - it's Van Johnson, after all!). Van and Liz also manage to conceive a daughter, the most saccharine movie child this side of a Disney flick. The whole thing is a mess.Reason # 2 - Profligacy. Thousands of extras wander across the MGM soundstages intended to replicate post-WWII Paris. What could have been a sad, intimate portrait of two flawed people in love becomes an overlong Technicolor extravaganza of crowd scenes, party scenes, racetrack scenes, and one Monte Carlo Grand Prix auto race just to impede character development. At one point, the MGM costume department puts Johnson in a harlequin costume. The point? "},{"Title":"Sentimental Melodrama! Van Johnson shines in his role!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Van Johnson was fantastic in his role as a World War II veteran who returns to Paris, France where he seeks to be a writer in the post-World War era. He meets and falls in love with Helen (played by Dame Elizabeth Taylor). Donna Reed has a supporting role as Marion, Helen's sister. This film was shot in the early days of using color instead of black and white. The Parisian shots could have been better. The storyline is quite typical. Helen and Jimmy fall in love and get married and have a child, a beautiful daughter, Victoria. They remain in Paris, France where the living is good and the partying is non-stop. Well, Jimmy's writing career consists of constant rejection. Helen's unhappy as well in their marriage. The story is a bit outdated and melodramatic to involve acting but it's Van Johnson's film and not his co-star Elizabeth Taylor. Eva Gabor has a supporting role in it as does Walter Pidgeon playing Helen's father. It's decent, old film to watch at least once. "},{"Title":"Dramatic, campy but interesting film of post-War Paris","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah, it could use a script rewrite, but with all the celebrities and the Paris and coastal scenery, it is pretty cool. Also, it is fun to see the ever-smooth Roger Moore as a sort of cad. Van Johnson plays well as a drunken, tragic figure. Seriously, the colorization by Ted Turner or whoever doesn't do justice to the print, but just look at the sets and tell me they didn't pay attention to detail. Plus, the rally car race from, presumably, Nice or Monaco, is great with all the Porsches and Bugattis. And, while brief, provides a foretelling of future film races with the likes of James Bond and Cary Grant (in To Catch A Thief). Again, it is a film worth watching, but isn't in the same class as other films of the year, such as On The Waterfront or The Caine Mutiny or Rear Window. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if not so literary","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is based on F. Scott Fitzgerald's Babylon Revisited, and it follows much the same formula as the Hemingway-inspired Snows of Kilimanjaro a couple of years earlier. The filmmakers took an acclaimed, fairly grim short story by an almost legendary American writer. They made it bigger and smoother and more romantic. Then they threw in several incidents (and purported incidents) from the famous author's own life. And voilà! This one has a couple of advantage over Snows The title and the related title song. The original song The Last Time I Saw Paris was written for an earlier movie and was about the city's tragedy in World War II, not about the travails of a single couple in peacetime. But the tune is appropriately melancholy and Gallic-sounding, and it works beautifully here.Hemingway was alive when Snows was filmed, and he angrily objected to what Hollywood had done to his work. Fitzgerald had been dead for years when Paris was made, but I think he would have been more sad than angry. He was that kind of guy.If you've never read the short story, you'll enjoy this. If you have read the story, you'll still like the movie, even if you feel a bit guilty about it. Van Johnson is just so likable, and Elizabeth Taylor is just so lovely. "},{"Title":"Overdone drama.","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is your typical average overdone MGM drama, with a sappy story and a fluffy look and feel all over it. Nevertheless, everything in it is done well enough to make this a good (enough) genre movie to watch.The movie is needlessly told as a flashback, which also makes us the viewers already aware of how the main story ends, in advance. Sometimes in cases this approach works well for a story but not for such a mediocre movie as this one I'm afraid.In the midst of all the formulaic drama there are some fine actors in the movie, that get to shine. Elizabeth Taylor is really great and to me she was the one that truly carried the movie, though in screen time it is perhaps Van Johnson who plays the real main role of the movie. The movie also has a supporting cast to die for; Walter Pidgeon, Donna Reed, Eva Gabor and even a young Roger Moore in his first real notable movie role. I just wish that some of the character development would had been better though. Also the 'relationship' between Charles Wills and Marion Ellswirth never gets developed well enough, though it plays an essential part in all of the drama in the movie, especially in the beginning and toward the ending of the movie.The movie is really typical for MGM '50's standards, meaning that the drama is heavy but the approach of it isn't always. The movie at times tends to be more cheerful than dramatic, which isn't always for the movie its own benefits. Toward the end the drama thickens, which especially gives the movie its 'overdone' feeling, which also doesn't exactly make the movie more believable to watch. It's still a good enough drama to watch, just not one that will grab you.The movie uses some fine settings. Of course Paris is the perfect backdrop for a romantic movie and they used some nice locations in the movie (not the Eiffel tower for a change, even though it's still featured on the movie its cover). Also the costumes are quite nice.Good enough for its genre and MGM '50's standards but that doesn't exactly mean that it's a highly recommendable one though.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Play It Again, Van","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's an update of F. Scott Fitzgerald's Babylon Revisited for writer Van Johnson (as Charles Wills), recalling his whirlwind post-World War II encounter with beautiful and curvaceous sisters Elizabeth Taylor and Donna Reed (as Helen and Marion Ellswirth), in Paris. When beautiful Ms. Taylor secures Mr. Johnson's hand in marriage, beautiful Ms. Reed weds George Dolenz (as Claude Matine). This is one of Mr. Dolenz' higher profile roles; he was the father of The Monkees drummer Micky Dolenz.Veteran Walter Pidgeon (as James Ellswirth) gives some worthless Texas oil wells to Johnson, as a wedding gift; then, when the oil unexpectedly starts to flow, life changes for everyone. Multi-married Hungarian beauty Eva Gabor (later of Green Acres) distracts Johnson from Taylor, and handsome young Roger Moore (later James Bond) distracts Taylor from Johnson. Everyone is easily distracted. Alcohol dully plays a role in the story, especially, but unconvincingly, affecting star Johnson.**** The Last Time I Saw Paris (11/18/54) Richard Brooks ~ Van Johnson, Elizabeth Taylor, Donna Reed, Walter Pidgeon "},{"Title":"wonderful interpretation of Babylon Revisited","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything is right on in this movie. The acting is superb, the direction is perfect, and overall it's highly entertaining, dramatic, and terribly entertaining. So it's worth watching just for that. But also, the interpretations that the film makes of the original F. Scott story are really very interesting. So, if you've read the F. Scott story, you'll get a real kick out of this movie. The way it expands and elaborates on the original plot is clever, intelligent, and says a lot about the film audiences of the time. And if you haven't, I imagine it's still a great flick. Real solid, and does a nice job on the boredom and dissolution that afflicted the wealthy in the early-to-mid twentieth century. I heartily recommend viewing it. "},{"Title":"A very tragic and gratifying movie worth your time","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie appealed so much to me initially because my mom and dad physically remind me an awful lot of Van & Liz.  But after I started watching it (I first saw this movie in the 80s), I fell in love with the story itself.  It will break your heart if you have one.As most all old movies go, it glosses/speeds over a lot of the character study and plot development that we come to appreciate in today's movies, as older movies tended to pick up the pace too quickly to enjoy an in-depth look at a relationship or a particular character, but I imagine that it would really break your heart if it had dug that deep in the script.If you want or expect the entire story to crumble at the end, you need psychological help.  There was no need for a complete and total tragedy of Shakespearean proportions, and the end was very plausible and necessary and is certainly more believable than the flip side would be.  It amazes me that most people look for believability in a script, including myself, as we basically go to a movie to escape believability, i.e., reality, but in this case, what you see is closer to the truth that anything.  Furthermore, if my life is screwed up, I don't want to watch a story turn out just like my screwed-up life.  I don't want others or the entire world around me to reflect that pain.  To do so would be at least masochistic and surely heartless, petty and childish.  If you're like that, do yourself and the world a favor and get some help --- we need more understanding and more happy endings in this world.Look for Zsa Zsa (yes, she actually did act at one time) and a young Roger Moore, and for all you trivia buffs, check out the character named Claude that plays Donna Reed's husband.  His name is George Dolenz.  Recognize the last name? --- He's the father of Micky Dolenz from The Monkees! "}{"Title":"shallow","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The DVD was in a 10-pack Drama special, so I watched to see the celebrated Elizabeth Taylor. But if I'd known that the film was based on a story by F Scott Fitzgerald, I probably wouldn't have bothered.Fitzgerald's writing reflects his own pointless, selfish, self-centred, shallow and decadent life-style, and the film follows that throughout. It's an autobiography about nothing.The film is saved from getting a 1 rating by the generally good acting, and especially that of Donna Reed and Walter Pidgeon.When Charles (Johnson) meets the two daughters of another useless wastrel, (Pidgeon) he obviously like Marion (Reed) but then falls for the flashy Helen (Taylor). Perhaps later, much later, he regrets that choice.The film is set over a time span of eight or more years, but Van Johnson looks exactly the same from the first to the last scenes. Not one hair out of place in spite of once spending the whole night on the town with a broad, and later getting soaking wet! That is poor directing/producing. At least Taylor gets a new hair-style later. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed, but mawkish...","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" F. Scott Fitzgerald's short story Babylon Revisted, reworked by three screenwriters (including director Richard Brooks), becomes a well-dressed but chilly, mopey star-vehicle. Americans in Paris find themselves wealthy after striking oil, but the writer-husband's inability to sell a story--coupled with a drinking problem and an attraction to a catty socialite--puts a strain on their marriage. Elizabeth Taylor does what she can with the masochistic wifey role, even getting what actresses like to call a good hospital scene, but Van Johnson has more of an opportunity as a performer to show range and emotion (the writing is slanted that way). The scenario becomes episodic after the couple comes into money, while the final portion of the plot continues 15 minutes longer than necessary, presumably to 'teach' angry relative Donna Reed about forgiveness...and to show Johnson begging for love, something that apparently humbles every tortured writer's soul. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Has its flaws but also a lot of charms","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Last Time I Saw Paris won't be everybody's cup of tea, but while it could have been much better I do not consider it a bad film. If anything it was an uneven but decent one. The ending did feel very forced and at odds with the mood of the rest of the film, there could have been more of a focus on the relationship between Helen and Charles, Van Johnson does start off a tad uncomfortable and his drunken argument with himself is pretty embarrassing and some of the film feels skimming the surface quality and lacking in depth with a dose of over-sentimentality. The film is also in serious need of a restoration, the faded, grainy print doesn't do it justice. But for all its flaws, The Last Time I Saw Paris has much to like and the good stuff is beautiful and charming indeed. The sets have a painterly charm and the Parisian location is irresistible(Paris has always been one of the most beautiful and romantic cities in the world, and couldn't have been a more perfect choice of location for this film) while the cinematography from Joseph Ruttenberg has a real intricacy, matching the mood and nostalgic atmosphere most fittingly, and Helen Rose's dresses are sumptuous in every sense of the word, especially Elizabeth Taylor's lavender dress which goes perfectly with her violet eyes. Conrad Salinger haunting and lush music score, a script despite the lack of depth that is intelligently, poignantly and wittily written- the car race is hilarious- and a story that has a fair amount of nostalgic charm and emotional resonance especially in the first half are also things to like. The direction is leisurely but not overly so, letting the film speak for itself, the characters are sympathetically drawn and likable although Charles is the only one who's really developed. And The Last Time I Saw Paris is also beautifully cast and beautifully played, especially by a luminous Elizabeth Taylor who brings sublime subtlety and nuances to her role an amusingly eccentric and endearingly roguish Walter Pidgeon. George Dolenz and Eva Gabor are also solid, Donna Reed is excellent in an atypical role and Sandy Descher proves herself to be an adorable child actress. Johnson may not start off well but the more interesting Charles gets the more comfortable and emotionally involved Johnson becomes, with his increasingly brooding, intense and affecting performance being one of the saving graces of the second half. Stylistically and tonally the film is true to F. Scott Fitzgerald's story Babylon Revisited despite the updating, but the story despite like the film having a weaker latter half had much more depth to the story and the characters more compelling in development and motivations. In conclusion, very flawed but also has a lot of charms, worth the watch. 6.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"How Did I Ever Miss This Movie?","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was around at that time. How did I ever miss this movie? I say those who allege they don't like it understand little. Now that YouTube is around, I keep noticing that when we saw movies at that time in the palace type movie theaters, we also saw little. But now, for the first time, I know that those who rave about the beauty of Elizabeth Taylor were the ones in Hollywood who saw her face to face. Now, the script for this movie was marvelously superb, and Van Johnson was a born top notch actor. Where were the Academy Award nominations for this movie that year? Even Donna Reed, always usually playing squeaky clean, had the chance for a real in depth, dramatic role. We also shouldn't forget the role played by Sandy Descher, then eight years of age, who was already taking ballet lessons, inspired in real life by the motion picture The Red Shoes, so that her first name in this movie was indeed Vicki, evidently from the name Victoria Page. So, all in all, ten stars for this movie? Yes. "},{"Title":"One of the screens enduring story's of love, sorrow and joy.","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the screens enduring story's of love sorrow and joy. of the post WWII era and it's aftermath on those who lived it. Charles (Van Johnson) returns to Paris to reminisce about the life he led in Paris after it was liberated. He worked on Stars and Stripes when he met Marion (Donna Reed) and Helen (Elizabeth Taylor). He would marry Helen and at first be happy staying in Paris after his discharge and working for a news organization. He would try to write his great novel, but that and too much of the high life would come between Charles, his wife and their young daughter as tragedy unfolds.Based upon the F. Scott Fitzgerald short story, Babylon Revisited. "},{"Title":"A timeless love story - well-acted and bittersweet","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In my humble opinion, Van Johnson was a vastly underestimated actor. He excelled at playing everyman and was as good playing sardonic characters who fall into the trap of self-loathing as in this movie as he was in playing guys who could take whatever life dished out and come back bloodied but unbowed.He and Taylor have marvelous chemistry in this movie. Pidgeon is marvelous playing Taylor's wry scoundrel of a father. The seductiveness of the bohemian life is well portrayed. Peter Leeds, John Doucette, Kurt Kasznar and Celia Lovsky are also excellent in their supporting roles - and young Roger Moore is a lot of fun as a tennis bum. Also, a standout is George Dolenz as Johnson & Taylor's silently suffering and devoted brother-in-law married to self-righteous Donna Reed - perhaps the one supporting role that seemed miscast or a bit flat to me.If you want to wallow in tears at a well-done schmaltzy love story, this one's for you. "},{"Title":"An effective film, though it could have been better","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Charles Wills (Van Johnson) is an aspiring American writer, living in Paris for the time being. After France was liberated near the end of World War II, he meets Helen Ellswirth (Liz Taylor) at a party. She is instantly attracted to him, though he at first prefers Marion (Donna Reed), her sister. But when Charles starts to take a liking to Helen, Marion becomes very jealous and holds a grudge against him for many years. Over the next few years, Charles marries, has a daughter, and struggles to have his novels published. Over time, the struggle to become a successful writer alienates his family from him, and threatens to tear apart the family.I usually like Liz Taylor movies, and I have never seen a bad performance from Walter Pidgeon, so I was looking forward to seeing this movie. Taylor is beautiful in this film, and she gives a fantastic performance. Pidgeon also does a great job playing the father of both young women. The rest of the actors also do very well in this movie, especially Donna Reed, Van Johnson and George Dolenz. In general, this film has good acting and a well-crafted script.Overall, I wanted to like this movie more than I really did. At the beginning of the film, I thought it was one I would like, and it starts off well. There are some great points in the movie, such as Van Johnson's character gazing at a mural of Liz Taylor's character, and then later seeing someone create it. The scenes with Johnson's character and his young daughter are especially effective, and that makes the end of the film so much better than it would have otherwise been, as you'll see.Donna Reed does a wonderful job in her role. She doesn't need to say much in order for us to know exactly what she is thinking or feeling throughout the movie. I was not impressed with Roger Moore, however. Tony Curtis is about the same age as Moore, but he would have been much better at this role. In fact, I think just about anyone could have played Moore's part better than he did.This movie also moves pretty slowly and seems a lot longer than the nearly 2-hour running time. There are several scenes which serve almost no purpose except to increase the running time. All of these excess scenes could have been cut out without any negative effects on the overall production. I do not want to say too much about the film, but if you watch this, you'll know what I mean about several stretches of the film that seemed unnecessary.The last 15 or so minutes of the film are by far the best. By then, the viewer knows exactly what happened to these families, but there is still a very compelling reason to watch it to the end. Maybe one reason the middle is so slow is to help set up the end of the film. That's what I'd like to believe anyway. Still, if it could have been slightly quicker to the end, I'd rate this movie higher.Finally, a note on the DVD. I watched the Madacy version of this movie, and I do not recommend it to anyone. The movie itself is fine, but the DVD transfer is absolutely horrible. There were several skips/jumps in the film and several obvious cuts that should have been done a lot better. There were no special features, and when the DVD loads, you get only one option play. This is at least the fifth Madacy DVD that I've seen, and they're always the same - terrible picture and sound quality. "},{"Title":"Not Bad if a Bit Too Melodramatic","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Elizabeth Taylor and Van Johnson star as a pair of tragic, lovestruck Americans who fall in love in Paris following the end of World War II. Johnson's character, a newspaper correspondent, is haunted by the fact he can never seem to get that first novel published while Taylor's character is youthful and wants only to live each day to the fullest. The film glosses over bits and pieces of their lives together using a flashback as the key means of accomplishing this. At times, it seems a bit too melodramatic in terms of its emotional presentation and really too much of the story is quickly brushed over and not examined in enough depth but there was a lot of ground to cover here and no doubt they wanted a tighter paced film. Overall it's a pretty good movie with some quality performances from Van Johnson, Elizabeth Taylor, Donna Reed as Taylor's sister who's disappointed Johnson didn't pick her over Taylor, Walter Pidgeon as the girls' father who also embraces the live every day as though it were your last philosophy and finally Eva Gabor and Roger Moore as infidelity temptation for the married couple. "},{"Title":"Paris Never Lovelier","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Elizabeth Taylor brings out the loveliness of post-war Paris. Her performance, while not exceptional, nevertheless shows the special association between the city of lights and the American spirit. Furthermore, through her eyes the audience sees that the party must end eventually. The story itself depicts the consequences of depravity and the problems associated with holding on to a dream for too long. Van Johnson puts forth a decent performance, but better casting for the lead role would likely have made a more popular film. Donna Reed and Walter Pigeon were very good in the film; however, further character development could have made this good film into a great film. Even still, the film captures the lure of the Paris scene and explores the expatriated Parisian lifestyle. "},{"Title":"Downbeat drama from F. Scott Fitzgerald novel has MGM gloss...","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I never read the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel on which this is based, but can only report that ELIZABETH TAYLOR, VAN JOHNSON, DONNA REED and WALTER PIDGEON do nicely in the leads and the film is given a graceful script by screenwriter Julius J. Epstein, author of so many successful film scripts. It's basically a well-crafted soap opera set in a post-war Paris setting (after the liberation) but it works on several levels, thanks to some nice performances and crisp Technicolor photography. I saw this on WideScreen TV and it looks marvelous.ELIZABETH TAYLOR's motivations are somewhat obscure (she's almost another Zelda from Tender is the Night) but at this stage of her career Elizabeth was having success in some good adult roles and this is one of her better performances from that era. VAN JOHNSON could have used more depth as the would-be novelist turned alcoholic and DONNA REED's subdued performance as the bitter elder sister is rather one-note in concept.Richard Brooks has directed this in too leisurely fashion, but fans of Taylor and Johnson should certainly be pleased with the final results. Taylor is at the peak of her physical beauty and up to the demands of one of her early adult roles. Well worth watching, but at least a half-hour could have been cut without doing any harm to the story.For those who complain about the washed out look of the color photography on Public Domain prints, be aware that TCM is now showing it in a pristine restored print which makes it look like a much more impressive film than it really is. "}{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A really beautiful film, I'm surprised it's not better known. TCM runs it fairly frequently, so perhaps it's better known than I realize. The cast is outstanding, and the script is also amazing, the lines are so beautifully written, especially for Elizabeth Taylor, each one is a surprise, very original yet totally in-keeping with the story. Van Johnson is a sweet well- meaning guy from the Midwest and Elizabeth Taylor is this fun- seeking woman from an eccentric family. They meet-up just as Paris is liberated. The two have really amazing chemistry, and the rest of the cast is fun to watch, especially Walter Pidgeon, who plays Taylor's father, who feels the most important thing in life is to have fun. It's also interesting to see the euphoria that followed the liberation of Paris, what heady times those must have been. Highly recommended, a little known gem. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and very, very good","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having always been a fan of Elizabeth Taylor, I bought this movie (on DVD) without having ever seen it before. I LOVED IT!!!  What a great movie! Not only are the actors wonderful, but the story is very moving and very nice.What else can I say but...beautiful. "},{"Title":"Let's give Eva her due!","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Come on, IMDb-ers!  Check the credits for a film before you embarrass yourselves.  It was Eva Gabor, not her sister, Zsa Zsa, who had a small role in this film.  Mama Jolie and her glamorous daughters are a part of the American celebrity/entertainment scene that so many of us remember rather fondly and Eva, among them, was quite a charming actress. (Check out her appearances in Minnelli's Gigi and the Paul Newman/Joanne Woodward clunker, A New Kind of Love, in which Eva almost stole the show, despite the presence of Thelma Ritter who usually carried off that particular prize.) The Last Time I Saw Paris was typical mid-Fifties high gloss soap opera from M-G-M, and it's a bit of a surprise that Richard Brooks was the director, since he's noted for somewhat more topical and/or hard-hitting stuff.  But, as a look back at the gorgeous Elizabeth emoting most fetchingly at the peak of her camera-worthiness, this one can hardly be beat. "},{"Title":"Excellent Drama","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A first-rate drama from Richard Brooks.  Excellent acting.  Well done, albeit a somewhat tragic ending.  Van Johnson appears miscast at first, however, as the plot unfolds, he plays his part very convincingly.  Liz Taylor is, as always, quite lovely.  A must-see if you're a 1950's Taylor fan. "},{"Title":"Van Johnson and Elizabeth Taylor, among others, made The Last Time I Saw Paris quite enjoyable as a romantic drama","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you've been reading my reviews under my username for the last several weeks, you probably know that I've been commenting on various previous films of the cast of the original Dallas in chronological order during that time. So it is here that I finally watched this long-in-public-domain M-G-M feature that starred Van Johnson and Elizabeth Taylor with Donna Reed-the second Miss Ellie on that soap-among the supporting cast. In another coincidence that I appreciated while watching, there was a scene where the father of Donna and Elizabeth mentioned investing in some oil wells from Texas that turned out to be useless but later on became the opposite. And it was Ms. Reed's character who made the useless statement! Otherwise, I liked this drama about Johnson and Ms. Taylor's romance and later marriage that threatened to fall into the rocks when they both take possible paramours in Eva Gabor and Roger Moore, respectively. As for Ms. Reed, she doesn't seem much use as Ms. Taylor's sister until her climatic scene with Van Johnson near the end concerning his daughter. Sure, there may not be such a good reason for the ending to occur considering the way certain characters behaved but if one is willing to believe in Second Chances, then this one surely deserved them! So, yeah, that's a recommendation of The Last Time I Saw Paris. "},{"Title":"Taylor-Made But Still Flawed","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's the thing. Scott Fitzgerald died in 1940. He published his first novel in 1920 and his last in 1934. In the twenties and early thirties he turned out some fifty or so short stories for which, initially, he earned top dollar but when his wife, Zelda, was diagnosed as schizophrenic and hospitalized he turned to the bottle and apart from a series of pot-boilers about a Hollywood hack named Pat Hobby and a series of essays, The Crack-Up, published in Esquire magazine around 1936, he produced little of any merit, albeit he was working on a novel when he died. He owed his success, particularly where short stories were concerned, to his gift of both understanding and interpreting the 'voice' of young people in the 'Jazz' Age. Bablyon Revisited is one such story dating from his peak years so the minute MGM chose to 'update' it to some thirteen or fourteen years AFTER his death its uniqueness i.e. the 'voice' of the Jazz Age, was totally destroyed. Even the central sequence, a flashback that begins in 1945 can't do much to help as that was still five years after Fitzgerald died. That being said it is, of course quite possible that movie buffs who couldn't care less about Fitzgerald would have checked this out on the strength of Elizabeth Taylor - who had grown up at MGM - Van Johnson, who had starred in several big-budget MGM movies in the forties and Walter Pigeon, who had likewise appeared in some top grossing MGM fodder (and had, ironically, just appeared in The Bad And The Beautiful, also from MGM which lifted a few rocks in the tide-pool that is Hollywood to reveal the unsavory marine life scrabbling around there). These people may well have come away content and serenely oblivious to Fitzgerald's ending, diametrically opposed to the one on offer here. The bad news is that even as I write the semi-amateur Baz Luhrman has got his claws into The Great Gatsby and is no doubt even now attempting to outdo the joke he entitled Moulin Rouge. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointed","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not one for old movies, and I found this on VHS in my house and never knew it was even here. So I popped it in and didn't actually think I would watch it. I had a million things to do, and thought it would just be playing in the background. Then I found myself drawn to it. Elizabeth Taylor was very pretty and the couple seemed so happy. I'm thinking, what a nice little movie to be over 50 years old. What a strange twist, almost like Vanilla Sky, that suddenly, all goes wrong, or at least it seemed sudden. I mean, life is well and good, and he gets a hair up his bum because he can't get published ? He's rich, he has a beautiful wife who loves him, he has a beautiful daughter, his Father-in-law likes him, his brother-in-law likes him, OK his Sister-in-law doesn't like him but that's only because she secretly loves him ... what more can a guy ask for? My goodness and isn't Roger Moore a goon in this movie. Eva Gabor? Well, I can only think of her as Mrs. Oliver Wendell Douglas for some reason. Anyway, He had it made and then he acts like a fool. I can't believe he locked the door. I can't believe Elizabeth Taylor's character DIES! I was in shock! What a cruddy way for this movie to go. OK so it was based on F. Scott Fitzgerald's life someone said ... who cares? This could have been a great film if it had been written about the reconciliation of the husband and wife and how they went back to America together and just visited Paris occasionally. I can't believe he turned down her request to go back to America when she was alive and then when she DIES, he decides to go back to America. What the hell was all that about. Had he simply agreed to go back to America in the first place and stopped being such a dork, she would have lived. What an incredible tragedy! The cover of the VHS looked so cheerful! I thought it was going to be something like It's A Wonderful Life!, after all, it did have Donna Reed in it. God, I really loved and hated this movie! "},{"Title":"fair to middling ... except for the changling.","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A film like this has probably been seen by many people so a plot summary would be pointless. I admit I've never read the Fitzgerald short story. Therefore I'll accept the point made by others who see a lose of substance here. Very few films do justice to their literary sources. Oddly enough, when I saw Paris for the first time I believed, for a while, a plot twist involving the child Vicy was in the works. Something along the line of developing tuberculosis or polio ( near the end the girl falls down while dancing in front the father ). Even the way she is made up suggested emaciation or sickness ... or a developing sociopathy ( if we are to believe her terrible acting was not simply the result of poor production values ). Otherwise the plot line is ... well ... passable by the standard of older films and quite good in comparison to today's junk ... which is not saying much. I give it a seven with some reservations. "},{"Title":"boy meets girl; girl dies; boy leaves","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What is the use of speaking of a romantic drama when there is hardly any romance and the drama is not detectable in the script but in the character of the ever worst casted actor in a romantic role i.e. Van Johnson. Enjoy the repeating entree of Elisabeth Taylor. She suffers from playing in a worn-out movie (Richard Brooks, eat your hat) and has to deal with an actor who is depressed all along with an up-tight hair-do. Hopefully this movie is the last of its kind. Scene after scene put in front of a camera without any expressions of feeling. You never will be dragged into it. Within a few years (after release) the french cinema (Truffaut, Malle etc) will lead the way to a new kind of filmmaking. And in that wake Brooks resurrected as director and writer with movies like Key Largo, Elmer Gantry etc. Luckely Scott Fitzgerald did not live long enough to see his film. "},{"Title":"Good, if overly lavish drama","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The last time I saw it (the movie, not Paris), in 1990 I wroteIt left a good feeling. Love the song with its heart-rending simplicity. Likable people in real life situations. The writer seems a very likable person. The film was about nothing in particular, and that's what I liked. Movies about life in general.  Van Johnson is a writer whose novels are never published. He marries, has a daughter and strikes it rich.  But happiness eludes him. He drinks and suffers from some kind of unfulfilled existential longing.  It could have been a better film. Taylor is miscast. Someone plainer.  The emotional climaxes didn't work. Tears didn't flow. Maybe it's better that way.  "}{"Title":"Movies like these are a dime a dozen!!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't have much to say except I hated it.  Ick.  It was a waste of time for me.  I didn't enjoy anything about it except the little girl in it.  She was the best part of the movie.Movies like these have taken over Hollywood.  They have for decades and decades, and they continue to.  I'm sure though that this movie was very entertaining and new to the viewers when it first came out, but i don't see how it can be considered so today.  Movies back then had to have a good story with it because they didn't have special effects or anything helpful like that.  That is why I like old movies.  They have the best thing a movie can have--an excellent story, but the reason for the popularity of this film has escaped me. "},{"Title":"Wall Painting","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes a movie tries too hard. It enters a space so minimally theatrical that what you see is nothing but what advances the melodramatic drive to tragedy.I don't mind this a bit. But here, it is too cloying. Van Johnson just doesn't have the chops for this. The women do, and there are undercurrents they lay that probably aren't in the script. The idea is attractive. The situation is too. The characters of the family work. Especially useful is the business about Liz's image being created by herself in the café, and then literally on the wall by an artist.But Van and overall heaviness ruin thisThis was one of those subsidized movies that the US used to convince the world that Paris was a romantic city. A Marshall Plan thing. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "}]