[{"Title":"White Water Rafting With Marilyn and Mitch","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Of all of Marilyn Monroe's leading men, Robert Mitchum was the only one who knew her back when. In 1941 before he made his screen debut in a Hopalong Cassidy film, Mitchum was among other things an aircraft factory worker and one of his friends was one James Daugherty. Of course Jim had a wife Norma Jean at the time and Bob and Dorothy occasionally socialized.He knew all about her psychological problems and when it came time to do a film with her when both became screen legends, Mitchum was not about to get himself involved. That probably helped because during the shooting Marilyn and director Otto Preminger stopped speaking and would only communicate through Mitchum. Marilyn's a saloon gal involved with a no good gambler/drifter in Rory Calhoun. Calhoun and Monroe nearly drown on a river when Mitchum rescues them and their raft. No good deed goes unpunished so Calhoun takes Mitchum's horse and Mitchum, Monroe, and Mitchum's son Tommy Rettig use the raft to go after him. They're kind of forced to because the Indians are on the warpath.She's certainly quite a distraction for a man on a mission and at one point Mitchum does give into lust ever so briefly. Which does make River of No Return one of the more realistic westerns ever done.Twentieth Century Fox decided to go whole hog on this one, shooting the film up in Banff. But with Marilyn and Otto feuding it was not a happy set. Otto walked off the picture and Jean Negulesco finished it out. Joe DiMaggio flew up to the set because of rumors of Mitchum and Marilyn, that were completely unfounded, but Joe was the jealous type. As for Mitchum legend has it that he and another legendary drinker, Murvyn Vye, killed many a bottle during the long evenings.Done in cinemascope and 3-D, River of No Return should be seen on the big screen. Not even a letterbox DVD does it justice. And 3-D was definitely the medium for Monroe. Marilyn even has some nice songs to sing in this one.It's not a great western, still it's entertaining enough especially in those rafting sequences. But it was a film Otto Preminger shuddered about when recalling. "},{"Title":"One of Monroe's most natural and appealing performances...","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  Cinemascope was at the height of popularity when Fox decided to cast Marilyn Monroe and Robert Mitchum in a story set against the scenic splendor of the Rockies. Marilyn even gets to sing a few fetching song numbers (her saloon song atop a bar is a standout and she delivers a totally professional job). Sleepy-eyed Mitchum makes a good partner for Monroe and little Tommy Rettig scores as the adoring little boy who watches wistfully as Monroe strums a song on her guitar.Into the story, slight as it is, is an Indian attack while Mitchum and Monroe battle the rapids. It's all very routine going, for the most part, but the chance to see Monroe strut her stuff in a tight pair of jeans and Mitchum give a sturdy, likeable performance is enough to make the movie a pleasant way to spend a couple of hours. Nothing great here, but a very satisfying performance by Marilyn who does a more than competent job on her less than inspired songs. And the scenery helps. Otto Preminger's direction is not as taut as it should have been for a tale of this sort--in fact, the whole film has a lumbering pace that seems to make some parts of the story seem more like filler material than anything else. And poor Rory Calhoun has little to do. "},{"Title":"Mitchim offers a portrayal of total integrity with all the conviction of a Joel McCrea or Randolph Scott...","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Otto Preminger's River of No Return is set in Northwest Canada, in savage Indian territory, in the gold rush days... The plot is weak but the scenery is spectacular and the action of the river dramatically powerful... Otto Preminger knew how to create tension and threat in the grandeur and menace of the Canadian Rockies&#133; The film opens in the 1875 with widower Matt Calder (Mitchum), coming to town, where his ten-year-old son Mark (Tommy Rettig) is waiting for him... He has served a term in prison for shooting a man in the back, even though he shot the man only to keep him from murdering a friend... Mark has now been sent to join his father, who has bought a farm for them...Mark has made the acquaintance of Kay (Marilyn Monroe), a saloon singer, while waiting for his father.... Calder thanks Kay for her kindness to his boy, and father and son depart for their farm...One day, Calder sees Kay and gambler Harry Weston (Rory Calhoun) in trouble on a raft in the river near his home... He helps them ashore and learns that Watson is in a hurry to get to town to register a gold claim... So eager is he that he steals his rescuer's only horse, and leaving his girl behind as well, rides away...The predicament of those left is deepened by the fact that Indians are on a rampage and are due to attack the farm at any moment... The only way left to get to town is by a wild river...Photographed in Technicolor and CinemaScope, the film is designed to exploit the splendors of the mountains, trees and rapid rivers plus the magnetic pleasant figure of Marilyn who is the only charming woman surrounded by two handsome men and a charming kid...Marilyn sings 4 numbers in the film One Silver Dollar, I'm Gonna File My Claim, Down in the Meadow, and The River of No Return. The little boy, Tommy Rettig, played another big-scale Western, Delmer Daves' The Last Wagon, with Richard Widmark, Felicia Farr, and Susan Kohner... "},{"Title":"Great movie, Classic Western, Classic, and best, Monroe","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I just love this movie, except for that one scene (everybody knows which one). It's a very good venue for Mitchum and perhaps the best Monroe ever had. Really great actors make you forget that they are either actors or stars. These two do that quite well in spite of a loosely written script and a bit too much sweetness in the person of the boy. I think I love this movie as much for the fact that someone finally let Monroe act as I do for the fun of watching it. She did a good job of bringing her character, rather than Marilyn, to the screen. I enjoyed the scenes between her and the boy. She was very believable as a nurturing, protective figure. She would have done well as an actress. This movie is just a small sample.. Lonestar "},{"Title":"Nice Undercurrents","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  An unexceptional story beautifully directed by Otto Premiger, whose handling of this routine material makes it work as well in its way as the best of Anthony Mann. A stolen rifle figures prominently in this western, as does an Indian attack, the budding romance between a puritanical homesteader with a past and a saloon singer in trouble, and of course the eponymous and oftentimes violent river they raft down. The northwest scenery is breathtaking. Preminger gives a nice drive to his narrative without stressing any one element for too long. For a while it's a farmer-son story, then a badman story, then there's a journey down the river, then a romance, then an Indian attack. Scenes play out dramatically rather than melodramatically despite the genre limitations of the script, and this shows Preminger's steady hand. He doesn't mind making his movie a bit of a travelogue or nature film if the mood strikes him, and therefore the picture has a nice diversity, and many lovely things to look at. Chief among its many scenic attractions is Marilyn Monroe in the female lead. I can't say that this is her best performance but it's one of her best non-musical or comedy roles that isn't too serious, which is to say it's not at all like How To Marry a Millionaire, Bus Stop, The Prince and the Showgirl or The Seven Year Itch in that there's no air of a heavyweight property with lots of money and talent behind it, which works in the movie's favor, as it is a pleasant surprise. This is perhaps Miss Monroe's only 'throwaway' role of her starring career, and she makes the best of it by playing her part naturally and with none of the ironic, self-referential self-deprecation one often finds in her major starring vehicles. Robert Mitchum is excellent in the male lead, as is Tommy Rettig as his son, who more than holds his own with these two adult heavyweights. The songs Monroe sings are all pretty good and well-delivered and add to the story in each case, which is unusual. One cares for these people, who behave credibly despite the mechanical plot devices, and the movie ends on a touching visually and musically orchestrated grace note, as if something of profound importance had just transpired.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes it's peaceful,sometimes wild","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Life is like this river,sometimes peaceful,sometimes wild.A river movie,before the road movie genre was invented,Otto Preminger's work remains extremely beautifulan unusually inventive cinemascope which enhances the scenery the raft tossed by the tides of misfortune,seems like a grain of sand in these deep valleys,these ancestral forests.A story as linear as the river,which focuses on one of Preminger's favorite subjectsredemption (see where the sidewalk ends,forever Amber).If someone does something wrong,Kay says ,it's because he's often compelled to do so.Mark,the young boy ,will understand ,and little did he know it would not be long !The songs (the title track and one silver dollar ) are sumptuous,and add magic to this odyssey of redemption.And when Kay throws her high-heeled shoes in the dust,what a nice way to pick up the pieces! "},{"Title":"Worth watching even if....","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" you don't like Westerns. Basically I don't know if they are now popular again, but this film is well worth it due to Monroe, Mitchum and the story.Normally, I do not like John Wayne and cowboy/Indian type films,they seem too dated for today's audience, but started watching this for Monroe. She is very good, a saloon singer who hooks up with Rory Calhoun, a gambler, who wants to stakes his claim on some land reputed to have gold; There are a few skirmishes, Monroe actually sings quite well, and the interaction between her and Mitchum is believable.All in all a nice film with some good whitewater scenes, good acting and you may even forget you are watching a western!. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Marilyn, Mitchum , the river, and a great western.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  Mitchum is released from  jail,  picks up his ten year old son  and  decides to live in a farm. He rescues a couple from a raft on the river (Marilyn Monroe and Rory Calhoun). Calhoun wants to register a gold claim, and from then on its Marilyn, Mitchum, the boy, the raft and the river, not counting the Indians. Marilyn is fabulous  and extremely sexy, although Otto Preminger had a lot of trouble with Marilyn´s coach Natasha Lytess who supposedly was trying to make Marilyn become full of mannerisms. Preminger prevailed and Monroe was her natural self in this movie. The beautiful scenery, made even more impressive by the use of cinemascope, Marilyn at her prime, Mitchum good as always, all these make River of No Return an outstanding western.  "},{"Title":"Monroe meets Mitchum--and Otto Preminger!","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Nine-year old boy is reunited with his estranged father in a northwest boom town in the midst of Gold Fever; they take off for a life of fishing and hunting but are soon railroaded by a crooked gambler and his gal, a saloon singer who gets a pang of conscience and stays with dad and the kid. Soon, all three are on the run from Injuns, on a raft down a treacherous river. Lackadaisical western puts action on the back-burner to focus on character interaction, which in this case isn't such a bad thing. Robert Mitchum never puts on a big show tough and steely, but paternal towards the kid and easy with the lady, he's gruffly polite--and unapologetic about his behavior. Marilyn Monroe is such a drama queen, she can't deliver a simple monologue without twitching something (her eyes, her lips, her nostrils); she is lovely (and, in a singing scene outdoors with the boy, very natural), but one warms to her because she's Marilyn (her legend exceeds the worn material and her over-emphatic delivery). Otto Preminger directed, but this doesn't feel like a Preminger movie. There are no tart or prodding scenes, and the dangerous rapids excursions--and Indian rampages--are not staged for maximum impact. The Indians, armed with arrows, simply seem like bad shots, and the close-up sequences on the raft were obviously achieved in the studio. Still, the occasional on-location photography is breath-taking, and the three principles grow steadily on the audience as well as towards each other. Beautiful theme song is sung in versions by both Mitchum and Monroe. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Beautiful scenery. Oh, and the mountains looked good, too.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  Beautiful scenery. Oh, and the mountains looked good, too. A really good part for Marilyn Monroe. It gave her a chance to be more than just a sexpot, and she pulled it off. A young Robert Mitchum was very good, with his usual quiet masculinity. He seemed a little unused to the horse, however, in an early scene. I thought the film would have been better if it had ended about 30 seconds earlier than it did. Another note back in those days Hollywood could portray Indians as implacably hostile, without the political correctness required now. Refreshing. Overall a pretty decent flick.  "}{"Title":"Love is  a  trav'ler on the river of no return","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" River Of No Return spotlights one of Marilyn Monroe's best early performances, once more showing the world that she was more than just another sex kitten, that there was real talent behind her beautiful figure. Most contemporary critics failed to recognize Marilyn's extraordinary gifts other than the obvious ones. Too bad she was short changed in the song department. Had Marilyn been allowed to strut her stuff with a composition comparable to Marlene Dietrich's ribald See What The Boys In The Backroom Will Have from Destry Rides Again, she would have brought down the house. Instead Marilyn is stuck with three ditties that don't deserve their big movie status, I'm Gonna File My Claim, One Silver Dollar, and Down In The Meadow. The exception is the bewitching title ballad hauntingly sung by Tennessee Ernie Ford over the opening credits and later with verve and longing by Marilyn.Not only does Marilyn exhibit a marvelous acting style, but she is paired with one of the most underrated actors in Hollywood history, Robert Mitchum. Why critics have often failed to notice his abilities as a performer is amazing, with so many inventive portrayals to his credit. Rory Calhoun has his moments as a low-life scoundrel loved by Marilyn. And little Tommy Rettig is ideally cast as Mitchum's abandoned son. His role in River Of Not Return is perhaps the reason he was later chosen to play a similar part in TV's Lassie. Joseph LaShelle's cinematography is breathtaking, except for the obvious rear projection used in the treacherous raft scenes depicting Mitchum, Monroe, and Rettig fighting the rapids on the River Of No Return. The beauty of Alberta, Canada's Jasper National Park is spellbinding and definitely an asset. The footage shot along the Toutle river in Washington State supplements the Canadian grandeur.A major weakness of the movie is the lackluster script and threadbare story. Since the plot is a simple one, director Otto Preminger must emphasize the interplay of the leading characters with as much analysis as possible. Here the writer Frank Fenton, who based his screenplay on a story by Louis Lantz, is unable to rise to the task. Though many of the lines between Mitchum and Monroe and good ones, there are not enough of them to sustain an entire film.Matt Calder (Mitchum) seeks his son entrusted to a friend when Calder went to jail for killing a man (possibly in self-defense). His son, Mark (Mark follows Matthew in the Bible), is left to wonder around a boom town until taken in by the local dance hall queen, Kay Weston (Monroe). Once Matt finds Mark, the two journey to Matt's farm on the banks of the River Of No Return. Floating down the river come Kay and her husband, Harry Weston. Both are in danger of drowning. Matt saves them only to have Harry steal his horse and take off. Kay has a distorted image of Harry in her mind, bent out of shape by the pliers of love. Matt perceives Kay as nothing more than trash, but his son knows a different side of her, a kind and loving woman. The three take off down the River Of No Return She to get back her man; he to kill her man; and the boy to try to work it all out in a peaceable manner, with an ironic twist to the story at the end.The River Of No Return, as the name implies, is symbolic, but of what? The metaphor is not easy to reconcile with the story, except in places. See what you can do with it. "},{"Title":"The 3 Big M's - Mitchum, Monroe & The Mountains","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" If you seriously think that teaming up 2 of Hollywood's biggest, most bankable and hottest stars of the 1950s together in the same picture would totally ignite sparks of pure ecstasy flying this way, and that, then think again.Unfortunately for us all - In River Of No Return, any on-screen chemistry that was generated between Mitchum & Monroe amounted to being nothing more than a complete fizzle, and that was about all.I'd say that a lot of this picture's glaring faults rested squarely on the shoulders of its demanding director, Otto Preminger, who obviously understood nothing about the advantage and benefit of filming its dynamically attractive stars in close-ups. In my opinion, close-ups are a vitally important part of producing a real quality picture.Another serious problem that plagued this film's story was that way-way too many of its scenes set in the beautiful outdoors were actually shot in front of back-projection screens. This, to me, was a sure-fire way of thoroughly sabotaging an adventure film that featured such grand and majestic scenery as this one did.Set in the year 1875 - River Of No Return was something of a Father & Son tale where Mitchum feigns toughness, Monroe lip-syncs her songs, and Tommy Rettig (as Mitchum's on-screen boy) actually steals the show in this film's climatic finale.*Note Of Interest* - All of the exterior scenes for River Of No Return were shot in the Canadian Rockies, which included Banff National Park, as well.Anyways - Considering all of the high-potential that clearly prevailed in River Of No Return, if you ask me, this picture certainly could have (and should have) been a helluva lot better than it was. "},{"Title":"Monroe's First Western","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" For some reason this film gets mediocre reviews whenever it is mentioned in some newspaper television sections like The New York Times. I really can't understand why. For while it is not an iconic western, like SHANE or RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY, it has some appealing elements.Marilyn Monroe gets to sing several tunes, including the theme song, accompanying her singing on a guitar. She had a serviceable voice for singing, but her song sung to Tommy Retig is unique - she rarely showed so much of a possible maternal side to her character. Monroe's Kay Weston is a dance hall girl who is married (although it turns out it's a common-law marriage at best) to Rory Calhoun (Harry Weston), a small time gambler. They are in a mining town, where Robert Mitchum (Matt Calder) has arrived to pick up his only son Tommy Retig (Mark Calder). Even here Monroe has shown a maternal interest in the boy, keeping an eye on him when his father has not shown up (the man who was bringing the boy took off to start prospecting once they reached the town). Mitchum takes his son back to his homestead and starts trying to rebuild the relationship between them. Retig is very willing to get used to this. In the meantime, Calhoun has somehow managed to get the jackpot he always dreamed of - he has won a gold mine claim in a card game with a prospector (Murvyn Vye as Dave Colby). For reasons we are left to guess at, he is determined to get his claim filed as soon as possible in the nearest large town, but he can't buy a horse. However he buys (with Monroe's money) a raft, and they proceed to go down the so-called River of No Return.They are almost drowned, but Mitchum rescues them with a lasso. However, although a reasonable type, he refuses to sell his horse (needed for transportation or planting on the farm) to Calhoun to use to get to the town. Calhoun takes the animal by force, nearly killing Mitchum in the process, and tells Monroe he'll be back to pick her up when the claim is filed. In the course of this incident, Calhoun mentions that he recognizes Mitchum as a man who was sent to prison for murdering another man by shooting him in the back. Retig's growing close relationship with Mitchum is strained by this knowledge, although Mitchum explains he shot the man that way because the man was about to kill a friend of Mitchum's.The local Indians are not fond of Mitchum's homesteading and seeing he's been disarmed they attack the farm. Mitchum, Retig, and Monroe are forced to go by the raft towards the town that Calhoun is headed for, but by the river (which Mitchum is aware has many dangerous rapids in it). They film proceeds to show how the trip gradually affects the three working together. Will it make Mitchum get over his mistrust of Monroe, who was Calhoun's girlfriend? Will it make Monroe show more of her interest in the welfare of Retig, and reconsider the value of her lover? Will Retig slowly realize how much his father is better than the prison record suggests?The film works - given the director (Otto Preminger) usually dealt with urban problems (rape/murder trials in ANATOMY OF A MURDER; crime among the social elite in LAURA; high political wheeling and dealing in ADVISE AND CONSENT; drug addiction in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM) it is nice to see how well he handles a simple western story, and how he does make full use of the locale's attractions and dangers. There is only one example of his tendency of pushing the sexual envelope here at one point Monroe has fallen into some mud, and when helped up by Mitchum the mud is visible on her pant's posterior, suggestive (briefly) of mud wrestling - but it is done very quickly.The four leads do very well, including Calhoun as a selfish man with a charming facade. Whether he really intended to go off with Monroe at the end is really never settled (she finds him finally), nor whether he beat Vye out of the claim in an honest poker game (Vye certainly does not think it was honest). Calhoun's television career was more successful than his movie career, but here he does maintain our interest to the end. This was probably his best performance in a movie.No, it is not a western like HIGH NOON for the ages, but it is a respectable piece of work. "},{"Title":"3 out of 5 action rating","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" See it &#x96; This is an absolutely magnificent western that for some reason has been largely overlooked. Perhaps one reason is that it co-stars Marilyn Monroe, and western buffs assume that it will be a love story rather than an action movie. In reality, it is a great, old-fashioned western starring Robert Mitchum, complete with a captivating story and gripping action scenes. But it is also very heart-warming, in the same class as another beloved western, Shane. The story is about a farmer and his young boy, who after being robbed of their horses and guns, must abandon their farm when they are attacked by Indians. The only way to escape is on a raft down the river of no return. The story is brilliant, and jam packed with Indian fights and dangerous river adventures. This is a can't-miss western that I highly recommend. The ending will make you cheer. "},{"Title":"Why such a low rating?","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I'm surprised in some ways that this is only a 6.4, I really enjoyed this Monroe classic. It was once again a change from her typical ditzy blonde role that she normally plays. She takes on a serious role that involves the west with rugged men and a tough type cast as a woman just trying to survive with her boyfriend.When her boyfriend tells her that he found some gold and needs to make a claim they venture out, but when the raft they travel on goes crazy, they are saved by a man who is bonding with his estranged son. Her boyfriend, Weston, gets crazy and hits the father and steals his horse with promises to come back for Kay, played by Marilyn. But the father has different plans and wants revenge, taking her and his son to find Weston and kill him. But Kay keeps reassuring him that Weston has had a difficult life. He ends up falling for Kay, but she won't have him until he will be at peace with her boyfriend.This is a terrificly acted movie and had great action and a great plot. The only complaint I had about this and I can see why the rating is not as high is that they kind of buture the reputation of Indians. But just relax and enjoy the movie, it's a lot of fun.8/10 "},{"Title":"Purse those lips Marilyn!","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" This is one of my favorite titles in the Monroe catalog of films. I watch it every time its on TV, no matter where I come in on it. There certainly is something fascinating about it. Sure the script at times is somewhat laughable, but there are other diversions... Monroe in particular. The woman was in her prime. Her figure in 1954 was out of this world, but her acting in this film some of the time was not. Monroe herself stated this film was Grade Z cowboy stuff The film is about 2 different attitudes about life - one hard and unflinching (Mitchum) the other impulsive and lost (Monroe) there is also a young boy caught in the middle that they both love. Toss in murder, double crossings, and angry Indians. What proceeds is actually a thoughtful film with the river being symbolic of both lead characters.Truth be told Monroe is extremely watchable in River of No Return With sultry half closed eyes, She holds her head high,looks down her nose, purses her lips and over enunciates every syllable her character utters. It is a sight to behold. Hence the phrase by Fox CEO Daryl Zanuk,(who called her old straw head)Marilyn Monroe has Flesh Impact. Flesh Impact indeed. Her German drama coach Natasha Lytess taught Monroe this odd style of over acting. Marilyn would eventually fire her in 1955. After that she would loose or tone down the stilted overly dramatic poses.Robert Mitchum does a fine, rugged job as her love interest/co-star. The blanket rubdown he gives her in a cave... is particularly memorable. Her scenes with child actor Tommy Retig tender and caring. The music is good, especially the last number which is the title of this film. Monroe delivers it in a heartfelt regretful way.Director Otto Preminger does a fine job keeping things moving along and inserting dangerous plot lines at just the right time. Some of the stunts in the film are obviously fake such as the log raft going over a waterfall with everyone on board. One can see that a stiff mannequin with dangling arms was used as Marilyn for this scene. Other than that the film is exciting,highly recommended and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Journeys End In Lovers Meeting.","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Rather a fun adventure movie, with Mitchum, Monroe, and Mitchum's young son forced to travel down a scenic mountain river to Council City, where Mitchum is after revenge against the man who left him to die. The odyssey is packed with action and danger, what with the rapids and the generic Indians attacking at every turn, not to mention the evil mountain men they meet, the hungry mountain lion, and the treacherous gambler who is Mitchum's target. If it's less tense and artful than, say, The African Queen or Deliverance, it's more lively than Huckleberry Finn. Marilyn Monroe is conspicuous because she's pretty sexy and gives a good performance. I couldn't count the number of times her blouse came off due to dunking in icy water or ripping by men who were less than gentlemen. Monroe is a saloon singer, a tough broad but don't worry. She has a heart of gold. She pronounces the t in every word that contains one -- like wait and wanted -- as if reading aloud a spelling test for school children. I could never make up my mind about her acting ability. Sometimes her speech sounds artificial, sometimes deliberately stylized, rarely natural. It's a conundrum.Mitchum is hefty and is awash in intuition about the Indians. When they paint their faces, they're after you. Don't worry, they won't attack after the sun goes down. They're just making sure we're gone. Usually, when the Western hero comes up with insights like this, it's because he's been raised by the Indians. For Mitchum, it's just a gift. There's no particular reason the Indians are always ready to kill him. It's a less perspicuous impulse. Maybe they had some crazy idea that since they were here first, Mitchum had no business carving a farm out of their hunting grounds.The film has its silly moments. Soaked by the rapids, Monroe must peel off her wet clothes -- women are always peeling off their wet clothes in these movies and I kind of like it -- then wrap her nude body in a woolen blanket and have Mitchum give her a vigorous rubdown, skipping only the area between her patella and her sternoclavicular notch. Mitchum, believing her to be nothing more than a saloon singer, treats her pale, tender limbs like pieces of pemmican.Mostly, you'll probably notice the scenery. Aside from some too-obvious studio stages, the movie was shot in Banff and Jasper National Parks in the heart of the Canadian Rocky Mountains. In life, the place is an assault on the senses. The mountains themselves rise abruptly out of the high plains of Alberta like row after row of gigantic shattered teeth. There is no place quite like it. The streams are full of perch and northern pike but be sure you get the license. "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe As Pioneer Woman","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" With long blonde hair, and wearing tight blue jeans and bright red lipstick, seductive Marilyn Monroe is totally out of place as a pioneer woman, in this Western genre character study set in the majestic American Northwest. Circumstances throw Kay Weston (Monroe), a somewhat slinky saloon gal, in with a non-idealistic, wilderness-savvy brute named Matt Calder (Robert Mitchum).The two, together with Matt's young son, Mark (Tommy Rettig) board a wooden barge and travel down a wild river that boils, churns, roars, and white-caps. It's a plot that vaguely resembles Deliverance (1972), but without the suspense. Throughout River Of No Return, never-smiling Indians, faces all smudged with war paint, get a bum rap as the film's main villains. But then, this is typical of 1950s Hollywood stereotype.The film's story is simple and straightforward, with contrived plot points. The story's message reflects the film's title move on without regrets; don't look back; go with the flow. The wilderness scenery is beautiful. And the title song is just as majestic, in a melancholy sort of way.Shot in Cinema Scope, the film has an annoying widescreen projection, leaving too much black above and below the images, rather like letterbox format. In addition, the film relied too much on rear-screen projection, typical for that era, but terribly hokey looking. The film's background music was at times manipulative and overbearing.The casting of Mitchum and Rettig was fine, although Mitchum gives his usual stiff performance. But Monroe was totally not convincing. And her red lipstick is a hoot in a story about survival.She strums a guitar and sings several songs in the first half; none of them memorable. But her colorful saloon costumes, combined with her brooding, pouty facial expressions, certainly are evocative.River Of No Return probably was better received in its day than it is now. Back in the early 50s, I doubt that audiences were as discerning about cinematographic techniques, thin story lines, or out-of-place lipstick. Even now, it's not a bad film, if one isn't expecting too much. And that scenery and haunting theme song are terrific. "},{"Title":"Mitchum and Monroe shine in this enjoyable movie shot on Canadian location","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Ex-farmer Robert Mitchum recently released from jail, rescues Rory Calhoun and Marilyn Monroe from dangerous raft. But Calhoun gives back the favor and steals his horse. Mitchum, his little boy son and Monroe are abandoned and pursued by the hostile Indians. Forcing them have to face a raging river, in order to survive suffering a lot of risks and dangers.This marvelous Western packs agreeable performances, love story, familiar drama and gorgeous outdoors shot in Canadian landscapes. Spectacular scenes proceeded during desperate rapids rafting, however with transparency when the protagonists appear foreground and close-up.Furthermore, contains some violent scenes such as an attempt of rape by Mitchum over Monroe, very strong for that time. Casting is frankly outstanding. Robert Mitchum, habitual Western actor(Bandido,5 card stud,The wrath of God), is excellent with his usual facade of indifference and lazily acting ,though provides depth as an ex-convict with bitter past. Awesome Marilyn Monroe, at her golden peak, as a Saloon girl playing splendidly beautiful songs and musical numbers, reflecting her sexual iconography .Classic melody with sensible musical leitmotif by Cryl J Mockridge. Colorful, evocative cinematography by Joseph LaShelle, though best advantage in Cinemascope. The motion picture is well directed by Otto Preminger , the only time directed Western, but he's a noir cinema expert(Fallen Angel, Laura, Angel face,Whilpool). The film will like to Mitchum and Monroe fans. Rating  Better than average. "},{"Title":"Just how many kinds of fool are you?","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Stunning Canadian Rockies scenery add a dramatic backdrop to River of No Return, a fairly predictable tale involving a recently released convict (Robert Mitchum), and an out of place Marilyn Monroe who's physical presence and colorful saloon outfits are the stuff of repeated double takes. Oddly, Monroe winds up being well cast here, even to the point of singing a few tunes that hold up surprisingly well.Mitchum's character is Matt Calder, newly reunited with a nine year old son last seen before serving a prison sentence for shooting a man in the back. As the story unfolds, we learn extenuating circumstances were behind the killing, causing a certain amount of angst to come between the boy and his father as a result of the disclosure. 'Mark follows Matthew' in the Bible, thus serving as the basis for young Mark Calder's name, portrayed by Tommy Rettig.If you were a baby boomer kid growing up in the 1950's like me, Tommy Rettig might have been one of your first small screen heroes, or at least his pal Lassie was. My weekly fix of Lassie came on Sunday evenings on CBS, a tough call going up against The Wonderful World of Disney on the NBC network. When Timmy outgrew Lassie, it seemed like the magic was gone.Rory Calhoun is the film's obligatory bad guy and fiancée to Monroe's character. He's a bit tough to recognize if you're used to his role as The Texan in the 1958 Western series; perhaps it was the mustache.I'd be curious to learn more about the scene involving Matt Calder's forced advance on Monroe's Kay during the trip along the river. Though discreetly interrupted by the interference of a mountain lion, it seems the lead character of the story came pretty close to attempted rape. I wonder how audiences of the time reacted to that particular scene.Always on the lookout for historical perspective in films, I got a kick out of two saloon signs - 'Whiskey, 25 cents per swallow', followed by 'Good Whiskey, 4 Bits'. Oh, for the good old days! It occurred to me that the movie's title might have been more than just a passing reference to the hazards met and overcome along the way by the intrepid adventurers, and something other than the subject of one of Marilyn Monroe's saloon songs. It struck me as somewhat allegorical that the act of saving his father's life in the same manner that sent Matt Caulder to jail, would now serve as the flash point in his life that young Mark could never retreat from, a certain departure from innocence to which he could never return. "}{"Title":"Exceptionally adequate","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" This is a decent time-passer and not a lot more. In some ways, it's a pretty good film but in so many others it is only adequate at best. First let's discuss the good. Pairing Robert Mitchum with Marilyn Monroe actually worked pretty well. Mitchum's laid-back style and Monroe as a sexy but more human sort of character than she normally played made the casting decision pretty good. Monroe was quite beautiful but her makeup was definitely more under-stated. She also sang pretty well, though she did seem to sing an awful lot. Also the main story idea was very good and culminated in a wonderful showdown--with a terrific ending. The problem, though, is that the film sunk to the level of mediocrity due to it being pretty sloppy--with some ridiculous dialog sounding, at times--more like it belonged in a Film Noir flick, grainy rear-projection during the rafting scenes, a silly knife fight where both Mitchum's son and Monroe just stand there doing NOTHING as he's almost killed and many, many contrived situations to see Ms. Monroe take off her clothes. Most men in the audience didn't mind this, but after a while it made me laugh because it looked as if the writers deliberately inserted many such scenes! First, she is a barroom singer and she must naturally sing in her underwear, then when she's on the raft she gets so cold and wet that Mitchum tells her to take off her clothes when they take a break (though he and his young son were fine and kept theirs on) and when they were attacked by Indians, one grabbed Monroe's blouse and naturally it just tore away!!! I actually thought this was pretty funny.Finally I'd like to point out that the print on videotape is really, really bad. At times, it's very, very yellowed. Oddly, it often went from very yellow to normal or even (briefly) black and white! The film really needed restoration and I hope the DVD version has been cleaned up quite a bit. "},{"Title":"Attractive women playing instruments","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" In theory, I should have loved River of No Return. Otto Preminger is one of my favorite directors; I love Mitchum, and Monroe is often good; there's cowboys, violence, excitement and attractive women playing instruments. It was like biting into a shiny apple, only to find the worm equivalent of Times Square.The premise is promising an ex-convict (Robert Mitchum) rounds up his son--who he gave away before he went away--and heads off to a small piece of land to start anew as a farmer. The area is a hotspot for gold, but Mitchum doesn't care; he just wants to live quietly. But one thing leads to another, and Mitchum, his son and a dance hall singer (Marilyn Monroe) end up on a raft, going down rapids to get revenge on a man who stole Mitchum's gun and horse.First thing's first, the film is gorgeous--shot in Cinemascope. The opening shot of the movie is a big look I've got, as the camera pans around Mitchum, showing acres and acres of grassy, mountainous land. Likewise, Cinemascope is a naturally companion when shooting a river--where a large chunk of the film takes place. But the cinematography is so good, it makes the jumps to green screen incredibly jarring. Not to mention, the rafting sequences--the film's big set-pieces--aren't exciting in the least, as time after time, it's just a raft moving forward and two people pushing levers back and forth.There's a lot of little things I love about this movie. The relationship between the three main characters--Mitchum, his son, Monroe--is deep and full of potential. This only exemplifies the weakness of the screenplay, as these characters are given nothing to do or say after being set-up in an auspicious manner. That said, there are several story beats that rang true with me, but not enough to add up to anything special. There's even one single moment--very brief--where the film made me remember why I love movies. That's worth something.Despite the natural pleasure of watching a western starring Robert Mitchum and Marilyn Monroe, directed by the great Otto Preminger, the film is less than the sum of its parts. It almost made me sad, as there's a great movie in there somewhere. "},{"Title":"One of Marilyn's bests!","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Would you believe, there are really some movie fans who don't like River of No Return? I'll admit the additional footage written by Darryl F. Zanuck and polished by Frank Fenton and then directed by Jean Negulesco, is a bit of a pain. It's both clichéd and unnecessary&#x97;especially all that tedious stuff in the cave where Zanuch and Fentron contrive to have Marilyn remove her wet clothing and wrap herself in a Mother Hubbard blanket. The movie would be much pacier and deliver a much greater impact without this interruption. On the other hand, all the Otto Preminger material is marvelous, right from the very start through to the stunning conclusion. Although Preminger himself regarded the assignment as one of his lesser directorial efforts, the thorough professionalism of his work, with its imaginative staging in fluid takes, its powerful visuals enhanced by splendid work from the players, plus the emotionally charged editing cut to the beat of Lionel Newman's haunting music score, has ensured the movie continues to rate highly with viewers over sixty years later. Marilyn Monroe contributes a wholly convincing, memorable and sympathetic performance. She is cleverly matched every inch of the way by Bob Mitchum who just seems so effortlessly in character, we are not surprised to read that Marilyn found it difficult to keep up with him. Mitch has the uncanny ability to dominate a scene even if he stands in the background, but Preminger and company have astutely compensated for this by handing Marilyn four songs. Two additional factors that keep our eyes riveted to the screen, are the boy, winningly played by Tommy Rettig, who brings the two principals together, and the other man, played with an appropriately nasty bravado by Rory Calhoun (in a rare, unsympathetic role) who does his utmost to keep them apart. "},{"Title":"Holy Bat Jinks, Monroe Doesn't Become Freeze Victim","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" During the decade of the 1950's, Otto Preminger did most of his best films. Because of that, this one is considered an average one for him. This is too bad but when you look at some of his other films, it is easier too understand while it is considered so.This film features a good performance by Robert Mitchum who was doing lots of good work in the 1950's. Marilyn Monroe not only looks great but when her clothes get wet, she looks even better. While her acting in this one is OK, the best thing is that during this film she showed up for work which became a problem later in her career.The scenery is the story here. Preminger does magic with the camera lens making the scenery very pleasing to the eye. The story is OK and the element of danger is quite convincing. When I first saw this it was an NBC Saturday Night At The Movies when the network was running that series. As a young child, the film impressed me then.Monroe does a real good job singing in the movie with 4 songs and plays off the all male cast with gusto. "},{"Title":"Marilyn's character name","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie in many years and jumped at the chance to watch it recently on the Fox Movie Channel. In perusing the IMDb listing I noticed that the credited cast listing names Marilyn Monroe's character as Kay Weston. Right after they meet up with Robert Mitchum, Rory Calhoun, as Harry Weston,says he and Kay are honeymooners. However,a little later in the movie Robert Mitchum asks Marilyn where her wedding ring is. She tells him that they (Kay and Harry) were not married but they are going to get married when they got to town. I'm not sure how Marilyn's character was listed in the screen credits, so I'm not sure if this is a blooper in the original movie or if it is simply an error in the IMDb credited cast listing information. In any event, I thought it was an entertaining movie, with beautiful scenery in both Marilyn and the Canadian wilderness. "},{"Title":"Spotty Adventure Film","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Great Canadian scenery, but episodic storyline, at best. To escape marauding Indians, farmer Mitchum, son Rettig, and barroom showgirl Monroe escape down a roaring river on a raft, encountering a number of perils along the way. With this kind of adventurous premise, the movie should overflow with suspense, but it doesn't.What the result shows is that legendary director Preminger was much more at home with drawingroom intrigue, e.g. Laura (1944), than with outdoor adventure. Here he films a spotty screenplay in unengaged fashion, adding nothing to the action. In short, events in the movie unfold without pulling us in. Then too, many of the river process shots are clumsily blended with the live shots, a constant reminder that this really is a movie.Mitchum's excellent in a tailor made role. He looks fully at home as a macho man in the Canadian wilderness. For Monroe, however, this is her only starring role in an adventure film and it's understandable. She looks decidedly uncomfortable, except when doing her showgirl act, which is when the engaging side of her personality really comes out. Nonetheless, the movie exploits her tangible assets with frequent dips in and out of the water, in provocative fashion. All in all, however, I see why this film is infrequently mentioned in her list of cinematic highlights.Anyway, unless you have a yen for grand Canadian vistas or Marilyn's buxom appeal, my advice is to skip it. "},{"Title":"On A Raft With Marilyn.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Otto Preminger directed this western that stars Robert Mitchum as Northwest wilderness rancher Matt Calder, who helps a man named Harry Weston(played by Rory Calhoun) who was in trouble, but after refusing to loan or sell his horse and rifle, beats Matt and simply steals them, fleeing to a nearby town to file a mining claim he won in a poker game. Enraged, and frightened by the prospect of being defenseless against encroaching Indians, he takes his son Mark(played by Tommy Rettig) and Harry's beautiful fiancée(played by Marilyn Monroe, whom Harry left behind!) down river on a raft to get even with Weston, and retrieve what belongs to him. Good cast and lush production make it watchable, even if the story is unremarkable and its outcome entirely predictable. "},{"Title":"River and Canadian national parks steal the scenes","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" The plot and acting in River of No Return are just so-so. This may be one of the few movies in which Marilyn Monroe shows some talent for acting. But, just some. The relatively high mark I give this film is mostly for two settings and one craft. The craft is the cinematography. The filming of the raft riding the rapids on the river is outstanding. And the panoramic scenes of the country are excellent. The Cinemascope cameras caught the magnificent beauty of Banff and Jasper national parks in Alberta, Canada. It's too bad some of the studio scenes weren't shot on location in the wild as well. I saw a distinct change when, after riding the waves and coming out of the river, the threesome &#x96; Matt, Kay and Mark &#x96; plunk down in a studio setting around a campfire. It struck this viewer as phony, or unreal. Maybe we didn't notice that so much way back when, but it sure is more evident to me today. In later years, the studios weaned more and more away from the studio lots for shooting most outdoor scenes on locations with the real elements. It's difficult for modern producers to find large natural settings for films today &#x96; those that don't show the signs of modernity (utility poles and lines, highways, buildings, clear cuts, etc.). So, we can appreciate and cherish films such as this that give us pictures of what the wilds looked like in the ideal past. "},{"Title":"Not so much a review as a question","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" So who sings the song behind the titles? No one is credited on screen. The producer paid Tennessee Ernie Ford to record the song, and he did include it on some of his albums. But to me, the singer seems to be Robert Mitchum himself. I'm very familiar with Ernie Ford--a big favorite of mine, in fact--and the voice simply does not sound like Ford's. But it does sound like Mitchum, who took stabs at singing several times in his life, recorded at least two full albums (one all calypso!) Did he make a side deal with Ernie Ford and the orchestra, and record the song for this movie? The producer still claims it was Ford, but it sure doesn't SOUND like him. "},{"Title":"Moderately entertaining action-adventure","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Directed by Otto Preminger Screenplay by Frank Fenton Based on a story by Louis Lantz75 out of 100Filmed on location in scenic Canada, Preminger's River of No Return, follows some of the conservative story telling conventions of it's time, while managing to be a occasionally bold, with strong characters in difficult situations. It's a cowboy kind of story, a mix of several genres action, adventure, drama and musical.Marilyn Monroe portrays a tough minded character, a less common, non-glamor role, of her acting career. She's a saloon singer, accompanying her boyfriend on a journey to legally secure a new gold claim and change their lives. On their wilderness journey, they meet up by chance, with a farmer (Robert Mitchum) and his son. Soon, all their lives and problems become intertwined. Mitchum's character proves to be a good match to Monroe's character both tough minded, survivalists.The film features, a number of songs well performed, as usual, by Marilyn Monroe (sentimental and sad). Marilyn is famous for singing in many of her films, notably less famous for being in an action role. Overall, nothing special or memorable here, just a reasonably satisfying movie. "}{"Title":"What are you chasing Calder?","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" After a stint in jail, Matt Calder is reunited with his son Mark and sets both of them up at a riverside lodge. One day he helps aid a couple who are struggling with their raft down the river. It turns out to be a dubious gambler named Harry Weston and his saloon singer girlfriend, Kay, whom both Matt and Mark have already been acquainted with. Turns out that Harry is in a rush to register his mining claim that he has just won, and sensing his journey will be considerably quicker and safer on horseback, steals, after a fight, Matt's rifle and horse. Agreeing to let Kay stay behind with the Calder's, Weston sets off. Once roused and ready to travel, Matt, aware that an Indian attack on their remote home is imminent, sets off in pursuit of Weston with the other two in tow, down the treacherous river.River Of No Return, starring Robert Mitchum, Marilyn Monroe and directed by Otto Preminger. River Of No Return, the film neither of them gave a second thought too once the picture had wrapped. It was a much troubled production that saw Preminger and Monroe reach positive levels of hatred for each other, with Mitchum acting as go between for much of the time. Preminger was tackling his first film in the Western genre and clearly wanted to make it a mark of realism. A hard task master at the best of times, Preminger further distanced himself from his stars by demanding they do their own stunts, something that even the normally professional Mitchum found over the top. There's much more back story to the film, all of it creating a bad atmosphere on the shoot Preminger even walking off the film before completion, leaving Jean Negulesco to wrap it up, be it jealous husbands, nuisance coaches or peril from injury. All tid-bids available from various biographies or click-able internet resources. So the film, hated by the critics and makers alike, has to be a stinker then, surely?Well some what surprisingly, no it isn't half bad. For sure the plot is simple in the extreme, and it's far from being a truly memorable Western offering. But it's IMDb rating of 6.5 is probably just about right. There is still much to like here. It's a gorgeous looking film for a start, yep there is some shonky studio work blending in with the location shoot, but Preminger and his cinematographer Joseph LaShelle really bring the wilderness rush on to the screen. Shot at both Banff and Jasper National Parks in Alberta, Canada, it's at once as beautiful as it is imposing, with Mitchum's ruggedness and Monroe's sensuality expertly framed within the landscapes. Some of the scenes alongside the Athabasca and Bow rivers are worth the viewing time alone, with the impact enriched by great work from the sound department (Bernard Freericks & Roger Heman). This a film that shows the need for the right location choices to utilise the Technicolor and CinemaScope enhancements available at the time.The cast work well considering what little quality is in the script, tho Rory Calhoun as Harry Weston is underused because it's obvious that 20th Century Fox were trying to get maximum mileage from it's two leading stars. Mitchum, if truth be told, cake walks thru the movie. Not asked to do a great deal, it none the less works because Matt Calder is more about a beefcake presence than any thespian leanings. Something that Mitchum, in his laid back laconic way, was perfect for. It's a shame that Monroe, post release of the film, was so vehemently against it (calling it a Z grade Western at one point) because it's a sweet and affecting turn from her. In what could have been a stereotypical and typecast role as Kay, Monroe puts a bit of humanist thought into her, even coping well in the surrogate mother/ big sister strand involving Tommy Rettig's (The Raid & The Last Wagon) young Mark. Monroe also gets to do four songs in the piece, I'm Gonna File My Claim, One Silver Dollar, Down in the Meadow and the delightful finale of The River of No Return (Marilyn radiant here).Not remotely close to being the best work by all involved, but as much as they all seemingly hated it, it has too much going for it to ever be considered bad. Yeah, 6.5/10 sounds about right to me. "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe's first western movie","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" In 1995, I saw River of no return on KBS. Surely, it was dubbed into Korean. When I saw this movie on a 14 inch Samsung color TV(produced in 1988), I was overwhelmed by Marilyn Monroe's physical attractions and North America's spacious and prodigious scenery. Well, I have never found those kind of sceneries in my country.(Later, I found out that the filming location wasn't America. It's Canada)In this movie, we can see two of the greatest characters. Marilyn Monroe and Robert Mitchum. Both of them are enormously talented. Anyway the one funny thing from this movie was a prejudice which I have had was American girls are as beautiful as Marilyn Monroe.(1995. I was 10. it was real. Those fantasies were broken in 2001)River of no return's plot, however, was very monotonous that I was terribly disappointed when I focused on the plot in itself although I like Marilyn Monroe and western movie so much. But Monroe and Mitchum made this simple western movie plot as a romantic western movie. It's totally different from John Wayne's western style. For foreign movie viewers, like me from Asia, it's a good chance to see a voluptuous American girl, spacious U.S field(not like Arizona, it's just desert where John Wayne appeared.)and different western style in itself. River of no return was released in 1954 when Marilyn Monroe was young and attractive. So I found that Marilyn's physical attraction made people to move to the theatre to see this movie. But that's valuable in itself. Why? people love Marilyn Monroe now and then. Sometimes we want to see her in her twenties or thirties. It just showed her twenties.Whether she abused her attraction or not, Marilyn had to change her role for survival. So that's why she went to Lee Strasberg's acting school, Michael Chekhov's for learning her ability and career. "},{"Title":"An emblem of the era","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  This film is not great cinema, but it is important because it seems typical of the era A Hollywood answer to television.For example, it's a clear instance of Otto Preminger pushing the envelope on screen sex. (What else could that silly Mitchum-Monroe wrestling-match-in-the-woods scene be about? Dare anyone imagine how that would be filmed today?)One can imagine that the crew fought for the opportunity to throw buckets of water on Marilyn Monroe.Again, not great cinema, but an important movie for anyone interested in tracking the socio-economic history of the film industry.  "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe's Finest Role?","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" The greed of a reckless gambler who has won a mining claim in a poker game forces three people, a farmer named Matt Calder (Robert Mitchum), his son and the gambler's wife, Kay (Marilyn Monroe), into an adventure down the river and through the wilderness from which they may never return.Robert Mitchum never fails, but Marilyn Monroe I have always found to be overrated. She is not as attractive as she is made out to be, and her acting typically revolved around her being a dumb blonde character. This was thankfully a rare exception -- in this film, I learned that Monroe can act (but still not sing, and was dubbed).Monroe and director Otto Preminger were allegedly pressured into making this film by the studio because of their contracts. This might lead you to think they did not put their hearts in it. And maybe they did not, but it still comes across as a better than average western... why has no one heard of it? "},{"Title":"Old American western movies are racist and make Indians appear as the bad guys","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I was really disappointed, i was expecting more from this film.The beautiful scenery is the only thing positive i can say about this movie.I didn't enjoy the film due to its racist content!It wasn't enough that Americans destroyed their land and murdered their race they make Indians appear hostile,villains and without manners.That's why it was hard for me to sympathize any of the protagonist(Matt,Kay etc.). Marilyn is pretty as always and sings lovely but that alone cant make the film better.It has bad special effects(especially on the river). About the story not much is going on, there is not much action.In general i would only suggest it because Marilyn Monroe and Robert Mitchum are the protagonists and you're a fan.I really enjoyed though the scene in the beginning where Padre (the priest) saysi came here as a missioner to the Indians but the white men need me more "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, if lightweight, visually luscious western","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  Robert Mitchum and Marilyn Monroe are young and vibrant in this film, and there is great location scenery shot in the Canadian Rockies.  Both lead characters (Mitchum's and Monroe's) are attractive and likeable, the story is just offbeat enough to hold the interest, and there are some touchingly real moments amid the action sequences.  Monroe's luscious costumes and sensuous singing are knock-outs.  Lightweight but satisfying entertainment. "},{"Title":"Netflix Retro Reviews River Of No Return (1954)","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" There are westerns and then there is River of No Return. We have seen black listed characters, reformed cons and courtesans, and those from the outer fringes of a western frontier on screen before. It isn't until River of No Return,however, that we see characters that we can truly believe have been to prison, shaved with cold water, or any for that matter, and have made money selling nothing but themselves. Robert Mitchum and Marilyn Monroe bring a reality to the underworld of a time gone past that John Wayne could never hope to imagine. This is not to say that Stagecoach isn't a masterpiece, it's just a declarative statement that with Otto Preminger's 1954 throwaway we truly have a diamond in the rough.The movie opens with Robert Mitchum's character, Matt Calder, roaming through a Dodge City'esq village trying to locate his son. He is an ex-con and makes it very clear that his only goal is to peacefully raise his kin. With these first shots, Otto Preminger creates an environment we immediately believe to be riddled with scum and trash. Calder appears as a master navigator of this ocean, one with genuine and admirable intent, and the audience is invited to put down their popcorn and enjoy the ride. The movie offers everything one would want out of the western genre (actually filmed in Canada). It's intense and gritty and we get to take a peek into a side of life we only dare take with a life preserver around our waist. We then hear a voice and get to lay our eyes on Kay Weston, played by Marilyn Monroe. It appears as though she's been waiting at that saloon for years before a camera crew happened to stop by and film a Hollywood production. It is Kay's boyfriend who robs Matt Calder forcing the group to travel down the river in search of the stolen property. The first act carries through naturally and beautifully and before you know it you're watching what has already become one of your favorite movies. Then some stuff happens.The movie has sequences, especially those taking place on the river, that are beyond dated. The effects are difficult to watch without laughing and the fights appear to be choreographed by Jack Horner (the director from Boogie Nights). The reason why these sections of the picture are so difficult to watch is because they are always sandwiched by some of the most beautiful and poetic filmmaking the screen has ever seen. Where John Wayne's character in Stagecoach is from the beginning an advocate of the prostitute he is traveling with, Matt Calder looks down upon his travel-mate. The developing sentiment between them is troubled but invited, it is interesting and feels like something we're more familiar with from a 1970's anti-western. The duo, along with Calder's son, arrive at the town of the final showdown. What happens is unexpected and reminds the audience that they are not just watching another movie.In all the movie is uneven but beautiful. What could have been a masterpiece was instead left to rot, evident from the apathy the director must have had for his material. What the viewer must remember is to enjoy what is right about the movie and to accept the faults for what they are. In the end River of No Return will be a rewarding adventure and introduce a new generation to just how cool Robert Mitchum really was. A coolness that could still be used in cinema today. As for Marilyn Monroe, she does what she's unfairly forced to do with every picture she participated in, proves she can act. "},{"Title":"River of No Return-Up A Lazy River **1/2","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Average western which again proved that Marilyn Monroe could not act. Here, she attempted to strum on a guitar, as a dance hall queen in love with gold prospector Rory Calhoun. Coming off his successful airplane pilot two years before in the smash-hit, With A Song in My Heart, Calhoun, as the evil person here, comes off rather calmly.Robert Mitchum, as the jailed man, who picks up his son in a camp where Monroe is singing and Tommy Rettig, of television's Lassie Fame, steal the film here.Rettig learns that his father was jailed when he shot someone in the back. Ironically, he will learn that cruel lesson once again at picture's end. Exploring the relationship that develops while rafting with Mitchum and Monroe forms the basis of the film. It's only partially successful at best. "},{"Title":"Go West young Marilyn","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" River of No Return is a basic run of the mill Western. Really the only thing which makes the film at all noteworthy is the presence of Marilyn Monroe. As ever Marilyn captures the attention. This is certainly not a typical Marilyn Monroe role. She plays a song and dance girl, nothing unusual there. But this song and dance girl ends up traipsing through the Western wilderness and hurtling down a raging river. She and her traveling companions face near certain doom. If the rapids don't get them those darned Indians, who of course always show up to attack the heroes in movies like this, will. Sounds like we're in for some thrilling, riveting action. But it doesn't quite pan out that way. The movie's reasonably entertaining but all in all not nearly as dramatic or exciting as you might expect given the setup.It's in the setup that the movie shines the most, setting up relationships and conflict and danger. It's once the inevitable trip down the river of the movie's title begins that things come a bit unstuck. There's not much in the way of plot during this journey. We just watch Marilyn and companions get thrashed about on their raft and stave off attacks from Indians who for some reason seem quite willing to get themselves killed attacking our heroes when there doesn't seem to be much of anything to be gained from it. Marilyn's little group also has to deal with a mountain lion attack. Yes, really, a mountain lion attack. And they run into some people who are obviously up to no good. Nobody in these movies is ever up to any good are they? Anyhow the film certainly drags a bit during this journey. But there's enough here to hold your interest. Marilyn is memorable as always and she has a few nice songs here, although none nearly as remarkable as those from some of her more famous films. Playing the male lead Robert Mitchum is about what you'd expect, the noble, serious-minded Western hero. Young Tommy Rettig is along for the ride playing Mitchum's character's son and it's hard not to take a liking to him. Marilyn quite obviously did. The real villain of the piece is hardly in the film at all. He's there for the setup but then he's gone. Down the river our heroes go chasing after him but without him around for most of the film's running time there's not much in the way of meaningful conflict. You take the good with the bad in this one. Marilyn and Mitchum do good work, the scenery's beautiful. But the plot is a little thin, some of the action scenes don't look particularly convincing. It's definitely a mixed bag. By no means a great movie but a reasonably enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"Choppy Waters","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Otto Preminger's only Western, and one of the first films in Cinemascope. With Robert Mitchum as the rugged individualist with a shameful secret, Tommy Rettig of Lassie fame as his worshipful son, Marilyn Monroe as the saloon singer with a heart of gold, and Rory Calhoun as her no-good gambler boyfriend. With savage injuns, a perilous raft journey down the titular waterway, and several sappy songs. Not a great movie, but fun because of its cast, which all went on to do bigger and better things. Preminger and Monroe apparently didn't get along; Preminger said directing Monroe was like directing Lassie. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable adventure with some interesting moments","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" This film seems to be regarded as a minor work for, even by, all concerned, but I really enjoyed watching it again on TV recently after an interval of many years. I think real quality (with names like Preminger, La Shelle, Mitchum and Monroe, there should be), even in a minor film, has a way of searing through the murk in the long run. The story is I guess pretty standard Western Matt (Mitchum), fresh from a stint in prison, has bought a plot of land and is farming it. Confident in his own ability to survive with his gun and horse, he sends for his son, Mark, to the local town, newly hit by a gold rush. He finds his son under the care of Kim (Monroe), the saloon's resident singer. He and his son later meet Kim again under trying circumstances when she and her man, a shifty gambler, run into trouble on their raft, on their way to take possession of a gold claim in a distant city. The gambler soon shows his true colours, and an epic journey downriver commences.Preminger's name is known to me as a 'great' director, but I must confess I don't quite get yet, what it is that makes his films great. I've read (I think Andrew Sarris) that above all it's his ability to create a world of moral ambiguity. I'm sure this isn't one of the great ones, although there are moments where that ambiguity is compellingly present. Mitchum looks tired, haggard somehow photographer Joseph La Shelle seems to have brought out new angles on him. The river really does look like something fearsome, never more so than when they're camped beside it, an aggressive, ever-present force. The scene where Mitchum battles Monroe to the ground in the woods is pretty intense and uncomfortable to watch (as a woman, at least), the camera seemingly in the wrong place, at the wrong angle &#150; only reinforcing the unease.My two favourite moments are the scene when Mitchum hugs his son, who has just saved his life beautiful wordless simplicity. The boy Mark, played by Tommy Rettig (who seems to have had a sadly short, but very interesting, life) is wonderful, quiet and grave, gentlemanlike and not nastily precocious or sugar-coated. My second favourite moment is Monroe's final song, really felt and acted, as well as sung. It made me think of Guys & Dolls the way the songs done by the non-singers, Marlon Brando and Jean Simmons, quite eclipsed those of singers Vivian Blaine and Frank Sinatra it's all a matter of feeling. Here Monroe invests a simple tune with real emotion, and it made me like her as I must admit I haven't liked her in much that she did. (Ah, that must now make me the most hated person on these pages! &#150; I'm female, put it down to jealousy if it makes anyone feel better. I sure wish I could sing like that, though I don't think I'd have wished for her life.) When she's not vamping or over-articulating her lines, she exudes purest star quality.Laura is I suppose the definitive Preminger film; Night of the Hunter certainly my favourite Mitchum film; but I'm not sure I've seen Monroe in anything I just plain liked better than this, regardless of quality. Perhaps it's because she's slightly off her guard, and not on 'home' territory. Perhaps after all, creating conditions like that was part of Preminger's talent as a director. "},{"Title":"A favorite","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  I've loved this one since I was a kid.  Super pairing of Monroe and Mitchum. The worst part of this film is the despicable way the Indians were portrayed. I just cringe watching these bits. Typical old Hollywood. This is a beautiful film to watch- filmed in Northern Canada- gorgeous scenery. And of course, Marilyn is too. What a loss she is indeed. There is something haunting about this old western. I think it's the errie music. The title song is sung by both Tennesse Ernie Ford and Marilyn. I've always loved any chance to see Tommy Rettig and he is wonderful in this one. "},{"Title":"Worth it just for Marilyn Monroe and the scenery","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Marilyn Monroe was one-of-a-kind. She was to women what, say, Elvis was to men. She's the quintessential example of feminine beauty and charm. Unlike many too-thin women today, Marilyn had the necessary curves that drive men wild. Speaking of which, she looks great in this movie throughout, whether in semi-tight jeans or saloon-dancer apparel. Robert Mitchum, of course, was no slouch either when it comes to being a model of masculine strength. And neither was Rory Calhoun, who played the great white hunter, Jonathan Kincaid, in that memorable episode of Gilligan's Island.These three, especially Marilyn, are what make River of No Return (1954) worthwhile, along with the stunning location photography, shot in Banff and Jasper National Parks, Canada.The plot revolves around the two stars and their attempt to travel a river on a big wooden raft so they can meet up with the gambler (Calhoun) who stole the Mitchum character's horse and rifle. His young son tags along for the ride.Unfortunately there are some roll-your-eyes moments typical of old Westerns that might tempt modern viewers to tune out, like the Natives' utterly stupid attacks on the raft, but they're just there as a story device to create suspense anyway.The script is generally weak since the story's not all that compelling, except for a chance meeting with hunters in the forest and the closing scenes at the town on the river, but -- like I said -- Marilyn and the scenery make up for it.The film runs a short-but-sweet 91 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Average Western","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Average Western. Not bad for a Sunday afternoon flick. Not great though. Not even really good the rest of the week. Scenes are apparently live, but they still look like a sound stage. If you watch the water in the rafting scenes, you'll see lots of turbulence in the back ground, but nothing in the foreground. Makes it look like they were in a tub of water. Same with forest scenes, where you see people come in from the left and exit to the right. No one goes back toward the forest, though. Even though the actors are saying thats where they need to head. Also, it was kind of funny that Marilyn Monroe was married to the guy killed at the end, and lived with him. But she doesn't shed a tear for him, just jumps in the wagon with Robert Mitchum. "},{"Title":"Mitchum, Monroe, Preminger, LaShelle--in a clumsy boring mess!","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" River of No Return (1954)What do you know, here's an early CinemaScope production, in true Technicolor color, with Marilyn Monroe and Robert Mitchum. Add the fact that it was directed by Otto Preminger (a significant post-war director) and uses the great Joseph LaShelle behind the camera, and you should have a memorable, major movie. But instead it is hampered by clichés and formula scenes patched together in a sequence resembling the barest of plots. Improbable coincidences occur, Indians are dispatched as usual, backprojection is plainly used for some of the rafting scenes, and there is even a potential rape of the Monroe character by the Mitchum character.For me this makes for a movie to miss, if not dismiss. It has exciting elements, some high adventure filming in the water, and some singing by Monroe (all of which is widely available on collections of her music). Mitchum is a little less at ease here than in other films, hard to speculate why, though he was drinking heavily at the time. Preminger also didn't get along with Monroe (or Monroe's acting coach who interfered with every scene). Monroe thought it was her worst film. All of this matters in a movie with little else going on. Certainly the movie is beautiful, partly for the scenery (it was shot in the Canadian Rockies, which are breathtaking) and partly for the cinematography, which is widescreen brilliance, no question there. The simplified notion of pioneer days out west is sometimes almost quaint, the boy learning to shoot, the fight with a wild cat, and even the river as nature untamed. I don't really recommend the film except for Mitchum/Monroe fans, or for those who (like me) are aware of LaShelle's work. This is his first widescreen film, and it's a great start after many classic noirs and others. "},{"Title":"I never knew Marilyn had such a great singing voice","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" WOW, no wonder Marilyn Monroe is a timeless Icon, what beauty, what class what charm and what a soulful voice, she could of been just a great singer, she did it all.... And I don't know to what extent her guitar playing was but if sure looks to me like she was playing the guitar, could of been open tuning.... Norma Jeane, timeless vibrations you gave us Dear, Thru ages-never another talent will be your peer....... You left us lovely Goddess way to soon, see you act and dance, feel your soul croon... Yes it came thru on the silver screen, millions of devoted fans on your divine feminine team. Too soon you left us, our tears testify, Jolton Joe Knew and loved my oh my... Yes our 1st lady of sexual flame, burned out to fast, it was them who were to blame............ We all love you Marilyn "},{"Title":"big names but not a classic","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Otto Preminger... Robert Mitchum... Marilyn Monroe, just the names alone I had no choice but to check it out. Of course I didn't know that Otto Preminger was forced to make this movie. Marilyn Monroe didn't sing her songs. And Robert Mitchum tries to rape Marilyn. The only good thing is Marilyn has a nice pair of tight jeans and she got really wet. Other than that, there isn't that much to recommend.Robert Mitchum is father returning from prison who takes his son back to their farm. They're robbed by Marilyn Monroe and her thieving no good gambler husband. Then they go on the run from rampaging Indians by rafting down the river.It's got some river stunt work but the story isn't anything to be proud of. Check it out if you're a fan of the 3 names. "},{"Title":"Waterlogged Western Get Monroe and Mitchum Wet Together","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Don't look for anything scandalous in this straightforward outdoors adventure. This river rafting epic with Robert Mitchum and Marilyn Monroe captures more beautiful scenery that it conjures up memorable violence. Mitchum is a farmer tilling land for wheat in the middle of nowhere. He has just gotten out of prison for shooting a man in the back. What difference does it make, he argues, where you shoot a man if he is a polecat? Eventually, he has to explain his disappearance to his nine-year old son Mark Calder (Tommy Rettig) who joins him at a mining camp. Mitchum rides into town, finds his son, and they head back to his farm. Meanwhile, Monroe is a saloon girl strumming a guitar. She has been helping little Mark since he arrived and was abandoned by a guy named Martin. As it turns out, Monroe is in love with a no-good skunk named Weston (Rory Calhoun) who swindled a frontierman's out of a mining claim. Now, Weston is trying to get to Council City to record his claim before the legal owner make it there. He borrows Mitchum's horse and rifle and leaves him with a knot on his head. Mitchum, Monroe, and the kid commandeer the raft and flow down river. Yes, there is the inevitable showdown between Mitchum and Calhoun, but the surprise is in who shoots Weston to keep him from killing Mitchum. "},{"Title":"River of No Return","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I would like to see as many films starring the famous leading actress from Gentleman Prefer Blondes, The Seven Year Itch and Some Like It Hot as possible, and I spotted this one in another different genre, I was most intrigued, from director Otto Preminger (Laura, Carmen Jones, Anatomy of a Murder). Basically widower Matt Calder (Robert Mitchum) has recently return home and to his young son Mark Calder (Tommy Rettig) after serving time in prison for killing another man defending another. Mark has been looked after by dance hall and saloon singer Kay Weston (Marilyn Monroe), and his father promises him that as virtual strangers he will do everything possible to bond at the homestead, with hunting, fishing and farming. Kay's fiancé Harry (Rory Calhoun) plans to get to Council City and file the deed to a gold mine he won in a poker game, but they get in trouble going down the rough river on a raft, and they are rescued by the father and son duo, only to have their gun and horse stolen by Harry and let him get away. Indians are roaming the premises, so the three of them continue down the river on the raft, and stopping to rest Matt questions why Kay wants to marry a man who threatens a child, and her defence is that he is worse having killed a man, and overhearing this discussion Mark finally learns the truth about his father's past. The three of them again continue down the river, and she slowly becomes grateful towards the father figure as he looks after them with bravery and tenderness, against such challenges as a lion attack, prospectors Dave Colby (Murvyn Vye) and Sam Benson (Douglas Spencer) who want Harry's gold, and more Indians. Matt, Kay and Mark manage to get through more rapids and arrive in Council City, meeting back up with Harry, and after a struggle Kay's fiancé is shot and killed by Mark, and in the end Matt and Mark take Kay with them back to their farm. Also starring Don Beddoe as Ben - Council City Storekeeper and Paul Newlan as Prospector. Monroe is absolutely beautiful here, especially as this is the first time I saw her with long blonde hair, and her singing is good too, and Mitchum does alright mumbling and being cool all the way through, the bits between them are alright, I think the best bits are probably on the raft and against Indians and a lion, at least they make the film reasonably exciting, a not bad western. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"she doesn't change her hands!!","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" It's Robert Mitchum as Civilized Man! Protecting his wheat farm, his kid, and saloon broad Marilyn Monroe from the tribulations of the (Canadian??) Wild West, including Monroe's sleazeball card sharp boyfriend, a terribly generic and perfunctory buncha Injuns, some horny prospectors, and the titular river, which they must navigate by raft to retrieve Mitchum's gun and horse. Everything looks gorgeous in Cinemascope (Monroe most definitely included) and there are clever tidbits throughout, but after a spectacularly detailed opening sequence at the prospectors' encampment things do thin out, with Mitchum and co. mainly duking it out with a bunch of wholly unconvincing rear projections. If Bob is so resourceful how come he can't get more than a measly rump roast out of that elk? The original 3-D process was probably supposed to pick up some of the dramatic slack, as usual. Monroe has a bit of difficulty wedging her persona into the tough-broad routine; she looks pretty out of place on that raft. And there's little critique to be seen as Mitchum's machismo, or generational projections thereof, provide the only resolution to whatever conflicts happen to arise. In that vein, the (studio-imposed?) final scene is so objectionable that it has got to be some kind of a joke, right? Right? One more knee-slapper Monroe's first song is called Changing Hands, and she pretends to play it on guitar...only she doesn't change her hands. "}{"Title":"River of middling return","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Typical, run of the mill 50's western, held together by fine lead performances from Mitchum and Monroe. Both Mitchum and Monroe's characters come with a past and a darker, tauter film might have made more of their journey down the rapids as a symbol of their own paths towards regeneration and eventually love, but with a cute kid (Mitchum's son) in tow and a bevy of songs from Marilyn sprinkled throughout, best to sit back, enjoy the beautifully shot scenery and not over-analyse. The movie starts well (once you get past the Waileree theme-song!) with Mitchum's character Calder languidly rolling into the by now debauched and wildly decadent gold-strike affected trading post to pick up his son bump into Monroe and start the action off. The background for this scene is impressively staged, a huge, apparently outdoors set, peopled with literally dozens of extras. The story and resulting action flows episodically from there even if there's little real dramatic tension throughout. Some scenes jar as unlikely and unnecessary, for example Mitchum's near rape of Monroe, this scene, like one or two others seemingly inserted on the something should happen every ten minutes premise, ditto Mitchum's fight with a mountain puma, the inevitable chase by a band of Indians and of course numerous scenes of the central threesome getting good and wet on their raft on a too obvious studio set (you can almost picture the wind-machines and on-set assistants throwing buckets of water at them, just off-camera!). The dialogue's a bit clunky at times and Preminger's direction is almost anonymous throughout, although he doesn't waste the opportunity to get Marilyn properly soaked and reduced to either blankets or a flimsy chemise to combat the elements. No question however that Monroe lights up the film. She looks great be it in showgirl apparel or denim jeans and acts and sings well throughout. Mitchum's part is stereotypically written and he's not exercised too much, but he'd be credible reading the phone book and seems to engage with his character just enough to convince. I was distracted from time to time by what sounded like a heavenly choir incongruously interrupting the soundtrack and the ending is a little clichéd, if at least full-circular in redefining Mitchum's relationship with his son, but on the whole this was a pleasant watch and makes you regret that the two stars weren't paired again further down the river. "},{"Title":"Some Like Her Wet!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Although it is often referred to as a bomb--and MM herself described it as such--River of No Return made money when it was released in 1954. Easy to see why. The idiocy that was Cinemascope was new, and River also offered the always dependably laconic Bob Mitchum, horses, wild Indians, a moral dilemma and most vitally, Marilyn Monroe at her sexiest. This is not to say MOnroe is good. Still under the influence of a Ruissian acting coach who emphasized en-un-ci-at-ion, Monroe is realistically natural in one moment, stiff in another--sometimes she starts off good with a good reading, only to end up bad, or vice versa. But her mannerisms are amusing and compelling, if not exactly good acting. Throw in four songs--one brooding, one bawdy, one tender, one mournful--and the MM figure in its prime (often soaking wet to great effect) This movie gets a lot of play, now, on cable, and I've seen it often recently. Hands down Monroe never looked better, she is so ravishing here that every over-emphatic D or T is forgiven. (She would trot out this slender beauty, and striking bone-structure in the last year of her life.)Actually, River of No Return looks better as the years pass. I don't know why--Monroe's lips are as riotously quivery as ever. But her backside remains superb. That must be it. "},{"Title":"A la recherche du temps perdu with Marilyn.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Tennessee Ernie Ford's Capitol 78 recording of the theme song spinning on my Champion record player,my photograph of Kim Novak carefully cut from Picturegoer,a Melody Maker with a picture of Jack Jackson on the front page,the view across the South Downs to the sea from the window of my parents'house near Brighton..................these are a few of the memories invoked by a viewing of The river of no return on Film on Four last night. In the half century since I last saw it the colour appears to have faded,the fights become half - hearted,Robert Mitchum ridiculously young. Marilyn herself,far less a sex symbol,more a vulnerable,ill - used child.She seems to try out several different styles of acting during the movie,never settling for one for more than a few minutes,which I found very disturbing. Mr Mitchum seems content to hand the movie to her in all their scenes together.Uncharacteristically he becomes involved in what is virtually an attempted rape on her which is fortuitously curtailed by the appearance of a hungry mountain lion.Chillingly this scene is much more realistically played than any of his fights with other men. Mr Rory Calhoun,heavy with hair oil and gleaming of tooth,exudes an artificial charm that few young women in the 21st century would fall for.The ungrateful swine steals Mr Mitchum's horse and rifle and heads off to the nearest city to stake his claim.He is later shot by Mr Mitchum's son who does not seem exactly overcome with guilt afterwards. While the rest of us have grown old and decrepit Marilyn had the good fortune to die at the peak of her beauty.She never looked into a mirror and saw an old woman looking back at her.I suspect she would have hated that. As Tennessee Ernie sings the title song at the end I reach for my pen,chew the end thoughtfully then continue to conjugate the verb etre - to be.Je suis,tu est,il est................. "},{"Title":"As they say, 'A Torrid Love Story.'","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  Not a particularly good movie, it is interesting to see marilyn Monroe as a frontier woman, and as a singer. She was in her mid-20s when this movie was filmed. The DVD, from the public library, has a great restored widescreen image in Cinemascope and Technicolor. The following remarks are for my recollection, please do not read, may contain SPOILERS.The movie opens with Robert Mitchem riding his horse into a 'tent city' at the water's edge in the Pacific Northwest, hordes of prospectors looking for gold claims. But he was just looking for his 10-year-old son after (we find out much later) just getting out of prison for killing a man. Monroe is a singer in the tent saloon, and her man is played by Rory Calhoon, a gambler and grifter who wins another's claim by gambling. All Mitchem wants to do is stake his claim to some land, and with his son, horse, axe, and rifle, farm the land and keep the Indians at bay. He rescues Calhoon and Monroe by tying down their runaway raft on 'the river of no return.' Dastardly Calhoon fights Mitchem and steals his horse and gun, Monroe stays behind to care for the injured man, the Indians come, Mitchem, Monroe, and boy are forced to flee with the raft. After a few wilderness trials, they get to the city, find Calhoon, who tries to shoot Mitchem, but instead is shot by the boy. Monroe and Mitchem end up together. "},{"Title":"You must not kill!?","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  Maybe you wonder, why I used above one line summary. I think this is the great message of this movie, the questioning of the fifth commandment. Just remember the end! Harry Weston is watching out for Matt Calder with the clear intention to kill him. While Harry is aiming at Matt, Matt's son Mark shoots him in the back to save his father. So he decided against the fifth commandment and killed a man. Wasn't he right to do so? In my opinion he was, but what do you think? Besides this, the scenery is just marvelous, the acting is average. And of course it was very nice to see Marilyn Monroe in wet jeans!! I gave this file a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Movie Of No Redeem","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" This is the first Otto Preminger movie I saw and I would have liked to enjoy it, or to find it at least interesting. But man, what a schlockfest. About as exciting as doing your laundry, only more predictable. No stereotype is left out. The role models that are set for the sexes are just terrible. You can feel the large Hollywood machinery humming in the background, and the actors play along with it, but you get the impression that Preminger and others who were creatively involved with this movie phoned their performances in. I got the impression that Preminger's stance was What does the studio want? A Western? Man, I wish I was in Europe. Well, for chrissakes, lay on the blond floozy with a heart, bring in the kid and the butch guy with a past, and put some makeup and greasy whigs on the fall guys. Let's get this over with, and move on. I'll betcha this movie would have been long forgotten if it weren't for the celebrity cast. To say they don't make 'em like that anymore would be wishful thinking on part of the cineast. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly Bad","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Who doesn't love Marilyn Monroe? Not me, and not too many people, especially fans of classic movies. Most of us think of lot of her and enjoy watching her performances. I say these things because she sings three or four songs in here in the first 30-40 minutes and it is painful to hear. It's horrible. There is no other word for it. It sets the tone for this disappointing film.Add some incredibly stupid dialog given to Robert Mitchum to speak and you have - speaking of embarrassing - an embarrassing movie to watch. Despite Monroe, Mitchum, Rory Calhoun and Tommy Rettig (of Disney fame), this is Grade B material all the way.The raft scenes in here were so hokey they take away from the adventure part of the movie. You almost laugh out loud because it looks so fake.I had high hopes for this film but it didn't take too long for them to be dashed. Don't let Marilyn's big name lure you into renting this film.....it's a bummer. "},{"Title":"this river runs through The African Queen","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" The movie that Marilyn Monroe considered her worst comes across as a rehash of The African Queen. While Monroe does put all her effort into the role of a woman who accompanies a widower and his son down a dangerous river in the northwestern US, the movie itself is very dated. The scenery is some of the most impressive ever put on film, that can't carry the movie. The whole thing is basically the average idealized image of the old west. These sorts of movies are what made the spaghetti westerns so great with the latter's gritty look at the old west.Notwithstanding, Marilyn Monroe looks really fine (as can be expected). But that's all. "},{"Title":"nothing special or too subversive, just a standard programmer-Western with two magnetic stars","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" Otto Preminger and Marilyn Monroe (not sure about Robert Mitchum) didn't want to make River of No Return. I imagine it was because they saw through, or just read, the script a very basic story about a man and his son, who he hasn't seen in years, the hot little number of a saloon singer and their running from the singer's boyfriend who is out for blood (and/or money and cattle) plus some doings with Indians out on the mountains. Nothing is offensive or too wrong with the material, but there's nothing that sparks it as very special either. It was made in large part to cash in on the new technology of the 235 aspect ratio (or CINESCOPE as it was called them), with wide vistas of the rivers and mountains and bright colors almost always, even in the dark.So why see it if it's somewhat dated (somewhat in that there is one semi-sensual scene where Mitchum warms up Monroe's back and legs in a scene that amusingly goes on for too long until it becomes self-consciously done), and the dialog is only okay, and the ending is predictable? Because sometimes the action and suspense is decent, and the two stars, naturally, Mitchum and Monroe. The former is formidable as a former convict who just wants to go straight and have his son by his side as a widower, and the latter is... Marilyn Monroe, silly. She has a grin sometimes like she knows how silly it is, but mostly she plays it straight and is amiable and kind of sexy in her blue jeans and blonde hair - almost out of place but not quite in 19th century Western garb. The chemistry between the two stars works too, and helps alleviate some of the slack compositions Premigerc comes up with.Nothing to rush to see, unless you're big fans of the stars or director, or of big widescreen fox westerns made for pennies. But on those terms, it's not bad. "},{"Title":"Movie of no return","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  I'm a die-hard Marilyn Monroe fan and I like almost all of her movies, but this is one of the movies I absolutely don't like. The story is horrible just like the special effects and I saw Marilyn better too, I understand that she didn't want to make this film. This movie is not as good as her other classics "}{"Title":"Stalwart Mitchum makes the best out of the bits","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I must admit it to myself and everyone else, that I've always found Marilyn beautiful. Who hasn't? She's a poster child for everyone who's come along since. But up until now I actually hadn't seen one of her films.And on that note I must say, that it's not a very good place to start. Co-Starring Robert Mitchum, this movie is slow on most counts, which is kind of odd to say for a movie that doesn't actually hit the 2 hour mark. It's drudge though, is at least paced by the regular, strong performance that Mitchum's put through in every movie I remember ever seeing him in.Marilyn however, is the death-piece to this film. Besides her mouthing the songs to pre-recorded tape, and strumming a guitar along with no notes that's the high point, her acting is nowhere near someplace that a person can believe, and is quite sub par. It drags the movie down to the depths and just when you think that it's about to get even worse, Mitchum and Tommy Rettig (the child) bring it back to life.If this is the best of the bunch for Marilyn, I'd be hard pressed to watch another one. "},{"Title":"Marilyn Is Sure To Float Your Boat - If Nothing Else Does","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" River of No Return was released when Monroe-Mania was sweeping the globe. Marilyn had just completed two incredibly successful titles - Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and How To Marry A Millionaire, with few people doubting her status as a true star. Fox needed to use her again, and they needed to do so quickly. This, evidently, is the best they could come up with. Monroe plays an ambitious Saloon Singer looking to better herself, and when her boyfriend earns the rights to a claim for a gold it seems like her ticket to a better life. Add in a chance meeting with a farmer and his estranged son, neither of whom are bothered about riches, and you get the basic structure of River of No Return.The whole film is a pretty clumsy example of character driven narrative meets big budget action and it's pure 1950's fluff. Mitchum is good in places, but far too 2-Dimensional to really achieve greatness. And then, then there is Marilyn. As she so often had to do in many of her mediocre pictures, she saves the picture from total disaster because she is so compelling. You can see the beginnings of her Strasberg-Guided acting style here. Indeed, they are humble beginnings and she achieved much better in later films under the same guidance, but she puts in a good performance here all the same. As mentioned, the script isn't up to much at all and starts to wear thin by the end, despite some nice moments between Monroe and Mitchum characters young son. Production Values weren't lacking in the visuals, however. For it's time, River of No Return is definitely a pretty film with some nice location work. The use of the setting cannot be faulted is very well intelligently used throughout. It's said about nearly all Marilyn films, but I'm going to say it again - Monroe looks stunning. Everyone knows the camera adores her, but it's like the camera misses a heartbeat over her in this - she looks just amazing. She herself hated this movie, calling it a ''bomb'' and adding ''The acting finished third, after the costumes and cinemascope''. She's not wrong.River of No Return is a film that seems to achieve being likable in spite of itself. The script is laughably bad, the characters very unoriginal and some of the acting is seriously lacking. But, all that aside, there is something quite likable about this dinosaur of a blockbuster. Marilyn Monroe fans will love her in it, and fans of the film's era will get something out of it too. A perfect example of 20th Century Fox in the 1950's and how, despite a seriously sparse movie, they still managed to keep the bucks rolling in. An interesting artifact if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Leaves something to be desired.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  River of No Return is a fairly ordinary western that relies largely on its stars. Unfortunately, they don't impress very much here; Monroe has been better (and hotter, too), and Mitchum turns in a somewhat wooden performance. The scenic views ARE gorgeously filmed, but I felt there wasn't enough tension to sustain the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but somewhat of a disappointment too","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I like Otto Preminger's films, and I came across this channel surfing. River of No Return was watchable but somewhat of a disappointment of a disappointment at the same.The scenery is glorious and the cinematography is lovely. The music is also a nice touch, and I liked the songs Monroe sang. Preminger directs decently, while Robert Mitchum has a good presence and Marilyn Monroe is beautiful and acts convincingly at least. However, the script creaks really badly, while the story is clumsily handled. I also thought the pace was rather sluggish, and some of the characters are uninteresting and lack credibility.In conclusion, I guess it is a watchable movie but for fans of Preminger or Mitchum or Monroe while they all do adequate jobs they deserved better. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Cheesy Western","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" A rancher tames white water rapids and a sultry woman as they take a raft trip down a river. Mitchum is solid as the no-nonsense hero. Monroe gets to warble a few songs and her singing is not terrible. The same can't be said of her acting. She really needed an actor's director to coax out a good performance, and Preminger was not that type of director. In fact, Preminger is incompetent in pretty much everything he does in this Western, a foreign genre for him. The scenes of Indian attacks are quite poorly staged. The rafting scenes, often utilizing projected background, look cheesy. Rettig, who started on the Lassie TV series the same year as this movie, does OK as Mitchum's son. "},{"Title":"pretty bad","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  A routine western starring Robert Mitchum and Marilyn Monroe and this was a studio assignment for Otto Preminger. It starts out in a town full of people looking for gold and Mitchum is looking for his nine year old son. Mitchum finds him with Monroe, who is a dance hall girl and singer, and takes him back to his farm. Monroe and her boyfriend have a gold claim but it's pretty far off and he doesn't have a horse, so they have to go downstream on a raft. They stop at his farm and when the boyfriend steals his rifle and horse, Mitchum chases after him on the raft after his house is burned by Indians. They spend the rest of the movie fighting off Indians and going down rapids. The movie just looks pretty fake and Mitchum could sleepwalk through a role like is and Monroe is pretty bad here.  "},{"Title":"A real classic stinker","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  I'm not a huge movie buff so I wasn't sure who the lead actor was in this load of poo poo I watched last night on AMC.  I was curious and had to research it today.  Mr. Mitchum was stiff as a board throughout the entire flick.  Marilyn appeared to be a talentless bimbo.  The storyline was pitiful.  I'm curious how this movie merits a 6.7 out of 10 according to the imdb community.  Please enlighten me.Cousin Scuzzy "},{"Title":"A two day snore.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":"  I recorded this film off of AMC a while back and then suffered through the agonizing torture of actually watching it.  A film that should have taken an hour and a half to watch ended up taking me approximately two days to watch.  I had to pinch myself every five minutes or so just to make sure that I was still awake, or alive for that matter. I had seen Marilyn Monroe in two previous films I believe, and I mainly wanted to see 'River of No Return' just to see if she was any better in this than she was in those other horrible pictures.  Was she?  Nope.  I will never understand what the big deal is/was with Monroe.  She couldn't act and she wasn't as gorgeous as everyone claimed.  That's strictly my opinion and I know that nobody else agrees with me but whatever.  Monroe is boring as usual in 'River.'  The singing, oh the singing, is terrible.  I digested an aspirin after every song.  I have never seen Robert Mitchum in anything else and I let out a sigh of relief because of that. He's three times as nauseating as Monroe.  The best performance came from Tommy Rettig and that isn't saying much.The movie really has no point to it.  I know that the plot is there but WHERE exactly is it?  The three actors jump on a raft and float down the river coming across different situations in the meantime. I hate this film.  Needless to say, I finally finished my tape only to record over this garbage soon after.  Monroe and Mitchum managed to do little besides bore the audience.  The writing is boring and when you throw that in with horrible acting, the outcome is a slow movie in which nobody should have to view.PS - Marilyn Monroe could never act! "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western","Review":" I just watched this film in bed and i was tired, it kept me up so it must have been good, Bolton Wanderers on the other hand...aren't.ThanksI just watched this film in bed and i was tired, it kept me up so it must have been good, Bolton Wanderers on the other hand...aren't.ThanksI just watched this film in bed and i was tired, it kept me up so it must have been good, Bolton Wanderers on the other hand...aren't.ThanksThanks "}]