[{"Title":"Dong Dong, Ding Ding or Ding Dong? Either way this film rings my bell.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Take a run down cargo ship with a motley crew, throw in a pacific island paradise and sign on board four of the biggest Hollywood heavyweights ever, then you are bound to have winning motion picture which stands the test of time.Henry Fonda re-creates his Broadway role as Lt.Douglas Roberts a navy cargo officer, desperately aching to be transfered from what is nothing more than a floating warehouse, to a destroyer and a chance to get into the fighting.James Cagney in what is arguably the best of his later roles, plays the selfish and ambitious Captain, who knows that Roberts' work is the key to his own success. With this motive in mind he blocks all of Roberts' requests and makes his life as miserable as possible into the bargain.It is this story line that provides most of the drama albeit played with a touch of comic frivolity. The true comedy however is provided by Jack Lemmon as the good natured but lazy Ensign, Frank Thurlough Pulver.Lemmon was a relative newcomer to the movies but none of that seemed evident in his performance. He held his own against three of the best in the business and was awarded an Oscar for his efforts.However, the highlight of this film for me is the great William Powell as the aging and quick witted Doc.. His comic timing and sophisticated presence was an invaluable asset to any film he made and Mister Roberts is no exception.Whether he is wise cracking with the crew at sick call or making illegal scotch with his shipmates, Powell steals every scene in which he appears. My personal favourite is when he is called to the captains cabin....ON THE DOUBLE, and he is seen casually strolling slowly and carefree smoking a cigarette, almost as if he was on the Park Avenue of the 1930's where he had made his name.Cagney's scenes with Lemmon are hilarious. He was a considerate actor and at times you can almost feel the space that he gave Lemmon in order for him to shine. Also the scene in which Fonda confronts Cagney, to ensure the crews liberty, is expertly acted. A must see on the newly released DVD (with commentary by Jack Lemmon himself) is a clip from a 1955 Ed Sullivan show where Fonda and Cagney re-create the scene live and the acting cannot be faulted.In more than just plot, this film has high points and low points. The high point was the welcome celluloid return of Henry Fonda after an absence of eight years whilst he played Mister Roberts on the New York stage. The low point being, that this was to be William Powell's final movie venture. He had retired in 1953 after How to Marry a Millionaire, but was lured back for Roberts by an overwhelming script. But this was to be a final return and I think as swan songs go William Powell indeed had the best.It was also a troubled production with two directors and constant fall outs with Fonda over the adaptation. To Fonda, Mister Roberts was a work of art he didn't want to see defaced, and he argued bitterly over changes from the original format. Yet the theatre going public and the cinema going public were two different species and the changes were needed.They must have found the right balance however because we are presented with a flawless motion picture with equal amounts of drama and humour, happiness and sadness and anger and goodwill. This film has the ability to touch everyone on at least one level.A must-see film with unequaled performances. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"So fun, so real, so heartbreaking","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This film is a Classic, with a capital C!  You have a great story, a great cast, laughs, tears and a dose of reality.  How can you go wrong with Henry Fonda, James Cagney, William Powell and Jack Lemmon?What always struck me about this film was its realism.  I spent some time on an auxiliary ship in the navy, and it's not glamorous.  This film perfectly captures the life aboard non-combatant ships.  They provide a vital service, but rarely get recognized for it.  It also demonstrates what real leadership is.  The main duty of an officer is to provide leadership and to see to the welfare of his troops.  Mr Roberts is a shining example of a great officer.The film also shows that the enemy isn't always on the other ship.  I have seen captains like Cagney's, and you often spent more time defending your crew from those skippers, than you did from the opposing force.  As Mr Roberts said, ....I know in wartime they scrape the bottom of the barrel..., well, they sometimes scrape that barrel in peacetime.There's a great blend of comedy and drama throughout; but, just when you are feeling good, it delivers a punch to the gut.  This is life as it is, not an idealized world.Sign on board for a tour of duty with this film.  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Who did it...?","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mister Roberts is a very personal film for me. This is the first i vividly remember watching with my father. Lt Douglas Roberts is a cargo officer on a cargo ship dubbed The Bucket. Mister Roberts feels that war in the Pacific is passing him by. An all-star cast and crew adopt this novel and play. Henry Fonda (Grapes of Wrath, On Golden Pond) reprises his role from the play as Roberts. Henry Fonda must clash heads with the captain played by the great James Cagney (Angles with Dirty Faces, Yankee Doodle Dandy). They are joined by William Powell (My Man Godfrey), Betsy Palmer, Ward Bond (It's a Wonderful Life, My Darling Clementine) and Jack Lemmon (Odd Couple, Some Like it Hot). This is Jack Lemmon's first academy award winning performance. This is a movie is filled with humor and drama. This is movie is a great enjoyment. Naturally some things are different from the play and book. This is a great movie to add to your collection.  "},{"Title":"Well done story of the under-appreciated support personnel who also serve during times of war.","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  'Mister Roberts' is one of two movies that I sometimes name as my all-time favorite movies. The other is 'The Adventures of Robin Hood' with Errol Flynn. I definitely believe that this is one of Henry Fonda's finest roles.When my now nineteen year old nephew was younger, he would ask to watch my copy of 'Mister Roberts' on VHS just for the hilarious scene where Pulver blows up the laundry and the ship starts to fill up with soap suds. I have a copy of the play which includes pictures from when Fonda played the role of Doug Roberts on stage, and there are some differences from the play, but those differences certainly work in this movie. I can't imagine better casting for any of these parts--Henry Fonda as Doug RobertsJack Lemmon as Ensign PulverWard Bond as DowdyWilliam Powell as DocThis is an excellent story of a man who yearns to serve in a war, but yet not to be a hero. He just wants to do his part, and he thinks that in order for his part to be important he has to be in combat. It takes him a while, and a few lectures from Doc, to realize that what he and the crew on the 'bucket' on which they serve do a necessary and important job even as they sail from boredom to tedium and back again, as Roberts says in his letter to Pulver in one of the movie's last scenes. The men are bored, and they can't stand their captain; and during the scene where the captain calls them to their battle stations after finding his special palm tree missing most of them aren't even sure where their battle stations are! The character of Doc has never even seen a battleship and he's in the navy. The entire movie is worth just the scenes of the crew returning from liberty, the making of the scotch, and the soap suds incident.For a while when I was up at Northern Arizona University I had these lines from the opening scene as part of my answering machine messageNow here this. Now here this. Revelry. I repeat...revelry! Attention all hands...I recommend this movie very highly and rate it nine out of ten stars!  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 50s","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mister Roberts (1955) - CO-Directors John Ford & Mervyn LeRoy Enough time had passed that Americans were able to laugh at some of the kookier aspects about military life and Hollywood provided just the right amount of seriousness and irreverence with this 1955 hit.Henry Fonda gave one of his career making performances in this film as a lieutenant in the Navy who feels that the action of the war is passing him by. Instead of fighting the enemy, he's engaged in a battle of wills with off kilter superior officer James Cagney, who also turns in one of his mythic-making performances.  The great William Powell is on board in one of his last roles as the friendly on board doctor. The late Jack Lemmon won an Academy Award for his supporting role of Ensign Pulver, a man who finally straightens his spine and takes macho Cagney on mano-a-mano. (Color) "},{"Title":"Fine Combination of Comedy & Drama, With An Excellent Cast","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The cast and story of Mister Roberts are both of high quality, and they fit together well to produce one of the best war movies to be set in the Second World War. It effectively and thoughtfully presents many facets of military life - from boredom to conflict, from slapstick to sadness - without resorting to any labored or overblown material.The cast is excellent in its own right, and the main characters are ideally matched with their roles. Henry Fonda could be no better in portraying Roberts in all his interactions with the other characters, Jack Lemmon is always entertaining as Pulver, and in Doc, William Powell gets the kind of role he played better than anyone. James Cagney is flawless as the sometimes small-minded captain, bringing out his shortcomings, yet also allowing you to understand why the character is like that.Most of the settings work well, and they help to create a believable atmosphere of navy life. The running confrontations with the palm tree and the letters are well-conceived, and they are also used effectively, getting a lot of material out of them without stretching things too far. Mr. Roberts communicates some worthwhile ideas while remaining enjoyable, and provides good entertainment and comedy without avoiding the realities in the characters' lives. "},{"Title":"Sound the General Alarm","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Somewhere between tedium and apathy the U.S.S. Reluctant sails to this day with it's crew of U.S. navy swabs who have to deliver cargoes of supplies to our men fighting the enemy (Japan) in World War II. The war is long over, but the spirit of men rotting under a vicious squirt of a Captain, with only an intelligent cargo officer (Lt. Doug Roberts) protecting them, remains an image that people retain sixty years after Japan surrendered.In another review, I mentioned that (ironically) the American naval mutiny everyone recalls is that on board the U.S.S.Caine in the Herman Wouk novel and the film made as a result. That like Mr. Roberts was fictional, but the two stories have taken on a life of their own. The stories transcended the events that were the backgrounds for them. Oddly enough, both stories eventually center upon the events of the closing part of the Pacific War THE CAINE MUTINY going up to the typhoon before the battle of Okinawa in January 1945 (Roberts sees part of the fleet headed for Okinawa early in MR. ROBERTS), and Roberts getting transferred to the battle zone where he dies after Germany's surrender in May 1945.Despite problems between John Ford and star Henry Fonda, that led to Ford's removal as director, the film actually is one of those movies where several hands were involved and the results were good (like GONE WITH THE WIND). Fonda had been in the Broadway production and worked on it with Leland Heyward and Joshua Logan, so he knew precisely what was necessary for the film. Ford, before he was fired, set up the film perfectly - he was an old navy man himself, so he brought a sense of reality to the project that (mercifully) was not damaged.One thing that Ford did which was worthwhile was casting Jack Lemmon (then at the start of his film career) as Ensign Frank Thurlow Pulver, would-be sex object and would-be pain-in-the-ass to the Captain. Lemmon had somehow caught Ford's eye, and had actually done a test for a current project that Ford was planning, THE LONG GREY LINE. Lemmon told an interviewer on AMC years ago that Ford gave him the test for the role that went to Tyrone Power, and Lemmon was delivering a speech as an old Irish-American man, complete with a brogue. Ford later told Lemmon he was dreadful for the role in THE LONG GREY LINE, but he wanted him for Pulver. It was a great opportunity, as it netted Lemmon the first of his two Oscars (here for best supporting actor). He would have some great moments here, singing If I can be with you several times in the film, watching Fonda and William Powell turn a bottle of Coca Cola into Scotch, explaining to an amazed Jimmy Cagney that he has been the laundry officer on the boat for over a year but has managed never to see Cagney, causing a massive explosion in the ship's laundry on May 8, 1945, and finally pulling his guts together and taking up where Fonda left off as the movie ends.Fonda, Cagney, Powell, and Ward Bond were all old hands in film. For William Powell, Doc would be his last movie role - but a good one as it showed his humanity and wryness so well. Towards the end, he shows Ward Bond that his wife selected a new wall paper for home, and sent him a sample (I keep imagining the wife, of course, is Myrna Loy, but that is besides the point). Cagney had a number of films left in the next five years (and two follow movies in the 1980s), and Fonda would have movies and stage work (and a final Oscar for his last film, ON GOLDEN POND) in 1982. But the scenes between Cagney and Fonda were wonderful, with the latter (even when explaining what caused his miserable personality) failing to win audience sympathy. Fonda does knuckle under to help the crew, but his act of defiance (throwing the palm tree off the boat) ends his deference to this tyrant. It is typical of Cagney's acting gifts that he balances the comic and ruthless aspects of his villains. When he finds the palm tree destroyed he starts screaming the line in the Summary Line above. As for Bond, besides giving his role as Robert's cargo assistant good mileage, he also makes the word coffee have a disgusting and ironic connotation at the film's end. It was a terrific cast in a great film. "},{"Title":"Sailing on the Boredom Sea, from tedium to apathy and back","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Through the collaborative efforts of John Ford, Mervyn LeRoy, Joshua Logan and Henry Fonda the film version of Mister Roberts finally got made. As in Spartacus a lot of creative differences were aired and there was animosity, but the thing got made and got made well.The film Mister Roberts is the screen adaption of a play that ran on Broadway from 1948 to 1951 for 1157 performances. It was based on the novel written by Thomas Heggen and was directed by Joshua Logan. It marked a return to the stage for Henry Fonda who for the rest of his life shuttled back and forth between Broadway and Hollywood. Mister Roberts became his career signature part.According to the book In the Company of Heroes by Harry Carey, Jr., Henry Fonda because this was his signature part, the part that won him a Tony Award on Broadway, he had a certain proprietary interest in seeing a faithful adaption was done for the screen.John Ford however wanted to put his own individual stamp on the picture as he always does. Fonda and Ford had done six films together before 1948 and Fonda was a willing pupil. But after the acclaim he got for this play Fonda was no longer willing to respond to Ford's direction dutifully. This led to an ugly clash on set and Ford leaving the picture. The direction was taken over by Mervyn LeRoy officially, but Joshua Logan came over from Broadway and in the background Henry Fonda himself directed some of it.There are certainly enough Ford touches to recognize the film as a Ford product. But Fonda kept the essence of Doug Roberts as the average man doing a disagreeable task, serving as a buffer between the crew and the tyrannical captain. He makes life somewhat bearable for the crew of the cargo ship he's the executive officer. And like James Stewart in It's A Wonderful Life, Fonda also has to be shown just how important his contribution to the morale of that ship is.And what a boss they have. The role of the Captain is a very difficult part. Though there are certainly elements of comedy with the captain, James Cagney never allows the captain to become a figure of burlesque. It's a very difficult tightrope to walk, but Mr. Cagney brought over 30 years of professionalism to that part. During the scene of the cabin confrontation with Fonda, Cagney does go into his background, going to sea as a kid, doing a lot of menial jobs and rising through his own efforts in the Merchant Marine. We get to understand Cagney, but we never sympathize with him.Even though Mister Roberts is a military setting, the themes are universal and that is why I think it got the popular acclaim it did. I think most of us in our lives as workers have occasionally had to work in settings where the boss was a tin pot dictator, using and abusing his position of authority. And maybe we've also had immediate supervisors who did buffer between the employer and the workers. I'm sure that applied to just about anyone who ever had any kind of work history.What allows Cagney to become the little martinet that he's become is the fact that the cargo ship is in the backwater of the war. You do kind of wonder what might happen if the ship was ever a target of some Japanese submarines or airplanes. He and the man are bored, but he's in the position of authority. Mister Roberts is the only film I know that ever made boredom a component of a successful production.William Powell who was a player for over 40 years on stage and screen put a cap to his career as Doc, the ship's medical officer and confidante of Fonda. John Ford never met a doctor he didn't like and I'm sure that part might have attracted him to the play. From Arrowsmith to Stagecoach to Seven Women, Ford's doctors are all kinds of characters, but they are all wise and offer good counsel on all subjects, not necessarily medical. And the collaborative efforts of the creators netted for Jack Lemmon his first Oscar as the Best Supporting Actor of 1955. Lemmon is a nice man of admittedly limited character as Ensign Pulver. But his stay on the ship shows a dramatic growth in character as we see in the finale. The crew is populated by a mostly Ford stock company characters. In fact the only other player besides Fonda from the original Broadway production to repeat his part is Tige Andrews as one of the crew. It's with them that we see the real Ford touches. Note that horse whinny that Ward Bond uses when the visiting nurses led by Betsy Palmer come to the ship at Captain Lemmon's request. Bond did the same thing in My Darling Clementine to a passing Linda Darnell.Despite a difficult birthing, Mister Roberts has become an American classic and will be so as long as we have a planet. "},{"Title":"Nothing but good","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is one of the Best films I have ever seen..I was in the Navy and there was a lot of realism to the movie. Not to mention the wonderful performances by a 1st class Cast.. To put James Cagney, Henry Fonda, Jack Lemmon, Ward Bond, and the great William Powell all in one Movie, you couldn't miss having a Classic Film..A suberb Film and Terrific cast and writing, make this my all time Favorite.. "},{"Title":"From tedium to hilarity and nobility","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Watching this again many years after I first saw it, I expected to be disappointed. After all, the great films of our youth sometimes turn out to be something less than we had imagined. But Mister Roberts does not disappoint. This is one of the gems of the American cinema, a poignant comedy featuring a multitudinously clever and delightful script by Frank Nugent and Joshua Logan from a novel by Thomas Heggen made into a play by Logan and Heggen that ran for many years on Broadway. The movie features sterling performances from Henry Fonda, James Cagney, William Powell and Jack Lemmon. Fonda is particularly brilliant in the kind of role from which legends are made. (He also played the part on Broadway.) You can take all your John Wayne classics and toss them overboard with the Captain's palm tree. Henry Fonda as Lt (j.g.) Doug Roberts, cargo officer of the USS Reluctant, shines forth as the noblest hero of them all. He is a quiet, strong, fair, courageous man in a story sure to mist up your eyes even if you're watching it for the twentieth time.Jack Lemmon won a supporting Oscar for his performance as Ensign Pulver, a kind of lazy, but slyly resourceful Walter Mitty type who talks a great game but never follows through... James Cagney is the Captain, a sour, resentful man who mercilessly badgers Mister Roberts and grossly neglects the morale of his crew. He is just perfect. The way he bellows Mister Roberts! or way he trembles out the line, Mister...Mister...this time you've gone too far delights the audience. William Powell, in his last film, plays the ship's wise and ever diplomatic doc with graceful precision.Marty (1955) starring Ernest Borgnine, a kind of politically correct (for its time) love story about ordinary folk, won the Academy's honor for best picture in 1956, the year Mister Roberts was nominated. Henry Fonda, in perhaps his most beloved and certainly one of his finest performances, was not even nominated. Incidentally, Hollywood legend John Ford directed, but fell ill and Mervyn LeRoy--no slouch himself (e.g., The Bad Seed, 1956; No Time for Sergeants, 1958, etc.)--finished up. There are a number of memorable scenes in the film, the kind recalled with delight. My favorite involves the crew, their binoculars and the nurses. I also loved the careful concocting of the scotch whiskey by Doc. The weekly letters requesting a transfer, the Hoot Gibson films we (thankfully) never see, the ever worshipful palm tree, Pulver's marbles in a tobacco tin that he shakes in Roberts's face, vowing to prove his manhood by putting them in the captain's overbin, his firecracker, his If I could be with you/One hour tonight/To do the things I might/I'm telling you true/I'd be anything but blue, the giddy nurses, and the infamous liberty are other unforgettable bits. But more than anything, what makes this a great movie, are the indelible characters so very true to our experience, and how nicely they meld and contrast.This is, along with From Here to Eternity, Das Boot, The Bridge on the River Kwai, The Caine Mutiny, Stalag 17, and Twelve O'Clock High, among my favorite movies to come out of World War II. What sets Mister Roberts apart is the humor born of the boredom, frustration, and tedium that most truly characterizes life in the service. In this regard I recall a saying that goes something like this War is filled with long stretches of boredom punctuated by moments of absolute terror. The crew of the Reluctant got only the boredom.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "}{"Title":"Among the best of Fonda, Lemmon, et al.","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" One of Henry Fonda's very best roles, and I understand, one of his favorites. Apparently, he starred in the play which had a years-long run on Broadway. However, this was before my time, and so I was unaware of that until reading it yesterday on IMDb. While a very good movie, it didn't seem to be as good as I remembered it, from seeing it on television in the late Sixties. This more likely reflects on me, rather than the film. William Powell was excellent in the role he came out of retirement to play, and Jimmy Cagney found an excellent role here for him to play in middle age. He chewed the scenery some, but everyone knows that martinet ship captains like that do exist, and are a literary mainstay, reaching back to Wolf Larssen, Ahab, and beyond. Jack Lemmon won an Oscar for his role as Ensign Pulver, and it seems well-deserved to me, though I don't know who the competition was. I haven't seen the film wherein Lemmon reprised this role, but I have not heard good things about it. The ending shouldn't surprise anyone, although it did me, when I saw this as a kid. Still a darned good movie, deserving of a place in anyone's DVD collection, particularly anyone who is fond of the work of any of the four main performers. "},{"Title":"Good Navy humor film.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Great comedy film that has just the right amount of drama to prevent it from being a total comedy. William Powell is superb in his final film as the ships doctor. James Cagney also is superb as the ships semi-tyrannical captain. He does exhibit a few soft points (but not many) which makes him only semi-tyrannical. Henry Fonda in one of his most remembered roles. Jack Lemmon creates a character that only he can play. The sequel Ensign Pulver was a decent attempt to recreate the original and is a fine film in it's own right but not as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Kind of like a comedic version of The Caine Mutiny.","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mr. Roberts was originally a Broadway play and it was amazingly successful--running for well over 1000 performances. While today this may not seem so amazing, back in the late 40s and 50s, this was almost unheard of and kept its leading man, Henry Fonda, very busy. Oddly, however, when it came to filming this story, the studios fought the original director (John Ford) because they didn't want Fonda. While he was arguably too old for the part, the studio's first choice (Marlon Brando) seems today ludicrous. It's ironic that although Ford insisted on Fonda for the film, Ford himself would be taken off the project due to his totally unprofessional and sadistic treatment of Fonda.The film is set aboard a very unimportant cargo vessel stationed in the Pacific in the latter portion of WWII. It's Captain (James Cagney) is a dictatorial little tyrant who seems to enjoy making the crew miserable--probably due to his own inadequacies. His first officer is Mr. Roberts--a man frustrated to serve under such a man and because he desperately wants a transfer to a ship that has some chance of seeing action. Other important characters on the ship are Ensign Pulver (Jack Lemmon)--a wimpy upstart who talks big but refuses to do anything as well as the Doc (William Powell)--a sympathetic but passive ear for people on board. Pulver is clearly intended as comic relief and spends much of the film hiding from the Captain--who, after fourteen months aboard, doesn't even recognize Pulver as a member of his crew! And, for this memorable role, Lemmon received the Best Supporting Actor Oscar.As for the film, it lacks the excitement of many war films and often has to do with the mundane and petty activities on such a ship. In many ways, it plays like Operation Petticoat--but with even less action and a bit less comedy. It can also be compared to The Caine Mutiny, though this film is definitely grittier and totally unfunny compared to Mr. Roberts. In Mr. Roberts, most of the film is a power struggle between this second in command and the Captain. The crew love Roberts and cannot stand the Captain--and it's easy to see why. The result is generally funny but with some very poignant moments (such as the very downbeat ending). Not a great film...but very, very good.Reading IMDb's trivia further solidifies in my mind that although John Ford was a masterful director, as a human being...he wasn't. If it's true that he slugged Henry Fonda, it would fit in with a lot of the information I read about him. Despite today being admired as a great man, he was a horrible person. Apparently, he was so nasty and dictatorial with his family as well. Try doing more than watching the glowing documentaries on the gifted but very flawed man--it makes for fascinating and rather sad reading. "},{"Title":"Tremendous cast that deserves a wide-screen performance","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I recently saw Mister Roberts for the first time in a theater, part of a double-bill with Twelve Angry Men. The latter is one of my all-time favorite movies, but I've always had reservations about Mister Roberts, in large part, I think, because I'd always seen it in pan-and-scan on AMC instead of the original CinemaScope perspective of the original. Well, even on a movie screen, I think some of the scenes had to be chopped (or Mervyn LeRoy just liked including William Powell's shoe in a screen-shot, but not the rest of him) but I enjoyed this movie much more in a theater than on a TV screen. For one small example, I'd never noticed the detail of the warships passing by during the opening credits before.The story of Mister Roberts is a bit melodramatic for my taste -- after all, it started out on Broadway -- but it doesn't matter because you have five huge headliners to carry it, all at different stages of their careers -- William Powell in his last feature film; James Cagney, James Fonda, and Ward Bond in their mid-career phases (though Bond would be cut down too young in 1960); and Jack Lemmon in practically his first movie. There is an outstanding photo of these five actors singing together accompanied by Cagney's guitar in the photo gallery. Anyway, Mister Roberts is a college-grad who felt a duty to be involved in WWII, but who had the bad luck to be assigned to a cargo ship that is never involved in combat duty. What's worse, the commanding officer is a petty Merchant Marine who got in the Navy because they needed anyone they could get, and he resents Mister Roberts and anyone else who he thinks looks down on him. Roberts shares a room with Ensign Pulver, not exactly a coward but someone who'd be happy to go through the entire war without meeting his Captain. The ship's surgeon is played by William Powell with the same wit and facile mastery that he brought to the The Thin Man series decades earlier; but you can tell he's not Nick Charles because of his gray hair. Finally, the great Ward Bond is the top noncom in the cargo hold.The movie depends on a lot of stereotypes that feel like crutches to me -- sailors ogling women, sailors getting drunk, sailors going nuts on liberty, etc. The high points of the action involve the interaction of the headliners, or their solo moments. Jack Lemmon's outstanding (and Oscar-winning) performance established him as an up and coming star, and presaged his great work in The Apartment, Some Like it Hot, The Days of Wine and Roses, and the other masterpieces of his Early period. The final scene is one of the best in Lemmon's career.I strongly recommend you find a way to see Mister Roberts in widescreen format. This is a movie, like Lawrence of Arabia or Anastasia, that is just ruined when presented full-screen. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Closing Lines in Film History","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  MISTER ROBERTS (3+ outta 5 stars)Funny, kind of sentimental war movie starring Henry Fonda as the title character, forced to serve on a Navy vessel for one of the worst Captains ever (James Cagney).  Mr. Roberts dreams of getting off the ship, which is devoted mostly to transporting cargo and being transferred to a battleship to do his bit for WW2.  Unfortunately, he makes the Captain look too good... and the Captain refuses to let him go.  Meanwhile, the crew's morale keeps going down and down due to the Captain's incompetence and hardheadedness.  Classic 50s comedy has some great performances... Fonda, Cagney, William Powell and Jack Lemmon are all in great form!  Very similar in style to TV's M*A*SH... in fact, the sentimental finale reminded me quite a bit of a much-heralded episode of that show.  Also has the distinction of having one of the best closing lines in cinematic history It is I, Ensign Pulver...   Ahhh, I can't spoil it and tell you the rest... see the movie for yourself. "},{"Title":"The Stage Play and the Movie","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I was back from combat in Europe when I saw Mr. Roberts on the stage. The dialogue rang true; it had the flavor of the rough speech of military men. This was lacking in the cleaned-up film version. On the stage, the men of The Reluctant often hinted at scatological tidbits with which all servicemen were familiar, and the audience had a lot of former seamen and soldiers in it, accompanied by their dates. I often heard male laughter, then whispering which was followed by female laughter. One more thing The scenes with drunken sailors were believable in the stage production - not so in the film. Whoever did the voice coaching for the movie had no idea of how drunks talk. Having said all of this, I must add that I enjoyed the movie. Watching the four master actors - Fonda, Powell, Cagney and Lemmon - was pure delight.  Jack Lemmon received an Oscar for his portrayal of Ensign Pulver in the film and Larry Blyden was just as good in the stage part. "},{"Title":"Anchors aweigh with a great cast","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I was surprised to read some of the highly negative comments about Mr. Roberts. I couldn't disagree more. This is one of those rare films that I can watch with enjoyment again and again. The movie's humorous and dramatic elements are as fresh today as they were four-plus decades ago. Henry Fonda is, well, Henry Fonda, and Jimmy Cagney and William Powell carry on like capable, old troupers. Jack Lemmon's performance has been a bit overrated (he was much better in Some Like it Hot, The Apartment and The Fortune Cookie) but he was more than adequate as the bumbling, spineless Ensign Pulver. Mr. Roberts was less a war picture than a study in how men survive the tedium and tyranny of an existence where the true enemy is that one person who can control your destiny. Thanks, Mr. Roberts, for a great movie.   "},{"Title":"Henry Fonda at his best","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is the story of how the human spirit is threatened not only by the brutality of war but also, in more subtle ways, by boredom and bureacracy as well as the egos of small-minded people.Fonda and Cagney are wonderful as the battling duo who fight over the morale of the ship's crew. Human sacrifice comes in many forms, and Fonda's character demonstrates them all through the course of the film.Mixing comedy with genuine issues of human dignity, the film is a true classic. "},{"Title":"A classic film that you will want to see again and again.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Henry Fonda plays a cargo officer who feels that the war is passing him by. The one person who stands in his way is the ship's captain played to the hilt by James Cagney. Other great performances come from William Powell as the ship's doctor,Jack Lemmon as the irrepressible Ensign Pulver and Ken Curtis as Dolan,one of the ship's crew.Curtis, by the way, would later play Festus Haggen on the long running Gunsmoke series. This is a comedy/drama that works on every level. Jack Lemmon's performance won him an Acadamy Award and deservedly so. I strongly recommend Mister Roberts.  "},{"Title":"Thanks for the liberty Mister Roberts...Thanks for everything...","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" John Ford's adaptation of the stage play Mister Roberts is one of the greatest war dramas of all time. Somehow by not showing a single gun shot this film was able to capture to essence of the war in the Pacific.Henry Fonda plays Lt. Douglas A. 'Doug' Roberts, a crew member of the cargo ship headed by Cpt. Morton played by James Cagney. These two don't like each other due to the fact the Doug doesn't want to be on the boat and in the war, but since he is so good at his job, Morton won't let him leave. The two keep poking at each other throughout the entire movie.Also on this cargo ship are Ens. Frank Pulver played magnificently by Jack Lemmon who received an Academy Award for his portrayal of Pulver. William Powell is Lt. 'Doc', just Doc. Doc and Doug share many similar ideas except that the war is where they want to be. Doug is alone on that one.What we have here is a cargo ship in the Pacific with nothing happening and no liberty on the nearby island. The men start to get restless and it's up to Mister Roberts to get em' their liberty. What ensues is a great story showcasing what it meant to serve.Not only is this one of the most touching stories of war, but one of the best movies of its kind. Mister Roberts is a timeless classic. "}{"Title":"Classic Satire, About Petty Tyranny and a Man Who Fought It","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is a most moving and peculiar sort of film. Its author killed himself; having read his book from which the hit Broadway play and the film were adapted, I know why; he gave too much credit to 'them, the authorities, the powers, which even in a US whose generals were fighting Nazi and Japanese statists was riddled with lesser forms of the same sort of corruption. But the characters he created, the Captain, here played with verve and near-genius by James Cagney, Doug Roberts, ably and intelligently borough to life by Henry Fonda, wise old Doc in the person of charismatic William Powell and Engisn Pulver, energetically played by Jack Lemmon do not give up, nor despair. the find a way to go on fighting, all except Pulver. The seamen stuck aboard supply ship under a tyrannical and control-freak skipper are denied landfall, movies, rations , whatever he thinks will best show them who is boss. They have been at this endless duty for years; Roberts keeps asking for transfer, and the captain keeps refusing and resenting his act. Finally, to get the men their leave, Roberts is coerced into agreeing to stop countermanding the captain's orders and to stop writing his letters. The symbol of the captain's tyranny is the potted palm he was awarded for the men's work delivering supplies in the WWII Pacific Theatre of Operations. So Roberts snaps one day and tosses the tree overboard. One of the men puts the Capitan on the loudspeakers as he berates Roberts, repeating the deal that had been made. Those who had been angry at him understand why he has been bowing to the captain. He gets his transfer; life goes on aboard ship as before--except that one day a letter arrives, presumably one of those Roberts has been writing. Only this one announces that he has been killed. The men are stunned and saddened; except for Pulver--who marches up to the captain he has feared and avoided for years and turns into Mr. Roberts, fearless and decent and fighting for the men, right before the horrified Capitan's eyes. This is a movie with wonderful scenes--the great shore leave, girl watching through a telescope, life aboard ship, the great shore leave and its happenings, the bomb in the laundry, and the visit by Betsy Palmer and her nurses, during which Pulver accidentally reveals their telescope, and ruins the last of their fun. The film is a bit staid but glows with life. Smaller parts played by Nick Adams, Philip Carey, Ward Bond, Tige Andrews, Martin Milner and others come off very well. And technically the film looks beautiful, as the satirical service noir comedy it is. It should have been in B/W; but aside from a bit of pace here and there, the director John Ford has gotten out of the script by Joshua Logan and Frank S. Nugent and the entire situation  what both had to offer. And that is a great deal; a microcosm of how one man with courage can teach others to stand up and fight tyranny, petty or worse. "},{"Title":" I'd give anything to be on that far-away ship in the distance '","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" If one has ever read the novel  Mr. Roberts  then seen the movie of that same name, they would see very little difference in the film version. Henry Fonda has the featured part which is played well against the antagonist, James Cagney, who has an equally memorable role. The story is about an idealist young Lt. JG named Douglas A. 'Doug' Roberts. Although he serves as Cargo Officer aboard a transport vessel, he secretly yearns to see real 'action' aboard a actual naval ship, preferably a warship. However, his commanding Officer, one Captain Morton (James Cagney) realizes Robert's dream of transferring to other duties, but spitefully chooses to keep him in his unhappy position. The men aboard ship, which includes (William Powell, in his last film), Jack Lemmon and Ward Bond as Chief Petty Officer Dowdy, admire Roberts and decided to help him with a secret plan. The movie itself is a wonderful, but dramatic portrayal of naval personal who dream of going into action, despite the risks associated with their decisions. The audience should be prepared for some tender and poignant pathos. Recommended to all Fonda and Lemmon fans. **** "},{"Title":"Mister Roberts","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" From directors John Ford (My Darling Clementine, The Quiet Man, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance), Mervyn LeRoy (Little Caesar, I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang) and uncredited Joshua Logan (South Pacific, Camelot, Paint You Wagon), it was purely because I found out that one of the leading actors won the Oscar that I watched this, but I hoped it would be great too. Basically the USS Reluctant, nicknamed The Bucket, is the World War II re-supply ship serving in the South Pacific, and working on the ship is cargo officer Lt. JG Douglas A. 'Doug' Roberts (Henry Fonda). The war is coming to an end since the Germans have signed the surrender, but in the ocean the war seems to keep going, and Roberts feels that it is passing by and he will never see any action. Wanting to feel like he is worthwhile and experience new things he constantly requests Capt. Morton (James Cagney) to be transferred to a combat ship, but the Captain knows he cannot let one of his best officers in his crew. Roberts has a strong friendship with many of the zany members, including Ens. Frank Thurlowe Pulver (Oscar winning, and BAFTA nominated Jack Lemmon) and Lt. 'Doc' (William Powell), and he also helps them cope with the Captain's very strict commands, including not letting them ashore for almost a year. Eventually Roberts does manage to persuade Capt. Morton to let the men go ashore, but in return he must carry out orders without comment or objection, and obviously he may consider a transfer. The men do think that Roberts has given in to the Captain's reign, but they do find out what he was able to do for them, and they return the favour, meaning that by the end of the film he is able to go his own way, and Pulver becomes the new pain in the Captain's neck. Also starring Betsy Palmer as Lt. Ann Girard, Ward Bond as Chief Petty Officer Dowdy, Philip Carey as Mannion and Nick Adams as Reber. In the title role Fonda is really good at being both laid back and objectionable to the thundering moments from Cagney, and of course Lemmon nearly steals the show with his fantastically Oscar winning eccentric physical and vocal laughs, I will admit there were moments where I lost track of the story, but the actors and characters were great, the Second World War setting and stuff is interesting enough, the visual and dialogue based jokes are funny, and overall it is an enjoyable comedy drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Sound. Jack Lemmon was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Very good! "},{"Title":"A movie honoring all those who fought -- in boredom or battle","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is the sort of movie that Americans take for granted, but that in China would get you thrown in jail -- for watching it or making it. There are other countries in Asia and elsewhere where a movie like this simply could not be made even today because it glorifies individualism and standing up to authority. I mentioned in my comments on Baby Face how Warner Bros. was the studio that featured rebels and that broke social rules. This is a typical example, although the story would seem tame by today's standards. I'm not sure how it was received at the time, particularly by the Navy, but I doubt it generated a rash of mutinous behavior, in part because James Cagney's character was so thoroughly dislikable that few actual Navy captains could live down to such a standard. Nobody on this Navy ship respects the captain, and they only obey him grudgingly. And it is not a joke. More precisely, they detest him. How many countries would condone such a theme? The first time I saw this was as a youngster in a 16 mm screening to an audience of old Navy sea dogs (it was actually shown outdoors during a rendezvous on a beach). I have seen it many times over the years, and it still moves me. This is an unusual movie in that it is even more powerful when you do know the ending. And coming to know more about the history of WWII has increased my understanding of what people like this were going through.It's only weakness is that the acting of the secondary cast falls into a stylized form of some 50s movies that is not as realistic as in some modern movies. But Cagney's performance is so biting that you have to remind yourself he really was a human being off the set, and a gentle one, at that. This is a classic example of Fonda's cool, almost detached acting. We see a very young Jack Lemmon who is the precise opposite. And then there is the wise old doctor, William Powell, star of the 1930s, who retired after this film, who turns in a masterful, moving performance. He is the one who brings the most emotion to his role. With these four stars we see four different styles of acting, and strongly contrasting personalities, another mark of the individualism that makes this movie interesting. We also see some of the John Ford stable of actors Ward Bond and Ken Curtis, who put in very different performances than were seen in Ford's Westerns.I have seen so many foreigners ripping apart any American war movie, and I can hear their litany more American patriotic propaganda, makes it seem like America won the war by themselves, doesn't give any credit to England or ______ (fill in the blank) for actually defeating ______ , etc. Well, in 1955 I assume Hollywood was making Mr. Roberts for domestic consumption, unlike today, when American movies travel everywhere by DVD, cable or internet. Yes, there was a patriotic element to some films back in the 1950s, even though The War was long over. There were people like Mr. Roberts who truly wanted to do their part to help win and end the war, even if it meant volunteering for duty to risk their lives. And, yes, it was not just Americans who fought bravely in The War. So many men sacrificed their lives for freedom, and I do not use that word lightly, because that's what was at stake in WWII. When you hear about the thousand or millions who were in The War it becomes a blur. When you focus on one person, it becomes real. This movie focuses on Mr. Roberts, one individual who wanted to do his duty to his country, but he represents so many others, men who died in the war, or survived, or who just plain endured boring but necessary jobs. I guess that's what Mr. Roberts represented to those retired Navy sailors and officers long ago.While you could say this is a back-handed form of Hollywood patriotism, Mr. Roberts is, in the end, really just an entertaining movie. I'll let all you foreigners in on a secret Americans do not go to patriotic movies that are boring. We go to movies to be entertained. Heck, we even go to movies that are anti-American, if they are entertaining.In the end, the timid Ensign Pulver picks up where Mr. Roberts left off. Watch closely as Lemmon enters the captain's office. Cagney is sitting there reading a comic book. "},{"Title":"Six finger Jake","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Great film depicting the crew of a navy supply boat during WW2. The cast, excellent, the filming, memorable, the Cagney... Nauseating. The story follows a group of seamen on a supply ship nicknamed the bucket as they float through the vast blue passing time. The movie has a fun quality to it, it's by no mean's an action movie. And how about that Henry Fonda, who bears a striking similarity to William Dafoe. Fonda does an excellent job representing the level headed authority, while the ships captain James Cagney delivers his usual you dirty rat paced character. So the boys do their best at trying to find nurses to swoon, and go on Liberty like few other military crews can appreciate. It's a soft bulletin focusing on light hearted out to see laughs, but there are some politics to be addressed as well. Most of the crew are content to be just outside of the Major sea battles, while Fonda laments on how he just wants to get into a company that's doing the fighting. Well he get's his wish, and the movie ends with a bittersweet moment only the old Hollywood could produce. Something i loved about this, albeit concerning giants of destruction, was a shot at the very beginning of Fonda scoping some Destroyers and Battleships on the horizon and lamenting his boring position in the war. The whole film is full of great cinematic stretches and a generally floaty feeling like your on the ship with them. So check it out, one of my grandfathers favorite. Hamm and eggs, i do say good man, nine stars! "},{"Title":"A true classic ..","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" with drama, sentiment, and laugh out loud comedy.Lemmon is wonderful as the irrepressible junior officer, Ensign Pulver, trying to be a normal young man, prove his ability to stand up for himself, and survive in the oppressive environment created by the ship's Captain.Henry Fonda and William Powell are priceless as the older, wiser, and more settled officers seeking to both provoke and settle down Pulver.Cagney is completely believable as the bitter Captain whose idea of having a taut ship is to make sure everyone on board is miserable as often as possible.This film is a series of amusing vignettes woven around Mr. Roberts desire to get off the cargo ship and into the shooting war, where he feels he can make a difference.The ending is poignant in the face of war, and at the same time uplifting in its portrayal of the maturing Pulver.This film is a must see for all serious movie fans. "},{"Title":"Polynesian Song Playing as the Ship enters Liberty Port of Elizium","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" In case anyone is interested, the song that is playing when the cargo ship has entered the port of Elizium is a true native Tahitian, South Seas song. Not a song that was written just for the movie. The name of the song is PAPIO. This music is available on a number of different albums available on the internet, but the version of PAPIO in the movie is the best version of it that I have ever heard. I would like to know if the soundtrack for this film was ever made into a record album. If anyone can let me know, I would appreciate it. By the way, while researching to find the name of the song, I wrote to both Hollywood (Warner Brothers) and so-called music experts in Hawaii. No one has responded with any answers. "},{"Title":"Stand out performance from Jack Lemmon helping Henry Fonda to get a transfer...","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The singular feature about Henry Fonda &#150; an actor I much admired &#150; is that, even when he is in a comedy, he's still very serious. I haven't seen Yours, Mine and Ours (1968), so I don't know whether he was any different. I suspect he wasn't.Anyway, this movie came out of the earlier Broadway play of the same name that Fonda starred in, so he was virtually a shoo-in for this part. As always, his performance was top notch as the Executive Offer (Mr Roberts) on the US supply ship, called The Bucket, at odds with a very feisty James Cagney as Captain Morton who won't let Roberts get a transfer to combat duties. The story more or less revolves around a succession of attempts to get that transfer, all ably assisted by William Powell, as Doc and a very young Jack Lemmon as Ensign Pulver (Jack Lemmon winning the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor).Ensign Pulver mostly supplies the comedy with his attempts to entice nurses to the ship, with his nervous requirement to avoid the captain (who doesn't even know Pulver is on the ship), with his experiments with explosives and with his final confrontation with the captain. For all of that, in this, his fourth movie, Lemmon deservedly won that Oscar.And then there's one of the screen's great tough guys, James Cagney, hamming it up as the captain, with his affected accent (Mis-tah Roberts! Sirrah!), strutting around his little fiefdom and watering his prize possession &#150; a palm tree in a bucket! Cagney made four or five movies after this, but this is the one I remember the most (for this review, however, I caught the movie on late night TV recently).The rest of the cast is good, with Ward Bond and Harry Carey Jnr once again turning up in another John Ford film (did those two, and Duke Wayne, live on Ford's sets?). And, of course, the grand old man of cinema, William Powell (as Doc) injects just the right amount of lecturing to Mr Roberts to get his point across about caring for others...It's a good film for teenagers and young adults to see, despite the World War Two setting. Not only will they learn that such a war existed, they'll learn a bit about that old saw if you wish for something, for long enough, you might just be unlucky enough to get it. "},{"Title":"Mister Fonda","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Not much happens but we meet a motley crew of characters aboard a WWII ship in this genial comedy-drama. Cagney is amusing if one-dimensional and cartoonish as the ship's captain. Powell, in his last film role, is wonderful as usual as the ship's doctor. As the fast-talking, somewhat neurotic Ensign Pulver, Lemmon won an Oscar and would go on to play variations on this character throughout his career. However, the film belongs to Fonda and he is excellent recreating the title role that he had played on the stage. Supposedly, Fonda and Ford, who had teamed up for so many great movies, had a falling out during the filming, with LeRoy replacing Ford. "},{"Title":"The Best Ever","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is, very simply, the best movie arising out of Amerian naval service ever made (repeat, EVER MADE . . . ) and moreover, its appeal extends well beyond that particular theme. Practically any adult who has worked in any organization long enough has encountered the forces of ignorance, arrogance, ambition, and stupidity in opposition to dedication to getting a job done with justice to the workforce that this story explores so brilliantly. A terrific, inspiring, exceptionally entertaining study of the same (leaves, say, NINE TO FIVE in the shade).Bear in mind that before being made into a movie it was a smash hit on the Broadway stage for several years. Consider that it stars Henry Fonda, James Cagney, Jack Lemmon, and William Powell. Remember that it was nominated for Best Picture and that Lemmon won Best Supporting Actor for his role in it. If you haven't heard more about it before now then that is only because by some mystery of contrary fate this film seems to be generally overlooked among the pantheon of great films. It is definitely underrated on the IMDb (it should be well up in the Top 250 list), which compelled me to add this comment and give it 10/10 stars. Yeah, it really is that good.P.S. This is the movie the Cooke family needed to see before they went on Texas Ranch House (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0784948/). "}{"Title":"A Wonderful Classic Film.","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" In the tradition of good old Hollywood Mr.Roberts rates very close to the top of my list of all time greatest hits. Jack Lemmon's first Oscar that was a water mark for his stellar career.Mr. Roberts deals with many of the things that our soldiers must deal with in war. It is as true today as it was during WW 2. Morale, boredom and as shown in the film, grief and tragedy. But yet hopefulness as seen in the change in Ensign Pulver. We fall in love with all the guys on that bucket and when we see a loss of life in war we grieve. I say Hoora for a wonderful classic film.Addendum It just so happens that I am a local actor in civic theatre and dinner theater in northern California. And this coming Monday I begin work on the play Mr.Roberts. I will be playing the Captin. After 35 years of doing theater I still get excited like a teenager when I am asked to play such a great roll. I am looking forward with much anticipation. "},{"Title":"one of my life top ten movies/plays list maker","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" My late father first acquainted me with this classic in the late sixties as it was also one of his favorites. I have watch this gem at least 10 times with as much enjoyment and impacted as i had the first time through as a young boy. It exudes the brilliance of story telling and acting at it's finest and timelessness that very few movies/plays ever achieve. Fonda, Lemon, Powel and of course JC, gave performances of a life time. Imagine Jack Nicholson in the of the Captain, Jim Carry as Ensign Pulver, and so on. Death of a Salesman, A few good men, the grapes of wrath, and so on. If you have never done so, read the book first and then watch the movie. Pray that someday a Broadway revival finds it way to the stage. It is time! "},{"Title":"Have the Courage of Your Convictions Regardless of Potential Consequences","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mr Roberts is without a doubt a movie which captures the altruistic albeit unappreciated spirit of the human condition. I first saw the movie on a Sunday in the late sixties when CBS played it in the early afternoon. The football Giants had a game that day and due to the blackout rule no home games were televised. The message it instilled in me will be with me to my last. The acting was and still remains classic but the lessons on how human beings deal with petty tyrants and life in general while living under their rule lasts forever. It also examines how a man who badly wants to do something noble and decent (dreams of fighting in the war effort) and because of bad luck and poor circumstances is frustrated since he is not in it and will miss out on all the action Yet we the audience, know through Roberts' actions in assisting and shielding the crew from the pettiness of the Captain, that he (Roberts) is in essence fighting the noble cause even though he is unable to see it. My favorite scene in the movie and there are many is when Roberts is asked by Pulver what he (Roberts) thinks of him (Pulver). Roberts being a genuinely honest person tells Pulver that he likes him, but that he (Pulver) is a coward. This paradox upsets Pulver deeply and stays with him till the end of the film. However, Roberts allows Pulver a chance for full redemption in Roberts' eyes. He tells Pulver that if he conftonts the Captain and tells the Captain to his face regardless of consequences the truth about an incident of rage he (Pulver) promulgates against the Captain then he (Roberts) will look up to him as a MAN. It is not till the end of the movie that we as the audience see Pulver accomplish this act and that it takes Roberts' death for Pulver to discover his spine. Even though we do not see any glances to the almighty the understanding of Pulver knowing that today I am a man has been accomplished. We should all live a life as altruistic and full of emotional growth "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a must see for all.  Especially if you work for a surly conniving person.  Cagney draws out the best of the worst in people with his portrayal of an ambitious and insecure captain of a ship.  Fonda, Powell, Lemmon, Cagney, and Bond are excellent.  Many others of later fame appear in the movie.  This is a movie that can be seen over and over and the worst word in the entire movie is crud.  Hollywood will never top this one. "},{"Title":"Let's make some scotch!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Fonda and Powell dabbling in chemistry by creating a crude fake scotch to help Lemmon stands out as one of my favorite scenes!All for the attention of a nurse he managed to sweet-talk into visiting the ship for a drink of the real stuff which Fonda took earlier to bribe the port director to arrange the infamous liberty stop.The nurse leaves him with the ultimate insult a woman could ever give a love-struck sailor by calling him ...harmless..Ouch!!!That 'cutting' remark would come in handy for her later film role Mrs Voorhies in Friday the 13th!! "},{"Title":"The Four Worlds at War","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is a ghastly hodgepodge. It has four directors Ford, Logan, LeRoy and Fonda.Its so choppy in its being, its hard to tease out who is responsible for what, except for a few bits which don't merge. The John Ford bit is that repellent notion that real men (and for Ford that meant white nonJews) fight recreationally. Hey, its fun, especially if large numbers of the opposition are hospitalized. The Fonda bit is an earnestness that he felt should apply, especially to warfighters. The Logan bits are those you can see which try to place a man in the context of the time, softened by those sailor scamps.So give up on trying to see this as a coherent film. It ain't, and Fonda disavowed it before it became a box office hit.What's much more interesting and easy to do, is to contrast the four acting styles of the four leads. They are equally incoherent because of the weak direction, and interesting because you have four on screen worlds. There are never more than three at a time, but you have all combinations of two and three.Powell is the one that seems the most appealing. His acting style is quite modern. It seems natural, but the timing is so perfect that if you look hard enough you can see great control. This is embodied acting, the kind we'd rediscover with Brando. Lemmon's style is to fill the space around him with energy. Its so completely different. While Powell creates a character that lives in the world of the viewer, Lemmon creates a fictional being but goes more than halfway of the distance to us.The other two are obsolete types today, though still remembered fondly. Cagney is a stage man, pure and simple. Every motion he makes, every expression, is something big, designed to be read from the back rows. Where a crinkled forehead would work in a film, a whole body movement is required on the stage. Cagney gives us the whole body movement. A soul composed of grand dance moves.Fonda is distinct from all the others. His style is the old studio style of developing a single persona that you can use for every film (and most appearances as yourself) and then just color it a bit here and there as the role requires. Harrison Ford, Mel Gibson and Morgan Freeman are practitioners of this today. Its unsatisfactory because it is lazy. It fits the needs of the story to the limits of the actor. In this case, Fonda famously bent the role to his limited toolkit by literally firing the director until he got something that he thought fit what he could do.Now take these four in combinations of two and three and watch these worlds collide. Students of war and that war in particular know that it was a matter of incoherent stories failing to integrate. That's what we have on screen here. Watch this and afterward ask yourself whose world you think you belong to. It can be only one because such simple stories can accommodate only one narrative eye. It'll be a good indicator of your own inner character, I think, and how serious you are about your own life.And isn't that the best of what the best of film can do?Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mister Roberts is a motion picture adaptation of a 1950's era broadway hit. The screen translation was magnificently done. James Cagney (in one of last roles) gave a superb tour de force as the Napoleonic ship captain. Henry Ford's performance in the title role is, in my mind, his finest work ever. THIS is the movie he should have gotten an Oscar for, not On Golden Pond. Jack Lemmon's portrayal of Ensign Frank Thurlough Pulver won him an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor in 1956. Even if you don't like war movies, this is still as must-see! The war is only incidental to the rich human drama played out on the cramped cargo ship. There were many other superb performances from the other cast members.  Although the movie is almost 2 hours long and has a sad ending, it is now, and will always be, one of my all-time favorite films. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, unforgettable performances!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mister Roberts features a great cast of stars directed by one of the best!  Henry Fonda, William Powell, and James Cagney all shine in some of their most memorable roles.  Cagney is magnificent in a different kind of part as the over the top, hilarious Captain Morton.  Henry Fonda is wonderful as the kind-hearted yet strong-minded Lieutenant Roberts.  And William Powell provides humor and sympathy as Doc, his last major screen role.  Last, but certainly not least, newcomer Jack Lemmon shines as Ensign Pulver.  He holds his own among some of the greatest Hollywood actors ever, and walked away with an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.  Brilliantly directed by one of Hollywood's masters, John Ford, Mister Roberts is a movie that is hysterically funny at some times, and heartfelt and touching at others.  It's definitely a must-see, classic film that I strongly recommend to anyone! "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Comedies of all time","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Henry Fonda, Bill Powell, James Cagney, Jack Lemmon, CAN^t hardly beat this TEAM . If you were to pro rate these Guys Salaries to todays actors you would have to pay BILLIONS in salaries for the Quality you would get "},{"Title":"Mister Roberts","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Great mix of humor and drama with Lemmon stealing countless scenes in his Oscar winning performance as Ensign Pulver. The film moves along swiftly and has fun with itself.   "}{"Title":"See this movie!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  It has one of the most perfect casts of all time. Cagney and Fonda are perfect foils, and William Powel and Jack Lemmon just about steal the movie from them. Fonda did this play for a very long time in  New York, so he knows his role like nobodies business. One of the lighter John Ford films, this is one to watch with the whole family. You'll love it!  "},{"Title":"Bittersweet and uplifting journey of crazy events during a war","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is quite the most astonishing film.It is a joy to perceive,that old insanity of men locked together ,and freaking out because of it.The characters do no reflect life,so much as live it.The protagonists ,Jack Lemmon,and Cagney,and Henry Fonda,behave as though they are trapped animals in an unbreakable cage of entertaining weird dramas.Jack Lemmon is so good that it is pointless to compare him with anyone.Henry Fonda IS Mister Roberts,and a fully rounded character at that.James Cagney shows his sensitive and manic side,and is yet big enough to let Fonda and Lemmon strut their stuff.This is one hell of a good movie.What is the movie's  message?No message,just what it is. "},{"Title":"One of the best films you'll ever see.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mister Roberts is tremendous. A brilliantly written, consummately acted wartime comedy drama which offers four legendary actors (Henry Fonda, James Cagney, Jack Lemmon, William Powell) some of the most memorable moments of their illustrious careers. Astonishingly, the film was almost wrecked when original director John Ford had a blazing row with Fonda and fled the production; Mervyn Le Roy came in to complete it, and did so well that the change of director is never apparent during the finished film.It's clear that the story was originally devised for the stage. Crew members aboard a US Navy ship in the Pacific while away the Second World War years delivering toilet rolls, et al, to various islands. One crewman, Mr. Roberts (Fonda) longs to be transferred to a real warship in the action zone, but his transfer requests are repeatedly rejected by the formidably stern ship's captain.The film veers from drama to comedy to tragedy, but whatever mode it is in at any given point, it works perfectly. The four principle performances are top notch, with wicked and witty delivery of lines and believable charcter motivations. Comic moments are timed to perfection, while the sad ending is a genuine choker. This is what cinema is all about! "},{"Title":"UNFORGETTABLE","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies ever made. I like the old ones like this it's a very different war movie. Jack Lemmon's Academy Award for best supporting actor was well deserved for his performance he's an excellent actor I'm very sorry he's gone.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining naval comedy-drama","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Entertaining naval comedy-drama.Lt (jg) Doug Roberts (played by Henry Fonda) is an officer aboard a US Navy supply ship. It is the last few months of World War 2 and the ship is stationed in the Pacific. The ship's captain, Lt Commander Morton (James Cagney), is a hard, mean taskmaster and is universally despised by the crew. Roberts keeps applying to transfer to a fighting ship but the Captain keeps preventing this happening. Meanwhile Ensign Frank Pulver (Jack Lemmon), when not chasing nurses, has some ideas to undermine the captain...Works much better as a comedy than a drama. The military side of things is fairly inaccurate and unrealistic. While directors John Ford and Mervyn Leroy try to make something of the Roberts-Morton feud, the crew's low morale and generally how a captain can bring down a crew, this isn't developed very well. There is very little real tension in the plot.The comedy, however, is pretty good. There are some great slapstick moments and there is a fun tone to the movie. Moreover, Jack Lemmon lights up the screen, and although acting behind the cinematic legends that are Cagney and Fonda, outshines them in this movie. He won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his efforts.On that note, Cagney and Fonda put in solid performances. However, Fonda was about 30 years older than his character, so was badly miscast. "},{"Title":"No One Can Succeed Like Mister Roberts","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Fonda, Cagney, Powell, Lemon. What more do you want? Being a huge fan of all four actors, for me personally this may be the greatest accumulation of actors ever, thus I will try my best to contain my inner fan boy. Not only do all four play interesting characters, but they all share interesting relationships between each other. Fonda and Cagney share a Bugs Bunny/ Yosemite Sam dynamic, with Cagney being a frustrated old captain in a position of power but with no control, with Fonda stepping over everything he does.Jack Lemon's Ensign Pulver on the other hand hates the captain, but out of total shock, the captain likes Ensign. I find this dynamic particular funny as I can relate to that situation of being admired by someone you dislike. However I also relate to the character of Mister Roberts, in how he is stuck in a rut of which he is desperate to escape from, wanting to leave the navy cargo boat and be right in the action of the Second World War. The entire film effortlessly combines tragedy and comedy, with the final scene being one of my favourite movie endings ever. The other scene which always stuck out to me was at the beginning of the film when the men are attempting to get a glimpse of women in a shower and going crazy as hell over it. Would men have the same reaction today because of the internet? Was the prospect of seeing a naked woman more thrilling back then?Mister Roberts would be William Powell's final film, although one of Jack Lemon's first, so I see the film as a passing of the torch between two generations of comedic actors. Originally Powell retired after appearing in How to Marry a Millionaire, but decided to appear in Mister Roberts after reading the script. A much, much better choice of final film. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This movie is an all time favorite for me. I first saw it at an age too young to remember and have watched it many times over(I have my own copy, of course). Its lack of special effects(unless the soap suds can be considered special), The feeling that you could be sitting in a Broadway playhouse even though its a movie, the way it kept my attention without the use of non stop action or violence(are soap suds violent?) and its many great lines make it dear to me. I often use the the James Cagney line who did it? at work when a snafu occurs and my superiors need a target for their fingers(even though this tends to make me a target)! a do a doo a doo a do do do "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This movie is truly one of the greats. The story is enthralling, the acting is top notch, and the characters are truly unforgettable. On a US cargo ship with no battle action called the USS Reluctant, Lieutenant Junior Grade Doug Roberts (Henry Fonda) is an honest and good officer who cares for his men. With him are his two best friend Ensign Frank Pulver (Jack Lemmon) and the doctor of the boat known only as Doc (William Powell). Doug and Doc are good officers who care about their men. This however can not be said for the captain of the ship, Lieutenant Commander Morten (James Cagney). Morten treats his men like filth and hates Doug for just about everything. The dislike is mutual. What becomes the symbol of tyranny in the movie is Morten's palm tree which he guards with his life almost. Doug however keeps the morale of his men up and pressures Morten relentlessly all for the sake of freedom. Although it's a comedy it's also a drama. The characters here are all great and really make the film that much better. Doug is a determined, heroic, leader, the kind of person I strive to be. Fonda plays him perfectly. Frank is a lazy, slacker who in fact just idles his time away in his cabin. He's kind of like Jeffrey The Dude Lebowski in The Big Lebowski. Lemmon also does a good job. Morten is a tyrannical, corrupt, rage monster. Apart from Fonda's performance as Doug, Cagney steals the show. Doc is also a good character who, like Doug cares about his men. I say that everyone should see this movie. It's just amazing. "},{"Title":"A Good Film Considering...","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" John Ford was the brilliant director behind such American classics as The Searchers (1956), Stagecoach (1939) and The Grapes of Wrath (1940). Henry Fonda was the agile lead actor in such classics as 12 Angry Men (1957) Young Mr. Lincoln (1939) and On Golden Pond (1981). Put them together and add James Cagney, William Powell and Jack Lemmon and you have yourself the amiable Mister Roberts (1955), a movie whose backstage drama should have been called Clash of the Titans.Ford had always been known as a tough man to like yet he did have a stable of reliable actors willing to work with him including Fonda and the legendary John Wayne whom he called the big idiot. James Cagney recalled meeting him for the first time and immediately knowing there would be personality concerns saying He told me we would tangle asses. The set of Mister Roberts was made infamous when Ford punched Fonda in the face after an argument. That and an emergency gallbladder operation led Ford to leave Mister Roberts, being replaced by Mervyn LeRoy of Quo Vadis (1951) fame. After LeRoy had finished putting his mark on the film, Fonda brought original play author Joshua Logan in to re-shoot key scenes.What results after all this horse trading is done is a movie that is surprisingly good. Not South Pacific (1958) good but decent enough to pass for nostalgic WWII fare. Fonda stars as Roberts, an under-appreciated junior lieutenant onboard a cargo ship in the middle of the Pacific. He yens to fight with his brethren but is refused multiple transfers by Captain Morton (James Cagney) who sees him as the key to his success in the Navy. Only the wise ship doctor (William Powell) and careless Ensign Pulver (Jack Lemmon) know his motivation to fight the good fight and aspire to help their friend make it to the front.It's hard to tell which director did what to make Mister Roberts the sum of its parts. LeRoy wanted to shoot things how Ford would have and hides his style well. Likewise there is only a handful of interior scenes with drifting camera movements that has Logan's name all over them (Ford used to avoid tracking shots and close-ups).Still the film has the overall feel of having too many chefs in the kitchen. The energy between scenes is jerky overall, most evident when the ship lands ashore for liberty. Actors seem to talk past each other while attempting to convey they're having a good time. Minutes later the scene ends with Roberts standing triumphantly under a warm morning light; then the Captain reestablishes authority. The scenes are cut correctly but lack an overarching theme. We know what Roberts wants yet at this point we should know how he's going to get it. Unfortunately this isn't so. Is Roberts supposed to be pensive, worried or celebratory throughout? Did he feel he won a victory against the Captain for allowing liberty? How does all this relate to his goal? Henry Fonda had always said he was proud of the film but thought seeing the play live was much better. Fonda had been playing the main character for years on the stage and due to being absent from the screen for eight years, likely wanted a surefire triumph to reinstall his box-office appeal. Yet his insistence in adapting the play with only minor changes I feel stifled Ford's attempts to breathe air into the picture.Regardless Mister Roberts is still an interesting film with much to say about the wartime doldrums. Eager soldiers and sailors poise for deliverance and absolution yet are met with a mind-numbing wait. I'm tired of being a lousy spectator, remarks Roberts. Yet while most military men in WWII eventually saw battle, the crew of the U.S.S. Reluctant never got to be on the frontlines staying listless in the safe area of the Pacific. Still Roberts becomes a hero of a different sort and for that we thank the multiple hands it took to put Mister Roberts to the screen.https//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Naval Comedy.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mervyn Leroy & John Ford directed this hit comedy based on the successful stage play that stars Henry Fonda as Lt. Doug Roberts, who is stationed on a cargo ship in the Pacific during WWII. He desperately wants to see some action, but the tyrannical Captain(played by James Cagney) refuses to grant his transfer request. William Powell plays the Doctor, a fellow Lt. who offers Roberts friendship and sympathy. They are both amused by timid Ensign Pulver(played by Jack Lemmon, who won a best supporting actor Academy Award) who has many schemes to avoid both work, and a confrontation with the Captain, which of course is inevitable... Reasonably funny film with good performances does go on too long and isn't always credible, but is still enjoyable enough as a diversion. "}{"Title":"Still gets my salute","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mister Roberts is a unique film where the themes of moral courage, loyalty and the true meaning of leadership are presented with insight and honesty without being preachy. Rarely have these issues been dealt with so effectively in a film that can be viewed on one level as a comedy. In its own way, Mister Roberts is as powerful a war film as Saving Private Ryan, allowing its characters acts of self-sacrifice and grace under pressure that are more telling because they are less obvious. The film is set on board the USS Reluctant (The Bucket to its crew) towards the end of World War Two. Henry Fonda plays Lieutenant Doug Roberts, the ship's cargo officer. He is an effective officer who protects the crew from the excesses of Captain Morten played by James Cagney &#x96; an embittered ex-merchant marine officer. The Captain is obsessed with maintaining the cargo record of the Reluctant, although it has been at the cost of granting the crew a liberty for over a year.William Powell plays Doc, whose wisdom and experience also helps hold the crew together despite the hardship and dreariness of their duties, from tedium to apathy with a side trip to monotony is the way Mister Robert's describes their existence. The final member of the quartet of officers that is the focus of the story is Jack Lemmon as Ensign Pulver. Although he is afraid of the captain, and has managed to avoid meeting him during the fourteen months he has been on board, Pulver continually boasts about schemes to upset and annoy him.Mister Roberts sends requests for a transfer to a fighting ship on a regular basis, only to have them disapproved by the Captain. The catalyst for much that follows is a deal Mister Roberts does with the Captain; the crew will receive liberty in the next port of call, and in exchange Mister Roberts will cease his requests for transfer and defiance of the Captain's orders. The Captain also makes Mister Roberts promise that the crew will not be told about the deal.The crew receive their liberty, and cause so much havoc that the ship is kicked out of port. The captain takes out his anger on the crew but Mister Roberts honours his end of the bargain, causing the crew to feel he has sold them out. Eventually, the crew becomes aware of the deal, and this sets in motion events that make the final half-hour of this film moving and memorable.Fonda had played Mister Roberts for many years on the stage and the role had become like a second skin. Fonda also possessed many of the qualities of the fictional Roberts. Although he was already a successful Hollywood star, during the war he enlisted in the navy and saw combat while serving as an officer on a destroyer.If Fonda's character stands for integrity then Lemmon's Ensign Pulver stands for growth of character &#x96; these two qualities lead to a finale that is as sad as it is uplifting. In 1984 a television remake showed that it was not possible to bring to the project the forces that combined in 1956 to create a film that is one of the most perfect blends of comedy and drama in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Remarkable script and uniformly strong performances","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Having served on an oiler in the mid-60's, this tale of a cargo ship sailing (seemingly) aimlessly in the Pacific during wartime has stuck with me for 50 years. I have long been a fan of both the stage play and the movie because it spoke to my personal time in the service. While the performances are uniformly strong, it is the script that I have always thought was the reason this story still stands up. While those fighting on the front lines are usually the subject of war movies, we frequently forget that there are far more service people working in support that give those at the front the chance to succeed. Having spent time on a support ship myself, I was stunned by how many characters I recognized as members of the crew. With the exception of the Captain, each of these sailors, no matter how small the part, felt like a true reflection of the men I served with. Others may see them as stereotypical, but I do not. The kinship I have felt for the men on The Reluctant continues to be palpable. Based on a book of stories that are, in turn, based on the original author's experiences on such vessels during the war, Mister Roberts continues to fascinate. If there is a theme to be taken away from the overall project it is Mr. Roberts' paean to the crew in a letter he writes. Remember, this is storytelling that allows you to absorb the atmosphere and the nuances of the time and story. Don't expect a lot of action because that is not the part of WWII's story that the film makers are telling. This comedy/drama is firmly cradled in the reality of a time and place only a few of us have gone. "},{"Title":"A Frustrating","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" A comedy-drama about life on a not particularly important ship of the US Navy during World War II...Henry Fonda makes a solid leader (I mean, gee, he played Abraham Lincoln) on board a ship with a selfish, almost hermit-like captain (played effortlessly by James Cagney -- some of his best work, albeit in a small role). Who better to be the anchor on this ship of men lost at sea (figuratively)? And Jack Lemmon... oh my. He really lets his hair down here. He has some great roles throughout his career, but here he just goes the full way to perfection. How does such a character survive on such a stressful ship? Who knows? But he is the perfect comedy relief in what is otherwise too tense of a story. "},{"Title":"A Second Time Around-- Fifty Years Later","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" As I recall, the movie was a 1956 smash hit. Certainly, we high-school boys filled the local theatre, laughing uproariously down to the sobering finale that suddenly reminded us WWII was more than just a comedic backdrop. Seeing the movie again after so many years, my feelings are mixed. I still laugh at Frank's (Lemmon) hyper-antics, the doc's (Powell) droll wit, and the hapless palm trees. Plus, I still like Mr. Roberts (Fonda) and chafe at Cagney's tyrannical Captain Bligh.However, the drunken shore-leave scenes now leave me cringing. The boisterous antics seemed funny at the time, but now seem silly and obvious. Plus, I'm also aware of how such drunken escapades disrespect the local people and their customs and affect our national image around the world. Maybe such a concern seems unduly fussy when it concerns a comedy, but the humor in these scenes is clearly fit for high-schoolers.Nonetheless, what lifts this service comedy above its many imitators is its intelligent sub-text. No need to dwell on the details since other reviewers have spelled them out. But the laughs overlie a deeper parable about earning respect (Pulver), living with boredom (the entire crew), abuse of power plus class envy (the captain), and finally, dealing with war death (the audience). Thus, the laughs have a well-constructed serious side that gives them a point. Unfortunately, this time around I didn't experience the joyous abandon of those innocent high-school years. But there were still plenty of guffaws, along with a new respect for the artistry of the mix. No doubt it's true that people and things do change. Yet I wonder how much, because I still like the movie. "},{"Title":"Sterling turn by Fonda; a fine endeavor by Ford","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" MR. ROBERTS (1955) **** Henry Fonda, James Cagney, Jack Lemmon, William Powell, Betsy Palmer. Classic WWII comedy/drama based on the Thomas Heggen best-selller and Broadway smash by Joshua Logan (who both co-scripted the adaptation with Frank Nugent) showcases Fonda in one of his signature roles as a beleaguered US Navy lieutenant whose eagerness to get in the thick of the Pacific theater is only hampered by his thankless job as cargo/supply manager and the pig-headedness of the boat's captain (Cagney having a field day) as his chief obstacle. Lemmon is memorable in his break-through role as the antsy, on the fly slacker Ensign Pulver; garnering his first Oscar as Best Supporting Actor. A sturdy parable about how one man can make a difference whether at war or peace or at war with himself. "},{"Title":"A Movie About the Thanklessness of Leadership","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" What a wonderful movie! I can't believe it's taken me this long to get around to seeing it.In a bit of convenient coincidence, I happened to be reading The Caine Mutiny at the same time that I saw Mister Roberts, and the two stories are kissing cousins. Both concern the tyrannical captain of a largely obsolete ship in the late days of WWII and the second-in-command officers who try to bring some humanity to the lives of the sailors suffering under the strict leadership. In Mister Roberts, that captain is James Cagney, and the executive officer is Henry Fonda (Mr. Roberts), beleaguered by the notion that he's missing out on the important parts of the war, and that his time aboard a supplies ship stationed in the safe zone of the South Pacific is wasted. The point of the movie, though, is that the world is full of all kinds of heroes, and combat heroes are only one type. There's a valid heroism to be found in simply being reliable and decent, and the kind of person that knows how to be a good leader. It's less glamorous, but no less important or necessary. One of the points that I liked best about the film was the acknowledgement that the hero's job can be a quite thankless one. Mister Roberts is a hero to his men, but they don't necessarily know it -- they easily turn on him when things don't go exactly their way. Anyone who's ever supervised a group of individuals in any context should be able to appreciate the same feeling.Fonda is wonderful in his role, and he's backed by a tremendous cast. Cagney, Jack Lemmon and William Powell fill out the other major roles, and this is one of those instances where an entire cast just clicks -- the chemistry between all of them is palpable.The film gets a bit maudlin and treacly towards its conclusion, and it tries to race through too much plot in its last moments, but I forgive it these flaws, since it did come out at a time when there would still have been an intense nostalgia for and a great deal of sentimentality surrounding WWII stories like this one.Grade A "},{"Title":"I'll Take Care of the Captains Palm Tree","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" John Ford & Mervyn Leroy were both veteran directors when they did this film. Based upon the hit Broadway play of the same name they kept the flavor of the play intact. They did a fine job putting together a fine film.The cast is so stellar, that Jack Lemmon, a talented actor is only a support actor in this film. A lot can be said for the cast performances in this film.It is a very funny film with the circumstances around who was there, & why they were there is very clearly explained with the story line. For those of you with a hankering for a good film, if you haven't seen this one, watch it first before watching the sequel called Ensign Pulver.This is the best one, & once you see this you will appreciate how difficult it was to make the sequel later. "},{"Title":"Okay but not memorable. A lost opportunity","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" When one looks at the blue chip cast, the director and the basic setting, one feels that it cannot be bad and it could be something unique and special. Unfortunately, it falls well short of the high expectations. Paying tribute to the those who toiled in far-from-combat logistical assignments in WW2 was no doubt appreciated by the many who served in that capacity. At the same time, it makes it more difficult to find suspenseful plot material. That can be compensated for with human interactions and great acting. We don't quite get that either. There just is not much to the plot here. In a way, that is part of the point. These characters lives are not interesting and so they make small things into big things. They are trapped, have no other choice and have to create a facsimile of excitement where there is none. Yes, that point is made but it is not enough to sustain a full film and at times, it seems to stretch believability. It could have been a solid subplot in a film that included a lot more. But obviously, they wanted to drive that point home relentlessly even if you were ready for much more. Many scenes drag and again that might be to reinforce the point that these lives are not interesting. At times, the acting, especially Henry Fonda is like a sleep walk. Anything but exciting and not noteworthy either. You see what I am doing here, i.e. making the same point about the film, over and over again. Just as the movie does with its point. None of the other actors stand out. Cagney is the most inherently skillful of the bunch but his character is limited in scope so it is not the best example of his work. Powell is good but has little to do. He comes across as old and tired (again, is that the point?) I've never been big on Jack Lemon but he has had his great moments such as in The Apartment and Missing. Why he received an academy award for this is beyond me. He is quite irritating here and not in a good way. The best picture nomination is a big stretch. Was 1955 really such a weak year? Were people in awe of the cast and John Ford and so eager to give tribute to the supporting cast in WW2? It is a full colour Cinemascope production but those features are NOT powerfully used here. After all, that would make the lives of these people seem interesting! "},{"Title":"Tragic Relief","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The action takes place in 1945, in the waning days of World War II. The Mister Roberts of the title is Lieutenant Douglas Roberts, cargo officer aboard the United States Navy cargo ship Reluctant. The ship's work of keeping the Navy supplied is vital to the war effort and Roberts performs his duties conscientiously and well, but he is dissatisfied with life. This is partly due to the fact that he longs to see combat action, which he regards as a more exciting and honourable, if more dangerous, form of service, and the Reluctant's work keeps her well away from the actual fighting. It is also, however, partly due to a personality clash between Roberts and the ship's captain, Lieutenant Commander Morton.Roberts is not the only person with whom Morton clashes. Indeed, he seems to have a personality clash not only with Roberts but with the whole of his crew (and probably with most of the human race).He is an unpopular martinet, obsessed with maintaining strict discipline and imposing harsh punishments for minor infractions of the rules. He is also obsessed with trying to promote his own career by sucking up to the top brass; a palm tree presented to him by an Admiral as a reward for his crew's performance plays an important role in the plot. Roberts has made several requests for a transfer to another ship but all have been rejected after Morton refused to endorse them, not because he is desperate to keep Roberts as part of his crew but because he is anxious to do a bad turn to a man he dislikes. Much of Morton's dislike of Roberts is rooted in inverted snobbery; he is of working-class origin, and at one time worked as a waiter, and resents the educated middle classes, to which Roberts belongs, for the condescending way in which they treated him. In some ways, Morton reminded me of Humphrey Bogart's Captain Queeg in The Caine Mutiny, another film from the mid fifties about a tyrannical wartime naval captain. The main difference is that The Caine Mutiny is a serious drama whereas Mister Roberts is, generally, a comedy. For most of its length the film is played for laughs with Morton as a figure of fun; the crew flirt with pretty nurses, run riot during a long- delayed shore leave on a Pacific island and spend most of their time trying to do as little work as possible and to get around their hated captain's regulations. One officer, Ensign Pulver, spends most of his time idling in his bunk. Only towards the end does the tone of the film become more serious. Henry Fonda, as Roberts, plays his role competently enough, but I still felt he was miscast. In 1955 he would have been 50 years old, too old for a junior officer, and I felt that the role should have gone to a significantly younger man. The studio (Warner Bros.) apparently would have preferred either William Holden (13 years younger) or Marlon Brando (19 years younger) but were overruled by director John Ford who insisted on Fonda. In the event this proved to be an error on Ford's part as he and Fonda repeatedly clashed on set, even though they had previously worked together on Fort Apache. Ford also clashed with another of the film's stars, James Cagney. This was to be one of the reasons (health problems were another) why Ford was replaced as director midway through filming by Mervyn LeRoy. (Both men were credited). Jack Lemmon rather surprisingly received the 1955 Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Pulver. I say surprisingly because, although there is nothing particularly bad about his performance, he was up against a much better one from Sal Mineo in Rebel without a Cause. William Powell (acting in his last film, although he was to live for another three decades) is good as the kindly ship's doctor, but the best performance comes from Cagney as the bullying Morton, in my view better here than in Love Me or Leave Me for which he received an Oscar nomination in the same year. The film itself was nominated for Best Picture, a nomination which looks odd when one considers that movies as great as Rebel without a Cause, East of Eden and Bad Day at Black Rock were overlooked. This strikes me as an example of two potentially good films being incongruously joined together to produce, if not a bad one, then a mediocre one. It would have been quite possible to produce a good comedy about a wartime naval crew's battles against an unpopular captain. It would have been equally possible to produce a serious wartime drama about a naval officer who yearns for a transfer to an active combat role, despite the increased risk to his personal safety. Trying to combine both stories in a single tragi-comedy evidently proved more difficult. Comic relief can be an effective device in a predominantly serious play or film. The trouble with Mister Roberts is that it tries to do the opposite, introducing tragic relief into an essentially comic film, and the result is that the final scenes strike a jarring note indeed. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" My late Father's favorite movie. Between him and my Brother, they have 50 years of Navy behind them. Neither one ever set foot on a bucket, though. They were both Navy Aviation. A movie like this is timeless. James Cagney plays such a convincing idiotic officer. I was Army Aviation and Air Defense Artillary for 3 years and I have seen my share of moronic officers. Anyone who hasn't seen it is missing out. The ending was about the last thing you would expect. I have seen the movie quite a few times over the years, going back to the early '60's and saw it again last night after a few year lull. Martin Milner as the VERY southern Shore Patrol Officer was great! I would have never guessed it was him until I saw the credits. Festus from Gunsmoke is also in it, though you can't recognize him. No one should miss this one. "}{"Title":"Not a classic, but great Henry Fonda and some odd moments","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I must confess that, as a John Ford fan, I spent the first hour of this film thinking to myself, what a waste of an hour. The plot seemed to go nowhere. It seemed as if Ford had no greater plan than to put all of his favorite actors onto a boat, and see if anything John Ford-like happens. To be honest, for the first hour, nothing much does. The show just drags on. But the second half makes up for the first. Fonda does some his finest acting, his soft mid-western drawl perfectly suited to a man who spends most of the film depressed and uncertain of his present and his future. And he plays some lovely and touching scenes with the crew of the ship towards the end. Henry Fonda will always be to me the great American actor.William Powell is gently awesome as well, playing a wonderfully jaded yet genial doctor, with his perfect enunciation of every line and elegant manners demonstrating the skills of this consummate actor. Yet he and Fonda in their many scenes together complement each other beautifully, rather that fight for attention. Very lovely stuff.James Cagney is hilarious as a fussy, angry and child-like captain, whose anger is never really investigated. An enigma of a character.And now, some short thoughts (1) There are 2 fascinating reprisals of moments from earlier John Ford films in Mr. Roberts (a) Early in the film, when the nurses come on board, Ward Bond, walking behind the lined up nurses, issues forth a loud horse-like whinny; then nothing happens. This is exactly what he did in the monumental My Darling Clementine (1946); there, Bond whinnies as he is crossing paths with Linda Darnell, to which she responds by dumping a pitcher of milk on his head. (b) At the end of the film, at an emotional climax, the camera zooms in on a sitting Jack Lemmon; while zooming, the camera briefly goes slightly and softly out of focus before clearing up again, as it settles onto Lemmon's face. This is wonderfully reminiscent of the amazing moment in Stagecoach (1939) when the camera introduces John Wayne's character Johnny Ringo, there zooming in quickly as Wayne holds a rifle, going out of focus for a fraction of a section before clearing up again. In Mr. Roberts, the effect is also effective.(2) As Dolan, John Ford Troupe actor Ken Curtis does a hilarious and quite good James Cagney impersonation at one point, including a full elimination of the letter r from all words. (3) I never want to see Henry Fonda laugh uncontrollably ever again. It is very disturbing. (4) John Wayne's son Patrick gets his 2nd movie credit here. This film is not the classic that many people seem to think it is, but for fans of Henry Fonda and John Ford, ultimately worth it for the touching and emotional second half. "},{"Title":"Off-Beat Comedy","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" A great cast bring this unpromising idea to life. Henry Fonda does his moral-man-in-crisis routine as the titular Mr Roberts. He's the capable cargo officer on board a US naval auxiliary vessel in the Pacific during WW2. Unfortunately; he's too good. Although he's bored to hell and desperate to fight at the sharp end, his tyrannical skipper - played by James Cagney - means to keep him secure and won't endorse his transfer requests. He disavows the crew any shore leave, raising frustration and enmity aboard.Jack Lemon adds a little variety as laundry officer, Pulver. He's idle, mostly pretty spineless, and looks out for number one.The movie has no particular plot. Almost all of the drama takes place in or on the confines of their little cargo vessel. There's arguments, conflict and small victories. The story and characters seem a little inconsistent at times, but the actors themselves keep the viewer entertained.It's not a work of genius, but it's certainly entertaining. A lacklustre sequel in 1964 called 'Ensign Pulver' isn't worth the time of day. "},{"Title":"Flemish up that line.","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Henry Fonda is Mister Roberts, the bored, efficient, affable Cargo Officer aboard a small Navy ship in the Pacific. He would like nothing more than transfer to a fighting ship. The Captain is the mean and scurrilous James Cagney whose chief aim is promotion and making the crew miserable. William Powell is the philosophical Medical Officer and Jack Lemmon is the boastful, timid, callow Ensign Frank Thurlow Pulver. The crew are experienced and dying to indulge in some self indulgence. They haven't been ashore in more than a year. They hate the captain and adore Fonda.This yarn began as a short novel by Thomas Heggen, so successful that Heggen and director Joshua Logan turned it into a play that seemed to run forever on Broadway, with Fonda in the role of Mister Roberts. After many successful years it was given to John Ford to direct for the screen. The studio thought that Fonda was inappropriate for the part. He was too old and had been absent from the movies for a couple of years, but Ford wouldn't direct the movie without his old friend Fonda in the lead. Ford also cast his usual stock company players in various parts.But Ford and Fonda disagreed about the story from the start. Fonda felt that Ford was pushing the pace, introducing too much lowbrow humor, and he didn't pause for laughs at points at which Fonda knew they were going to come. This actually led to a physical confrontation in which Ford punched Fonda and knocked him down. Ford later came to Fonda and apologized but they never worked together again. Ford dropped out of the production half-way through, claiming illness, and Mervyn LeRoy took over. LeRoy directed most of the scenes below decks.I don't know what the Broadway production looked like but my guess is that Fonda was right about the lowbrow humor. The very first words the viewer hears come from a loudspeaker. Now hear this. Reveille. I repeat -- reveille. The voice is slow, whiny, exhausted. It ought to be funny but it isn't. Other incidents follow that ought to be amusing but come across as simply silly.The movie isn't a failure by any means. It just doesn't hold up well with repeated viewings, nor does Heggen's novel reward a second reading.Yet there are isolated incidents that are, in themselves, funny as hell. Not so much the explosion in the laundry compartment and the slow nasal drone of the sailor reporting it, but the initial meeting between Cagney and Lemmon. Lemmon has been aboard the ship for fourteen months but has successfully avoided running into the captain all that time. Cagney is terribly impressed when Lemmon actually salutes him on deck.Cagney's performance is probably the most admirable in the film. What pathetic, yet comic, bitterness he packs into his explosive explanation of why he hates Fonda and the other officers -- All you college boys! Another memorable, though brief, appearance is by Betsy Palmer as the tough-minded Lieutenant in charge of the five nurses who visit the ship, the target of lascivious intentions of Jack Lemmon. Palmer was my supporting player in the art house classic miniseries, Windmills of the Gods, and she was so nearly perfect that I was almost ashamed that my performance outshone hers. It's during her visit to the ship that Ford repeats a gag from his They Were Expendable of ten years earlier. Showing off his knowledge of the ship and his authority over the men, Lemmon takes the nurses to the galley, tastes a pot of soup boiling on the stove, spits it out, and says to the cook, More salt, Cookie, more salt. The cook goggles for a moment and then dumps in the dirty dishes he's holding.It's a colorful, funny, and ultimately tragic movie. Fonda's character finally gets his transfer to a destroyer and is killed during a kamikaze attack at Okinawa. In an uncanny instance of synchronicity, Fonda himself was almost killed in the same way aboard the USS Curtis in World War II, a seaplane tender. There is a scene towards the end in which the men present Fonda with a homemade medal of valor, and it's quite touching. Oh, it's not John Wayne getting his brand new silver watch and chain from the men of C Troop in She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, but it does capture the unspoken bond that sometimes exists between men whose displays of mutual affection are so trammeled by protocol.If it hasn't held up well with time, if the novel is funnier than the movie because it is more leisurely and has time for the proper scheduling of intimate moments, it's still a movie worth catching. "},{"Title":"Class Warfare","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I know this movie is a revered favorite of most film fans, but in my opinion, it has a fatal flaw. Although it tries very hard to blend pathos and humor, the humor seems to fall into two distinct categories. There is the witty, sometimes hilarious humor that we see between Mr Roberts, Ensign Pulver, Doc, and especially The Captain. Then there is the slob humor we get from the crew, as well as all other enlisted personnel in the movie. I was in the service, and I am certain that most of the morons depicted in this movie, would never be allowed to serve. I don't mind a little moronic humor (I even like the Bowery Boys), but this almost amounts to class warfare. I'm not totally knocking the movie. There are a number of genuinely touching scenes worth seeing, and some of the comedy is priceless, but I think they could have toned down the stereotypes and improved the product. "},{"Title":"Dated and Dull","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" John Ford apparently directed half of this film and Melvin Leroy the other half. It is so lacking in any style that it is impossible to tell who did which scenes.The play must have seemed original in the 1950's, but now it seems like an episode of McHale's Navy dragged out from 1/2 hour to 2 hours. One can also more generously look at it as a 1950's version of MASH without sex or blood.The cast is great, but everybody, James Cagney, Henry Fonda, William Powell and Jack Lemon all did tons of better films.It is a talky play without much action. We don't even see the one big explosion in the film, but only hear it off-screen and see soapsuds ridiculously pouring through the decks of a ship.The more I see of Ford, the less impressed I am. His films tend to be about male bonding, and all the men act like 13 year old adolescents, except for the hero who always acts like a 15 year old adolescent. As in most of his films, women are basically off the radar or just hanging around the edges.Again, the four lead actors are pros and could make reading the phone booth exciting, but the material is geared towards a 1950's middle-class mentality.I think people were saturated with World War II action movies, so making a World War II movie without any action must have seemed like a real daring thing in the 1950's, but it just comes off as boring today.I wish the character of the captain had been expanded. He is just not two dimensional enough and there is a lack of sympathy there. Actually, the film doesn't make sense in that the Captain is actually saving Robert's life by denying him his request to be a hero. Ensign Pulver's and the crew's anger at him seems unjustified. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining and intelligent film","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I must compliment the four leads. Henry Fonda, who plays the title character, develops a strong character. William Powell, in his last film role, goes out with charm. James Cagney is marvelous as the film's antagonist - he may be cruel, but the film develops his character so that we have some understanding of his attitude. Best of all is Jack Lemmon. I don't know if he was ever better.The film has a couple of flaws along the way, the biggest being those scenes of the sailors running wild. The film goes far overboard during these scenes, such as a sailor driving his motorcycle (well, it couldn't have been his) into the ocean, or a bunch of sailors beating up officers of the US Army. Mister Roberts looks at them and basically says, Oh, those lovable scamps. No, they were evil. When they are punished after that shore leave, THEY TRULY DESERVED IT! I did not feel sorry when Cagney punished them so harshly or when Fonda carried out Cagney's orders. Also, the final scene, where Lemmon encounters Cagney for the first time, ought to have been played for drama, not for comedy. Still, the film is very worth seeing. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not The Comedy I Expected","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I only saw this once and it was quite awhile ago but I remember being very disappointed for two main reasons (1) - I got it because I wanted to see a good comedy and it wasn't very funny; (2) the great cast of James Cagney, Henry Fonda, Jack Lemmon, William Powell, Betsy Palmer and Ward Bond made me anticipate a super movie.Well, the drama in here - particularly at the end - was it far more pronounced and effective than the comedy was throughout the 123 minutes. The story started slowly and got better as it went along, finishing strong but overall, with a cast like this, it should have been much better. If you are looking for a lot of laughs, you'll be disappointed. If you want more of drama and like the slowness of '50s films, you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"William Powell is great; otherwise, this is a very flawed movie","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" William Powell is, as always, wonderful. His acting is beautifully understated. I wish you could say the same for Henry Fonda and Jack Lemmon. Such overacting and theatrics. And they don't seem to know how to talk in a normal tone of voice. Perhaps they could have shut up for a few moments and listened to how William Powell does it. There are so many boo-boos and ridiculous set-ups in this film. For example, everyone gathers around to hear Mr. Roberts' letter to Pulver. But they continue to crouch around when he moves on to read a letter from his friend. Why would they care? Well, because the letter from the friend contains big dramatic news, so they have to be all clustered around so we can see them look shocked and grieved. So phony.And Navy enlisted personnel who break into the colonial governor's mansion and damage property would not just be escorted back to their ship. That's just silly. "},{"Title":"Soiled Cargo","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" As someone remarked here it's not always possible to revisit a film you watched several years ago and extract the same full measure of enjoyment out of it because the alchemy of the years between is inclined to tarnish it but Mr. Roberts for the most part does retain its luminescence so that what you originally rated 10/10 has slipped to perhaps 8 or 9. Much has been made of the fact that John Ford was the original director and this is evident by the likes of Ward Bond, Harry Carey Jnr and Duke Wayne's son, Patrick in supporting roles, all three having strong connections to Ford and while they don't necessarily enhance the film neither do they impair it. It's very much an actor's movie and it's especially rewarding to see three of the finest of the Old Guard - Hank Fonda, Jimmy Cagney and Bill Powell, handing the torch on to the best of the next generation in Jack Lemon. All have - and make the best of - outstanding moments and though difficult to select one out of the four for me Bill Powell just shades it by the tiniest margin. With acting of this calibre it's immaterial who directed what segment and what really matters is what's on screen and now, thankfully, DVD. "},{"Title":"pretty funny","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" What a wonderful piece of entertainment. My parents were very fond of this movie, some of whose lines made them giggle for 40 years. I grew up hearing my father intone Now hear this... Now hear this before he told us to clean our rooms, or do some similar chore. I had no idea where it was from.Because the roster includes two actors I never cared for (Lemmon and Fonda) I'd been avoiding it. But both of them are perfectly cast, and absolutely terrific in this. Fonda is very good as the very decent, beleaguered & selfless cargo officer, under the thumb of the retched Jimmy Cagney who only understands rules, power & ambition. Lemmon is a hoot. He has a terrific stupid ditty he cheerfully sings throughout the movie, never more funny than when he's covered with soap suds. I really appreciate the camaraderie of WW2 films; as it turns out there is no stronger movie made about camaraderie. Although it started as a play, it was opened up beautifully, suggesting what South Pacific might have been if Josh Logan hadn't ruined it. The location shooting is rarely swapped out for junky in-studio inserts. The Cinemascope compositions lend verisimilitude to the whole thing. And it was also spared the usual over production of the prestige picture. It's a miracle.And somehow Red Buttons (that annoying ass) missed being cast in a major movie of the 50s. What a treat not to see him here. "}{"Title":"Slow starting, but strong finishing comedy-drama...","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  1st watched 11/30/02 - 7 out of 10(Dir-John Ford & Mervyn Leroy) Slow starting, but strong finishing comedy-drama about a navy cargo & it's crew that are in the 2nd World War, but not in the battle.  Mister Roberts, played by Henry Fonda, is kind of like the first mate, and the Captain is played brilliantly by James Cagney, in a harsh but comic role.  The 1st hour is confusing because the music is played in an overly-dramatic fashion, yet the actors & the action is rather comedic in nature.  There are also many scenes with obvious voice-overs involving mostly Ensign Pullver(played by Jack Lemmon), then right when you're about to write this off it makes a tremendous turn-around probably mostly due to the performances of Fonda & Cagney.  In the last hour, there are moments of tremendous hilarity and moments of tremendous calamity and we feel both of them.  All in all this is very similar to what we saw two decades later in the TV-series MASH(in a different war, with a different point of view) but the same combination of hilarity & calamity in a setting off of the mainstream battle.  The similarities are very intriguing but both stand out for a unique viewing experience of their own. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the liveliest, most genial service comedies ever made...","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Once in awhile MR. ROBERTS creaks a little and shows its stage origins, but most of the time we're so involved in the story of Lt. Roberts who tries to be a moral compass for the bored men aboard a cargo ship that never sees any action during World War II. HENRY FONDA reprises his stage role and does a good, if not inspired job as the title character.But it's really JAMES CAGNEY as the martinet captain who bellows out orders or harsh punishment over loud-speakers, and JACK LEMMON as Ensign Pulver, so afraid of the brash captain that he keeps a low-profile until the final hilarious moment when he does finally confront the man. It's all done in a typical service comedy way, the laughs piled up between some drier moments of stage dialog to establish the characters.Although there's a tendency for the film to drag in spots, overall it's an exuberant version of the hit play. Fonda has done better work in a lot of other films, so it's surprising that he comes across as rather dull in the title role. But that's not too much of a distraction when the brilliant supporting cast carries much of the film.Uneven and a bit too long, it nevertheless delivers a good quota of laughs. "},{"Title":"**SPOILERS**  Hell, it feels like I'M stuck on this ship!","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I came across this movie last night on Turner Classic Movies and, I must say, it's the most overrated and sluggish pile of garbage I've seen in a long time.Henry Fonda plays a dreary old sad-sack who complains constantly about being stuck on a Navy supply vessel during World War II. In the first ten minutes, it is immediately apparent that this is going to turn into a I wanted to go, but now I can't bear to leave kind of story, but the movie delays this as long as possible, thinking it's clever. Instead, waiting for the inevitable is just as tedious as everything else in this movie. The fellow members of Fonda's crew all act like a bunch of Ritalin-infused five-year-olds on Christmas morning, each with insufferably flamboyant personalities. Yeah, I get it movie, they all want to go on shore leave because the captain's a jerk. I get it. Not a single one of the crew members is interesting, although one of them does sound exactly like Hank Venture from The Venture Brothers.Speaking of Adult Swim, one redeeming feature of the film is when James Cagney's character of The Captain acts out a scene later depicted in Sealab 2021 entitled Happy Cake. Captain Cagney's freaking out about someone throwing his prized palm tree into the ocean is hilarious as, almost line for line, Sealab paid homage to it when Captain Murphy's toy oven is also thrown into the sea. I also liked the split second when it looked like Jack Lemmon was going to sink his own ship, but I was pretty ticked to find out it was a lame deluge of laundry bubbles. And, at the end of the film, it was actually pretty hilarious when, after all his complaining, Henry Fonda finally makes it onto a destroyer only to get killed drinking coffee.Other than that, the film is not worth the more than two hours of your life it will consume. To its credit, the film does effectively make YOU feel like you're trapped on this ship - which members of the film community will chirp about being brilliant for being metatheatrical or whatnot - but keep in mind that such people forget that films are supposed to be entertaining, and not every story demands it play out like a Greek drama.And that's the other problem with this movie PACING. Even if your movie is about someplace where nothing happens, pacing is still important. Otherwise you may as well just replace the seats in theaters with beds. Consider Duel or Cast Away, for example, where one character in absolute solitude can still be captivating. They're both flawed movies, too, but I must say they conveyed their messages much more effectively. Mister Roberts is the antithesis of this model, lumbering and moping along until it fizzles at the finish. It's a musical with no songs. It's Clerks without the profanity. It has Return of the King Endless Ending syndrome, moving from the natural ending after they get kicked out of port to MORE pointless scenes of little to nothing happening. If anything, it's more like Ocean's 11, featuring an impressive cast just standing around doing nothing. That being the case, Henry Fonda is certainly the film's George Clooney.Yeah, I know what you're thinking. Twentysomething internet poster doesn't know squat about classic movies and needs Michael Bay to make things interesting. Well, let me tell you this To Kill A Mockingbird is an awesome movie. 12 Angry Men is an awesome movie, and Henry Fonda was awesome in it. Casablanca was a REALLY awesome movie. Mister Roberts, on the other hand, is an insult. "},{"Title":"A stage play","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mister Roberts was a stage play with Henry Fonda and the movie is filmed very much like a stage play.The script is pretty much a comedy. Even James Cagney, when he is supposed to be angry, seems to be suppressing a smile.I'm not fond of any of the Fonda family so Henry Fonda's performance seems dull.Jack Lemmon is the comic relief but he's not nearly as good here as he is in Some Like It Hot.William Powell's last film and he seems very tired in it.The scenes with the female nurses are sure to make you laugh or cringe.For a much better film about a screwy ship captain see The Caine Mutiny with Humphrey Bogart. "},{"Title":"Doesn't age well...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This movie was made the year I was born and I used to love it as a kid.  I saw it not long ago on cable and, frankly, it just doesn't age well.  The type of comedy, the actors and the direction seem to be irretrievably outmoded...unlike other great older movies like the Maltese Falcon, Sunset Blvd. and His Girl Friday.  Kind of sad...but the story might work as a re-make. "},{"Title":"Total disaster of a movie...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This movie was embarrassingly bad...I went to see it last night thinking from the cast it would be a great film and was thoroughly disappointed...the jokes are truly awful, as is a lot of the acting, and the film essentially goes nowhere and has no plot...the lines that were supposed to be emotional and grand just made me cringe...I literally spent the last hour of the movie just cringing and waiting for it to end. Spare yourself the misery! "},{"Title":"Heavy-handed and overrated","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Comedy-drama adapted from the popular stage play about WWII cargo ship officer who butts heads with his pig-headed captain. Unbearable to look at, with stagy action, inert cinematography, and a colorless production, not helped by Henry Fonda's rote performance--he performed the role on stage, perhaps too many times to bring anything fresh to the new translation. Jack Lemmon gives the proceedings a touch of whimsy as wacky Ensign Pulver (for which he won a Supporting Oscar), and William Powell is amiable and low-keyed (as always) as the lieutenant, but James Cagney's overacting as the captain is insufferable. A sequel, Ensign Pulver (without Lemmon) followed in 1964. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Another Stage Play Looses Translation","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The original stage play has been re-enacted for your viewing pleasure if you find yourself searching for 1955 homo-erotic films hiding in the celluloid closet. Not a bad film yet the editing is choppy and sometimes loses continuity and flow.Mister Roberts, is a film you add to your collection based on the cast members and not it's theatrical/film value. There are distinct Operation Petticoat, nuances from the nurses appearing on the Rust Bucket. Some scenes by the crew are so over the top you would swear they were (and may be) first time film appearances.I had the impression some of Henry Fonda's scenes were performed under the influence of certain low grade tranquilizers. Also noteworthy are the throw pillows! If you are offended by the 1950s lack of political correctness avoid this film unless you live to be victim of other peoples' actions & statements. "},{"Title":"Sorry folks - thought it a poor depiction","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Sorry, but this movie is an awful depiction of the Navy, and there is not a realistic character to be found. Supposedly a supply vessel, they didn't provide anything of use to anyone. Jimmy Cagney chewed every bit of the scenery except his tree chained on the deck by his cabin. No officer could have the absence of duties as Jack Lemmon's Pulver. Henry Fonda appears to have overdosed on tranquilizers, and Mr. Roberts is perhaps the worst officer ever absence of leadership and an insipid fraternization with the crew, tolerating the complete slackness of Pulver, and he (Roberts) also never seemed to do any work, either. No ship of this size would have a doctor assigned, and William Powell looked as if he were sleepwalking through the role. On a broader view, the Cagney portrayal may be the most sympathetic, and the best officer of the lot. After professing tiresomely about wanting to become a part of the real action, the contrived scene of reading the letter of Roberts' subsequent demise has his death due to having been unfortunate to be relaxing with a cup of coffee in the wrong place. Finally, the heroic climax of the story is supposed to be the slacker Pulver's charging topside, to yell at the Captain, and throw his tree overboard (wow). Perhaps the most overrated story of all-time. "},{"Title":"over-rated","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  sorry but this film is not worth it's 8.0 rating.  it is cute, with some giggles and gags, and the 4 actors are fine, but it never hangs together as a piece.  the nobility of Roberts in relation to his crew etc. is simply drawn, and not of major impact.  the consideration given to those who do not do glorious, but do merely necessary acts during war is notable, but again not particularly moving.  actually it is hammed up.  Otherwise, the ocean is filmed nicely, but there is not anything to give this movie gravity or great humor.  Cagney steals every scene he is in, and I wonder why Pulver is the name one hears so often?  must be that there was some TV show or something later.  All 4 actors have much more impressive work more worth viewing, as does Ford.  this pic probably deserves more like a 6 or 6.5 weighted average.  we give it a 5 for balance. "}{"Title":"Overrated and Dated","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This has to be one of the most overrated and dated comedies of all time. Henry Fonda and William Powell perform admirably, but how Jack Lemmon (whom I generally love to watch) won any awards with his relentlessly obnoxious performance is beyond me.  The supporting cast is uniformly awful and most of the time the jokes fall flat.  Somebody should have reminded these guys that they were being filmed and not playing to a Broadway audience.  The sudden bursts of volume and overdone facial gestures are out of place on the big screen.In all fairness, I did chuckle a few times.  Otherwise, I was bored or annoyed.  Recommended only for children and those who feel a nostalgia for the forties. "}]