[{"Title":"Don't Deliver Us from This Eva!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Crawford appears to have a field day in this extraordinarily engrossing, overheated family melodrama. Ranald MacDougall's script is like Tennessee Williams without the poetry or the subtext. And it's like Douglas Sirk without the sumptuous color or the inner turmoil it disguises. Eva Philips is possessive, controlling, and self-absorbed, and Crawford plays her to the hilt. What more could any fan ask? In one memorable scene, her cousin asks what the doctor said (about Eva's troubled child). Such extravagant things! responds Eva, Did you see how the doctor trembled as he spoke to me? You'd think he'd never seen a beautiful woman before! Moments like these are pure gold (or should it be 'honey'?) in this wondrous opera-without-singing.The rest of the cast consists of some more than adequate talent Barry Sullivan (Eva's booze-soaked, trampled husband), John Ireland (a former lover, still caught by her stinger. He gets one of the best lines Whatever you are Eva, you're on wheels!), Betsy Palmer (the deer in Eva's lethal headlights). Lucy Marlow (that starlet from the opening sequence of A STAR IS BORN, 1954) is passable. (In a recent TCM documentary, it is revealed that Crawford really slapped the younger actress with all her might.). Fay Wray makes a brief, but noteworthy appearance early on, a past casualty of Eva's rampaging ego.If you enjoy watching a 5-foot Godzilla in a Jean Louis gown, don't miss QUEEN BEE. "},{"Title":"Quintessential Crawford","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The producers of Mommie Dearest clearly took copious notesfrom the real-life Crawford canon; traces of everything fromMildred Pierce to Harriet Craig to Strait-Jacket show up in thatbiopic-from-hell, but the film it most closely resembles is the 1955cult classic, Queen Bee.Scenes of an imperious Crawford being served coffee in bed;destroying a bedroom with a riding crop (wire hanger?); and herchildren crying out in the dark are lifted directly from this movie;and Crawford's stunning appearances in various Jean Louisgowns--descending a grand staircase, posing in a doorway,preening in front of a mirror--are a harbinger of the dementedfashion show Faye Dunaway would put on in her Crawfordassasination.Like her rival, Bette Davis, Crawford is best-known for villanousroles like this, although neither she nor Davis often played bitches;but the times they did, the performances were so over-the-top, it'swhat we remember them for. Queen Bee is the ultimatelate-period Crawford vehicle; she dominates every scene, evenwhen she doesn't directly appear in it, and her elegant bitchery is amarvel to behold. No one, but simply no one, could throw a furstole over her shoulder like Joan Crawford, and certainly no onecould top her as an obsessive-compulsive, castrating shrew.Crawford herself was happier playing heroines (like the youngwidow of Female on the Beach, or the brilliant playwright inSudden Fear), but she clearly was even more compelling infull-on bitch mode. As cruel, evil and thoughtless as her charactermay be, Crawford handles it with such glamour and panache, yousecretly find yourself rooting for her.  "},{"Title":"A very, very Crawford movie","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    Maybe I'm going out on a limb here, but having seen a great many of her movies, I would say that Joan Crawford was at her bitchiest in this picture. That is to say, bitchier than usual! She tears at the scenery, she tears at the script, and brother I feel sorry for her co-stars, because even though they are also a talented group, they of course don't stand a chance when Crawford's on the screen, which is basically every scene. Although her character doesn't appear right away, it's still obvious from the very start that this is a very, very Crawford movie. The film just instantaneously gives off that omen. The gist of the story is this Crawford is a glamorous socialite who dominates her Southern family and takes great pride in doing so. Yes, we've seen Crawford play this type of role before(HARRIETT CRAIG), but I personally never tire of seeing Crawford getting the upper hand. Though they didn't get along too well in real life, Joan Crawford and Bette Davis had much in common when it came to choice of movie scripts. They both specialized in playing catty, indomitable females, and they both clearly relished doing so. Crawford is at her best in this one. Sure, the script isn't the greatest she's been given, and frankly it's pretty sleazy stuff, but Crawford does wonders with it and manages to turn in her finest performance. She clearly works at the part and isn't simply clawing and nailing at everyone around her. Even though her character is an absolute horror of a human being, Crawford does her best to make her a sympathetic one, and she just about pulls it off! Some people will discard this one as pure camp, but this is a movie that serious Joan Crawford fans like myself will treasure, and no doubt watch over and over again. Terrific!!!!! "},{"Title":"Crawford at her best!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Joan Crawford is in her element here!  As a deceitful, manipulative woman with the Medusa touch she's in her glory.  You get the feeling she's enjoying herself immensely.  Hell, you even get the feeling she's enjoying the costumes!  She tears into the part of Eva Phillips as if it were her last meal, and takes the rest of the cast along for the ride.  They don't make movies like this anymore and it's a shame.  It's good, clean, sinister fun with Joan in control every step of the way. "},{"Title":"Wow is this a good one!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, I am a big Joan Crawford fan and have been since I was 12 (don't ask) and this has to be my favorite film of hers, which is saying a lot. It is so campy and over the top, it's hard to believe that everyone was taking themselves so seriously. From Joan's drag queen gowns (check out the black sequin number she wears just to eat dinner in!) to her bitchy, back stabbing dialogue Carol, don't you look sweet, even in those tacky old riding clothes and Darling, parties are to women what battlefields are to men but then... you weren't in the war were you? Something about drinking... And just wait for the scene were Joan destroys a room with a riding crop. Not to mention where she smears her vanity mirror with cold cream in order to cover her over emoting reflection. This is a camp classic of monumental proportions and one that you will want to watch several times!!! "},{"Title":"Another Joan Crawford Eyebrow Picture","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan does her big eyebrow look again in this film about a true bitch in heat. Here she is an outsider who traps Barry Sullivan, scion of a good Southern family, into marriage and proceeds to make his life a living hell. For that matter, she makes everyone who surrounds her a target for her venom. She is truly a psychotic whose greatest thrill is to destroy everything and everyone within her circle of influence.She has a passion for her husband's friend, played by John Ireland who just happens to be engaged to her husband's sister. After she rides roughshod over those two with tragic results, she starts on her cousin, an innocent who is visiting this Garden of Eden. Probably a big mistake since this leads to further trouble ending in a denouement that you can see coming from a mile away. Very tidy.Is this a good film? Depends if you like Crawford at her histrionic best, chewing up both the scenery and her co-stars. But again, as another reviewer said, you will like this movie if you love Crawford or if you hate her. She's that good. It's one of those soap opera plots that were popular in the 50s and it will hold your interest, if only to see if Joan gets her come-uppance. Don't be embarrassed if you find yourself liking this film......you're in good company. "},{"Title":"Oh MY God!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From frame one, she is EVIL! I totally cracked up because everyone else is dressed and lit adequately,but in each shot, each frig-gin' shot, Joan is in fantastic gowns, jewels, lit fabulously and with just that HINT of gauze, Vaseline over the lens. Same year as Female on the Beach. Go Joan! She chews through scenery like a wood chipper. However her character, originally from Chicago, is intimidated by a southern family..I don't think so. I realized she is the prototype of characters like Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction. The scene where she dares her husband to divorce her is shark-like.Glamorous from start to finish.And poor Betsy Palmer.... "},{"Title":"Queen B she is for sure!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you love Joan, like I love Joan, you have to see this movie. The script, costumes, acting, and music are all A++++. This has to be the baddest girl that Joan has ever played, and the part suits her well; Mildred Pearce pales in comparison to this role. Barry Sullivan is terrific too. Somehow, I get the impression that during the whole picture that Joan is thinking, I'll show that Bette how to play a southern vixen! This movie is the reason that I like old movies; they spent money on this one - the scenery, furnishings, costumes, and jewelry were all old school and to die for. If you see the DVD, the original trailer is a hoot! I fell out laughing looking at the trailer after watching the movie. They show way too much of the plot in the trailer, so don't watch the trailer before watching the movie. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Hell","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I could rave about the fantastic acting and directing. But every scene is like waking up in a real Hades. I mean, these people seem locked into the never-ending strain of having to live with each other, and even worse, with themselves.I disagree with another posted comment which said none of the acting was good except for Joan Crawford. They were all superbly on cue, dynamically intertwined, and their interactions were so genuine I kept thinking I was in the room with these miserable rich people.I kept getting ulcers, and feeling angry, depressed, or panicky with each character interaction. Now and then the sweet-natured visiting cousin, Jenifer, offers a fresh breeze of hope, but wow, how she gets caught up in their poisonous existence. You never know if she is going to save this wretched family, or destroy them; you can't quite figure what she is about.There is plenty of movement, dynamic interplay, psychological warfare and symbolism, and smooth continuity. Every actor surprises you with revelations of their inner selves which they are not afraid to expose, which in every scene stirs up more conflict to work out.I also slightly disagree with the posted comment that the ending was tacked on. In a way it could seem so, but the events leading up to it keep you wondering... was the freshly budding resolution of all their sorrows real? Or just a lot of fake premise that never got to full light? We will never know. But after seeing this otherwise well produced movie,I am determined to live as good a life as I can, if this is what Hell is like! And these poor people are in Hell. "},{"Title":"Long Live the Queen.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This won't do at all sniffs Joan Crawford, surveying a particularly glum cocktail party in her mouldering Southern mansion. I like my admirers to be gay and laughing.I strongly suspect that they're both, Joan, but you don't have to be gay to find this one a riot. Here is a film so camp that even Anita Bryant would have a hard time suppressing a smirk.The plot reads like a bad parody of the sort of thing used to do the thirties, which in itself was a bad parody of the better stuff that Garbo and Shearer did. Mega bitch Crawford stomps around her l'il ol' plantation with more petticoats and more starch than was expended on the entire cast of Gone With the Wind. She tosses off faux-bitchy comments to anyone who'll listen - My you look nice, even in those tacky riding clothes - yet nobody tells the old cow to put a sock in it. Enter a sweet young thing, recently orphaned, and Crawford kicks into high gear, plotting, plotting, plotting.Since Crawford's character exists for no other reason than to make everybody else feel atrocious, its just as well that the rest of the cast are such a gormless bunch. When Crawford asks Do I look fairly human? nobody offers the obvious rejoinder. When she pushes a younger rival to suicide, nobody dobs her in to the inevitable inquest. Its left to her long suffering husband to polish her off in a car accident in a gender reversed scene from Bette Davis' Dangerous, and not a minute too soon.All of the actors seem too awestruck by the antics of the star to register much on screen. Fay Wray has a nice cameo early in the piece as a Blanche du Bois wannabe, a faded victim of Joan's treachery. But we all know its Joan who's really bonkers.A special mention to Joan's gowns, which are a show in themselves. I particularly liked the hang glider affair that she wears at the afore mentioned cocktail party. But my hat really goes off to the one that looks a bit like a moulting Christmas tree. "}{"Title":"Whatever Happened to Mildred Pierce","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, Joan, That hairdo, those eyebrows, hide the children. Someone said she looked like she was wearing 'warrior makeup'. But, we love ya, Joan when you're as bad as you can be. This was before the Joker in the Batman movies.Other reviewers have already laid out the plot but there are a few scenes that simply delight me. There's the one where a seated John Ireland has a telephone cord gently wrapped around his neck by Joan while she's on the phone.In another scene, she is talking to her young niece or whoever she is while semi-reclining on the sofa. Meanwhile Joan has her leg elevated admiring it and pointing her foot in her high heel shoe, somewhat distracted by its shapeliness, I guess.Then, while the young woman and Betsy Palmer are on the floor looking at blueprints of the house Betsy will live in, they don't hear Joan enter till you see her high heel shoe with its ankle strap stepping on the blueprints and ruining their fun.Another delightful moment is when Barry Sullivan, 'Beauty' is in his office pacing in front of his desk where Joan is seated out of camera range while he is trying to tell her he wants a divorce. It's a heavy, serious scene. The camera pans over to Joan who is admiring herself in her compact make up mirror in a wonderfully blasé, Joan Crawford way.These little moments are worth sitting through some of the tedious plot development. There is one scene where Barry Sullivan is having a long dialog with John Ireland in Sullivan's bedroom while he is dressing for a formal dinner. The dialog is one long shot while Sullivan is tying his bow tie, something we don't see in today's movies with all the quick edits. Today's actors don't seem to be able to do a long scene without cuts like in these old movies.I guess Joan didn't mind playing a character that was so nasty that the audience cheered her demise at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Crawford's show all the way","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young innocent Jennifer Stewart (Lucy Marlow) goes to visit her cousin Eva Phillips (Joan Crawford). She meets Eva's alcoholic husband Avery (Barry Sullivan), brow beaten daughter Carol Lee (Betsy Palmer) and handyman Judson Prentice (John Ireland). She slowly comes to realize that Eva cruelly manipulates the lives of all around her.Not well known Crawford film which is a shame because it's one of her best. Crawford pulls out all stops and goes full force as a totally evil vicious woman. She's quite obviously enjoying herself and her incredible performance saves what otherwise is a pretty routine drama. The plot is pretty predictable and all the other characters pale next to Crawford. Marlow isn't that good and Sullivan and Ireland are downright terrible but Palmer was very good and seeing her so young is pretty amusing (she's now best known as Jason's mother from the Friday the 13th movies). Worth seeing just for Crawford alone. I don't think she ever played such a cruel character before or after this one. Purportedly (according to Christina Crawford) she was playing herself! I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"I'm not a very nice person...","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" And you're not, Joan, in this Gothic 1955 soap. Joan's a Northerner who married into Southern aristocracy and rules the Tara-like mansion with threats, sarcasm, deceit, and in one memorable take, a quite real-looking slap at a prettier young actress. That's Lucy Marlow, who actually has what's probably the lead role in terms of length. But the focus is Joan, Joan, Joan, and while her evil-bitch persona is always entertaining--at this point in her career, she'd determined it was the way her fans wanted to see her, and she wasn't shy about pouring on the acid--it's not a very energetic or convincing movie. The children, for one thing. Aside from the fact that they're at least 20 years too young to be Joan's children (and Tim Hovey is an unusually annoying '50s kid actor), their relationship with the parental units isn't spelled out at all. What's their father (Barry Sullivan)'s attitude toward them, and vice versa? And is the ending meant to be, like, happy? And how are we supposed to feel about Jud (John Ireland)--hero or heel? It's like writer-director Ranald MacDougall just wanted to paste together a medley of evil-Joan moments and didn't really care whether the continuity made any sense. There are some memorable images, though, and a bevy of ugly '50s fashions, and the usual fawning over how lovely La Crawford is even though she isn't. That ought to keep you amused through the lulls. "},{"Title":"..Pure Crawford..","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really think that Ms. Crawford (Eva Phillips) kept a bunch of writers on-salary to write these movies particularly for her. Randall MacDougall certainly was one of those ! Can't you see her deciding which lines to keep and which ones to ditch ?? Avery Phillips (Barry Sullivan) was truly good in his alcoholic role - didn't you know the end of the movie would involve a car-accident when he picked up Eva's keys from his desk? I really didn't understand why the niece committed suicide - it was plain to me that Eva had hitched-up with every male in The South. John Ireland (Judson Prentiss) was good in his role, as were Betsy Palmer and all the rest.The star of the show, of course, is the wardrobe Ms. Crawford wears. I recall the TV-appeal they had her to do for poor people all around the world, some time ago. Everyone in the world could have, at that time, been fed if they just hocked the necklace she was wearing. True Crawford ! Poor people, but keep you hands off my necklace !Yeah, the drag-queens really got some fodder for their acts, especially the fabulous Charles Pearce, who did an act about a bitch-fight between Bette Davis and Crawford, just by turning his wig around......but by using his own material. For those of you who didn't have the privilege of seeing Pearce perform, you missed some great talent....almost as famous as the ladies he mimicked.You weren't aware that the lighting for this movie were designed to highlight Crawford's eyes - thick brows, or not ?I think this film was a story of Crawford's real life - her own daughter couldn't sit through it. I loved Queen Bee, because it made me laugh at such meanness, although I've known a lot of those people, too. You gotta admit one thing NO ONE does queen of mean like Crawford did. Today's actresses don't have it in them to be mean AND glamorous - younger people may not realize that movies, in those days, ALWAYS had lines in them to say how beautiful the leading lady was.I'm not a hard-core fan of hers, but I truly enjoyed Crawford in Queen Bee. Bravo to all! "},{"Title":"Any man's my man if I want it that way.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This little known 1955 melodramatic gem starring Joan Crawford, Barry Sullivan, Betsy Palmer, John Ireland, Lucy Marlow is not only incredibly over-dramatic (sometimes hilariously so) but a great opportunity for Joan Crawford to show off her inner diva and those great acting skills of hers.Emotions run high as ruthless Southern socialite Eva Phillips (the Queen Bee - played by else but the magnificent Joan Crawford who is absolutely in her element) manipulates those around her, turning them against each other. The story begins when her sappy cousin (badly played by Lucy Marlow - you are almost happy when she gets slapped) arrives at Eva's mansion and boy, is she in for one wild ride! Affairs, suicide, car accidents, love, manipulation all drive this movie.It is such a pleasure to watch Eva Phillips tear people apart and see the cunning ways in which she works and gets her own way. The script is, as I previously said, insanely dramatic (and sometimes the lines aren't delivered well - bad acting) and sometimes it got very funny as it just seemed really pathetic. That doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it though - no, I loved every minute of it. I loved Eva Phillip's ability to torment the people around her (for example - calling her drunk, scarred husband 'Beauty') - it was incredibly fascinating to me. And the ending was very rewarding too.Undoubtly over-the-top to the point of laughing, but a very entertaining ride perfect for a day in. I enjoyed every minute of it, I thoroughly recommend it to comedy and drama fans alike - both could get some enjoyment out of this. "},{"Title":"The sun is shinin', I didn't expect the sun to be shinin'","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So sayeth Barry Sullivan in Queen Bee referring to Joan Crawford, the ruler of a southern household in this 1955 drama, which also stars John Ireland, Barry Sullivan, Betsy Palmer and Fay Wray. Cousin Jennifer Stewart (Lucy Marlow) arrives for a visit and immediately senses there are a few problems in the home - at first, she feels these problems are unfairly blamed on Eva (Crawford). She soon learns what the audience has known from Eva's first appearance.The lovely and somewhat shy Carol Lee Phillips (Palmer), sister of Eva's husband (Sullivan), is about to marry one of Eva's hand-me-downs, Judson Prentiss (Ireland) but doesn't realize that Eva hasn't quite decided to let him go. Complicating things, cousin Jennifer finds herself attracted to Eva's husband. In real life, Ireland and Crawford were having an affair, and Palmer screamed WHAT?? into the telephone when she was invited to Crawford's wedding to Alfred Steele. At the reception, she took Crawford aside and asked what was going on. Oh, well, Crawford said, We were in our cups and Alfred asked me to marry him, and I said yes. This is one of those southern dramas we saw a lot of in the '50s and early '60s - The Long Hot Summer, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and Desire in the Dust, to name a few. Queen Bee is a little over the top. It's a tour de force for Crawford, who has some very biting lines which she delivers in her inimitable style, and her wardrobe is sensational, especially the last gown. She plays the kind of bitch we always imagine she was in real life, the woman depicted in Mommie Dearest. She couldn't have been - too many people, from Ann Blyth to Betsy Palmer, truly liked her. A little too much of a disciplinarian at home and with a voracious sexual appetite, she certainly brought those edges to many performances. Crawford also was one of the great screen presences with a face made for film. Highly enjoyable film particularly for Crawford fans, though everyone in it is very good. "},{"Title":"Joan is Queen of the manor...and the suds keep flowing...","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" QUEEN BEE is a handsome showcase for the JOAN CRAWFORD brand of acting. She's the Southern Gothic matriarch of an uneasy household and the other characters are all foils for Joan's dominating Queen Bee.There's the sweetly naive girl from the North (LUCY MARLOW); Crawford's bitter husband, a scarred BARRY SULLIVAN; and BETSY PALMER as the most normal of the group, clearly disliking Eva (Crawford) and her controlling ways; and JOHN IRELAND as the all knowing ex-husband.Crawford is at her royal best, giving lines like I'd rather you didn't talk to me in that manner, the haughty air of a woman who just ascended from her throne. She looks well, except for the eyebrows that are thicker than Boris Karloff's. I like people around me to laugh and be gay, she tells the naive Northerner guest. We all know something dire will happen sooner or later.Joan has some terrible dialog to spout. It makes me terribly cross when people oppose me, she tells Marlow. If you left, I'd never have anyone to call my own. Naturally, it's tailor-made material for Crawford who holds the spotlight without any difficulty, although Betsy Palmer and Barry Sullivan do nicely in supporting roles.It's a well mounted production, filmed crisply in glorious B&W photography and the interiors of Joan's mansion are only slightly less imposing than Manderlay in REBECCA.But it never becomes much more than high camp, with Crawford strutting her stuff as only she can--and the others performing capably enough but never having a chance to really shine.Summing up Ideal viewing for Crawford's legion of fans who probably will enjoy seeing her in a series of Jean Louis gowns, impeccably poised as she delivers some sweetly sarcastic lines. Her clothes even got an Oscar nomination, as did the B&W photography.Trivia note Joan's best line A party is to women, what a battlefield is to men. "},{"Title":"Crawford the maneater","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Evil Joan equals solid entertainment. Crawford digs her claws into this part relishing her chance, with her red slash of a mouth and latter day intensity, to mow down every person who is unfortunate enough to cross her path. It's true that once the fifties began Crawford's whole look and screen persona took on a much tougher sheen than the ambitious but feminine career woman on the make of the thirties and forties but nowhere would she be as reptilian as she is here. No one else has a chance to make much of an impression. Barry Sullivan is stolid as Joan's cuckold of a husband but John Ireland has a certain brooding attractiveness as Joan's next target. Betsy Palmer comes across with the best performance though all fall away under the steely gaze and are no match for the dragon lady. "},{"Title":"Joan in drag","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie this morning on TCM. All these lines in there about Joan Crawford being a beautiful woman. One was ' I can't believe he stood there shaking, hasn't he ever seen a beautiful woman before?' Joan had big bushy black eye brows, and even though it was in black and white, her hair I think was orange and she had a mannish looking jaw line. Don't know what criteria of beauty they were using in this movie but to me she looked like a short man in drag. There is a very good slap across the face scene too. It didn't look like a stage slap either, it looked like the real thing. The movie was very entertaining in an over the top campy way. Some of the lines were hysterical but not meant to be funny which made them even funnier. If you are into camp and a Joan Crawford fan you must see this one. "},{"Title":"Gotta Love Joan!","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's only one real reason to see this film, and it's for Joan Crawford, who is a hoot in nearly every scene she is in. Though there is no real depth to any of the characters here, it does feature a pretty good supporting cast Barry Sullivan, John Ireland...even Fay Wray turns up. Joan dishes out one nasty one-liner after the next...shredding apart the people around her. You can tell she must have had a lot of fun playing this role. Lucy Marlow is a little annoying as Jennifer, but her character gradually changes. Betsy Palmer as Carol, is pretty good. I wasn't too fond of the ending, it just seemed like it was tacked on, but that didn't keep me from enjoying the rest of the film. I'd watch it again, just because of Joan.  "}{"Title":"The Big Buzz Of Joan Crawford's Prevailing Star-Power","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Favorite Movie Quote - My, Carol, you look so sweet. Even in those tacky, old riding clothes. Watch Out! - Queen Bee is a virtual hornet's nest! In Queen Bee, Joan Crawford (all eye-brow pencil and trademark bow-tie mouth) is undoubtedly the whole show here, lock, stock and barrel.With great gusto, Crawford plays queen bee Eva Phillips, a ruthless, manipulative man-eater, full of jealousy and rage, who viciously ruins the lives of everyone around her.Crawford, in the final high-diva stage of her career, almost single-handedly managed to turn this piece of 1955 melodrama into a camp and unintentionally hilarious romp down Soap Opera lane.Containing lots of biting, backstabbing dialogue, Queen Bee (in its own satisfying way) is an ultimate soap opera of bitter bickering and self-centered family squabbling where Joan Crawford (in very good form) gives it her best shot as she triumphantly slaps faces, trashes a bedroom and dresses to the absolute nines (all very nicely executed for perfect effect).For Crawford, films like Strait-Jacket and Whatever Happened To Baby Jane? would soon be waiting for her just around the corner.Filmed in glossy b&w, Queen Bee was expertly directed by Ranald MacDougall whose other films included Man On Fire, The World, the Flesh, and the Devil, and Go Naked In The World. This film featured a strong supporting cast headlined by Barry Sullivan, Betsy Palmer and John Ireland.Bzzzzzzzzzzz! "},{"Title":"For A Hobby Joan Manipulates","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think I'm not going too far out on a limb when I say that Joan Crawford probably did Queen Bee as a favor to screenwriter Ranald MacDougall who wrote the film that was her greatest success and brought Joan the Academy Award for Best Actress. I'm referring of course to Mildred Pierce. Queen Bee was going to be MacDougall's directing debut as well and I'm sure Crawford did this one for a friend.As a director MacDougall just gave Crawford her head and she just chewed the scenery right down to the foundations. It was that kind of part and her overacting also covered up a really bad melodramatic story.Crawford's cousin Lucy Marlow comes to live with Crawford and her alcoholic husband Barry Sullivan and their two children. It becomes rather apparent soon enough that Crawford sadistically manipulates events and people around her almost as a hobby. She's miserable and she can't stand anyone around who is truly happy. She even engages sadistic nanny Katherine Anderson for her kids. The film such as it is belongs to Joan Crawford who dominates the film totally. Her friend MacDougall to say the least didn't write a screenplay that was anything close to Mildred Pierce. Hence Crawford had to take up the slack.Joan's performance carries the film a couple of notches up from where it should be. Definitely a must for her fans. "},{"Title":"Queen Joan","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Crawford's least likable character could be the one she played in this film, as a controlling and vindictive woman of wealth who runs and ruins (or nearly ruins) the lives of all those whom she has relationships with in her large southern plantation mansion. Apparently the relationships come out of her money and their lack of it, as well as the level of her misdirected intelligence and lack of empathy for others, none of which gets explained very fully. Even to her own children, the product of her marriage to heavy drinking philosophizing character played by Barry Sullivan, she shows a cold disregard, especially the choice of a nanny, who's even meaner than Joan. Into this dysfunction comes Jennifer Stewart as a young cousin from Chicago who upsets the strange family chemistry that has been developing over the years, befriending the poor kids, and catching a lot of eyes. John Ireland seems a natural as the one guy who can and does (in some well done scenes) stand up to Queen Bee Joan, presenting his usual suppressed aversion to injustice while also straddling the fence. It's worth sticking with for the ending. "},{"Title":"Queen Bee-Crawford Takes the Sting Out of You ***","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Crawford's best role since 1952's Sudden Fear. In Queen Bee she is a manipulative woman who has caused misery to husband Barry Sullivan.Inviting her cousin to her home, the cousin soon discovers that everyone in the house is just miserable as they are in the orbit of a vicious Crawford.John Ireland, who works for Sullivan, loves his sister, a very good Betsy Palmer here. Unfortunately, the Queen Bee was once a love interest of Ireland and right before the wedding, she tells this to Carol (Palmer) causing her to commit suicide.Crawford's young children with Sullivan are miserable as well and how can you blame them with a mother like this?When John Ireland discovers what Barry Sullivan has planned for Crawford, he takes matters in his own hand. Change partners and kill? "},{"Title":"Queen Crawford Puts the Buzz in a Fair Story","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Crawford is an ageing Southern socialite (by marriage) who revels in dominating her extended family - like a Queen Bee. As the film opens, cousin Lucy Marlow (as Jennifer Stewart) arrives; providing Ms. Crawford (as Eva Phillips) with a new victim - and viewers the opportunity to see Queen Bee Crawford bring another person into her hive. Drones include boozy husband Barry Sullivan (as Avery) and lady-killer John Ireland (as Jud). Betsy Palmer is very good as nice niece Carol.Crawford creates an astonishing character, and the film is very well-photographed. The supporting players really operate in Crawford's shadow, which is to be expected. The film's weakness is a story that lacks depth in its characterizations, and doesn't live up to their potential. In the end, the film wastes its leading actress' effort, with a story lacking substance. ******* Queen Bee (1955) Ranald MacDougall ~ Joan Crawford, Barry Sullivan, Betsy Palmer "},{"Title":"Classic Crawford","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Few things are more amusing to me than the Hollywood myth that Joan Crawford, especially in middle age (she was 50 when this movie was made), was the most intensely sexy, desirable woman who ever lived. That myth finds no more fervent expression than in this movie. Wow. The story is all carefully crafted to rotate around the myth rather like a vast conglomeration of space debris and dust rotating around a giant, frozen planet.And it works...if you like Joan Crawford melodramas. I've never seen a better one. The plot is absurd, which is to say that it's perfect. The supporting cast is also right on the money the willowy niece, the bitter, alcoholic husband, the emotionally destroyed belle, the suave neighbor and his unstable sister. All of the actors (except maybe the children) easily outperform Crawford (in terms of creating genuine, believable characters), which is exactly what this kind of movie needs. She's the (tragi-)comic center; everyone else provides the contrast.The plot is about as subtle as an atomic bomb, with explosions dropped in at regular intervals (No, I'm going to shoot this dog) to move the plot forward in roughly the same way that a bulldozer shoves a house off its foundation. Which is perfect. This is melodrama. Subtlety is not of the essence. Keep the atomic bombs coming.The movie's greatest strength, though, is the overall production. The costumes and the sets and the superb, creepy lighting are of the very highest caliber. Forceful but not completely ridiculous. Just when you think the stark, interior scenes with deep shadows have become too much, they switch to a bright, airy outdoor scene.The ending is predictable and tragic and yet happy at the same time, which is to say, melodramatic and chuckle-inducing. But it didn't leave me feeling annoyed, as some of Crawford's movies do. Instead, it made me resolve to put this movie on my DVD wish list. I definitely want to see it again. "},{"Title":"Gothic Crawford","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of Joan Crawford's last Glamour Queen movie roles, before she started doing horror films and TV, and this part itself is transitional, as she plays a legendary beauty, pathological in her manipulations of the people around her. Despite the huge 1950s eyebrows that could be seen on Joan, Audrey Hepburn, Kim Novak, and others during this period, and the weird heart shaped hairdo, Joan remains both a beauty and a really compelling and totally invested actress. This was after Joan did POSSESSED and proved she could both underplay and play full tilt. Here she plays a woman so deeply dishonest that she is unconvincing in every emotion &#150; we don't even know if she believes any of this herself.The real stand out performance of this film is Barry Sullivan as Joan's physically and emotionally scarred husband. He is completely believable in a roller coaster role. The prototype of the sexy damaged man.The film itself is average, the script is soap opera predictable, and the biggest mystery (how he got scar) is never revealed, only hinted at. Despite Joan's title character and her entrance-making Jean Louis wardrobe, this really is an ensemble piece, and everyone does a good solid job in this Southern Gothic potboiler. The town and country set of this film feels both ostentatiously grand and a little too cramped and small, and that is a good way of describing the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Against  wills of others","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Crawford had always been perfect to play roles of obsessive and arrogant women, so here she acted well in her preferred area. A woman difficult to agree with the rest, always ambitious, proud of herself, with a behavior offensive to all her relatives, a real Queen Bee, that's what Crawford represented in this drama. Initially the film is somewhat difficult to digest, it starts with the same rate of hate as in its end, but once one sees the film you start to understand where the problems are, and to simplify the cause, which is only one, Eva Phillips (Crawford)'s behavior. Barry Sullivan in the role of Mr. Phillips was as excellent as Joan Crawford while Betsy Palmer, Lucy Marlow and John Ireland were at their best as supporting actresses/actor. For unknown reasons, I was able to guess the end of the film. When you spoiled the lives of others, there might be someone able to sacrifice him/herself in order to make happy the rest, and this is what I expected to happen in the film. "},{"Title":"Crawford's Stinger was Sharp.......","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love a good drama and this one left nothing to be desired.  Ms. Crawford was in rare form.  Her tongue was that of a wasp (Stinging and painful). Her wardrobe was fit for a queen and her performance was royal.  The southern accents needed a little work, but all in all, Queen Bee was very good. "},{"Title":"Joan at Her Best!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The quintessential Joan Crawford film for true fans. She's wonderfully evil, self-centered and conniving. Whether she's telling her sister-in-law about her tacky riding clothes, or taking a fireplace poker to rearrange a room, she's at her best. What more could one ask for? "}{"Title":"She'll Sting You One Day","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Stewart (Lucy Marlow) comes to live with her older cousin Eva (Joan Crawford) and her family in the South. Things are odd right from the start. She meets everybody before Eva and they all seem cold about her. But when Eva shows up she's as nice as a peach, so Jennifer naturally sides with her. That won't last long. Soon she realizes that Eva is literally the Queen B who terrorizes everyone around her. Obviously the selling point of this movie is seeing Joan Crawford be a total witch of epic proportions. Those who think of Mommie Dearest when they think of Joan will probably enjoy this most. Joan is the best thing about this movie, relishing her bitchy role and playing it to the hilt. The rest of the cast is adequate. Betsy Palmer plays Eva's sister-in-law. She's best remembered today as Jason Voorhees' mom in Friday the 13th. Also Fay Wray has a tiny part. The Southernisms are forgotten quickly, although Barry Sullivan and Lucy Marlow do continue to drop the g off of every word ending with ing. Not the least bit conspicuous. It's a nice soaper but nothing exceptional. Worth seeing for Joan. "},{"Title":"A Tale of a complex woman for yesterday, today and tomorrow.","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It started with Eve, and it will probably end with another female named Eve, but somewhere in the middle came Joan Crawford's Eva. The dominating figure of a Southern estate, she is a modern day Regina, the antagonist of Lillian Hellman's play The Little Foxes. All sugar on the surface, she is a combination of Regina, Lady MacBeth and I Claudius's Livia underneath. When distant relative Lucy Marlowe arrives, she is instantly fooled but soon learns the nasty truth. Another relative (Betsy Palmer) suffers dearly at the hands of the Queen Bee, and Barry Sullivan, as Crawford's drunken husband, plots his wife's downfall with an unexpected conclusion. There are many interesting analizations along the way, but none more revealing than those by Crawford herself. Eva is not a one dimensional bitch, and Crawford makes the viewer see every side of this walking tragedy in heels. There's a bit of me in every woman, she admits in a particularly vulnerable moment, but is compelled by some force stronger than herself. Marlowe, Palmer, Sullivan and paramour John Ireland all offer their own observations about her but the simple truth is that Eva is as crazy as any other power hungry male or female who has had the desire or need to control others. While the temptation to compare this film to Mommie Dearest may become an obsession for some, it really calls into question the truth of Christina Crawford's claims (both in the book, as well as the fact that the movie version of her book was nothing more than another Joan Crawford movie) and solidifies Joan's place as one of Hollywood's most legendary stars. "},{"Title":"She's like some fancy kind of disease!","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young innocent from Chicago travels down south to stay with her wealthy cousin, a society shark with an alcoholic husband who is planning on busting up the engagement between her former lover and a terrified girl who also lives in the mansion. Though based on a novel, Queen Bee looks and sounds like a stage play (sub-Tennessee Williams), with arch overacting by everyone and only a smidgen of memorable lines. Joan Crawford wear some fancy gowns, but this isn't an attractive role for her. The character interaction is drowsy and sluggish, and the plot-turns are occasionally confounding, outdated or hoary. There's an interesting plot-thread involving a cruel nanny who gives Crawford's Queen a run for her money, but she inexplicably vanishes. The film is drawing-room bitchery, and yet with only minimal camp appeal. It's hardly enjoyable even on that level, particularly since nobody here appears to be having any fun. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A movie made for Joan","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only thing this movie lacks is vivid technicolor to truly capture La Crawford stomping through scenes and chewing up the scenery..and also to see how green around the gills Joan was from her heavy drinking. Joan Crawford is the movie, and although Betsy Palmer does her best to keep a few scenes for herself, it's all Joan all the time. Joan is Eva, and evil and loves it. She is married to battle scarred Barry Sullivan who is a lush, and she rules over the family terrorizing each one of them in her own special way, and in a way specifically tailored to torment them the most. She is nothing, if not thoughtful. There is no point going into the details because the best part of the film is the unfolding of each layer, and the unraveling of Eva's life. It's film noir at the apotheosis of camp, but it's also clever and knows it has a story to tell. Joan Crawford at this juncture of her career had segued into a film noir queen after her win with Mildred Pierce. This little tale has a few things in common with Mildred,but not what you might expect. In Mildred Pierce we are encouraged to pity Mildred and understand that she was in an untenable situation, and was the real victim. There is nothing endearing about Eva at all, and it is intended that the audience will hate Eva hard. The connections between characters are not accidental because Randald MacDougall wrote the screenplay for both films. He certainly knew his Joan. She infamously had an affair with John Ireland during the making of the film, and many years later they were cast again in a William Castle film, I Saw What You Did. In the final spasms of her career Crawford (and Bette Davis) were cast as horror hags, and this film is on the cusp of that descent. This film is also on the cusp of another of Crawford's well known descents...that of the drunk. It was probably best the film was shot in black and white because Joan looks hard faced in black and white and all the lighting men in Hollywood couldn't soften that. Having said all that, this film is fascinating because this film doesn't star Joan Crawford, it IS Joan Crawford. Christina Crawford said famously that Joan hated it, likely because it was too close to the bone and doubtless damaged the image and cultish personality she had fabricated and enhanced since the 30's. Christina Crawford suggests that the film showed who Joan was in reality, and there was no acting at all. For that reason this movie is as close to cinema verite as Joan Crawford would likely have flown. If Joan and Christina both hated, I have to love it. The other reason I love this film is because it is so ridiculous; so overblown; so over acted and so melodramatic that it screams for attention (and surprisingly without a southern accent.) This movie is best viewed in jodhpurs with a riding crop and a LOT of booze...why? Well it's the way Joanie would have wanted you to see it. "},{"Title":"...Queen Bee rates a Dee- at most...","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If your idea of a good time is to watch a bunch of wealthy nitwits insult and back-stab each other then you're likely to enjoy this nonsense. Joan Crawford is the control freak matriarch of a southern mill owning family and Barry Sullivan is her alcoholic husband. The fact that Crawford is a northerner has made her feel like an outcast & she spends her time lashing out at everyone as a defense mechanism. All hell breaks loose when they're visited by Crawford's cousin (the very ineffectual Lucy Marlow). Sullivan's sister (Betsy Palmer) announces her engagement to John Ireland, who happens to be Crawford's ex and Marlow is soon smitten with Sullivan. It's all ridiculous with dull direction by Ranald MacDougall and lousy acting by most of the cast. Crawford, looking like a mannequin come not quite to life, is wooden and Sullivan, who dons a hideous scar on his face, is completely out of sync with the other players. Palmer, usually fairly effervescent, is instead grating in her role. There is a decidedly odd appearance by Fay Wray as a shell shocked jilted bride (you can guess who jilted her and for whom). The slick B&W photography is by Charles Lang. "},{"Title":"Lillian Hellman could have fixed this!","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not that this is a bad film, but it doesn't quite work...and I'm not sure why. I just know that as I was watching it -- a story about a woman who manipulates everyone in a southern mansion -- I couldn't help thinking that Lillian Hellman could have fixed it.I can't fault the acting here. Joan Crawford is at her bitchy best. Even Barry Sullivan, whom I always thought of as a competent actor (though far from a favorite of mine), is very, very good. John Ireland does well. Betsy Palmer is excellent. Lucy Marlow as the visitor is very good. And it's interesting to see Fay Wray as the nut case in the early scenes.The basic story line seems fine -- A ruthless and unsatisfied wife at a southern mansion manipulates everyone (including the children) into a miserable life that includes multiple suicide. And you just know that in the end the witch (Crawford) will get her comeuppance...but how? But somehow, it just doesn't come together. Although the story line was fine, maybe the script was weak...or the direction. But that doesn't mean that it's not watchable. And of course, watching Crawford play a character that some say was very close to her real personality is extremely interesting. "},{"Title":"Leaves a bad aftertaste","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Crawford stars as Eva, a mean, manipulative, cruel person who treats her family members so poorly it makes your blood boil. Oddly enough, she's extremely polite to her black servants. You would think she'd treat them poorly as well. But Eva knows she can't chase everyone away, in fact, she really doesn't want anyone to ever leave her which leaves one feeling anxiety. It's smothering.She owns a large home with her alcoholic husband and has family living with her as well. Everyone seething with anger and hurt but no one willing to stand up to her. One character even commits suicide because of something Eva told her. It's tragic but we don't actually feel too, too bad.Why? Because we never really get to know the other characters all that well. Not as well as we know Eva. Why do they live there? Why don't they leave? Who are they? Why are they so afraid and weak around Eva? We don't find any of this out. Eva starts out as someone who seems to have a good sense of humor but then she turns nasty. Why?We don't learn very much about the other people and when the film ends we should be triumphant but because the ending is so abrupt and low key it's a bit of a let down. I was hoping this might have some fun moments but there aren't any. Something left a bad taste in my mouth after seeing this. "},{"Title":"Crawford is Scary but those GOWNS!","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A badly done movie, though the acting is competent by all. Joan Crawford plays herself very well and I can easily believe that her daughter had to leave the theater half-way through because it was too much for her. The best part of the movie was the spectacular Jean-Louis gown Ms. Crawford wore at the end of the movie. The dress was so beautiful it would be perfectly acceptable and raved over NOW on the red carpet! I should mention that the blonde actress who played Carol was quietly very good in her part and the only one who bothered to speak in a Southern accent. "},{"Title":"Royal Jelly","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember stumbling on this several years ago and admiring Barry Sullivan's dialogue, both the dialogue itself and the way Sullivan delivered it. Although one line that stayed in my mind appears to be missing I still get a kick out of Sullivan's dialogue and even John Ireleand, a graduate of the Charlton Heston Redwood School Of Acting, weighs in with a half decent performance and handles a couple of Sullivan left-over zingers with something approaching style. They are, of course, merely the hors d'ouevres, setting up the palate for the caviar that is Joan Crawford and arguably the best example of late-blooming Crawford on celluloid. Although we're smack dab in the middle of decaying magnolia country no one makes much of a stab at a Southern accent but almost everyone makes a decent fist of this out-and-out meller. "},{"Title":"Queen Bitch","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Queen Bee came out in 1955, midway through a decade when the plays of Tennessee Williams were much in vogue, both in their original theatrical form and in cinematic adaptations. It has much in common with Williams's dramas, being a story about a family riven by jealousies and hatreds and with a setting in the Deep South. The Queen Bee of the title is Eva Phillips, the wife of a wealthy Georgia mill owner, who has earned that nickname by the ruthless way in which she dominates her husband and her relatives. The other main characters are Eva's alcoholic husband Avery, Avery's sister Carol, Carol's fiancé (and Eva's former lover) Judson Prentiss, who works as Avery's mill manager, and Jennifer Stewart, a young cousin visiting from Chicago. Although the film was based upon a novel (The Queen Bee by Edna L. Lee) rather than a stage play, it was mostly (apart from the final climactic scene) made in the filmed theatre style, with most of the action taking place indoors and an emphasis upon dialogue rather than physical action. I said that it has much in common with Tennessee Williams, but in one department it seems sadly lacking. Williams's writing could at times be overwrought and excessively melodramatic, but he was also capable of producing some genuinely gripping and moving drama. I have never read Lee's novel (indeed, until seeing this film I had never heard of it or its author), but on the evidence of this screenplay the scriptwriter Ranald MacDougall (who also acted as director) sadly lacked Williams's dramatic talents. He keeps the melodrama and overwrought emotion, but lacks the literary skill to make anything of them. Two episodes in particular struck me as unconvincing. The first comes when Carol commits suicide after learning that Judson was once Eva's lover. MacDougall is never able to convince us that there is any reason why a healthy young woman should have done such a thing, especially as the Eva/Judson romance was over long before he became engaged to Carol (or, for that matter, before Eva married Avery. MacDougall (or perhaps Edna Lee) seems to have imagined that any decent drama needs at least one suicide to make it interesting. The other development I found hard to credit was the romance that grows up between Avery and Jennifer. It is not simply the age difference- older man/younger girl love-stories were commonplace in films of this era. It is also that Avery has hitherto been portrayed as a useless drunken layabout living off inherited money- hardly the sort of man likely to appeal to a spirited young woman like Jennifer, even if she did have a thing for married men old enough to be her father. Joan Crawford plays Eva less as Queen Bee than as Queen Bitch, the spiritual ancestor of Alexis Carrington, the character made famous by another Joan C in Dynasty. The difference is that Joan Collins made Alexis a repellent but fascinating creature whose malevolent and ruthless amorality was offset by her seductive glamour, whereas Crawford's Eva is simply repellent without the glamour or sex appeal. She was also too old for the role. Crawford's exact age was as closely guarded as an official secret, but in 1955 she was probably in her early fifties and Eva, the mother of two children of pre-school age, is doubtless intended to be much younger. Crawford was always rather mannish in appearance, a trait exaggerated here by some rather odd make- up, and although this aspect of her appearance could seem appropriate in some of her movies, such as Johnny Guitar from the previous year, it makes it difficult for us to accept Eva as a sultry siren. At least Crawford, however, does make an impression of sorts, something I cannot say most of the other cast members, who all play their characters in a very one-dimensional way. The principal exception is the otherwise obscure Lucy Marlow (she only acted in about three other films) who gives a creditable performance as Jennifer. I said earlier that until seeing this film I had never heard of Edna Lee's novel. For that matter I had never heard of the film either until I caught it late at night on a TV movie channel and watched it because I had admired Crawford in some of her other offerings. Having seen it I can now understand why it ranks among the lesser-known entries in her filmography. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Sunset Showcase For Miss Crawford","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A guilty pleasure if I ever saw one. Directect by Ranald McDougall, even his name reads like a misspell, he was the writer of Mildred Pierce and clearly Crawford trusted him. Look at her entrance, from a distance, a subtle and no so subtle game of light and music. The turgid tale of evil and deception suffers from holes in every angle but this is not the sort of picture that can afford that kind of scrutiny. This is a showcase for the late term Crawford die hard fans. You wont be able to help but admire her devastating self confidence. She knew every trick in the book as an actress as well as a character. Queen Bee goes bye fast very fast and the moral compass is determined by Lucy Marlow when in fact it needed a sort of Anne Baxter or someone with a bit more gravitas. To be seen with a bunch of like minded friends and laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"over-the-top, full of plot holes yet so much fun to watch!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is sort of a guilty pleasure--you know, a film you like watching despite the fact that it's not exactly well-acted or intellectual fare. I'll be the first to admit that the movie was very histrionic (in particular Ms. Crawford's performance) and is pure soap opera as well--but I still enjoyed the film immensely.The film opens with a nice young lady (Lucy Marlow) coming to visit her bitchy cousin (Joan Crawford). Ms. Crawford acts incredibly kind and sweet and Ms. Marlow is completely taken in by this performance. However, the rest of the household (including Joan's husband and sister-in-law) seem far less taken by Joan's kindness--going so far as to warn Lucy it's all an act. And, eventually, Joan's evil, controlling and horrid nature seeps through and the audience comes to realize many things she hates her own children (that must have been a BIG acting stretch), hates everyone around her, must be 100% in control of everyone and is like a wild animal when crossed. Her evil ways eventually lead to her sister-in-law committing suicide and her husband begins plotting to murder her. Exactly how this is all resolved, I'll leave to you--I'd hate to spoil it.As for the problems with the plot, there were several. If you don't think, they won't pose a problem. However, the romance between Lucy and Joan's hubby (Barry Sullivan) seemed completely illogical and from out of left field. It didn't make much sense and it just wasn't at all convincing. Second, Joan was so bad, so cruel and so gosh-darn awful, it's really hard to imagine it took anyone so long to try and kill her! Perhaps this was just a little too far-fetched!All-in-all, this movie is very typical of Crawford's movies of the 1940s and 50s. She played the bitchy, controlling role a lot and based on reports from Christina Crawford, these roles weren't far from the truth! Fun to watch--impossible to live with! "},{"Title":"Crawford being her nasty self.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this 1955 Columbia film, brings us Joan Crawford once again being a dominant overbearing and controlling woman.  But, this is what Joan does best.  In her Jean Louis gowns descending the staircase, she looks every inch a star!  Those Crawford eyes in dark shadow focus look up at you and you melt.Now the acting can be somewhat melodramatic in this soap-opera type movie.  It's all about a woman who belittles her husband (played by that under rated fine actor Barry Sullivan) into drinking himself into a stupor so he can bear the situation, while she makes a play for an ex-lover (played well by John Ireland) who is courting the husband's sister (played by Betsy Palmer, making a rare screen appearance) who can't tolerate our leading lady.  Now throw into this happy home a naive young lady (played by Lucy Marlow) who worships Joan until she discovers the truth, and you have the plot.  If you can figure it out.  Add to the cast of characters, William Leslie, a young man who courts Miss Marlow, his mother (played by the one and only Fay Wray of the original KING KONG) and the wonderful Juanita Moore playing the maid (long before she triumphed in IMITATION OF LIFE.)Some of the scenes are silly, but you can't help but watch Crawford, good or bad.  She's electric on screen and the camera loves her.  This film was directed by Ranald MacDougall who also adapted the screenplay from a book by Edna Lee. "},{"Title":"The Movie Christina Crawford Couldn't Stand to Watch","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I read Christina Crawford's tell-all of all Hollywood tell-alls, Mommie Dearest, I remember her writing about not being able to sit through Queen Bee, since her mother's character in the movie was just too close to that of the real life Joan Crawford. And if this is true, then Christina's childhood must have been hellacious indeed.In this film, the diabolical Eva Phillips, played by Crawford, rips a bedroom to shreds with a riding crop, lassoes a potential bedmate with a telephone cord, gives a young ingénue a wicked smack across the face, and verbally destroys her enemies with lines like, Don't you look nice &#150; even in those tacky riding clothes. This is Joan at her Joan-iest, and I couldn't help but think that this is the film Faye Dunaway must have studied as she prepared to play Joan in Mommie Dearest. In fact, watching Crawford in this movie is like watching Crawford playing Dunaway playing Crawford.Queen Bee is camp at its highest elevation, with a script full of nasty one-liners that would later become staples of catty nighttime soaps like Dynasty and Dallas. Crawford wears amazing clothes that woosh and crinkle as she glides across the room, and she is accessorized to within an inch of her life in pristine white gloves, sparkling rings and bracelets, and Paris-fashion-week-style hats. Though not as extravagantly dressed as Crawford, the other actors always look like they're ready for an elegant dinner party, even though they never seem to leave the house.It would be easy to dismiss this film as typical 1950s melodramatic drivel, but there's much more to Queen Bee than meets the eye. Director-writer Ranald MacDougall creates a claustrophobic atmosphere by staging nearly the entire movie within the boxy confines of the Phillips mansion. The viewer feels trapped, much like the characters that inhabit the house. The movie is filmed in crisp black and white, adding to the rigid tension that permeates the environment. And in one intentional and hilariously symbolic scene, Crawford's character emasculates her husband, played by a morose Barry Sullivan, as he crack walnuts at the dinner table. Joan as the ultimate ball buster.Most of the actors do a competent job, with Betsy Palmer standing out as Carol Phillips, the niece destroyed by Eva's manipulations. Everyone's favorite ape lover, Fay Wray, has a brief, but memorable appearance at the beginning of the movie as a woman so devastated by Eva's wicked ways that she's been forced to retreat into her own fantasy world. John Ireland, as Eva's former lover and Carol's current fiancée, gives the most wooden performance, firing off his dialogue as if he's reciting a Western Union telegram. Crawford rises above it all, however, always commanding the screen with her physical presence (her eyebrows in this one are bigger and blacker than ever), her throaty voice, and her impeccable diction.The film's ending seems rushed and contrived, and the last line of the movie delivered by Sullivan is eye-rollingly corny, but don't let that deter you. If you've always wondered what the real Joan Crawford might have been like, Queen Bee just might give you a little glimpse. "},{"Title":"All That's Left For Joan Is Queen Of The B's","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Today, Thanks to Step-Daughter Christina and Her Book and Subsequent Movie Mommie Dearest (1981), Films like this and the Real Joan Crawford are Inseparable. The Post-Modern Take on Queen Joan is not Flattering but does Stand in Awe of the Workhorse Actress and Her 60 Year Residence in Hollywood.By this Time there were Cracks in the Facade. That being the Glamorous Crawford Last Dying Attempts to Keep an Image as Beautiful. Fatally Attractive is more Apt, but Even that is a Stretch. Here, yet Again. there are Screen References to Her Beauty and Magnetism but it is Doubtful that even in 1955 Audiences were Buying it. But They were Buying Tickets to See an Aging Actress Burn Up the Screen with Increasingly Caustic Portrayals of Devilish Demeanors that Stung Anyone Around. There are Many Quotable Lines and Interesting Grotesque Scenes. It is a Crawford Freak Show so Send in the Clowns. But no one is Laughing. But that was then. Today People Laugh at the Melodramatics, the Eyebrows, the Unmasking of the False Female Allure, and so on. This is Another in a Group of Films that Crawford made around this Time that are Easy Targets for Her Detractors. But it is Undeniable that She could Still Dominate the Proceedings and Keep Audiences Glued to the Screen, if for no other Reason than to Watch what Outlandish Thing She would try and Pull Off Next. That is Star Power.This is Heavy Southern Syrup Served so Thick that the Film is Fascinating with Everyone Contributing to the Story and the Actors, and Especially the Cinematography all Compliment Joan as She Destroys Lives and Compliments Herself. When Barry Sullivan as the Husband Shoots the Dog because it is Old and in Pain, that could be Seen as Metaphor. "},{"Title":"The Queen Bee who stings her rivals to death","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is Joan at her nastiest. Don't come here looking for lighthearted fare because there is none. I know that nastiness is one of Joan's specialties. If you are to believe Mommie Dearest it must be because she had a lot of that in her to begin with.Some people love to watch people at their nastiest, but I find them a little hard to tolerate after 20-30 minutes.I did like the cinematography and elaborate sets. The costumes were gorgeous on all the woman, but of course Joan is showcased in the finest. The southern mansion is a sight to behold as well.I didn't care much for Barry Sullivan as Crawford's husband. He seemed very wooden and mechanical in his dialogue.There isn't any pleasantness to be had in the whole entire movie. Just a lot of nastiness, deceit, infidelity and lying. So don't watch this if you want lighthearted entertainment or a deep, convincing plot. "},{"Title":"Bee Bee Bee","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Over the top drama with manipulating back stabbing and blackmailing Eva Phillips, Joan Crawford,trying to have things her way at the expense of everyone else in the movie. The Chicago born Eva had gotten hold of southern gentleman Avery Scarface Phillips (Barry Sullivan), who was in Chicago attending a business convention, to marry her 10 years ago by claiming that she was in the family way and that it was Avery who put her there.Now the big shot wife of the richest man in the county, outside of Atlanta Georgia, the power hungry and control freak Eve wants to keep things her way by controlling everyone in the Phillips household. It's when her cousin from the Windy City Jenniffer Stewart, Lucy Marion, shows up to look after the Phillips' kids Ted & Trissa, Tom Hovey & Linda Bennett, that things get real hot and heavy at the Phillips' Mansion. Eva who had a affair with her husband's best fiend and now textile mill manager Judson Paretiss, John Ireland, before they were married is a bit ticked off that he's now planning to marry her sister-in-law Carollee Phillips,Besty Palmer, since she still has the hots for Judson after all these years. Eva in spreading rumors that Judson is involved with another woman-and guess who that woman is-has a distraught and heart broken Carollee, and expert equestrian, go to the Phillips Mansion's horse stables and hang herself. Jennifer herself got a taste of Eva's hostility when she after telling her how great is was that Judson & Carollee were to be married,that's before Carollee did herself in,that she almost got a couple of her teeth knocked out by a vicious right that an enraged Eva threw at her.The already alcoholic Avery now drinking more then ever in order to get Eva out of his mind falls in love with Jennifer and secretly plans to marry her after dumping, via divorce, Eva. Finding that out Eva starts to plant rumors about her unfaithful husband Avery having an illicit affair with his new babysitter,Jennifer Stewart, that can destroy his standing as a God fearing and straight shooting southern gentleman in the close-nit and church going southern community. ****SPOILERS**** Judson who's life was already destroyed by his former lover Eva Phillips in driving his fiancée Carollee to suicide now takes matters into his own hand to finally put and end to Eva's jealous and insane tyranny that's destroying almost everyone that she comes in contact with in the movie. Having Avery get good and drunk, which wasn't that hard to do, Judson takes Eva out for a ride in the country that's to be the last ride that he and Eva will ever have. Thinking that Judson is taking her to some motel to rekindle their previous relationship Judson going at speeds of over 100 MPH on a rain slick highway drives the car off a cliff with a frantic Eva unsuccessfully, by him having the doors locked, trying to jump out before the car hit bottom!P.S Joan Crawford's performance as Eva Phillips was so much like her in real life that her 16 year old adopted and abused daughter Christina found it impossible to sit through a showing of the film and ran out of the movie house that was playing it before the movie ended! "},{"Title":"All About Eva","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is all about Eva Phillips (Joan Crawford), the glamorous, spiteful, self-centered, vain, cruel, and overbearing matriarch of a Southern mansion, who makes life miserable for everyone in her orbit. The entire overwrought melodrama is one big soap opera.I couldn't identify with any of these sorry sobs. They emote, they quarrel, they whine, they speechify, they have no outside interests. Morose and brooding, all the characters are preoccupied with themselves and their own problems. Not surprisingly, the film's acting is theatrical and exaggerated. And there's a ton of dialogue. Yet, for a film set in the South, there's a curious absence of Southern accents.Most scenes take place indoors. That, combined with all that talk, makes the film seem almost like a stage play. The B&W cinematography is competent. I like those noir shadows; they render a depressing and melancholy look to the visuals that is totally in sync with the drab story. The drippy elevator background music is so 1950ish.A little bit of dolefulness in a film is okay. But in Queen Bee it just goes on and on and on. There is a neat plot twist near the end. But overall, this film is a real downer.There may not be any joy in this Southern mansion. But it's a movie to watch anyway, if for no other reason than to marvel at Joan Crawford's hammy performance, and to gawk at her caterpillar eyebrows. "},{"Title":"Near good - Joan at her typical","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The characterization and acting were generally acceptable in this movie but the script let them down. There were many instances where the dialog made no sense, in other cases it was just unintentionally humorous.Examples; when Jennifer arrives and everyone is in the drawing room and Eva makes her entrance. She completely misses the existence of the only stranger in the room; Jennifer. Then, upon seeing this stranger standing there, she fails to realize that this is her cousin - who was expected (should have picked you up at the station). How could she not instantly know who this was? Later Jennifer asks Eva what the doctor said about Ted, she replies, Did you see how the doctor trembled as he spoke to me? You'd think he'd never seen a beautiful woman before! For the life of me I can't figure out who she was referring to; it couldn't have been herself.While Crawford is not mud-ugly she certainly is not beautiful &#150; by '55 standards or by today's. With her long square face, too-intense eyes, and caterpillar eyebrows she is far from beautiful (handsome, perhaps). And while the above line alone wouldn't have been sufficient to criticize, similar references to her beauty appeared often enough to insure this wasn't unintentional.Then you've got to wonder what hold this woman had over these people. She wasn't pretty, charismatic, rich, or sexy - so what was it? To steal a line from 10 Things I Hate About You; Wha'does she have, beer-flavored nipples? And the characters kept going on about how nice Eva could be when you first meet her &#150; what? At no point in this movie could Eva be considered nice. This lack of likable side ruined the opportunity to contrast nice with mean leaving a one dimensional character rather than the intended schizoid persona.Lastly, the scene where Eva was informed by Jennifer of Carol's suicide was absolutely hilarious. Totally out of character, overacted and with ridiculous smearing of coal cream on the mirror. What was that about?While I enjoyed the movie it was far from great and only approaching good. 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Joan was never lovelier and the suds were never sudsier...","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Billed as a tale of ruthlessness and passion in the Deep South, Jezebel, Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte or Cat on a Hot Tin Roof this ain't. Joan plays the eponymous Queen Bee, Eva Philips, in a sparsely populated hive of drones - each with a reason for hating Eva.The establishing shots of innocent cousin Jennifer arriving at a Southern Plantation gives us a hint that something unpleasant is in store for someone.Unfortunately, in this case, it's the viewer.This is due in part to the score (which snaps from moody melodrama to lush Here comes Joan and isn't She Lovely themes) and the obvious 100% pure soap plot.There's a wonderful cameo from Fay Wray but she probably had more reason to be scared by the dialog than she was by Eva or even King Kong.OK - plot and score aside, what's the real reason for watching the movie?In two words, Joan Crawford. Joanie could never really do 'evil' on film (not like Bette Davis, Barbara Stanwyck or Olivia de Havilland) preferring instead to present the image of the polished lady who knew exactly which gloves to wear with an evening gown.Her playing here probably reveals more about her own life than it does about Eva's.Knowing what we do now, it's a chilling insight into the life of a true movie star.Watch this movie back to back with Mommie Dearest and you will be staggered by Faye Dunaway's portrayal of Joan Crawford.Watch Queen Bee and you will be impressed with Joan Crawford's portrayal of Joan Crawford.  "}{"Title":"Nice Wardrobe, Joan","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aging star Joan Crawford took to stretching the years later in her career and this is a prime example.  She's lounging around the house in mink lined see through nighties and spewing venom at everyone.  A typical star vehicle, the flick itself is a bore but we love Joan best when she is playing supreme bitch and in this pot boiler she plays it to the hilt. "}]