[{"Title":"Good stuff all around","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"56 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A bit of a departure for Alfred Hitchcock, somewhat lighter and with less of the trademark suspense. Thoroughly enjoyable, though. Cary Grant was playing Cary Grant by this time, and no one could do it better. And Grace Kelly, what eye-candy! The snappy dialog with the sexual innuendo was done perfectly. And huge kudos to Brigitte Auber, who was gorgeous and very good. An interesting aside was that Grant's character, while pretending to be someone else, claimed to have been an American circus acrobat, which Grant sort of was early in life (albeit English, not American.) Grant (with his accent) could really never be mistaken for an American, even though he usually played one. Also it was a little eerie to see Grace Kelly driving so fast on those French Riviera cliffside roads, in light of what happened to her later. (Of course, she obviously wasn't doing so, they were using back-projection) Anyway, this film is a must for fans of Hitchcock, Kelly or Grant. Grade A "},{"Title":"Languid but beautiful romantic thriller","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"51 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is probably Hitchcock's most beautiful movie. Grace Kelly is well (but of course decorously) displayed in delicate and perfectly fitted summer dresses and evening gowns (designed by Edith Head) that show off her exquisite arms and shoulders while accentuating her elegant neck and jaw line--and, as she turns for the camera, the graceful line of her back. Opposite her is one of Hollywood's most dashing leading men, the incomparable Cary Grant.The cinematography by long-time Hitchcock collaborator Robert Burks was shot on location in the French Riviera. The style is daylight clear and sparkling, bright as the dream of a princess to be, always focused without a hint of darkness anywhere. Even the scenes shot at night on the rooftops seem to glow. The houses on the hills overlooking Princess Grace's future home and the narrow cobble stone roads with the low-lying stone walls suggest a refined and elegant lifestyle to come. Even though she drives too fast, one is not worried that she might crash...Cary Grant is John Robie who fought with the French resistance during WWII and then became a jewel thief, dubbed The Cat for his ability to slink quietly in the night over roof tops and to steal into the bedrooms of the rich and take their jewels without waking them. As the movie opens he is retired from his life of crime and living comfortably in a villa in the hills above Nice. The complications begin immediately as the police arrive at his villa to question him about some recent cat-like jewel robberies. Robie is innocent of course (we are led to believe) and to prove his innocence he is motivated to find the real thief.Grace Kelly plays Frances Stevens, the slightly naughty nouveau riche daughter of the widow of a Texas-style oil millionaire. She is used to having men fall all over themselves trying to court her, but Robie seems uninterested, and this excites her fancy and she goes after him. It is interesting to note that by this time Cary Grant (51 when the film was released) had become such a heart throb that directors liked to have the women (who were always noticeably younger; Kelly was 26) chase after him. Audrey Hepburn does as much in Charade (1963). One notes that here, as in Charade, the women kiss Cary Grant first, not the other way around. Here it is nicely done as the previously demure Frances takes a surprising initiative at the door of her hotel suite.The story itself is rather bland and predictable, reminding me of a James Bond flick from, say, the sixties as though toned down for an audience of old maids. Notable in supporting roles are Brigitte Auber as the athletic Danielle Foussard, John Williams as the British insurance agent, and Jessie Royce Landis as Frances Stevens' mother. Hitch makes his de rigueur appearance as a passenger on the mini-bus that Robie takes to get away from the gendarmes early in the film.See this for Grace Kelly whose cool and playful demeanor and statuesque beauty form the heart of this somewhat languid romantic thriller.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Escapism At Its Most Delicious","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"72 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film, disappointing?  Who is that reviewer kidding?  No female would ever say that.  This film is escapism at its finest, and what, pray tell, is wrong with escapism in this ever-more-dreary and stressful world?  I don't CARE that this isn't a serious acting effort on Cary Grant's behalf; I don't CARE that the plot is telescoped.  What I DO care about is the fantasy of it all  the beauty of the two stars, their clothing, the surroundings, the sets, and the way this movie just takes a (female) viewer away to a place and time that she will never have experienced but would love to experience  the South of France in the '50s; healthy, witty people with unlimited funds; sunshine, flowers, villas; amusing intrigue involving stolen jewels; the sparkle of the Mediterranean.  And that gaspingly gorgeous costume ball!  Wow!  Please.  This is a frothy and fabulous dreamscape like no other.  After a very stressful day, to lie down with a glass of chilled champagne and watch Cary Grant and Grace Kelly cavort on the French Riviera is the most sublime thing one could do.  I know more than a few females who honestly could not have withstood their lives without the escape this film provides.  Thank you Mr. Hitchcock!  You have performed a great, great service! "},{"Title":"Cary Ain't Flattered","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant, former resistance hero and gentlemanly cat burglar, is now retired from the trade. But there's someone out there who's using all his old cat burglar tricks and putting him in one big jackpot. Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery, but Cary ain't flattered. With the French Surete and the English insurance company breathing down his neck, he'd better find out who the culprit is and fast.He's got one ally, John Williams of the insurance company who has a sense it ain't really Cary. He's also got to contend with spoiled rich girl Grace Kelly who's taken a fancy to him. How much help she is is a dubious proposition.Unlike a lot of Alfred Hitchcock films this one doesn't have all that much mystery to it. In fact early on you should be able to figure out who's stealing Cary's tricks. But the color photography which won an Oscar of the French Riviera is breathtaking and Cary Grant and Grace Kelly play the whole thing with such style that you really don't care.My favorite in the film is Jessie Royce Landis who is Kelly's mother. She's rich, but remembers when she was poor. She takes to Cary and sticks with him when Grace has doubts and gives her quite a lecture on men. She knows her subject well.Sadly life imitated art in this one. Grace Kelly met her future husband Prince Rainier on the set and on the road where she takes Cary Grant for a speeding car ride is the same one she had the automobile accident that took her life a generation later.But don't dwell on the morbid here. Appreciate To Catch A Thief for the fine entertainment it is. "},{"Title":"Cat burglar","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" With the magnificent setting of the French Riviera, To Catch a Thief is beautiful to look at. Alfred Hitchcock, the absolute master of suspense, appears to be having a lot of fun with this playful account of the rich and famous in their playground. The film is greatly enhanced by the magnificent photography of Robert Burke whose camera does wonders to show us that beautiful part of France.The film begins with a teasing sequence where one sees a black cat running wildly on the roofs of villas, and later on, hysterical ladies are seen screaming when they realize they have been burglarized. The police links John Robie to the robberies since it appears it's his own modus operandi. In order to fool the authorities that are following him, John boards a bus full of ordinary people bringing things to the market and we catch a glimpse of Hitchcock himself, sitting in the back of the bus, next to John. This is the amazing opening for this film, which shows a lighter Hitchcock, out for a good time.We then meet the rich Stevens, mother and daughter, who are vacationing at the posh Carlton Hotel in Cannes. The insurance agent, Hughson, introduces Robie to them. Hughson wants the Stevens women to be careful with their jewelry; at least, have them keep their gems in the hotel's safe, which they will not hear of. This seems to be an excuse for bringing together John and Frances, a beautiful and elegant woman who makes a point to show how much she hates having even a conversation with Robie, who will display all his charm and ultimately win her over.The best asset in the film is the elegant and ravishing Grace Kelly, at the height of her beauty. Ms. Kelly was one of the most beautiful women ever to grace the screen. In a way, it seems almost as though this film was prophetic in what would happen in her life. First, becoming the fairy tale princess of Monaco, and later on, to die in the same highway one sees her racing her car. Ms. Kelly, dressed by the incomparable Edith Head shows an innate elegance and a great flair to carry clothes in such a wonderful manner.Cary Grant, as John Robie, was at his best portraying the debonair former jewelry thief, a man with a past that had not committed a robbery for many years now, but whose fame preceded him everywhere. Mr. Grant and Ms. Kelly make a great romantic couple whenever we see them. Mr. Hitchcock got a lot out of these two actors and in the process, gives his fan something to care for.John Williams is excellent as the insurance agent trying to protect his clients. Mr. Williams was a superb actor who almost seems not to be acting at all. The same can be said for the chic Jessie Royce Landis, who always showed she was a smart and elegant actress.While this is a film so different from most of his other films, Mr. Hitchcock shows a great affinity for comedy in it. This proved to be a pause in his distinguished career to amuse his public. How well he succeeded! "},{"Title":"Great chemistry between the leads","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing about this film is the chemistry between leads Grant and Kelly. Grant is as debonair as usual and Kelly was never more glamorous. The costumes she wears are very flattering to her and she is to the clothes. The dialogue between them sparkles throughout and is a pleasure to watch even if the course of their relationship is predictable. Grant's self-deprecating in-jokes are another nice touch. Further pleasantly adding to the fantasy ambience is the spectacular photography of the French riviera. John Williams is also great as the insurance investigator, the type of character he played in Hitchcock's Dial M for Murder (also with Kelly) and in the Doris Day-Rex Harrison film, Midnight Lace. This film is not one of the most psychologically involving in Hitchcock's pantheon but it is not designed to be. It is enjoyed best as what it was produced to be glossy high production value escapist fare. 8/10.     "},{"Title":"can be seen again and again","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Like most of Hitchcock this is a film that withstands repeated viewings. A light crime farce it is nevertheless full of great Hitchcock touches- a particular favorite of mine is the chase through the flower market with Cary Grant's comic encounter with the old flower seller. Grace Kelly was perhaps the sexiest of all movie stars in that she could combine the glamor of a Katherine Hepburn or Elizabeth Taylor with the earthy sexiness of Marilyn Monroe. Witness her first surprise kiss with Cary Grant and his reaction. This is priceless acting and one of the reasons Grant is considered one of the greatest actors in movie history. John Williams is also excellent as the very British insurance agent and Jesse Royce Landis (who played Grant's mother in North by Northwest ) is also on hand for a number of fine moments. Although slim in terms of drama this has to rank among the top ten of Hitch's films. "},{"Title":"Delivers on all its promises","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  You cannot discuss any Hitchcock movie without first giving a nod to the master.Let me ask you this  Was Michelangelo a painter or a sculptor?  It is a trick answer of course.. both answers are correct but it is more correct that Michelangelo was an artist.  In a similar way you might consider the relationship between the body of Hitchcock's work and To Catch a Thief.TCaT (To Catch a Thief) is not a classic Hitchcock suspense thriller.  It is, however quite a nice piece of work.  In fact, the most suspenseful thing about this picture is whether Cary Grant will get together with Grace Kelley.  The relationship between these two is really the bulk of the movie. It is beautifully photographed and what better subjects for photography than Grace Kelly and the South of France?Notorius Cat Burgular meets Wealthy American Heiress is a plot that only Hitchcock and few others could make into a picture that would hold up for nearly 50 years.  The playful exchanges between Grant and Kelly, rife with sexual innuendo, propell the movie forward to its happy conclusion.  For me, the slice of life of French Rivera in the 1950s is enough to make this film eminently watchable.I recommend it highly.  Great date movie... though living up to Grant's or Kelly's high marks might be difficult. "},{"Title":"Not 'great' Hitchcock,' but a 'Hitchcock' after all!","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" We are taken by Alfred Hitchcock to the French Riviera where a series of robberies are occurring, and women screaming that their precious jewels are stolen... A black cat - in each robbery - is roaming stealthily in fear and shame along the roof of the elegant Carlton..From there, Hitchcock introduces us to John Robie (Cary Grant), a retired jewel burglar known as the 'Cat' who is living in peaceful isolation in Cannes...Robie is seen upset, bothered,, and worried because the 'Cat' prowls again... But, who is the 'Cat'? Surely someone is imitating his old style, using his ability and skill, almost his cleverness and talent...Naturally, the police in Cannes is blaming him... They had his hallmark stamped and classified... They would like to catch him in the act and finish with him in jail...Robie is worried how to catch the real thief being himself subject to harass! The characteristic plot of Hitchcock To chase and to be chased at the same time...John Williams (H.H. Hughson) whose Insurance Company has been victim of great robberies, gives Robie what he wants A list of their wealthy clients whom might be future candidates on the list of the skillful thief...Here we discover a future victim, the rich Mrs. Stevens (Jessica Royce Landis) and her cool, beautiful and sensual daughter Frances (Grace Kelly).Four scenes, depicted by the master of suspense, catch our attention- The classic fireworks shot when Frances and Robies expressed their passion joining their lips in a torrid kiss, igniting the fuse of a chain of explosions in sensation colors and in VistaVision...- The annoyance of Hitchcock towards eggs Mrs. Stevens, in her hotel's room, extinguishing her cigarette in the yolk of the fried egg...- The Gala night An extravagant festival of precious stones (diamond, emerald, ruby and gold) displayed in all its beauty and rarity on the neck of women dressed in multicolored and multifarious costumes... Also a close-up for clear identification of the police and gendarme who are ready to capture, to hit, to surprise the famous thief...- The climactic classic roof-top chase sequence between Roby and the thief seen before in Saboteur, and much later in Vertigo, and North By Northwest. With meticulous coiffure and fancy clothes, Grace Kelly plays her role with elegance and fashion... She is gracefully refined and polite showing good taste and style... In the French Riviera she meets her future husband Prince Rainier of Monaco... After finishing the filming of The Swan, and High Society, she becomes Princess Grace...The film captures the aerial shooting of the automobile chases on the Riviera Corniche, the Cote D'Azur, the flower market, the grandeur of the rugged coastal scenery, the sea with much sunshine sparkling flashes of wit and gaiety... It is a pleasant entertainment, a 'Hitchcock Champagne' indeed!Grace Kelly&#151;contributing with our ideal romantic hero in catching his thief, was in fact scheming to catch him... "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Charming Romantic Bubble","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There is much to like about Hitchcock's TO CATCH A THIEF Cary Grant and Grace Kelly at the height of their appeal, a witty script that offers Jessie Royce Landis one of the funniest roles ever seen in any Hitchcock film, and excellent cinematography designed to show off the beauties of Monte Carlo--all packaged in a lightweight tale that is two parts romance, two parts travelogue, one part comedy, and just enough classic Hitchcock suspense to keep this lighter-than-air confection from flying apart.The well known story concerns a string of jewel robberies along the Riviera which lead local officials to suspect that a famous and long retired cat burglar (Grant) is once more on the prowl--but rather than hope the authorities will find the real culprit Grant elects to protect himself by unmasking the thief for himself. In the process he encounters an icy beauty (Kelly) who takes considerable pleasure in tantalizing him with her charms, her jewels, and her knowledge of his criminal past, and her mother (Landis), who is perhaps the best of the clever matrons to appear in any Hitchcock film. As the police close in, the three of them devise a plot to expose the thief and clear Grant, with whom Kelly has now fallen in love.Unlike most Hitchcock's most famous films, TO CATCH A THIEF offers nothing dark to trouble our thoughts, and it is perhaps best regarded as a romantic fantasia, the director's vacation from his more typical material. While it will never compete with the more famous VERTIGO and REAR WINDOW of the same period, it is extremely well done and quite a bit of fun to watch. Viewers seeking a pleasant film with a romantic touch will enjoy it a great deal.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"My Only Comment Would Be Highly Censorable","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" John Robie is a retired cat burglar living on the French Riviera. When there are a string of diamond robberies in the area with his modus operandi, he's the number one suspect and must go into hiding to try and force the real culprit out into the open.A confession - I really dislike this movie. It has some interesting scenes, the Cote D'Azur locales are very glamorous and picturesque, and there are some glimpses of Hitchcock's brilliance, but for the most part I just find it dull. For the master of suspense, it's almost completely lacking in suspense. The plot is weak - the kick-starter is when John runs from the police, but why bother - he's innocent and they have no evidence. If it's really a love story instead it's not a very good one - he's selfish and cynical and Francie is spoiled and immature. And the identity of Le Chat is pretty obvious; it has to be one of John's old gang and only two of them are developed as characters, one of whom is a (badly dubbed) old man who could hardly climb anything. Compare this with one of Hitch's other double-hunt movies, say The 39 Steps, where the innocent man premise is handled with much more plausibility, the romance is charming and quirky, and the twist at the end is craftily disguised and extremely satisfying. Most surprisingly for Hitchcock, humour and thrills are minimal - the scene where Foussard dies is a flub; a bunch of static shots and then a confusing, badly lit struggle of someone we've hardly met falling off a cliff we didn't know was there. And while Landis and Williams raise the occasional smile there are almost no jokes. I suppose the suave romantic banter is supposed to replace them but it's not very funny if, like me, you don't care for the characters. The only chuckle involves an errant chicken, but since it's in a scene where Francie drives her sports car recklessly round the twisting Monaco hills it's quite upsetting to watch (Kelly crashed her car and died in almost the exact same spot in 1982). Are we supposed to admire John, a self-confessed unapologetic burglar who conspicuously enjoys the high life he's gotten from his crimes ? Don't get me wrong, I like flawed heroes, but I find nothing heroic about a snooty criminal who only cares about himself and his own liberty. I also always get a bit creeped out by love stories where the woman is half the age of the man. The movie also has two big liabilities for me - the photography and the music. Cameraman Robert Burks won an Oscar for this film, which astonishes me, since of the twelve movies he made with Hitchcock, I'd say this one has the blandest photography - it's flat and static. There is an enormous difference between lavish, glamorous colour photography and good movie photography. Just about anyone can do the former, provided you have the resources, and that's all this movie is - a series of exclusive resorts, grand buildings and posh people in expensive suits and frocks (most of which have dated badly). In a Moving Picture the emphasis should always be on the adjective - Burks was an outstanding talent, but please see his stunning photography in Rear Window, Vertigo or The Birds, where the camera actually tells the story and adds immensely to the atmosphere, as opposed to just sitting back and recording a pile of talky scenes. There are occasional flashes - like the moment where Kelly's head is all in shadow in the big seduction scene - which feel Hitchcockian and original, but these are few and far between. Similarly, the score by Lyn Murray (a man) is staid and forgettable - it could be slapped on any movie of the period and fit reasonably well. For his next film, the brilliant and hilarious The Trouble With Harry, Hitch employed Bernard Herrmann as composer, and right from the very first second the music is sublime, original, funny, scary and complements the images perfectly, whilst simultaneously having a character all of its own. Okay, so I don't like To Catch A Thief, and perhaps some of my criticisms are unfair. I'm sure most people would say don't be such a killjoy, it's so chic and elegant, such a treasure of fifties haute couture, a timepiece of Monte Carlo history, a classic of romantic badinage from an age when Movie Stars really were royalty. It may be all of those things, but I don't watch movies to marvel at expensive things I can't have - I watch them to see exciting stories and meet interesting characters I can identify and empathise with. Hitchcock's movies usually do that for me and then some, but this one is cold and lifeless, like the sparkly diamonds the characters all revolve around. A bore. "},{"Title":"Fully appreciable, at last on DVD, brightly restored in it's original VistaVision ratio.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This underrated Hitchcock piece is his tribute to his obsession with the dazzling Grace Kelly, who's even more beautiful than the Riviera set pieces.  Teamed with Grant, they make a perfect couple, in a mischievous love story that's quite unique for Hitchcock.  It's as if he decided to leave well-enough alone, and simply provided a series of grandiose setups for his two leads to cavort in; perhaps too surprisingly for Hitchcock devotees.  Nonetheless, this is a sophisticated romp that's punctuated with some fine supporting performances.  Sadly, Hitchcock would search for a Kelly substitute for the rest of his career; and his remembrance of this vacation picture would be a dominant influence in the creation of his dark masterpiece to come, VERTIGO. "},{"Title":"One of the best caper films of all time","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's most devoted fans might find this film to be too light but in my opinion it's one of his very best films, a joyous romp in the South of France with Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. The great location photography enhances the mood of the film perfectly and helps make this a really classy piece of escapist fun; like Tourneur's Out of the Past, Welles' Lady from Shanghai and his own Notorious, a lot of the film's appeal is from seeing beautiful and exotic people in a beautiful and exotic setting, trying to figure out how to stay alive in a situation where no-one and nothing seems familiar or trustworthy. Just as in most exotic noir films, the main character John Robie the cat burglar (Grant) has a mysterious criminal past which makes the female protagonist uncertain about whether to trust him. However this film stays away from the dark side of the caper genre by clueing the audience in very early as to the protagonist's innocence, thus making the female protagonist the more interesting character as far as motives and judgments.For me, the main reason to watch this film is always Grant, so suave and self-deprecating as the once-notorious cat burglar. Since as I said we know he's innocent, what's interesting about his character is the way he reacts to the fact that so many other people think he's guilty. Robie seems to actually enjoy being implicated, except insofar as he values his freedom and his lifestyle very highly. This film is built on irony, and the greatest irony of all is that in the end Robie finds a woman (Kelly) to whom he will willingly accept the loss of both (he will now welcome a mother-in-law to his paradise villa). Now in a lot of Grant's 50s/60s movies we see the female protagonist actually seducing Grant, but it was never handled as well as in this film. That's because the element of seduction coincides in so many convincingly ironic ways with his other motivations. 2 scenes in particular stand out in this regard to me. The first is the scene with Kelly driving reluctant passenger Grant at very high speeds on the edges of cliffs as cops chase them. This time it is not his own ingenuity that will save him, and it's interesting how Kelly slowly plays her cards until she throws out her joker and completely trumps him &#150; she knows his true identity. This scene is reminiscent of the one in Notorious where Grant is driven by a drunken Ingrid Bergman (or, for that matter, the one in NxNW where he's driven by a drunken&#133;.. Cary Grant!). Hitch seems to revel in placing the ultimate leading man in dangerous and humiliating circumstances &#150; it's essential to the development of the character that he be humbled just a bit by Kelly just as she will later be humbled to discover that he was not the thief she thought he was.It's the juicy irony of that situation that really makes the developing romantic relationship work &#150; Kelly's character thinks that she understands Grant and she is chasing him just like he's chasing the real thief. In the first place she aggressively kisses him before he really speaks to her (an element lifted for Donen's derivative Charade) so she's already chasing him in a sense just because she's so fascinated by his seemingly unique ability to ignore her. Then in the second really important love scene, the fireworks scene, Kelly thinks she has him all figured out &#150; you've been staring at them all night she says, referring to her jewels even though Robie was probably staring at her more, shall we say, uniquely feminine features in that particular region. As Hitchcock keeps us guessing about what each lover truly desires in the other, he gives this romance great depth and verity by engaging our own desire to be close to these fascinating intelligent characters and by enticing us with the irony of their conflicting motives.OK, another thing &#150; this is Grace Kelly at her best. Compared to most of her other performances, this is truly astounding, confident work. I can't forget the look in her eyes as she tours the villa with Grant &#150; totally convincing and yet somehow haunting, a young woman in love but not sure exactly what she's getting into. Every time I see a bad Kelly movie I pick this one up again to remind myself of just how much a director can do to bring out the most in an actor. Even Grant is better than usual here, perfectly mixing his comedic and dramatic personae for really the first time as far as I'm aware. In Suspicion he and Hitch toyed with and deconstructed his normal screen persona &#150; but this film is tome even more impressive and enjoyable because it took that persona and instead of contradicting it (Suspicion) or simply undermining it (i.e. Hawks' Male War Bride) they exaggerated it and played more subtly with the sexual element of the catch and the question of who exactly catches who &#150; and more importantly and amusingly, why.I'll leave it to others to discuss all the other solid performances, the director's techniques, etc. All of it is true, but this film is really all about Grant and Kelly's characters, in danger and in love (the film asks is there a difference?) and having the time of their lives. It's an intelligent, suspenseful, romantic movie with two exciting lead actors, beautiful locations well photographed, gorgeous costumes that enhance character and plot (e.g. Grant's slave boy costume in the grand ball), all captured by one of the world's best directors at the peak of his abilities. And I do mean&#133;&#133; captured. This is a rare beast and should be appreciated as such, and not for what people might wish it was trying to be. "},{"Title":"Brilliant thriller-comedy with an exceptional main couple  Grant and Kelly","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Enjoyable and riveting comedy-thriller by master of suspense , the great Alfred Hitchcock .On the French Riviera a retired jewel thief nicknamed ¨The Cat¨ (Gary Grant) falling for a gorgeous American girl (Grace Kelly), a high society woman accompanied by her mother (Jessie Royce Landis) , she suspects he's up to his old jobs when a rash of jewel thefts happen. While newspapers publicize ¨The Cat prowls again¨. Then the reformed thief attempting to chase his impersonator .This elegant film contains suspense , emotion , mystery , and a wonderful love story . And of course full of distinctive Hitchcockian touches with red-herrings , dead-end trails and some typical jokes. Based on the novel by David Dodge , being well adapted by John Michael Hayes who writes a snappy dialog . Marvelous performances from main cast as Gary Grant as smooth and likable thief who returns his old tricks and wonderful , icely effective Grace Kelly whose coldness is gradually melted . Grace Kelly met husband Prince Rainero of Monaco during a photo shop while she was attending the Cannes Film Festival . Both of whom form a sensational couple with sparkling chemical . Furthermore , good secondary cast as the young girl Brigitte Auber and the veterans Jessie Royce Landis and Charles Vanel and of course John Williams who appears nicely dressed in black and posing as servant of two glamorous ladies in a bizarre , fancy costume ball with policeman awkwardly masquerading . There's a magnificent car pursuit throughout the Grand Corniche located on a Riviera hilltop road and shot from a helicopter. Deservedly Oscar-winning cinematography by Robert Buks , Hitch's usual, as he photographed ¨Strangers in a train¨ , ¨The Birds¨ and ¨Marnie¨ . Luxurious Oscar-nominating costumes by Edith Head and splendidly created for Grace Kelly . Spectacular and colorful scenarios with excellent production design by Hal Pereira also nominated to Academy Award , and outdoors filmed in French Riviera , Monaco , Cannes ,and Grand Corniche . Lively and jolly musical score by Lyn Murray. The motion picture is colorfully and stunningly directed by the genius Hitch . Rating  Above average , this Hitchcock effort proved to be as successful as his former popular movies. "},{"Title":"A precursor to Charade?","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief may have been Alfred Hitchcock's only film that bordered on escapism. Whereas most of his movies were all about suspense and camera angle, this one is mostly about aesthetics, at least as far as I could tell.Cary Grant plays John Robie, an ex-cat burglar now living in retirement in Nice, France. When a series of robberies starts to plague the city, the police try to question John, but he gets away. While hiding in the city, he meets exquisite American heiress Frances Stevens (Grace Kelly, pretty as always), who's more interested in him than he is in her. From there, we start to become intrigued about which of the various characters is doing what.One of the undeniable aspects in this movie is how it makes use of Grace Kelly's incomparable beauty no matter from which angle they film her, she and her clothes always light up the screen. But there's something else that I notice about the movie the similarities to Charade. The obvious point is that both films star Cary Grant and happen in France. But also, Grace Kelly and Audrey Hepburn were both born in 1929, and in their respective roles in these movies, they play women involved with men who may or may not be what they seem.Maybe I'm the only person who thinks that. Anyway, To Catch a Thief is more about showing off Grace Kelly than about suspense or camera angles. But don't get me wrong she was one hot babe. Too bad she got killed in a car wreck (in fact, TCAT has a scene where she's driving dangerously through the hills above Nice; a premonition?).One scene that I really liked was when John is hiding in a boat and athletic Danielle Foussard (Brigitte Auber) is at the helm. When a plane flies overhead, John tells Danielle to get rid of them by acting pretty. She promptly pulls back her dress a little bit. He quickly reminds her Not that pretty! We're trying to get rid of them! "},{"Title":"The Lighter Hitchcock","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" When a number of jewel thefts take place on the French Riviera, suspicion falls on John Robie, an American expatriate. Robie was at one time a notorious jewel thief, but escaped from prison during the Second World War and joined the French Resistance. As a result of his bravery, he was paroled, and, although he now claims to be living an honest existence, the recent burglaries have all the hallmarks of his style. Robie has to clear his name of suspicion and expose the real Cat, as the press have nicknamed the burglar. (The theme of a man unjustly accused or suspected of a crime was a common one with Hitchcock). Along the way, he finds time to flirt with Danielle, the attractive daughter of a local waiter, and to carry on a more serious romance with Frances Stephens, a glamorous American oil heiress.Hitchcock is not, perhaps, a director whom one would normally associate with visual beauty, but as another reviewer has pointed out, this is perhaps his most visually beautiful film, with plenty of tourist-brochure shots of the Riviera. (The film won an Oscar for Best Cinematography and was nominated for two others, Best Art Direction and Best Costume Design). For the two main roles, he used two of his favourite actors, Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. In both cases, it was their third Hitchcock film; Grant would later go on to make a fourth, North by Northwest. Kelly was one of the most beautiful Hollywood stars of all time, and Hitchcock catches her at her loveliest in this film, her beauty shown to its best advantage by some sumptuous costumes. Her verbal duels with Grant are one of the major features of the film; they sometimes turn into three-way contests when Danielle, played by Brigitte Auber, joins in. (Auber, incidentally, seems miscast. The exchanges between the two women suggest that Danielle is considerably younger than Frances, probably only a teenager. Auber, in fact, was a year older than Kelly).This is possibly Hitchcock's most light-hearted film, apart from his few ventures into pure comedy such as Mr and Mrs Smith. If one had to categorise it, it would probably be as a comedy-romance-thriller. Although Hitchcock made a few other films along similar lines, notably North by Northwest, To Catch a Thief contains a greater element of comedy and a lesser element of thrills. There are no great set-piece suspense scenes comparable to the crop-duster and Mount Rushmore sequences in the later movie; indeed, there is very little suspense at all, except in the scene at the end where Robie confronts the Cat on the rooftops. The film to which it perhaps bears the greatest resemblance is Charade, which also starred Cary Grant and an iconic beauty of the screen (in that case Audrey Hepburn) in a French setting. It was, of course, not directed by Hitchcock, but Stanley Donen had clearly absorbed elements of his style. Like Charade, To Catch a Thief is highly enjoyable as a light, glossy romantic comedy, but lacks the tension and psychological depth of Hitchcock's best work. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not Much of a Catch","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A famous cat burglar has reformed but is blamed for a series of thefts in the French Riviera. This very slow-moving and uninteresting story is not Hitchcock's finest hour, complete with corny shots of fireworks while Grant and Kelly make out. The scenery is gorgeous and Kelly has never looked more beautiful. The film is like looking at pretty postcards. Grant is so tanned that he looks like a roasted chicken. Also, the 25-year age difference between the two stars is hard to overlook. The most chilling scene in this film has Kelly driving recklessly through curvy mountain roads - the same place where the actress would meet her untimely death 27 years later. "},{"Title":"Catching Thieves","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" When the jewelries of millionaires are stolen in French Riviera, the former burglar and member of the French resistance John Robie The Cat (Cary Grant) is the prime suspect of the police. John convinces the Lloyds of London insurance agent H.H. Hughson (John Williams) that a copycat is committing the burglaries and he offers to chase the thief to prove his innocence, requesting a list of possible victims in the spot. He befriends the wealthy American widow Jessie Stevens (Jessie Royce Landis) that is in the list and her spoiled daughter Frances Stevens (Grace Kelly) falls in love for him. When Jessie's jewelries are robbed, Frances blames John, but her mother believes in his innocence and decides to help the retired burglar to catch the real thief.To Catch a Thief is a delightful romantic comedy and one of the last movies of the gorgeous twenty-six year-old Grace Kelly that is astonishingly beautiful in the role of a spoiled daughter of a millionaire. Despite the difference of ages, the elegant fifty-one year-old Cary Grant shows a great chemistry with the future princess. Jessie Royce Landis steals the movie and John Williams complete the charming lead cast. This time, the cameo of Alfred Hitchcock is in the bus, sat on the side of Cary Grant. The ridiculous Brazilian title loses the subtlety of the original tile, based on the proverb Set a thief to catch a thief that means that the best person to catch a thief is another thief, because he or she knows how thieves think, but also with the witty double meaning, since John is trying to catch the copycat while Frances is trying to seduce and catch John. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Ladrão de Casaca (Thief in Tailcoat) "},{"Title":"One big yawn","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock has so many memorable films to his credit, Psycho and The Birds to name but two.  To catch a Thief  comes nowhere near the entertainment value of those.  I find it rather dull and uninspiring. To me the actors seem to be mere cardboard cut-outs saying their lines with little feeling and lacking any real interaction between characters.One redeeming feature is the beautiful setting of the French Riviera( a truly charming part of France) and in addition there is the magnificent wardrobe design. But we expect more than this from Hitchcock.If this film is meant to be a mystery thriller, I regret to report it has little mystery and very few scenes that thrill.  Even the chase across the rooftops is really not very exciting.This film was made in the fifties when it was probably accepted as rather nice light entertainment for a Saturday night outing.  Today we expect a film to be all absorbing, to thrill or make us laugh.  This film does little for me except make me yawn. Maybe I was expecting more suspense and more excitement.Even so, I still think the French Riviera is a truly wonderful setting for a film production. "},{"Title":"Un-Classic Hitchcock","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock is a great director. This film has a great cast as Cary Grant, Grace Kelly, etc are in front of the camera with the great director. Even a fine French Actress and John Williams are int eh support cast. So why is this one not in Hitch's top films? The suspect is the script. The movie script story just fails to create enough suspense for the master of the genre to exploit. Nobody in the script is crazy. There are no murders, just near perils. Cat Burglers stealing Jewels just doesn't make it.I think when this film came out, after Rear Window, it had to be a let down. You left the theater feeling that the right people got abandoned by a lacking script. The locations in France are great, but the film feels like wallpaper.The thing is, this is the best looking wallpaper you could find for the bedroom. I love looking at it, it just doesn't entertain me like Hitchcocks other films. "}{"Title":"Romantic (as opposed to Thriller ) Hitch at his Best","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It always amazes me when film buffs dismiss this nonpareil if a romantic mystery as less than the masterpiece it is.Hitchcock fans in particular tend to fall into two groups (perhaps four considering those who have a preference for either his British films or his Hollywood efforts). The main division however seems to be between those who see Hitchcock as the master MYSTERY director and those who see him as the master THRILLER director. In truth, he was both, but his mysteries (of which this is one of the most delicious) were frequently not thrillers - and visa versa.TO CATCH A THIEF, with Hitchcock's two favorite STAR stars, Cary Grant and Grace Kelly, backed by one of his best supporting casts of great character actors from John Williams' insurance detective (superb earlier work for Hitchcock in a similar role in DIAL M FOR MURDER and later in his TV series) to Jessie Royce Landis as Kelly's drolly amusing mother who sees through everything (she would go on to play GRANT's mother in NORTH BY NORTHWEST, but this may be her best role), and the spectacular scenery of the French Riviera is as good as romantic comedy/mystery gets. Technical nits may be picked - the day-for-night shot where John Robie is nearly trapped and killed might have been more effective with today's faster film and real night filming, the elaborate masquerade ball may seem like a scene out of an earlier era to todays's elegance starved youngsters and the film's weakest moment may be the cut away from a moment of romantic fireworks to the real kind through the window in the background - but the ball scene has a great bit of trickery that always fools new audiences and the cut away has become a much quoted icon of romantic film making.Yes, this is the film where Philadelphia's superb high society actress Grace Kelly met her husband-to-be, Prince Ranier of Monoco, and yes, the roads on which she is shown dangerously speeding with Grant in their open top roadster are the very cliff-hugging roads where she would eventually suffer her fatal stroke and crash, but that is all subtext to be appreciated or ignored as the modern viewer chooses for one of Hitchock's best mystery films.I've been teaching a university course on Mystery Writing on the Stage and Screen for the better part of a decade now, and I always give over one session to the consideration of Hitchcock - the only DIRECTOR we spend that much time with. It's always a hard choice which of his later mysteries to focus on - the strong stage-linked DIAL M FOR MURDER (also Kelly showing her unexpected range), the excellent gimmickry of REAR WINDOW or the haunting double life of VERTIGO, the superbly acted intrigue with historical overtones of NOTORIOUS or even FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT (the brilliant PSYCHO isn't in the running since it shines brighter as thriller than mystery), but I always come back to TO CATCH A THIEF. The mystery is as tightly written as any in the cannon, is even more beautifully acted and as the first use of THIS studio's widescreen process, is sumptuously filmed.It's simply too much FUN not to enjoy regularly at any age, and thankfully, my students seem to appreciate the delicious fun - masterfully staged, played and filmed. "},{"Title":"Good movie overshadowed by other masterpieces","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I was mightily impressed by this new (to me) Hitchcock film. To Catch a Thief starring Cary Grant and Grace Kelly was a delightful romp that seems to be overshadowed by Hitchcock's other masterpieces.Set on the French Riviera, it stars Cary Grant as a retired jewel thief and French resistance hero. When the robberies start happening again, the authorities immediately think of him. So Grant has to go out and clear his own name by catching the real thief.Grant is electric on the screen. I was never really a Cary Grant fan, but under close scrutiny recently of watching Notorious, North by Northwest, and now To Catch a Thief, I must say that I like him. He's personable and yet haughty and arrogant. I wonder what it was like to meet him. And then Grace Kelly, ah Grace!, delivered the best performance I've seen her in ( I must find other movies with her).I must say that it kept me guessing throughout the movie. I caught myself saying that Grant was still committing the burglaries even though he was making us think otherwise. I caught myself saying, Let it be Grace, because it seemed her character bended toward that. I can't go much farther without giving it away but let me just say that I didn't see it coming, and when it did, I said, Of course! I kept asking why this one wasn't shown as often as the others, like Vertigo, Rear Window, or Psycho. I still don't have much of a reason. This was very entertaining. Hitchcock directed another spectacular show. I wouldn't say it was one of his best, but when you are in that elite company, it would be extremely hard to be.Good movie. Worth a look and worth a hearty recommendation. "},{"Title":"Did Woman ever look lovelier? Did France?","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This Hitchcock movie is not about suspense. It is about Grace Kelly, Cary Grant and the French Riviera. If you don't worry about the plot and just watch THEM, you will enjoy it immensely. Hitchcock went through what I call his travelogue phase which consisted of Dial M for Murder (London), Vertigo (San Francisco), North by Northwest (Mount Rushmore), and, here, The French Riviera. I consider this phase the time of his masterworks (before he became fixated on the macabre) and although this particular movie is the most insipid of the lot, it is his finest travelogue. For Americans of this period, the mention of Europe must have invoked black and white images of war. Not here!! One really wishes he could take a time machine back to this gloriously beautiful time and place. A movie that can enjoyably be watched time and again. However, I do agree with others that Grant was somewhat miscast as a thief -- even a high-class one. "},{"Title":"The sheer beauty of Grace is enough....","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The sheer beauty of Grace Kelly is enough to want to see this movie--but you will be entertained by the story as well.  While this is not a great Hitchcock film, it does keep your attention and mysteriously draws you into the plot all the way through to the somewhat suspenseful roof top chase. Any way you look at it, viewing this movie will be time well spent. "},{"Title":"To Catch A Thief- Don't Bother *1/2","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of Alfred Hitchcock's worst films. He would certainly redeem himself the following year with the classic North by Northwest.Other than breathtaking cinematography of the French Riviera, this film really has little to offer. It is said that Cary Grant came out of retirement to make this. Thank the lord that he didn't resume retirement after it.It's basically the story of someone copying the cat burglar techniques of former cat burglar John Robie (Grant.) There are chase scenes throughout the Riviera but the film is dull. We really reach the point where we don't care who the guilty party is.As in the fabulous North by Northwest, there is an exciting climatic scene but even that fails to realize the emotions needed.Grant gives a fairly good performance but is hampered by the written material. Grace Kelly was still probably with a swell-head for her undeserved Oscar win, the year before, for The Country Girl. The part of a rich, snobby, girl in the fast lane was good for her but she fails to capitalize on it. Her mother, Jesse Royce Landis, has some scene stealing scenes. Note that Landis appeared the following year in North by Northwest as Grant's mom. "},{"Title":"Very middle of the road","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I really want to love this beautiful film. And it is beautiful. The sets, the colors, even at night, the lighting is just beautiful in every scene. The scenery of Southern France magnificent. The costumes, the gowns, the jewelry in it's sparkling splendor. But it simply isn't enough. I found myself daydreaming. It's dull. There is nothing interesting about the dialog, the script. It is supposed to be witty but it's flat. Some of the characters are supposed to be eccentric, they aren't. I had to fight to pay attention. I love Hitchcock, have seen almost all of his films but honestly, Cary Grant just is about as exciting as cardboard. All I can think of while watching him is, was he gay? Grace Kelly is always wonderful but even her part here feels bland. Sorry, just can't recommend this like I would Rear Window, Marnie, Vertigo. Just nothing fascinating here. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock Travellog that can watched time and time again.","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitch seemed to enjoy producing this film with the breath catching sights of the French Riviera and the clear sparks between Ms. Kelley and Mr. Grant. Sure, it may not be one Hitch's scariest films, but it should not be underestimated purely for not being that type of movie. Hitchcock was a movie maker of many levels and this film provides a plethora of entertainment. If you are on a date or just want to rekindle some romance with your lady-- start spinning this DVD--you never know if you will be offered a leg or a breast? Great production, great actors, great locations, a great director, results, this time, in a great movie in my opinion. "},{"Title":"What a great looking film........","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ......and sexy too.Having just purchased this film on DVD and watching it about 3 times in a row i must say that it is one of the better films of it's type.The cast is truly wonderful with Cary Grant well cast as the master thiefI have always thought that this role inspired James Bond creator Ian Flemingand I fell in love with Grace Kelly for  oh about the millionth time watching this film again.Not one of Hitchcock's best but very entertaining.The supporting cast is excellent and it has only lost a rating point due to the fact that the story at times is rather confusing and contrived "},{"Title":"Plot holes you can shoot a cannon through, but who cares?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  With the scenery, Grace and Cary, her costumes, what difference does it make that the plot sometimes doesn't quite gel?  I loved this as a girl. I   still love to watch it. "},{"Title":"As fluffy and sweet as a bag of popcorn","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A light-hearted caper flick starring two of Hitch's favourites &#x96; Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. TO CATCH A THIEF is a combination of romance, mystery and comedy, with the two stars sparking off each other in the story of a cat burglar who must fight to prove his innocence. The supporting cast includes John Williams (DIAL M FOR MURDER) as one of Grant's few allies and a whole range of sinister/flamboyant personalities. Shot in often stunning south-of-France locales, this is viewing made easy there's nothing to challenge or provoke and the joy comes of watching the natural charisma of two stars at the top of their game (and seeing how many double entendres they can get past the censor).As a film fan, I've always been drawn to the darker side of cinema &#x96; and therefore my favourite Hitchcock films are those that thrill and horrify (PSYCHO, FRENZY, etc). TO CATCH A THIEF is nothing of the sort. It sees Hitch on gentle form, keen to entertain rather than mystify, and his directorial flourishes are few and far between. There's a great deal of back projection work here, none of which is too shabby &#x96; at least the director makes efforts to convince us otherwise by having the chassis of the cars move along with the wheel while the fans are going at full whack. The outstanding moment is a car chase along the narrow clifftop roads which manages to be breathtaking &#x96; even with that back projection! "}{"Title":"See it for Grace, Cary and the beautiful setting","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief is a charming movie but quite different to other Hitchcock films. Other Hitchcock films made in the 50s like Vertigo, Dial M For Murder and Rear Window (Grace Kelly being in the last two) have strong story lines, brilliant camera-work and suspense. To Catch a Thief's storyline almost seems a tad weak in comparison to those films, and it does not seem like a thriller, it seems like more along the lines of a romantic-comedy-crime movie. It is also slightly predictable and it wasn't too hard to guess the 'real cat burglar'. Still, it is an entertaining movie and shows Hitchcock's versatility.Grace Kelly seems to be at the height of her beauty during this film, she looks absolutely stunning. So do her clothes (by Edith Head) especially her blue chiffon dress she wears when she first meets Cary Grant's character, her black and white outfit she wears when she and Cary go to the beach (although I can just imagine the looks I would get if I wore that outfit to the beach today!), the white chiffon dress she wears during the fireworks display and her gold ball gown she wears at the party at the end of the film. She and Cary work well together despite the fact he was pretty much double her age.Also looking beautiful is the French Riviera, especially noticeable when Grace is zooming along the road in her sports car (sadly, it is often said she died very close to that spot in 1982). This movie has made me want to visit the Riviera even more. I would recommend To Catch a Thief to anyone wanting to see two of Hollywood's brightest stars, the French Riviera and generally just a charming, light Hitchcock film. "},{"Title":"Fun Hitchcock film","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief is Alfred Hitchcock's film about a former thief who, after being suspected of a series of burglaries, sets to clear his name by catching the actual thief. Along the way he meets a woman very taken with him.Cary Grant and Grace Kelly have great chemistry as the suave thief John Robie and quirky, rich Frances Stevens respectively. There are excellent supporting performances all-around as well, particularly from Jessie Royce Landis as Frances' worldly mother and John Williams, who seamlessly plays an insurance agent with a vested interest in protecting Lloyd's of London.The story does not have a lot of intrigue per se, but remains engaging due to developments between the characters through memorable scenes and dialogue. However, the film does benefit from having an underlying mystery, which is not surprisingly the identity of the actual thief. The question of the identity is mostly looming in the background of the film, but is eventually used effectively in the film's clever ending sequence. The atmosphere is lighter and less tense than in other Hitchcock films, but this isn't a detriment to this enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable films I've seen... And I'm not sure why...","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" OK, so... I hate the intro with the women screaming over their jewels... And who really screams over stolen jewels? But otherwise, this is a very very likable film... And I'm never quite, exactly sure why... It's not particularly unpredictable... It's not particularly tense... It's not particularly funny... And the car chase scene looks really hokey... But it's just damn fun! My guess is, it's the snappy dialogue and interchange between the beautiful Grace Kelly and the smooth Cary Grant... The sexually undertoned banter.Cary Grant can carry anything... If you screw up a film with him in it... You must have done a really horrible job... The guy just always carries a persona of smoothness and class...Watch for a good time.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant plays a former thief called John Robie, also known as The Cat.Now there's a new series of jewelry robberies taking place on the French Riviera and John is the main suspect.Now Robie must try to catch the thief himself to prove his innocence.He encounters with a woman named Jessie Stevens (Jessie Royce Landis) and her beautiful daughter Frances (Grace Kelly).Frances is convinced Robie is guilty.Alfred Hitchcock directed this fine movie called To Catch a Thief in 1955.Cary Grant is the man known for his acting skills and his charm.In this movie he surely gets to show them both.The elegant Grace Kelly gives a fine performance looking as beautiful as ever.Landis is terrific and so is John Williams as H.H.Hughson.Charles Vanel does the part of Bertani and does it very good.Brigitte Auber is brilliant as Danielle Foussard.This movie proffers not only a great scenery but also a great story.That's what we need sometimes; great stories to take us out of our every day life for a while.To take us elsewhere, to a place that makes us forget the pain and suffering we're going through.That's what this movie does. "},{"Title":"Light-headed ultra-glamorous fun","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant and Grace Kelly, two of the most gorgeous stars in film history, as a suave thief and his equally stunning love interest. Jewel heists. Breathless mating chases. Breathless vehicle chases through the stunning scenery of Southern France. Costume balls, flower markets, casinos, ultra-chic hotels, seaside resorts, fireworks festivals, exotic food...was this flick engineered by the Riviera Chamber of Commerce?It doesn't matter, and neither does the paper-thin plot. Slick, delectable, and completely entertaining, it should never be remade. With Grant and Kelly glittering brighter than stolen diamonds, and Hitchcock's tongue planted firmly in cheek, the sheer glamour factor - perfect for its time and place - is unequaled and unrepeatable. Savor it for what it is, the epitome of style over substance - and what style! "},{"Title":"Lightweight but efficient Hitchcock","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In between his suspense masterpieces,Alfred Hitchcock sometimes liked to work on less intense projects,and this is one of them.There isn't much opportunities for palm-sweating tension or balletically-composed thrills as you'd expect from old Hitch,but in TO CATCH A THIEF this seems quite deliberate.The intention from the very start is partaking in a light comedy-thriller,and on this level it is very enjoyable.And accomplished performers such as Cary Grant,Grace Kelly,Jessie Royce Landis and John Williams further help to give it further resonance and quality.The one disappointment in the film is it's slow pace.There are some parts in the film that drag and produce lethargy,but the beautiful locations,photography and cast save it,including a witty and sometimes surprisingly risqué script which caused some concern from censors at the time.Grant and Kelly rank as one of the best romantic couples ever on screen,and rub genuine sparks off each other.Even at 50 years old,Grant is as handsome,if not more handsome,than he ever was previously,and also looks amazingly lithe,agile and fit,as befits a retired cat burglar,and despite being almost double Grace Kelly's age,is wholly convincing as her suitor.Grace herself never looked more alluring and ravishing,and Jessie Royce Landis and John Williams provide fine support.Williams himself is barely a year older than Grant,yet you wouldn't suspect that at all when they're together on screen,and how ludicrous it is compared to Grant when towards the film's end Kelly puts a relieved head on his shoulder(even Williams himself seems embarrassed!).Such is Grant's eternal youthfulness that Miss Landis played his mother in the superior NORTH BY NORTHWEST(1959);the fact is she's a few months younger than Cary! There's a well-known tragic coda to the film;the later titled Princess Grace of Monaco lost her life in a car accident on the very same stretches of road that Hitchcock filmed a chase sequence,but barring this sad fact TO CATCH A THIEF is still very decent Hitchcock,not great Hitchcock.But very decent Hitchcock is still far better than 95% of other directors,so there's no problem in watching and enjoying this film. "},{"Title":"From where I sat it looked as though you were conjugating some irregular verbs.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A string of daring jewel robberies on the French Riviera leads the police to suspect one-time cat-burglar John Robie (Cary Grant). Robie claims to be reformed but the police suspect otherwise. As the police seem so intent on following him instead of looking for the real crook, Robie decides to track down the thief himself. He soon meets and begins a romance with Frances Stevens (Grace Kelly) whose mother happens to have her own collection of valuable gems. But when Frances' mother's jewels are stolen, she naturally suspects Robie. Robie must convince Frances of his innocence and, with her help, finally unmask the real cat-burglar.To Catch a Thief may not have Hitchcock's most suspenseful or intricate plot, but it's certainly one of Hitch's best looking films. Everything is simply beautiful. The French Riviera locations are amazing. Odd, craggy points that lead to the crystal blue ocean are filmed like works of art. It looks better than any travelogue you're likely to see. The old, unique, character-filled buildings make for stunning backdrops to the unfolding story. And, has there ever been a better looking on-screen couple than Grant and Kelly? I doubt it. These two can make the most mundane of scenes look like a million dollars.As for the plot, it's not overly difficult to figure out who the real burglar is. The movie all but slaps you in the face with the answer. But the fun comes in watching Grant and Kelly get to the final conclusion. The final showdown between the police, Robie, and the cat-burglar is great. Other highlights for me included the swimming scene, the boat scene, and the picnic scene. Unfortunately, I've always felt there were few instances where To Catch a Thief drags a bit. There are a number of scenes where cars drive back and forth along twisting mountainous roads. And while the scenery is breathtaking, a bit more intrigue might have been a plus. Grant and Kelly's charm, however, is generally enough to offset these moments.Overall, it may not be Hitch's best, but I've always enjoyed revisiting To Catch a Thief. "},{"Title":"Before Bond was Bond","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Romantic, sexy, and fun, To Catch a Thief is one of Hitchcock's best. The pacing is smooth and holds one's interest, the scenery and locations seem so James-Bond (but are several years ahead of the famous spy series). The whole film is a splendid buffet of exciting movie elements gleaming cars, beautiful women,jewels,the cops chasing the wrong guy,ten percent of the dialog in untranslated French,chase scenes, faces slapped, a costume ball, sexy dialog. Instead of the obvious love triangle, Hitchcock throws in a third woman - the older woman to make the ice-queen perfection of Grace Kelley thaw out a little quicker. It's really all TOO entertaining! The effects work is also very clean and holds up well all these years later. "},{"Title":"Wonderful light Hitchcock","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A very entertaining romp through the French Riviera with Cary Grant and Grace Kelly.Both Grant and Kelly are at the height of their career in this one, with some wonderful ensemble acting and witty dialog. Grace Kelly comes across as gorgeous, elegant and seductive at the same time, with some wonderful lines. The fun comes from seeing her constantly try to throw Cary Grant off balance, and seeing him fight to maintain his air of having it all together in spite of her.Hitchcock keeps it light, with excitement rather than high tension throughout. This goes well with the sunny Mediterranean scenery, opulent parties, and the background chatter in French. The result draws you in to feeling as if you have spent a fun weekend in the Riviera. "},{"Title":"A Beautifully-Photographed Mystery-Romance; Unusual and  Absorbing","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I enjoy this film for many reasons; the attractive stars, the interesting French Riviera locales, Alfred Hitchcock's very-well-paced direction, the script's logic and the gorgeous color photography and costumes indoors and out. But the film is curious because the reformed John Robie, ably played by Cary Grant, has reformed but does not want to admit the fact. The storyline I suggest bears out my minor cavil on what is an engrossing film with rather good characters and a definite difference about it. The former jewel thief is living on the Riviera in some splendor; then cat burglaries bearing the signatures of his work are committed by someone. The police suspect him; he goes to his old WWII partisan compatriots to see if he can find out who is incriminating him. They are silent. Then he is discovered by Francie Stevens, daughter of an American millionaire, who enjoys playing with danger, and toying with him. She finds his being a thief exciting, the film's unusual element; he finds her attempts to tempt him with other jewels amusing--he has reformed. Then he has to kill a man he once worked with, whose daughter turns against him. Soon her mother's necklace is stolen and he has to find a way to catch the real criminal, immediately. Working with a British police inspector, Robie sets out to trap the criminal, using a vast party with elaborate costumes--he being disguised as a blackamoor--and substituting the police inspector in similar disguise to free him to pursue the thief on the roof of the palazzo where the party has been staged--the dead man's daughter. Robie gets Francie; and Francie get the husband she wants. She also loves his villa; Mother will love it!, she murmurs at the last, as Robie completes his civilization. The cast in the film is good but not outstanding. Cary Grant is graceful and interesting as Robie; Grace Kelly is lovely and rather intelligent as Francie. Her mother, played by Jessie Royce Landis, becomes an outstanding U.S. type, the pioneer widow of a millionaire updated. As the Police Inspector, John Williams is in wonderful form. others in the cast are adequate but none is outstanding; and because of the nature of the investigation carried out by Robie, many persons have one line or a scream, or are seen but not heard. The technical achievements during this feature's production are very fine indeed. Hal Pereira's art direction, set decoration, Edith Head's costumes, sound, lighting, are all very much above average. Some scenes in this well-paced adventure have become famous the beach scene where Grant finally comes ashore; the visit to a restaurant filled with angry French chefs carrying cleavers, the funeral, Francie's breakneck drive up the coastal highway next to a cliff, the visit to a château, the party scene, the fireworks during which Francie and Robie kiss in slow motion, the final; roof chase, all are celebrated. I personally find the film occasionally cold; I also cannot reconcile Robie's acceptance of his own lazy-minded past as something a genuinely reformed man would have thought exactly as stated. But this is a mature Alfred Hitchcock full-color classic, with the director in top form realizing John Michael Hayes' screenplay from David Dodge's novel, and using the Riviera as his palette. This is a deservedly popular romantic adventure for many causes. "}{"Title":"Light Hitchcock.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bought the VCD kay nag sale sa Astrovision sa Ayala tag Php. 75.00 lang.I think this is one of Hitch's most underrated movies, along with DIAL M FOR MURDER. A Kelly-Hitchcock collaboration alongside this and REAR WINDOW. A familiar face I see from Dial M is John Williams - the policeman in that central location thriller.Grace Kelly is beautiful as Frances, the indulgent mischievous heiress who falls in love with John Robie (Cary Grant). By the way, it was very eery to watch the way Frances was speeding on the cliff side road, even if it is very clear in movies as old as this that it was only rear-screen projection.This movie might keep you guessing but it has a lot of it moments, romantic moments to be specific. (I wished a girl that I like would initiate kissing me like that), but Hitchcock has said that, more important than surprise is creating suspense and the way information is revealed to the audience in the narrative.Hitchcock and Cary Grant have yet to team up again to make a movie shot off a better written screenplay by Ernest Lehman in 1959, just 4 years after this one.All in all, a feel good movie. Watch out for the last line that Grace Kelly says and the look on Robie's face in the last frame of the film. And a movie that I won't mind revisiting, as I do NORTH BY NORTHWEST, SHADOW OF A DOUBT and DIAL M.I have yet to see REAR WINDOW and NOTORIOUS.VERTIGO was too dark for me, yet it's screenplay and structure was on par with NORTHWEST which was penned by lifetime achievement Oscar winner Lehman. I will say likewise for Hitch's 1960 movie PSYCHO.TO CATCH A THIEF. If you want some light entertainment, rent it. Or buy it. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Hitch indulges us...","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I was still, perhaps, a bit wet behind the ears when this was first theatrically released and was grateful that its level of sophistication wasn't way over the top.  I remember enjoying it thoroughly then and have watched it a few times since, without finding its gloss and glamour diminished in the least.  It may not be the apogee of Hitchcock's achievement but it really ought not to be seriously faulted.Some years back I recall reading an anecdote about Hitch in one of his randier moments.  He and the film's music scorer, Lyn Murray, were in a screening room at Paramount, reviewing some scenes that had been selected for possible background music.  As Grace Kelly descended the stairs at the climactic costume ball in Edith Head's spectacular gold lame creation, Hitchcock confided to Mr. Murray that, There's hills in them thar gold!By the way, contrary to assertions in other comments, this was not Paramount's second foray with its own VistaVision process (more of a large screen process than a widescreen one, with extraordinary clarity by means of its 70mm film stock and cameras and preferably, though rarely, projectors that ran the film horizontally through the apertures), with films such as Strategic Air Command, starring James Stewart and June Allyson, following VistaVision's debut film, White Christmas and preceding that process's possibly finest hour in To Catch A Thief.  And it wasn't Grace Kelly's last film.  Before decamping to Monaco she fulfilled her obligations at MGM with High Society and The Swan. "},{"Title":"prrrrrrrrrrrrrr.......   7/10","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Get it?  To CAT-ch a thief?   The film is not going to rank with Rear Window as Alfred's best, but it is thoroughly enjoyable nonetheless.  If only for Alfred's blatant symbolistic use of the black cat, silly double entendre puns (eg, how do I get out of this GRACEfully says Grant to Grace Kelly).  Heck, Alfie could almost be directing a Bond film!  If you agree that GK is the robobabe of all time, you will love gazing at her in this movie.  And, for the real kicker, if it weren't for this film, GK might probably be alive today.  Yep, that's right.  Read her bio, she fell in love with this coastline while making this movie.  That led to her introduction to the Prince of Monaco.  Eerie indeed that the scene after she speeds along the Moyen Corniche to quickly get to the picnic grounds -- and away from a tailing police car (car accident in background no less) -- that she had time to look at the Mediterranean and the countryside along the coast ends up being the area where she really does die while driving.  The movie is also visually pretty, and clean, and everyone has a maid....right? "},{"Title":"Not a very important Hitchcock movie but worth a look","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to admire the massive charisma of one Cary Grant or the beauty of Grace Kelly don't look any further - this is your flick. Late Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense, directed To Catch a thief year after the legendary Rear Window but still before many of his most beloved and admirable movies like The Trouble with Harry, Vertigo, Psycho and The Birds. At least to me the big difference between these movies and To Catch a thief is the fact that To Catch a thief doesn't represent a Hitchcock classic I would like to watch all over and over again - year after year. It's a good film but now when I've seen it once I'm quite satisfied. If you enjoy watching Alfred's works I definitely recommend this one too. It's not among his important achievements but everyone who likes Hitchcock should watch To Catch a thief at least once in a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Scenery, Lightweight Hitchcock Movie","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I gave To Catch a Thief an 8 out of 10. I would have given it 7 out of 10, but the incredible visuals of the French Riviera increased my rating.This movie doesn't measure up to some of Hitchcock's other movies, To Catch a Thief is good light entertainment, but the story was simple and I found the ending somewhat lacking in depth compared to Rear Window, or Vertigo.Cary Grant, as The Cat, is a reformed jewel thief trying to go clean, and Grace Kelly, as an American fascinated by The Cat, are a great romantic couple. The supporting cast members are entertaining as well.If you are looking for a fun movie to watch, then To Catch a Thief will fill your appetite. However, don't expect an intense drama from this movie. "},{"Title":"Light Entertainment With Beautiful Scenery","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While it doesn't measure up the standard of Hitchcock's great masterpieces, To Catch a Thief is good light entertainment with some of the most beautiful scenery and settings to be found in any film.  The visuals completely outdo the rest of the movie, with the natural beauty of the French Riviera, the attractive homes and villas, and plenty of other details in the movie such as the costumes, fireworks and jewelry.  Perhaps it would have been a shame to take the focus off of all this pleasant scenery with a more serious story, and the plot here is mostly entertaining as it is, even if it is somewhat lightweight and mostly implausible.The cast is very good, and adds further style, although most of the characters do not have a lot of depth.  Cary Grant, as a reformed jewel thief trying to cure his name, and Grace Kelly, as an American tourist intrigued by Grant, are a good leading couple, although both of them gave more memorable performances in some of Hitchcock's more complex movies.  The supporting cast is also very good, with John Williams, Jessie Royce Landis, and Brigitte Auber providing some especially lively characters.This film has much more style than substance, which is unusual for Hitchcock, but then again he was always good at style, too.  It's good fun to watch, as long as you are not expecting the kind of serious drama found in most of his films. "},{"Title":"A lesson about style","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  In To Catch a Thief, Hitchcock perhaps most perfectly shows his sense of style. This isn't the most typical movie to expect from the master of suspense, but it has to be one of his most enjoyable ones.Two specific reasons make this a real pleasure to watch 1) Grace Kelly, who looks astonishingly gorgeous, 2) the striking cinematography, which is equally breathtaking as Kelly.It's interesting to notice that Jessie Royce Landis (who plays Kelly's mother) would play Grant's mother in North by Northwest! "},{"Title":"Good film - not quite the surprize ending of other Hitchcock","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers! (even 45 years later?)Really, it was a star's film. It was a showcase, particularly for Kelley. Agent or mogul says - I want a film to highlight my new star, etc. The story is sort of there for filler, by comparison.Grant plays John Robey, a jewel thief, who joined the French Resistance. That latter act got him some sort of reprieve or parole. But years later, after the war, the French Riveria is hit by a rash of jewel heists. He lives there. He's the easy suspect, the 'logical' suspect, and the Commissioner of Police makes the dash up to his villa, with a view, to arrest the man, or at least take him in for questioning - guilty till proven innocent, perhaps. So Grant/Robey flees.That begins the sweeping view of the south of France in the mid-1950s, apparently an interesting travelogue even for people of the day (perhaps it was for this film that the Cannes people wanted Kelley so much for the 55 festival, as Cannes was just starting to take off, after a lot of historical stops and starts). So we see the winding roads above the coast, the old fortified villages, the steep cliffs, the flower market in town, and much else. A Nice/Cannes/Toulon, etc. chamber of commerce couldn't have put together a better come on for tourism if they'd tried.It's an interesting movie and a good looking movie. It's well filmed. It's reasonably well edited, save for perhaps a few scenes at the final costume ball leading up to the 'unexpected' climax. We hear Grant shout a few exasperated words of French when cornered after the initial chase at the flower market by an old woman whose flowers he crushed in the mayhem. But he doesn't even lapse into French from then on, which is a little surprizing; particularly as the other characters do. Another odd thing is that the clothing he wears, perhaps trendy and designer French at the time, makes him seem a little nerdy, almost, today. It's a bit distracting, like the pattern which shimmers on the small screen (don't know about the big). Minor complaint, really.His character, in short, is a little unbelievable. This is yet another of those roles best suited for someone with more of an edge, like Connery, of that day (who later did Marnie, and Kelley would/could not - before he hit stardom with Bond). Grant would have been better cast as the insurance agent, frankly.As for Kelley, she's the fashion model in her beach togs - elegant and cute as a button, today just as then; almost Ingrid Bergmann's screen 'cousin' in a way (prob. incl. off-screen, as well), characters with the stuck up nose thing going, the hint of broad travel and education, and the pretty face that could sell perfume for decades if she'd not become Princess. But unlike the sports models of today who hit the generic action film circuit, Kelley had sort of a grace, if you will, and some intelligence at least on screen. Sure, Frances was confident, even obnoxious, dare I say like a 90's woman stereotype, but with the little clock ticking on her desire to marry, and not just any stiff who wanted her money. It's the joke as the last line of the film, of course, where Grant/Robey gives the sort of comical look of fearful surprise. Frances was tough minded, smart, but with a girl's instincts and lack of judgment, perhaps. She liked to speed recklessly (no comment on the connection with Kelley off screen and her ultimate accident), jump to silly conclusions, prove how smart she was, and all the rest, while continuing to look like a fashion model right off the runway, who you'd grown up next to somewhere in middle America.Brigette Auber's, Danielle, IS the kid, staight up the tease, and the emotional villain. She's cute, actually beautiful, a little stocky, playful - almost always - and then childishly vicious when wronged. She is the surprize thief, of course - and she fingers the closest friend of Robey, and constant confident through the whole ordeal, as the one literally who had been setting him up. Hidden behind the lights and fireworks, the speedboats and hotels of the French Riveria of the mid-50s, is really a pretty brutal gang, willing to engage in cover-ups and murder, framing innocent men, and whatever else; knowing the local police are more than lazy and eager to apprehend the obv. suspect. It's something that can get lost in the film.Jessie Landis is perfect as the sensible farmer/rancher from humble beginnings, almost stepping right out of a 50s western, now loud with cash from oil found on her property, but wise with experienced judgment even still; who loves her daughter, but won't allow her beauty or ego to intimidate her in the least. One can only imagine the mother's mental image Jessie Stevens has of her little, Frances. And Williams, too, is excellent, as the nearly bumbling insurance rep, as is Vanel as what turns out to be the ultimate villain behind all the intrigues.All in all, it's an interesting film for the locations, and some of the interesting screen shots and chases. It's interesting, of course, for the real and historical tie-ins with Kelley making the initial steps to becoming royalty - Princess Grace; and perhaps right up to the eerie, in retrospect, attention paid to that scenic vista jog out. And it bears a bit of the Hollywood unreality of that era for the bright over-lighting so typical of 50s movies. On the other hand, light so bright it seems to wash out most all the shadows might be preferable to some of the dreary shot-in-shadow epics of the last decade or so. But it was a different, more energetic, more optimistic time, back in the 50s. Camera! LIGHTS! Take 1. "},{"Title":"not one of his best? depends on your perspective","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Many people don't consider 'To Catch a Thief' as one of Hitchcock's best, but I would argue that it depends on how you look at it. No, it isn't as suspensfull as some of his other thrillers such as 'Vertigo', but for sheer enjoyment it must rank up amongst his best. Cary Grant and Grace Kelly combine well, making it a pleasure to watch, and a film I smiled all the way through. Maybe it isn't a 'critically acclaimed masterpiece', but it is certainly a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of Hitchcock's most elegant films. I think that Cary Grant and Grace Kelly may not exactly match as a couple but when the plot gives Grant the appearance of a thief (he also appears as a thief on CHARADE), you can clearly see that the character fits very well. Grace Kelly (who plays Frances Stevens) and Jesse Royce Landis (who plays Jessie Stevens) look great (specially Kelly). The rest of the cast are foreign and unknown actors. Hitchcock's cameo appearance is very noticeable. The picnic scene is very good (it was improvised). If you liked this film then I suggest NORTH BY NORTHWEST.  "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Hitchcock","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Being Hitchcock, three things are featured. Cinematically extended chase sequences, brilliant suspense and a leading lady as the epitome example of Hollywood glamour of the period. It does not feature the best writing. To Catch a Thief is a film which is unlikely to feature as a Hitchcock masterpiece. Cary Grant playing a common, yet somehow sophisticated mastermind thief is not the most convincing of characters, even if the character comes packaged with being debonair, suave and a tux worn from time to time. Yet the film is inviting. It has sameness and flaws later perfected in North by Northwest, including protective Mothers, false accusations relating to suave, debonair men and great chase sequences over the extensive region of either Europe or the Americas. Although neither Grant or Grace Kelly perform at their highest levels, their glamorous, romantic roles are intimate and a whole lot of fun.  By no means is the Oscar winning cinematography the best point of the movie, although quite a breathtaking marvel for its time. The classic line spoken by Kelly in relation to chicken, Do you want a leg or a breast? is hilarious! To keep the girls satisfied Hitchcock threw in a brilliant screen kiss.It's no Rear Window, and Jimmy is still Hitchcock's best actor. But it's still good work from the master of suspense, even though we have to adjust ourselves a bit in order to believe some of the plot's opening and closing twists.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Played in one of the most beautiful places in the world.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  All the ingredients of this movie are excellent. Place Cote d'Azur, Actors Cary Grant, John Williams, Actress Grace Kelly, Director Sir A. Hitchcock. What can you expect with these ingredients? I really love Grace when she is driving along the Moyene Corniche above Cannes but the most loved scene is the first kiss to Cary Grant at the entrance of her room in Carlton Hotel. "},{"Title":"Delicious, Underappreciated - A Gem!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock at his quickest, funniest, sexiest, and most adventurous, made more delicious with a dark, telling subtext exploring subversion, romance, history, and personal myth.True, its central mystery doesn't create the mind-bend of masterpieces like Vertigo or Psycho; and nobody gets all cut up in front of you, as in Psycho or the Birds.  Maybe that's why this movie gets overlooked, by fans and critics alike.But To Catch a Thief has one of my favorite Hitchcock subtexts, and the things you get on the surface aren't so bad either  Grace Kelly at her quickest, sexiest, and most adventurous; Cary Grant in similar form; the French Riviera drenched in sunlight; car chases; bikini girls; acerbic dames; and a solid whodunit all in one.It's the wit of Rear Window and the action of North by Northwest.  I don't see what's not to adore about this jewel of a film.  Catch it if you can. "},{"Title":"An underrated Hitchcock film","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  OK.. OK... so it ain't Hitch at his best, but even when Hitch wasn't at his best he's still made movies that are much better than 99% of the crap made today.I rather enjoyed this film. Sure it's flawed, but c'mon it's still a great movie. Actually I found the plot rather engaging... I had no idea who the real cat burglar was going to be. Cary Grant and Grace Kelly are excellent (as usual)... and Hitch's camerawork is always amazing... I especially loved how he handled the last 10 minutes or so, using almost no diologue and long shots as the party comes to a close. The French locale was also beautifully shot... (didn't this win an Oscar for cinematography?)All in all, another great Hitchcock film that doesn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"a big, classy, glossy and enormously entertaining A-List Hitchcock movie","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief is, as some others have noted, a kind of antithesis to Alfred Hitchcock's own Psycho. It's not that Hithccock put any more or less work into them (although I'm sure 'Thief' had a higher budget), but they reveal to sensibilities that aren't remotely similar. I mean this though as a compliment; Hithcock's film is lavish and lush with colors of those beautiful locations and settings on the French Riviera, and made as a fantastic vehicle for its two stars, Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. It's almost an ode to glamor of the period, and to a outlook on this particular story that's necessary.Another director could have made a decent thriller, maybe a very good one. But Hithccock is after a kind of art here that has POP in big capital letters (not the Andy Warhol type, something more to his liking). It's a lot of fun, too, which is the most important thing, as it allows for the two stars to play off on one another in the style that I'd compare to Bogart and Bacall in The Big Sleep, only here they aren't trumping the convoluted story. Matter of fact, this might be one of the least-probing or psychologically complex of Hitchcock's prime thriller; it's about Robie, a reformed cat burglar (also called the Cat), who is accused of a string of new jewel heists by a copy-cat (no pun intended) in France and goes on the run to clear his name- by spotting over Frances and her mother's plot of jewels. When will the burglar strike again? To say that it's not very psychologically probing is maybe half correct; we do get a few rich scenes where Jessie or the French girl Danielle try and figure on what kind of guy Robie really is (Frances quips coyly, The Cat has a new kitten). But like in North by Northwest, it's not really about getting too deep into the thick of things, save for the aspect that Robie is reformed after doing his tour of duty in the world war. Hitchcock is more interested in behavior and the finesse and class and, of course, sly humor that his actors play with the material. And mentioning North by Northwest, it's important to note that Grant is tailor made for this kind of part, where he's charming and suave and knows just how to dig in that extra line in the right moment, and of course we (us males) want to be him. And Kelly never looked more gorgeous, a fine counterpoint for that great vista that she takes Robie to midway through the picture.This isn't to say that with all this slick, studio film-making that Hitchcock loses his way with suspense. On the contrary there's some great work here on that front, too, from the chase going up the hill, to that one big *gasp* with a certain murder at night, all the way up to the climactic scenes, it's really some of the Master's best work. Just don't go expecting it to be a SHOCK fest. "},{"Title":"Did I brush your fur the wrong way?","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" About a third of the way through the picture, I was pretty convinced that Francie (Grace Kelly) was the cat burglar, but that might have been due more to some of the set up scenes on the DVD I was watching rather than the story itself. Although there were quite a few hints pointing to her during those double entendre laden conversations she had with John Robie (Cary Grant). But you couldn't be disappointed with the revelation of the real jewel thief, Danielle Foussard (Brigitte Auber) displayed her athleticism admirably during earlier scenes, so picturing her rummaging around on rooftops wasn't too much of a stretch.Aside from the actual story, I couldn't help but be impressed with director Hitchcock's choice of locales for the story. The French Riviera setting was nothing short of gorgeous, and I couldn't help rewinding a few scenes just to take in the natural beauty. That Cary Grant was sure one lucky actor when it comes to making pictures, besides starring opposite Grace Kelly that is. It would be a toss up as to which locale was more beautiful, the one presented here, or the Mediterranean vistas on display in An Affair To Remember. Not being too fussy, I could take either one.You know, if you're really paying attention, you would have to wonder how John Robie managed to leave his home with the clothes on his back, trade them for a pair of swim trunks, and then show up at a flower market in Nice with a new set of duds. It all flows rather smoothly, but gee, how would someone do that? Maybe the stranger on the bus helped him out.I got a kick out of a line spoken by Francie to Robie regarding his past reputation as a crack jewel thief - And you just aren't the Lone Wolf you think you are? I paused to consider whether Hitchcock was paying tribute to the movie character from the 1930's and '40's portrayed by Warren William. I like to think so, but anyone know for sure? Besides the creative dialog, I also found an early scene to be fun when Robie makes his way to the French restaurant where his former colleagues are employed. One of the kitchen workers pours a saucer of milk! It was here also where Hitchcock decided to deal with his fetish regarding eggs, two separate instances where the 'perfect food' is dealt with rather harshly - you'll have to watch.For all the clever playfulness in the story, one would be forgiven for not recognizing this as an Alfred Hitchcock film. It's one of his lighter efforts, balancing intrigue and mystery with romance and humor. Perhaps the cleverest bit of amusement had to do with the title of the picture itself. To Catch a Thief pretty well describes Cary Grant's mission in the story, but it turns out to be Grace Kelly's goal as well, only in a more romantic sense. "},{"Title":"Another Good Noir from Hitchcock","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch A Thief is a fun and intense movie with a great cast a lot going for it. Alfred Hitchcock did it again and it always amazes me just how much he accomplished with film. This isn't his greatest film by any means but it is still a fantastic movie that should be remembered as such. I enjoyed it completely.Cary Grant was always amazing so naturally, he and Hitch made a great duo. Grace Kelly is also amazing as well as the rest of the cast. The story moves well and has some great suspense, but what else can we expect from Alfred? The cinematography is always amazing in his films as well as the direction and that applies to this film as well.See this movie, especially if you are a fan of noir/romance films. You will have a fair share of enjoyment with it. "},{"Title":"A Little Light Larceny","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The suavity of Cary Grant, the glamour of Grace Kelly, and the wit of Alfred Hitchcock are all on fine display in a film that may not represent a career peak for any of them, but reminds you why they are still treasured more than half a century later.Grant is John Robie, an apparently-reformed cat burglar now growing grapes off France's Mediterranean coast. Kelly is rich American Frances Stevens whose mother (Jessie Royce Landis) has a jewelry collection so extensive and valuable it is being watched by a man from Lloyd's of London (John Williams). Hitchcock keeps his trademark suspense in the background as he brings Grant and Kelly together to bask in the radiant beauty of pastoral Côte d'Azur and each other.It's kind of a travel folder heaven where a man dreams he'll go when he retires, is how the Lloyd's guy describes it. The lush vistas on display helped To Catch A Thief earn a rare Hitchcock Oscar for cinematography, and its the visual aspect of the movie you take away from it more than anything else. Even with Grant and Kelly, it's more about how they look than what they say.To Catch A Thief reminds me a lot of Hitchcock's previous film, Rear Window, with its arresting viewscapes, May-December romance, and overall theme of crime as background noise to building a relationship. You even have the same characters, wise older man, young willing woman, wisecracking older woman telling them to hurry up and make babies already, and slightly bumbling authority figure for the guy to show up.But Thief, for all its charm, doesn't have Rear Window's depth. Maybe it's in part because the crime here involves property rather than people. In fact, the burglary element, which should be the most interesting part in Hitch's hands, is a wet noodle. Is Robie guilty or not? If not, why is someone going at such lengths to frame him? Hitchcock gives us car chases, rooftop struggles, screams, everything but a reason for the story and its resolution.But with Grant and Kelly playing so well off each other, who cares? I'm not one of those people who gets all carried away with wardrobe, wondering what Edith will whip up next. Still, I love the engaging mood, of picnics and beaches, every shot a postcard. The way Grant and Kelly twitter with their Transatlantic accents, like cooing birds saying lines like no real human being ever would. It's the music, the scenery, even that scene at the beach float where Grant obviously blows a line while Kelly swims away, looks at the camera and starts to break up, then barely pulls himself together before finishing the scene.Hitchcock was too much of a perfectionist to normally let a blooper like that go. If this had been Vertigo, he wouldn't have. But To Catch A Thief is meant to be fun, a confectionery after the many main courses he served. If it is a little fluffy and oversweetened, you hardly are in a mood to mind. "},{"Title":"The big man was in jovial mood with this one.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch A Thief, is, when all is said and done, a softer entry on the great Alfred Hitchcock's CV, by his own admission it was a film he viewed as lightweight, but such is the mans talent, his softer cinematic efforts still punch the buttons and are films that many filmmakers can readily learn from. In this one Hitchcock is purely making an entertaining piece for those in the right frame of mind, a splendid mixture of comedy and romance culminates in no shortage of dramatic entertainment as well. Cary Grant is perfectly debonair as the cat burglar John Robie, who here has to catch a thief because he is the chief suspect for a spout of robberies on the French Riviera. Into the mix is that vision of beauty that is Grace Kelly, this is a woman could melt the Antartic just by walking over it!. Kelly as Frances Stevens spends the majority of the film trying to get into John Robie's pants and this puts a delightful sexual tension into the unfolding story. We get some cracking scenes here, such as a firework display as the two protagonists flirt and then kiss, thus making the film easy on the eye, and some delicious slices of humour dot themselves throughout as Hitchcock indulges in his wink wink innuendo. The plinking score from Lyn Murray works a treat during a roof top cat sequence, while the ending stays just above average without really having an over dramatic impact, but all in all it's a very tidy effort that is always worth a watch on a lazy Sunday afternoon, 7/10. "},{"Title":"he's human!","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" How educational to see a fair to middling Alfred Hitchcock film! Makes me want to give Parker Tyler one more chance with his 'Hitchcock-is-not-art' baloney. Off his peak, we get a LOT of chit chat interrupted with divertingly cute flourishes. The actors are charming in a vacuum - Jesse Royce Landis no less than good old Cary Grant and Grace Kelly - but none of the set pieces gel, particularly owing to their similarity to those in better films - Grant having a bad car ride on the mountain, person hanging off roof by arm. Or maybe our collective psyche has simply put the 'diamond heist' movie to bed once and for all. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock's Most Glamorous...Though Not One Of His Best Efforts, By Any Means","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock's most glamorous film boasts a highly exciting, beatific setting in the stunning French Riviera, two incredibly attractive leads and lovely cinematography, yet it lacks Hitchcock's most vital ingredient- suspense. As with nearly all of Hitchcock's pictures, crime, deception and nerve-jangling tension bubble under the surface of TO CATCH A THIEF (1955), yet it only comes in small doses and really isn't all that interesting.Hitchcock's favorite male and female leads Kelly and Grant share rewarding chemistry (despite a large age gap) and look stunning together as Frances Stevens and John Robie. Robie is a reformed jewel thief who is suspected in a spate of very similar robberies on the French Riviera. The crimes bear all the hallmarks of a Robie job, yet he proclaims his innocence. Gorgeous, ice-cool blonde Frances doesn't entirely trust him, yet is undeniably hot for him upon their first meeting. The plot then teeters on the Did he really do it?' premise of the rest of the film, with the thief being uncovered in the dying moments of the picture.Grace is most alluring, and looks beautiful in a variety of amazing Edith Head costumes. The fashion connoisseur would do well to run TO CATCH A THIEF (1955) just for the clothes that Grace wears (that blue chiffon dress her white gown...and the list goes on). Kelly's character typifies the ideal Hitchcock blonde- an icily beautiful, mysterious woman who has all sorts of emotions, fears, desires and a strong sexual appetite under her veneer. Frances Stevens is really quite an exciting girl. She barely speaks a word to Robie on their first meeting, yet hungrily kisses him when he is bidding her goodnight. She is later revealed to have a lead foot when it comes to driving, and offers Cary a leg or a breast, a wonderful double entente, as a prelude to their love-making.Grant was a comedy actor (though he swung between comedy and drama with equal ease)who Hitchcock saw as something more than a suave, sophisticated good guy. In the four films they made together, Hitchcock provided Grant with a variety of edgy roles with numerous shadings that defied his persona. Here he casts Cary as a reformed criminal and Grant, such a talented and natural performer, is never less than smooth. It is not up there with his greats Hitchcock performance as Devlin in NOTORIOUS (1946), yet he always gets the job done.Delightful John Williams and Jesse Royce Landis give good support in their roles. Landis would go on to play Grant's mother in the later Hitchcock offering NORTH BY NORTHWEST (1959).While TO CATCH A THIEF (1955) affords the viewer a gorgeous color portrait of the French Riviera, two great stars and occasional inspiration (the fireworks display that is a back-drop to the more interesting romantic fireworks between Cary and Grace is a nice touch), TO CATCH A THIEF (1955) is not one of Hitchcock's best. The film seems to loll along and is quite lazy in it's approach- considering it's highly exciting premise of jewel thievery in the French Riviera, this is a major flaw. It lacks the winning combination of a VERTIGO (1958) or NOTORIOUS (1946)- nail-biting suspense combined with deeper, emotional situations between the characters.TO CATCH A THIEF (1955) is an interesting Hitchcock film, yet not a great one. Watch it for the two stars, the beautiful photography and costuming and it's status as part of the Hitchcock cannon, yet don't expect a great film. "},{"Title":"The kind of movie that can't be made anymore","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is the kind of movie that would be impossible to make in this day and age. The story relies on characters more than spectacle, and acting more than action. There are plenty of scenes that modern audiences would deem slow or boring, but in fact these are the high points of the film. The chemistry between Cary Grant and Grace Kelly was superb, and I must admit to a few chuckles at their many double-entendres. Their characters were both great, Grant played one heck of a great thief! The plot kept me interested throughout, despite a rather obvious outcome. And who could forget that great opening scene? Hats off to Hitchcock for that one! Overall, this was pretty fun. It wasn't an incredible film, but I enjoyed it.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful but hollow","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" More a romantic comedy than a typical Hitchcock thriller, To Catch a Thief is decent light entertainment but not much more than that. The story, in which reformed cat burglar John Robie (Cary Grant) tries to discover who is behind a series of jewel heists on the French Riviera, has potential for mystery and suspense, but this goes largely unfulfilled. The film is livelier when it focuses on Robie's romance with heiress Francie Stevens (Grace Kelly), told in an escapist, sophisticated style.To Catch a Thief is a beautifully filmed movie; many scenes seem to be there just to take advantage of the Technicolor and Vistavision (widescreen) technology. There's a fight scene set in a riotously blooming flower market, lots of opportunities to view the French Riviera scenery, a fireworks display, and a costume ball where all the women wear Rococo gowns and elaborate jewelry. And of course, there is Grace Kelly, looking great in an assortment of Edith Head designs. Unfortunately, the Technicolor doesn't flatter Cary Grant--his face is so brown, it looks rather more roasted than tanned.Kelly makes Francie into a clever and confident heroine, and it's fun to listen to her suggestive banter with John Robie. But ultimately, the love story is somewhat unbelievable--both characters are so self-possessed and cool that the reason they need each other is never really clear. They lack the vulnerability and warmth that would make them truly sympathetic.With its lackluster mystery and elegant but shallow romance, there is not much in To Catch a Thief that will quicken your pulse, as you might expect a Hitchcock movie to do. But if you just want to spend some time watching witty, sophisticated people in beautiful settings, this film is not half bad. "},{"Title":"The Unrepeatable Lightness Of Hitchcock","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will always be fated to linger in the shadows of the critics's as well as stern Hitch fan's appreciation. It gets constantly and unfavorably compared to established 50's masterpieces like The Birds, Vertigo and of course Rear Window.Bad move, if I may say so.If I remember rightly, it was Noel Coward who once called it 'Hitchcock Champagne', and I still think that's the best possible term to encapsulate it. It simply is of no use at all to compare it with the above mentioned, 'heavier' classics. TCAT is feather light, almost completely devoid of contents, full of style and done with such flick-of-the-wrist ease that it seems almost from another world of moviemaking - a world where the art of intelligent fun, subtle, crisp and perfectly taylored dialogue, a stunningly well performed casualty of the acting craft and a master's touch in holiday mood haven't died out, yet.Don't get me wrong, I have no wish to push this movie into contention with all the 'superiour' classics. That would spoil the fun, for starters. But it's still THE prototype as well as masterpiece of its kind. It spawned a lot of copies, most notably Stanley Donen's successful attempts like 'Charade' or 'Caprice' or many elements of TV's criminally underrated Remington Steele series.And it's a testament to how extremely difficult it must be to make it all look ever so easy, because no-one really reached the hights of this lightness after that.The script is a wonderful exercise in light sophistication and the extinct art of what was known in the first half of the century as a 'well-made play'. (Terence Rattigan and Noel Coward having been the most prominent masters in that genre) So, it's no wonder that Grant and Kelly lap it up like the last water in a desert. The dialogue truly sparkles. And while we get pummeled day by day with always the same promotion interviews for yet another blockbuster from the drawing board, TCAT shows what it really means to watch masters of their craft having a good time on the highest level of skill. Yes, it's old-fashioned, and one shouldn't wish those times back artificially, but I'm ever so glad that each period has its own gems to offer..., gems never to lose their luster.I'm pretty sure, Pierce Brosnan would be extremely flattered if one would compare some of his moments on screen with Cary Grant's style in TCAT. Some of the new pros haven't lost touch on what makes the old masters timeless.Schogger13  "},{"Title":"Hitchcock travelogue that may have inspired the James Bond movie style.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Nice is nice--certainly in the 50's when Hitchcock filmed a tame little tale about a cat burglar (Cary Grant) outsmarted by a dazzling Grace Kelly (who hooked up with Prince Rainier after this movie was made).  Lots of gorgeous locations for Cary to galavant around in along with a lot of annoying black-outs from the director known as the master of suspense. Hitch didn't try to get too scary in this one. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted, silky Hitchcock thriller which concentrates less on suspense and more on elegant locales and urbane interplay.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock was a master of dark and mischievous thrillers, especially stories that featured an innocent man on the run from both the police and the villains. This 1955 Vistavision film, based on a largely forgotten David Dodge novel, marked a change of pace and style for Hitchcock. A light, elegant, playful movie with flashes of suspense but a greater emphasis on the glamorous locale and characters, To Catch A Thief is simultaneously easy to watch and totally disposable. The story and the action are almost secondary to the cool interplay between Hitchcock's two favourite actors (united for the only time), Cary Grant and Grace Kelly.A series of daring jewellery burglaries on the French Riveira are suspected as the work of The Cat, a.k.a John Robie (Cary Grant). A couple of decades earlier, Robie was responsible for a series of identical crimes. But Robie is perturbed by the latest outbreak, as he has absolutely nothing to do with it (apparently his wartime escapades as a resistance fighter have tempered his taste for crime). As the noose tightens, with the police pushing hard to track down and apprehend the innocent Robie, he enlists the aid of beautiful Francie Stevens (Grace Kelly) and her mother (Jessie Royce Landis), to help him trap the real thief.Although this was a surprisingly conventional film for Hitch, it remains an enjoyable experience. To Catch A Thief was a box office hit in its day, although the critics (spoiled by Hitchcock's recent innovative, ground-breaking movies like Lifeboat, Notorious, Strangers On A Train and Rear Window) found it somewhat perfunctory. Ironically, To Catch A Thief went on to be one of Hitchcock's most frequently imitated films, the pick of the imitators being Stanley Donen's 1960 classic Charade. Grant and Kelly enjoy a fabulous on-screen chemistry, which hits a cinematic high point in the fondly remembered scene where Kelly, clad in an elegant evening gown, kisses her impossibly smooth co-star at her bedroom door. Another excellent scene for which the film is often remembered is the climax, in which the real burglar is caught on a mansion rooftop. In between the high points, To Catch A Thief is actually quite forgettable, with little in the John Michael Hughes script to shrug off the general air of relaxed, civilised frothiness. Still, if you must watch a light-hearted caper of this kind, then you may as well seek out this silky-smooth Hitchcock offering. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock Romantic Thriller","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A disappointing film for Hitchcock fans and a shock for Cary Grant fans. Having been used to Hitchcock portraying Grant as a serious actor, he goes and double crosses us in 'To Catch A Thief' by presenting us with a romantic-thriller (emphasis on the romance). It was clearly a vehicle to team Grant and Grace Kelly up together in the same way that he did for James Stewart in 'Rear Window'. Although this film won an academy award for Robert Burks as cinematographer, it is neither a Grant nor Hitchcock film, and belongs in neither of their canons. "},{"Title":"Mother, the book you're reading is upside down!","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The photography of the French Riviera is of course gorgeous - it looks like the photos of the tourist catalogue ought to look like, and not even the string of high profile jewellery thefts can really upset the balance of such a beautiful, idyllic location. Perhaps this is what prevents To Catch a Thief from really reaching those Hitchcockian highs of tension - even throughout the scenes of action Cary Grant is Cary Grant, the suave leading man of such debonair and confidence that nothing can shake him from his perch. It's like if James Bond was even cockier, and instead of fulfilling his mission took a little romantic detour that turns into something a bit longer (then again that sounds just like Bond). I was going to raise the issue that even though it is Cary Grant the age difference just bugs me, but then I remembered that it was not the first time that Kelly had been cast next to someone basically twice her age. Maybe it's because she is even more stunning than she was in Rear Window, perhaps as good as she has ever looked - passerbys turn their heads to take second glances and cannot believe how lucky Robie is to have her on his arm. The instant sexual attraction (as if her snobby, bratty first impression had anyone fooled into thinking she was not the primary love interest) culminates in the film's best scene, a night-time encounter where Frances slowly seduces Robie, so confident in her beauty that she turns off the lights one by one and beckons the faint glimmer of the exteriors. She flashes her shimmering necklace at him, and for a moment we are unsure of what exactly is in Robie's eyeline, and together with her words fill the scene with such an intoxicating sexual haze. And then fireworks, and we all know what that means. Still, the rest of the film isn't nearly as exciting. We expect there to be some substance here, but when Robie snidely answers that he does not have the typical tale of hardship or tragic origin story, it merely shows the writer's awareness of the trope. Grant is never pushed beyond what he is supremely good at portraying, never really called upon to break any new ground. He fends off the teenage flirtations of Danielle with a knowledge of this - oh, even with trunks he is still dark and handsome and easy on the eye. And of course, the discovery of his real identity causes a sexual blossoming of he and Frances' relationship because it is perceived as risqué. Well, maybe back in the 50s, but it seems lot less forgivable than the terribly engaging chroma-screen car chases. Every moment of dialogue is lightly treading that line between an insult and a flirtation, but we all know where this ends up. So this seems less a romantic thriller and more a romance with some thrills lightly sprinkled on top. To think that more time and effort would be spend on those lavishly detailed ball costumes than the rooftop chase and reveal that follows it. "},{"Title":"Begins with a bang and never lets up","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Dear Hitch, I enjoyed To Catch a Thief. You didn't start the movie off subtly or anything. It begins with a bang with a lady going bonkers over stolen jewels. A lot happens in the first 15 minutes itself. Including a strangely shot car chase. It is a helicopter shot of a car being chased across the country side. I guess it was a risky thing to do because you removed any tension from the car chase sequence with one car simply following another in the distance. Maybe not the best chase sequence ever filmed. But it was interesting and daring. The film is closer to North by North West than say Psycho or The Wrong Man. A visual spectacle offering scenes from the good life of the rich and the famous in France, it is also a film of place. Those shots of the chairs and umbrellas on the beach and at the hotel were great. The Grace Kelly and Brigitte Aueur face off in the sea was terrific. Both women looked spectacular. They were sexy as hell, especially Aueur. Some of the new James Bond dialog writers wish they could write dialogs as snappy as the one in this film. It was a really entertaining adventure-romance film, Hitch. Good job. Best Regards, Pimpin. (8/10) "},{"Title":"soft     Hitchcock","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" it can be predictable, artificial, almost common. it can be not the best Hitchcock. but it is obvious charming. and that is only important thing. a film like many others but different for its sparkles - the costumes, the atmosphere of South France, the admirable performance of Jessie Royce Landis, the same Cary Grant and a little different manner to do her role by Grace Kelly. it is an absolutely delicious food for eye and soul. because it is skin for a common dream. because it reveals the role of cinema as scene for good fake memories. a soft Hitchcock. and top of a Grace Kelly who is not the ice/ marble goddess in a role who marks a new beginning. "}{"Title":"You're Gonna Have Real Fun Solving It","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Relatively lightweight when compared to the couple of Hitchcock films that preceded it, To Catch a Thief is nevertheless engaging from its first frame & presents the esteemed director ingeniously tying up the elements of mystery & thriller with romance to deliver a cinema that's hard to resist and also invites the audience to solve the perplexing case along with its characters.To Catch a Thief tells the story of a retired cat burglar who sets out to catch the new thief in town for the latter has been copying the former's infamous methods in carrying out the burglary. The film stars Cary Grant as the suspected burglar thief who needs to uncover the identity of his copy-cat before it's too late for him to prove his innocence and save his reformed reputation.The direction by Hitchcock is very good as the whole plot is beautifully structured & is narrated in a controlled but gripping manner. Performances by its cast are wonderful as Grant's natural charisma only adds another dimension to the character he plays here while Grace Kelly is in as Grant's romantic interest in what is her final work in an Alfred Hitchcock feature.But the one aspect that impressed me most was its vivid cinematography which showcased the beautiful locations thanks to its its vibrant colours & meticulous detail. On an overall scale, To Catch a Thief is an exquisite, intriguing & entertaining thriller that invites its viewers into its interesting premise & I can assure you that; you're gonna have real fun playing the detective here. Delightfully recommended. "},{"Title":"A far cry from Hitchcock's usual but a classic for a reason","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This marked the first time I have seen a Cary Grant film. This is a remarkable confession for a movie guy like myself. The film was great. It is clearly a classic but it also has its faults. It doesn't necessarily feel dated, in fact it holds up pretty well comparatively to other classics in the same vein. The French countryside is stunning and beautiful and a near perfect setting for the film. It certainly presents itself as thriller, its something you sort of expect from Hitchcock but this is certainly the most different I have seen of his films. It is part drama and part romance with some moments of tension. As much as I hate to say anything bad about Hollywood legends like Hitchcock and Cary Grant...the film's pacing felt off at times. It dragged a lot in the middle and I was waiting for more of the story to unfold. Considering the premise of the film the characters are very well developed, especially Grant. There is a back story behind his characters that comes out a little bit at a time and we grow to really like his rehabilitated thief. The brilliant cinematography and well written characters make it a very good watch.Cary Grant is as suave, handsome and cool as his reputation states him to be. I couldn't get over how much George Clooney looks like Grant (just a side note.) His character as John Robie is very well done and fascinating. Grant plays part detective, part reformed thief and part lover and does all three flawlessly. You cannot deny his charisma on screen. Grace Kelly is beautiful. I know I'm stating the obvious but this is the first time I've really noticed her in a film and only the second film of hers I've seen (the first being Rear Window.) Kelly and Grant together are electric. Kelly's character starts as very plain and nearly boring and I thought that this was just another stereotypical snobby upper class girl that falls in love with a low-class thief. I was very wrong. Kelly's character ends up having more depth and some clever turns to her personality and she really pulls it off. Jessie Royce Landis was near brilliant in my books. She only had a few scenes but she easily carried every scene she was in. The banter between her and Grant was just perfect and she was so great in every scene she was in. John Williams and Charles Vanel round out the main supporting cast in solid performances though neither really stand out against the main cast. Brigitte Auber was very good in her role as the young, naive Danielle who clearly has a sordid past with Grant's Robie. I actually would have liked to have seen more of her and find out more about their past.As with any good Hitchcock film there is a twist. However, it is a weak twist in my book and I had it almost positively figured out very early on. I am not one to figure things out quickly so I am disappointed when a film blatantly makes the twist obvious. Alfred Hitchcock is a legend and every film I have seen of his thus far has featured very dark undertones, a thriller/horror feel and this one was completely different. It was almost a drama with just a touch of mystery. But there is no doubt that his direction is brilliant. As I mentioned, the setting and cinematography is so well done and the film is so well shot. Its a feast of for the eyes when it comes to traditional visuals. While it is not one of his best, I was glad to see it. It absolutely has that genuine timeless classic feel and I am officially a Cary Grant fan and officially have a classic crush on the stunning Grace Kelly. A fun, Sunday afternoon flick that everyone can enjoy. Just don't expect it to be Hitchcock's best and I would hazard to guess it isn't Grant's best either. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The details-OK. The overall feel-not so OK. Not my cup of tea,I suppose.","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Maybe I was expecting pretty much from this movie, but I was just not thrilled by it.I know how great Cary Grant can be, but this was not the case, although he was above average, above the others I mean.I had only seen a movie with Grace Kelly-that is Mogambo-and, there, I did not like her at all. Having heard so many good things about her, I thought I'd give this one a try. This was far worse than Mogambo as far as she was concerned. Yes, she was more beautiful. Everybody made their best in this movie to showcase her beauty, her elegance, and all that. But she was incredibly stiff all throughout the movie. And her acting did not do it for me, either. I'll give her one more try with Rear Window, let's see if I manage to like her even a bit there.Hitchcock- I presume this is a bad start into the Hitchcock movies. Perhaps this is why I was expecting much more.The music was good, the right music in the right moments. I reckon this was one of the few elements that created a bit of suspense at times.After the first half an hour, I was getting more and more curious who the thief was, so, since the movie was so slow-paced, I allowed my mind to begin to wander and I thought about every character in the film as being the thief. The result, as I realized quick enough, was that the ending was in no position to surprise me any more. 'Course, I was right.Good parts the music, like I said, the landscapes, the color, Cary Grant (especially in that black suit) and the part where he discovers she knew who he was. Actually, at that point I thought it was going to get better.7/10, because I still like to think I didn't get the essence of the movie. "},{"Title":"Great fun and keeps you guessing all the way.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A thoroughly entertaining light hearted film which is dominated by the romantic exuberant backdrop of the 50's French Riviera. It almost feels like you are on holiday yourself as nothing ever seems to get too intense or worrying, which is different for a Hitchcock film.Absolutely stunning scenery and cinematography (of which Robert Burks won an Oscar) embracing the new colour film technology of its time. Consistanlty giving plenty of space amongst dialogue & utilising plenty of visual puns.Almost a classic family film apart from some important aspects are quite subtle and possibly missed by a younger audience. Cary Grant manages the required air of fun mystery & cool, whilst Grace Kelly is the confident attractive rich Daddy's girl. In real life a year later, Kelly would marry Prince Rainier of Monaco consequently ending her acting career.A short film at 106 minutes, further emphasising the easy going who-dunnit theme. It possibly lacks a bit of depth and intensity but I guess that was the result of Hitchcocks approach to this film (as he's certainly capable of it normally).The colourful costume party and final roof scenes make this a very memorable & enjoyable film indeed. "},{"Title":"Hitch's little jokes","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was known for his jokes in his movies, for instance, in Rear Window, the two people trying to take their mattress into the apartment when it began to rain, he gave different orders to both actors. There's a scene in To Catch a Thief where Robie and Huston are having lunch and he's about to hand over the list of people in the Riviera with jewelry worth stealing Huston says, you know i thought you might have some tale of hardship -- your mother ran off when you were young... and at this Grant smiles and looks down. I wonder if this was in the original script, because Grant's mother did run off when he was young and it had a huge impact on his life. "},{"Title":"Engaging and stylish","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief is a pure piece of escapism set amongst the rich and beautiful socialites living in the south of France an ex jewel thief (Grant) must clear his name of a crime he says he didn't commit. When you look at Hitchcocks list of films this has to be seen as a lesser Hitchcock not as ground breaking as Vertigo or as suspenseful as Rear Window. But it is highly entertaining as it is a piece of escapism its easy to see in Grant's performance here why he was originally considered for the role of James Bond. Suave, cool under pressure and irresistible to women Grant has it all and in Grace Kelly also the prefect romantic partner.The films moves along at a fair pace the opening 'chase' scene is superbly shot particularly when you consider the technology of the time. There is also a vertigo inducing finally as the cat burglar duels on the roof with his adversary. But overall there's not as many jumps and suspense as other Hitchcock movies and this seems to be more about style than content at times. But when a movie entertains as this does it's difficult to complain about that.7/10 - Shows how good a director Hitchcock was that this can be considered one of his lesser films still an entertaining roller coaster from possibly the greatest director of all time? "},{"Title":"...And Her Name is Jesse Royce Landis.","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Much could be said, over and over again -- ad nauseum -- about the chemistry between Cary Grant and Grace Kelly, or how Hitchcock really loved filming Kelly and dressing her not only in a luminous set of gowns and dresses and lovely closeups as she lit the screen, but very little is said about an actress who from the moment she appears and begins speaking her truly remarkable, sharp lines to her final scenes as she drinks herself silly while dressed in a standout gown that actually steals the thunder right from under Kelly's own gold costume. Jesse Royce Landis, in her pat film appearance, most notably in this and NORTH BY NORTHWEST, also directed by Hitchcock (and considered to be not only one of his best films of suspense but a prototype of the James Bond/action hero film), is the real thief here. Hers is the type of acting that Oscars (today) are handed to in a silver platter and it's a shame that she was virtually ignored during her peak because boy, she plucks this movie like a gold statuette, tucks it in her pocket with deft ease, and saunters away leaving only her afterglow for us to savor and laugh and wonder at like we'd never seen acting like this before. Oh, well. No biggie -- she's in this remarkable, lightweight comedy-caper which also is a seed to the crime comedies of Soderbergh, and even if the closest it comes to a scene of danger occurs rather late in the movie, it doesn't matter. This is Hitchcock in a playful mode, having a ball in the French Riviera, photographing Kelly in driving sequences that in an unbelievable twist of irony, would become all too real in 1982 when she would die in a car accident as her car fell off a cliff in Monaco. "},{"Title":"The climax is worth the wait","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant is astonishingly buff -- check the beach scene -- and Grace Kelly is ravishing. The back-and-forth sparkles, particularly when they are conjugating irregular verbs. But then it seems to dawdle, and our attention wanders. Hitch is setting you up the languor, the witty but pointless dialog, and the slow pacing that others complain about are there to lull. By the drawn-out party scene, we don't really care who the real thief is; we are sticking with it to see how Grace Kelly and Cary Grant hook up. (And on the small screen, the gorgeous setting doesn't have as much impact.) But then the roof scene JOLTS you! It is a masterpiece of editing, lighting and choreography. It really does looks like a moonlit night -- the shadows and the fore and back lighting are luscious. And the action! "},{"Title":"Fabulous mixture","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's Alfred Hitchcock, Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. What could there possibly go wrong? Nothing is the right answer for this slick and funny movie.This thriller about a thief, who's accused of stealing again, is excellently written and acted. And it is the chemistry between the two lead actors that elevates this movie further. The written dialogue is witty and funny for both of them, for you to enjoy. A little screw-ballish, but very good indeed.So if that genre and that area is your cup of tea (or at least you're not totally against it) then watch this one. It's a Hitchcock, why do I need to say more?! ;o) "},{"Title":"Overall I thought is was VERY GOOD, and would certainly watch it again!","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I thought it was a very entertaining movie! I enjoyed the 'plot' and the chemistry between Grace and Cary. Enjoyable, through and through!! The cinematography was excellent, as was the setting. There was one small exchange (line) between Grace and Cary that I thought was unforgettable.....they were talking about what time to meet for a party and Cary said...I don't have a watch...and Grace's reply was..steal one! which I thought was very funny! The timing was perfect! I have been a fan of both Grace Kelly and Cary Grant's for a long time. Both possess a degree of CLASS that is hardly found, in this day and age. Even though this movie may not have been as popular as some of Hitchcock's other works, I enjoyed it just as much! Call me a romantic (or whatever) but I was never bored during the entire movie. Between the romance and suspense it always seemed to maintain my total interest. "}{"Title":"Fun Hitchcock fare","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Though not a golden classic like some of Hitchcock's other work, this is still one very enjoyable film.In the south of France, a string of robberies has left a row of wealthy tourists without their expensive jewels. The thief's style is identical to that of John Robie (played by Cary Grant) so it is natural that the police comes after him. He however has nothing to do with these and flees while at the same time trying to prove his innocence to pretty much everybody since nobody believes him. Along the way he meets the Stevens family, a wealthy female American and her young and attractive daughter played by Grace Kelly. This brings about an obvious affair between Grant's and Kelly's characters.Though this is a Hitchcock film and one should be enjoying the suspense, it was Grace Kelly for me who stole the show. Everything about her was simply amazing. She is quite possibly one of the pretties women ever to leave their marks on 35mm and it sure shows in this film. Grant plays his part well and really carries the film. Hitchcock is of course up to his old tricks, cranking up the suspense right up to a daring rooftop climax.Though perhaps not groundbreaking, this is still a very enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Grant tries to catch one thief while Kelly wants to net herself another (him!)","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Despite the rather dour and serious photo chosen to adorn the current DVD cover of this Hitchcock romantic film, this is actually a frothy, colorful and sometimes witty affair. Grant plays a retired cat burglar (and, in an unlikely bit of back story, a former French resistance fighter!) who resides in the south of France. When a batch of new robberies crop up bearing his touch, he is accused by the local police and has to prove his innocence. Enter ice cool Kelly and her no-nonsense mother Landis who have come to the area on holiday. Kelly has her eye on Grant and he has his eyes on Landis' sizable jewelry collection, believing that an attempt to steal it by the current thief will allow him to finally prove his innocence. He romances Kelly amid some stunning local scenery, but finds that the new thief is harder to catch than he realized. Williams plays an insurance agent who assists Grant in trying to prove himself innocent. Grant is always worth watching and gives a suave, deft performance here (and is tan beyond belief!), but the film is a bit slow-going at first, regardless of a few action sequences. Kelly, apart from one brief glimpse, doesn't appear until a half hour into the movie. From the time she arrives, things are far more entertaining, not to mention appealing to the eye. This is when the double entendres kick in and the array of beautiful dresses and other Edith Head ensembles begin their parade. Kelly was never photographed with such eye-opening loveliness as she is here. Her skin is a little more bronze, her hair is a little more blonde and her cheeks have a rosy glow to them. She has a couple of dresses that should have any lover of chiffon lying on the floor salivating. Most celebrated, however, is the gold lame gown she wears at a costume ball for the climax. It was this dress, in addition to the others in the film, that made this Head's proudest achievement in her long career and she was very disappointed to lose the Oscar for it. Grant and Kelly have an easy chemistry together and enjoy a mildly spicy rapport with one another. Kelly lands one memorable kiss on Grant following their initial meeting. Landis provides a few wisecracks and a bluntness which helps cut some of the potentially-drowning ornateness of the settings. French actress Auber appears as a young flirt who's known Grant since she was a child and isn't able to wring the full amount of potential out of her role. Vanel, another French actor, plays a caterer and an acquaintance of Grant's, but is difficult to understand even after having been dubbed by a different performer, though he is notable for having had one of the all-time longest film careers in the world. Chief assets of the film include the wonders of the location scenery and the appeal of the stars, notably Kelly's exceptional beauty. The script has some fun lines in it, but lacks real excitement or suspense and a sense of focus. On this one, Hitch was enjoying his stars and his surroundings and wasn't too concerned with jolting the audience, which was his usual forte. "},{"Title":"A Solid, Enjoyable  Hitchcock, but far from his best","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a very enjoyable romance mystery, with a good script, good actors, and a great direction. Alfred Hitchcock is amazing in the suspense scenes, he uses his normal way of shooting, which obviously works, and in the romance bits, he just shots in a way that makes you feel the sexual tension even more.The two leads are great; Cary Grant creates an heroic icon, more than a flesh and blood person, which sometimes work and others don't. Grace Kelly is simply, perfect her character is full of light and beauty, and she irradiates both of them. By the way, her delivery of lines is amazing, fitting into each scene. When she's on the screen, it's impossible to stop looking at her, because she's so magnetic, and with a slight hint of mystery. The chemistry between them is incredibly hot and believable, and you can almost feel it on your skin. The supporting actors are all excellent; my favorite was Brigitte Auber, who seemed so innocent and fresh.The screenplay is good, though it could have been better. The resolution of the mystery didn't leave me entirely satisfied, but it wasn't bad, either. Cary Grant's character is a bit too heroic sometimes, but nothing too bad, either. Overall, a solid, enjoyable suspense movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"The French Riviera Is the Star Here","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie is certainly gorgeous to look at, as are the stars in it, but Hitchcock fans looking for that bit of macabre tomfoolery the master nearly always includes in his films may just be disappointed.In fact, if you don't think Grace Kelly was God's gift to mankind, you'll probably be disappointed, as this movie exists almost entirely as a tribute to her allure, as imagined by Hitchcock. His obsessive nature roams free as he frames her in scene after scene in high-key Technicolor wearing one glamorous gown after another. But I always thought Kelly lacked sex appeal, though to give him credit, Hitchcock was the only director able to coax a sexy performance from her, in Rear Window, released a year before this film. You know that Hitchcock wants us to find her as bewitching here as she was in that, but it doesn't happen, at least not for me.And at a time when directors were putting as much emphasis on making exotic locations look gorgeous on film as they were on plot or actors, the French Riviera as filmed here looks ravishing.Grade B "},{"Title":"Eye Candy","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm not quite sure but this is not one of my favorite Hitchcock movies. It's certainly photographed beautifully, with a talented cast (for the most part) but in the end there's just not much to sink your teeth into and dissect. One thing that drives me insane is that damned red polka dot ascot Cary wears in the opening scene. It must be a magical scarf because it keeps on changing position, showing different knots and dots continuously. Why Edith Head would choose such a contraption such as this is mystifying. The actress who plays Danielle The Cat is too brisk and abrasive for my taste besides, there's no big shakes when it's discovered she's the one behind the burglaries. Great photography, some not so sublime sexual innuendos, but a feather weight script makes this movie more frosting than cake. "},{"Title":"Ah Cary Grant...","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Cary Grant is one of those old time Hollywood stars that makes your stomach glee with that dropped elevator feel. This is by no means a great Hitchcock thriller, but Cary Grant makes it worth while watching. Grace Kelly is her typical yawn, good thing she was so utterly beautiful, because her acting really is ordinary. I hated her character found her more annoying than anything. The mother was a great foil to the Cary's handsome Cat character. A pleasant Sunday afternoon yarn.  "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is definetly not a Hitchcock-like film. Instead, it's frame after frame of the beautiful French Riviera scenery. Although Cary Grant seems to be a little to old for Grace Kelly, they still play the romantic angle very nicely. Cary Grant plays John Robie 'The Cat', an ex-jewelry burglar. Grace Kelly is, of course, lovely as ever as she plays the sophisticated, beautifully dressed, bejewelled Frances Stevens--who, after her first encounter with Grant, kisses him firmly on the lips. The highlight of the movie is the seduction scene in Frances' hotel room, against the backdrop of fireworks. This classy movie is full of double entendres, witty comments and the quest to catch Grant as a thief and husband. The ending is nice as Grant and Kelly (in a beautiful golden gown) stand in his villa. Good acting by all the cast, interesting script and beautiful views of the Riviera.     "},{"Title":"The movie I watch when I'm home sick","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This very stylish Hitchcock showcases the best of what the Cote d'Azur had to offer back in the fifties. So forget the very simplistic plot, the seemingly thin characters and the lack of suspense and enjoy the view! It takes me back in time to when, as a little kid, I had been allowed to stay up late and watch the spotlights illuminating the Baia dei Fiori estate where the fancy dress ball was filmed. My home town never looked grander! "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Dialog for Romantics!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Cary is the Thief whom Grace catches. The romantic give and take between Cary and Grace is the great charm of the movie and why I rank it as one of the top Romantic Comedies! The picnic scene, the ride through the mountains surrounding the French Riviera, the tremendous dialog, should have won the movie Best Screenplay, not Best Cinematography.This isn't saying that the Cinematography wasn't also wonderful. When my family took our 'European Vacation' and saw the French Riviera, viewing this movie as we wound down the hills to Monaco from the perfume factory stirred great memories.They don't write scripts like this anymore.  "},{"Title":"Irreplaceable!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This was certainly not one of Hitchcock's great masterpieces, but I will still call it a minor masterpiece for several reasons. One...the locales were breathtaking. Two...Hitch probably used his eye for womens fashion to greater advantage than many of his other films. Three...Grace Kelly. It's no secret that she was Hitch's ultimate leading lady and that he spent the remainder of his career trying to replace her (Kim Novak, Eva Marie Saint, etc.), and recreate her (Tippi Hedren). There was definitely chemistry between Grant and Kelly, and Princess Grace was absolutely never more stunning! It may be what they called Hollywood fluff, but with these ingredients, who cares!      "}{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A truly gorgeous film. From the rolling green hills to the impeccably flawless features of Kelly and Grant. This is Hitchcock too, so there is the requisite crime and of course, suspense.Somebody is pinching jewels and everybody suspects the cat, John Robie (Grant), is up to his old tricks. He pleads his innocence and tries to find the real, new cat, who is imitating him perfectly. The well off Frances Stevens (Kelly) gets mixed up with him and they fall in love. Along with the insurer of the jewels, the trio hatch a plot to find the real cat.This film is certainly not Hitchcock's finest, for suspense or narrative construction. It is incredibly asthetically pleasing though and shows brilliant elements of romance and the odd dash of humour. One for fans of the late, great director.  "},{"Title":"Worthy Effort","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While lacking the usual Hitchcock suspense this is none the less a worthy effort from the British master.  Cary Grant as always has great presence on the screen and Grace Kelly while not a great actress certainly is first in beauty.  Great photography along the French Riviera and all European cast with exception of Kelly and Landis make for an entertaining film.  I rated this a 7. "},{"Title":"Eye Candy","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is the type of light-hearted fare that doesn't get made much anymore (and was certainly not Hitchcock's stock in trade).  The plot is fine -- not to tough to follow but not particularly engrossing.  The acting is above-average -- two beautiful people playing beautiful people, plus a solid supporting cast.What really distinguishes To Catch A Thief is its look.  In my opinion, Grace Kelly is the most beautiful woman I have ever seen, and the French Riviera has never looked finer.  For a film that's basically about ultra-rich people dealing with problems only they could have, this movie is pretty darn good.Don't expect anything earth-shattering, but if you're looking for escapist fun with that Hitchcock flair, To Catch A Thief is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A whole movie in just one word Masterpiece","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Last weekend I decided to watch a classic. I wanted a first rate movie. So, the chosen one was the Alfred Hitchcock's To Catch a Thief, from 1955. One word to describe the movie masterpiece! With a brilliant performance of Cary Grant, as the retired famous thief John Robie, Hitchcock provokes and plays with your thoughts all the time, By the way, the movie is set in the French Riviera, so, the locations are amazing.To my mind, Hitchcock was a master in catching people's attention . He let us think that the story is predictable and then, Wow! He surprises us with the unexpected but, at the same time, obvious change in the way the story goes on.Prepare to be surprised. And enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Grant and Grace Steal the Screen in Delightful Hitchcock Action-Comedy","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" While he is most often associated with Psycho, a dark brooding psychological horror tale, Hitchcock also knew how to have fun. To Catch a Thief, which incorporates elements of action, suspense and comedy, is one of his best efforts of this type. Hitch often employed the likes of Cary Grant when he needed a more light-hearted character residing in Europe, and he used the incomparable Grace Kelly when he needed a witty love-interest to keep up with his male lead. This is a completely enjoyable and entertaining film with Grant and Kelly doing what they do best with Hitch at the helm.In the French Riviera, near Monte Carlo and the Mediterranean Sea, some burglaries have disrupted this otherwise sleepy locale. The targets are jewels owned by French aristocrats and/or wealthy bourgeoisie in expensive houses. Nearby is a former jewel-heister residing in the same vicinity, John Robie, nicknamed the Cat, played with subtle confidence by Cary Grant. The authorities are convinced the Cat has returned and is wreaking havoc on the community, but Robie insists he's not the one causing millionaire wives to sob at the loss of their priceless jewels. Robie realizes he will have to catch the burglar himself otherwise he'll probably be put on trial for the thefts.Two Americans, Jesse Stevens and her daughter Frances (Grace Kelly), not only reside in the French Riviera but they also boast owning expensive jewelry. The Cat decides to solicit their help by pretending he's an American businessman who has taken a cursory interest in the thefts. However, Frances has heard of the Cat and the burglars, and she begins to suspect not only that he is the Cat but also he's responsible for the current thefts. Grant must play a game of cat and mouse in which he uses the Stevens as bait to catch the real thief and all the while staying out of police custody. We as the audience begin wondering who is the real thief and will he be easily apprehended, or have we been playing the fool in believing Grant? A wonderful film, purely for entertainment value and not to be taken too seriously. The film was shot on location near Monte Carlo, especially on the narrow streets of the French Riviera. Legend has it that the Crown Prince of Monaco saw the cast shooting the film, spotted Kelly, and introduced himself. Shortly thereafter, they engaged in a media-driven romance ending with their marriage. In a tragic twist, Kelly, while driving on those same roads shot in To Catch a Thief, lost control of her car which plummeted down the steep slopes, causing her death in 1982. Kelly was a real princess, both on and off screen, and hers was one of the most-publicized tragedies of a member of European royalty since before the death of Princess Diana only 16 years later. Interestingly, both princesses died in auto accidents. "},{"Title":"A charming and entertaining film from the Master","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Do you want a leg or a breast?Squeezed in the middle of Hitchcock's filmography, To Catch a Thief, is many times forgotten since it came out the year after Rear Window. Hitchcock also had greater success with his later films, Psycho, The Birds, North by Northwest, and Vertigo so this film is easily discarded when we compare it to his other works. It is a shame because To Catch a Thief has many great things going for it which we now take for granted. For instance the love story mixed right in the middle of the mystery is captivating. Perhaps for modern audiences the mystery involving this copycat thief, known as the cat, may be way to easy to solve, but the heart of the story lies in the fantastic chemistry between Cary Grant's John Robie and Grace Kelly's Frances Stevens. The sparks fly between these two characters and their intense chemistry on screen is rarely equaled in modern films. This was my first Cary Grant film and only the second time I'v seen Grace Kelly on screen so perhaps that's why I enjoyed it so much. I was pleasantly surprised with this film and despite it not being at the same level of some of Hitchcock's other masterpieces it is a really enjoyable movie. The cinematography here is gorgeous and perhaps one of the best coming from Hitchcock. Deciding to film this on location in the French Riviera was the best idea Hitchcock had and it really payed off. His cameo at the beginning of the movie just might be my favorite of his as well. There is also a spectacular car chase scene that is the highlight of the film. My only complaint lies in the fact that the resolution wasn't as strong as the opening and mid section of this film, but the pacing was well established and I enjoyed it. Cary Grant and Grace Kelly were magnificent on screen together and I look forward to seeing more of their classic work in the future. The gorgeous scenery and the romance went perfect together in this charming film from Hitchcock. Grant and Kelly shared an incredible chemistry together and their witty remarks also added some comedy to the mix. The film might not be as artistic as some of his greater work, but this light weight romantic thriller shouldn't be disregarded when we consider Hitchcock's films because it showed his versatility as a director and his capability of directing less serious films and making them better than the actual material really was. It's an enjoyable film and it accomplishes its purpose of entertaining the audience as it takes us through the gorgeous Riviera of France and introduces us to these beautiful beaches and mansions. Some of Hitchcock's better known films could have benefited from the two strong leads in To Catch a Thief because for a light film they really got the job done. It may be a forgettable film coming from Hitchcock but it is far more entertaining than most of the light movies we are exposed to in the theaters today. Despite not having heard great things about this film, I'm glad I had the pleasure to watch this and see the sparks fly between Grant and Kelly. "},{"Title":"In The Riviera.","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this glossy yarn that stars Cary Grant as American expatriate and retired cat burglar John Robie, who is now living well in the Riviera when a series of new jewel thefts takes place, that seem quite familiar to Robie's style, so now suspected of the crimes, must go on the run to find the real thief, whose next targets may be Jessie Stevens and her beautiful daughter Frances(played by Grace Kelly) John starts romancing Frances, unsure if she may be the thief, who turns out to be someone else entirely... Reasonably entertaining film is very superficial and lightweight, but the beautiful locations and appealing characters make up for it. "},{"Title":"Nice in Nice","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There's a lot to like about this Hitchcock movie, but it is one of the lesser lights in the great run of films he made from 1954 to 1964. The good stuff is obvious, a never-handsomer, suntanned Cary Grant at his easy-going best, Grace Kelly, a less capable actress and the unlikely pursuer of the diffident reformed cat-burglar John Robie character Grant plays, but looking very lovely indeed, some fine, indeed Oscar-winning cinematography from Robert Burks and some typically individual Hitchcock scenes, but there are drawbacks too.The story is slight, the action quite slow-moving, the background music overly-frivolous and intrusive, with too many scenes guilty of running on too long, even the car chase scene is uninvolving and ends dully. The denouement too, lacks suspense and in the end I found myself admiring the skills of the afore-mentioned Grant & Burks than really following the story, which definitely has a puffed-up feel to it.Amongst the memorable scenes Hitchcock delivers this time are the immediate juxtaposition of the robbery victim's scream after the travel-agency tour-type opening title sequence, Grant & Kelly's firework of a kiss and the celebrated Mother comes too final shot, but even these aren't in the vanguard of Hitch's very best work.Perhaps this tale of the idle rich didn't engage due to the fecklessness of the leads, but it seems to me having gone to France for the shoot, perhaps the great director got influenced too much by the sunny sky and pretty scenery, giving too much screen time to landscape shots and while the dialogue is occasionally racy, especially during Kelly's seduction of Grant, there's too much of it and too much of it which is superfluous to requirements.Nevertheless as an advertisement for the French Riviera, it does a good job, but as a mystery-thriller it probably doesn't quite make it. "},{"Title":"Classy Movie","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Grant and Kelly--probably never see the ilks of a glamor couple like this again. Part of the Glamor is the designs by Edith Head, who garnered amazing eight Oscars for her costume design. I read somewhere that she liked to design for men than women but either way she was a talented artist. Both actors are subtle in their acting-as opposed to overacting by recent set of actors who don't hold a match to--the debonair, Grant, and graceful and classy, Kelly. The South of France where the venerable Hitchcock (called Hitch, by his few friends) liked to vacation himself, is breathtakingly captured. This is one of the highlights of the film which is not in the same mold of suspense as his other films. It has a witty and fast-paced dialog. I don't think a movie like this will ever happen, since Hollywood, has embraced the all-too-easy with bearded and no-talent Nerds, churning out Animation by truckloads and there is no talent or persvearance to make a movie or audience patience to Catch a Thief "},{"Title":"Grace Kelly and Cary Grant At Their Finest","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of the highest rated movies on my list. The most beautiful woman to ever grace the silver screen, Grace Kelly, and the legendary actor, Cary Grant. The views of HER are magnificent and breathtaking with her array of costumes and glowing tan. The scenery mixed with the action of this film is beautiful beyond description.Everything works well in this movie. Cary Grant as the retired jewel thief, Grace Kelly as the reluctant accomplice who through research and cleverness figures him out. This is suspense mixed with a romantic chemistry that is unmatched in today's films.The scene in the car, driving through the countryside, when they stop after being chased. One of my most favorite scenes in all of film.Alfred Hitchcock new what he was doing and he created a classic to last for all time. Suspense, Love, Flirtatious Chemistry, and Mystery, between maybe the greatest actor and actress of all time.I have watched this film possibly more than any other film and I could watch it again and again without ever getting bored. Anyone rating this film any less than 8 stars is insane! This film is truly a beautiful masterpiece! A PERFECT 10! "}{"Title":"Another in a long line of great Hitchcock movies.","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief was a wonderful showcase for France, Grace Kelly, Cary Grant, and the wonderful writing of John Michael Hayes. It's the thrilling story of a retired thief who must catch a copycat in order to clear his own name, at the same time a young rich woman is attempting to catch him. That's not an unexpected story for Hitchcock, but he pulls it off wonderfully with his trademark style and showmanship.   The only Hitchcock movie with better dialogue than To Catch a Thief was Rear Window, and that's a mighty fine  bit of praise. It's made even better by the quality of actors who are delivering it. I'm really starting to see why Cary Grant was such a beloved actor for so many years, because he helped lay down a template that actors like George Clooney are still successfully following today. And Grace Kelly once again knocked my socks off with her charm, beauty, and undeniable natural ability for acting. We also are treated to great performances from Jessie Royce Landis, John Williams and Brigette Auber.I'm sure that it's pretty obvious by now that I really liked To Catch a Thief. It's one of the most fun Htchcock movies. The characters are rarely in any real danger Even the occasional car chase or boat escape is handled in a thoroughly lighthearted manner. There aren't many better choices for a classic movie of this type, I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"I hate when Actors Kiss Grace Kelly","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What is the outcome when Alfred Hitchcock, Cary Grant and Grace Kelly work together for a movie? There is 'Classic' written all over it. The leading pair itself raised my interest in watching it (I love Grace Kelly). The movie also does not disappoint. Shot in the picturesque locations of the French Riviera (I so much want to go there), the movie is about a retired diamond thief John Robie (Grant) who is suspected by the police for robbery after many years because of a series of diamond robberies take place conducted in the same style as of Robie's. In order to prove his innocence, Robie has now got to catch the real thief for which he takes the help of a rich lady and her daughter Frances (Kelly). After many robberies, suspicions, chases and a murder, the real thief is caught and in pure Hitchcock style, it never fails to surprise the viewer.This is perhaps Hitchcock's best picturized movie. The aerial shots of the French Riviera are truly enthralling. The movie is mostly shot in Cannes which also is a great destination for tourism. Grant as usual rules the screen with his unmatchable screen persona. Yes, he looks older in the movie, but the charm remains. Kelly is a screen Goddess. She dazzles and sizzles with her great costumes and expressions. The pair looks a little odd (After all Kelly was 25 years younger than Grant at that time). The romantic conversations between the lead pair are also very interesting and does not anywhere prove a hindrance to the flow of the movie. It is very obvious that fans will compare this movie to other Hitchcock classics. It clearly is dwarfed in front of the stalwart movies of the great film-maker. But still it is considered one of the classics of that era. A sure watch for Hitchcock Fans. And Btw, I hate when actors kiss Grace Kelly .Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"Fireworks in Monoco","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Although well acted and photographed, TO CATCH A THIEF, is not as great a film as VERTIGO or STRANGERS ON A TRAIN among Hitchcock's works. It is entertaining, and suspenseful, but the mystery seems forced. John Robey (Cary Grant) is a famous American-born cat burglar who became a hero in World War II as a member of the underground fighting the Germans. Ten years later a series of jewel robberies on the Riviera look like his work, and the police come to question him. But instead of going with them to Nice he flees (and in the Hitchcock world to flee is tantamount to confessing guilt). Robey soon hooks up with his former gang members, now working at a restaurant run by their leader Bertani (Charles Vanel) and finds that the former gang (including Bertani) don't believe his denial of the robberies. The members who do not believe him include Danielle Foussard (Brigitte Auber) although she apparently has strong sexual feelings about Robey. Robey is approached by H.H. Hughson of Lloyd's of London (John Williams) to help stop the robberies which are costing the insurance firm tens of thousands of pounds. He agrees (getting a list of possible jewelry owning targets in the area). One of the targets is Mrs. Jessie Stevens (Jessie Royce Landis) and her daughter Frances (Grace Kelly), a pair of wealthy Americans (oil money) who are traveling to Monoco. Initially Mrs. Stevens seems the livelier wire of the pair, but gradually Robey realizes Frances is a hot wire of her own, romancing him - but also recognizing that Robey is the wanted Cat Burglar. The appearance of Frances on the scene does not sit well with Danielle, who has a mild verbal cat fight with her American rival. The theft of some jewelry belonging to Frances and her mother also changes Frances' opinion of Robey, though not Mrs. Stevens'.So the plot basically boils down to this can Robey prove his innocence and also reveal who the actual thief is. The corollary to this is will Robey and Frances end up restoring their relationship.Today the film is recognized as a Hitchcock classic probably because of a sequence when Grant and Kelly are in her hotel room making out, while a fireworks display is going on outside (symbolically suggesting what their sexual relationship is going to be)*. Besides that the film showed off the beauties of the little Principality, and the movie is the one wherein Grace Kelly met her future husband Prince Ranier. Finally the early portion of the film involving Kelly speeding along the twisting mountain roads of Monoco while driving Grant remind people of her fate, dying in a car wreck in those same roads in 1981.(*Years later this was to be spoofed well in MONTY PYTHONS, in a sketch where Michael Palin is romancing Connie Booth. The heat builds and suddenly we see those fireworks again, only to see that the weird Palin is showing a film he made of fireworks to a frustrated and mad Booth!)But does it satisfy the viewer as other films of Hitchcock do? I just do not think so. The mystery of the story is not very strong (if Robey is not committing the robberies, who is - it must be someone who knows his modus operandi - which takes us back to his own gang). It wastes John Williams (his insurance agent is a pale shadow of his Scotland Yard Inspector settling Tony Wendice's hash in DIAL M FOR MURDER). The best of the supporting cast are Jessie Royce Landis, as the wise old Mrs. Stevens, who sees that Robey's desperation is proof of his innocence, not of guilt. Auber's Danielle is quite interesting too, and one would like to have seen more of her in the film as a sex rival to Kelly. Hitchcock had other plans for her though.Finally there is Charles Vanel, hardly known in the U.S. or Britain, but actually quite a fascinating actor in his own right in France (on screen and television). Vanel and Curt Bois were the two actors who acted longer in movies (80 years each) than any other performers of their day. Vanel also won several coveted European acting awards from the 1950s onward. Here his Bertani (from first appearance) has a degree of cynicism that captures the viewers attention - frequently away from Grant (quite an accomplishment for a character actor with that star). It is hard to imagine that only one year before his performance as the cynical Bertani, Vanel portrayed the detective who solves the mystery at the base of the famous horror flick DIABOLIQUE. The voice and appearance of the actor remained the same, but the shrewdness and intelligence in figuring out what was happening is totally different. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock Creates Fireworks for Cary Grant and Grace Kelly","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" On the French Riviera, a copycat is imitating the style of retired jewel thief Cary Grant (as John Robie), which makes him a prime suspect. Nobody believes Mr. Grant's is really retiring, including headstrong beauty Grace Kelly (as Frances Stevens), who breaks speed limits in both automobiles and romance. So, proving his innocence is up to Grant. Most obviously, there isn't much focus on comedy or mystery in this self-proclaimed comedy-mystery. Ms. Kelly is referred to as an older woman in the script; but, she appears to be about the same age (or even younger) than rival Brigitte Auber (as Danielle).Still, you get excellent direction and cinematography from Alfred Hitchcock and Robert Burks, who create fireworks (literally) for the powerful pairing of Grant and Kelly, which paid off handsomely at the box office. Jesse Royce Landis (as Jessie Stevens), John Williams (as H.H. Hughson), and Ms. Auber have grand supporting roles. And, Mr. Hitchcock has one of his best cameos, thanks to Grant's reaction; their side-by-side bus ride is one of the best ever visualizations of a star and director team. Also, Hitchcock cooks up a foul pair of eggs, which do more for windows and cigarettes than the stomach.******* To Catch a Thief (8/3/55) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Cary Grant, Grace Kelly, Jesse Royce Landis, John Williams "},{"Title":"A Light , Enjoyable Comedy.","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's To Catch a Thief (1955) is usually (and unfairly) sniffed at by critics, saying that it is untypical Hitchcock that has no moments of suspense or intrigue. But that is completely missing the point. To Catch a Thief is a light-wight, fun romantic comedy and know-one, least of all the director, intended it to be taken seriously. You can sense that Hitchcock wasn't really interested in the plot about John Robie (Cary Grant) who was a notorious but retired jewel thief or cat burglar, nicknamed The Cat, who now tends to his vineyards in the South of France. A series of robberies that closely resemble his style leads the police to believe that the Cat is up to his old tricks again. The director is much more interested (and so is the viewer) in the (magnificent) chemistry between Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. This is (unfortunetly) the sort of film that Hollywood seems incapable of making anymore. Oh, and plus, Hichcock gets a great cameo! A film to watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Tall, tan and lovely.","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief is one of Hitchcock's more breezy projects; a romantic and mystery wrapped into one only with much less suspense than you would suspect from the master. Certainly the cast is fine with Cary Grant as the ex-jewel thief John Robie and Grace Kelly as Frances Stevens, an American heiress who falls for him but questions whether or not he is the thief prowling around France that is grabbing headlines.This is a pretty timid picture, but it works on many different levels. First, the cast is terrific. Grant and Kelly have wonderful chemistry and it is a shame that this was one of Kelly's final films before becoming Princess of Morocco. Hitchcock is also able to maintain a good amount of suspense despite the plot being relatively weak. Of course, the sets are what I think really attracts the eye to see this over and over. Shot on-location in southern France and in VistaVision, it is gorgeous to look at the overhead shots of towns on the shore of the Riviera in beautiful colors of sky blue and white sand.It certainly isn't one of his best works, but Hitchcock elevates the material to more than it could be by other directors giving it an emotional and exciting level that is all but gone in today's movies. "},{"Title":"i needed more Rope and less Bond","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" commenting on films like this one creates me the moments in which i seriously think about not giving rating opinions on any film at all. That's because it is as comfortable to calmly admit a film is really good as it is uncomfortable to say one is not good, above all when it comes to a Hitchcock film, with the charge of melancholy and the number of followers within film world this has. But i didn't think this to be a good film, by the standards Hitch's established for his films. This is an important statement to me, i rate this above all (not only) in relation to the work of AH.Here he was just 'getting out' of his research on camera movement, camera eye, which had had its peak the previous year with the masterpiece Rear Window. Hitch always pursued new ideas after he felt satisfied with the conclusions he took, so it is not strange in his work that a new film has cinematically very little to do with the previous ones. This is the case. With this one he started working with something that, in his films would culminate with North by northwest, but in the larger picture (that is, evolution of films) still has repercussions today. It has to do with involving the film within a coat of glamour, appealing escapist elements, something that in the end we can call style. So the french Riviera is chosen. That is pure glamour, and the class Hitchcock always shows is seen in the very first scene. We get several shots of jewels being stolen, and women screaming as they find out. In the last robbery we see, the victim moves to the balcony, and screams to a blissful view of the bay in Nice. This sets the ton, en forms the mood. First scenes are essential, here is no exception. To help on the mood he trusts Grant. Here was being created the character of James Bond, which later became the loyal emulator of this style Hitch was creating. Grace Kelly makes probably the least interesting role for Hitchcock, despite this was apparently perfect for her. oh and it's creepy enough to think about how film became life when Kelly lost her life in the known conditions, in the road where she takes chances high speeding here, but this is a side note.What doesn't work here is that the whole thing is to static, to based on scenery. Hitchcock usually worked and preferred sets to real location. I think here he trusted to much on landscape, and left aside the knowledge and mastery he had from his projects from Rope to Rear Window. He understood this, i suppose, and corrected it later, with North by Northwest, which is the peak of his investigation on making a film live on style. There he incorporated some dynamism through the use of some camera moves and above all choosing well the point of view, the perspective. Here he trusted so much on things exterior to his control, that the whole thing doesn't work out well, not to me. Curiously, the film is not dated, it's enjoyable in many aspects, but the pace fails, the action drags, and the plot twists which usually hitch underlines with cinematic elements, preferably camera work, here just succeed.My opinion 2/5 despite this is a classic, despite i really appreciate Hitchcock's work, and despite you can get some enjoyment out of this one, i didn't really connect to this one, maybe i'll change in future re viewings. "},{"Title":"Another Great Film! (SPOILERS)","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERSWell, another great film by the greatest film director of all time, Alfred Hitchcock, that is. I am desperate to watch almost every single Alfred Hitchcock there is. Yesterday I went to Hollywood Video and this was there. I watched To Catch A Thief. It is a very good Alfred Hitchcock comedy-thriller, but not his best work. It does not surpass his other incredible films like Psycho, Vertigo, Rope, North By Northwest, the Birds, Rear Window, or Dial 'M' For Murder. Still, this is one of his most famous ones. It is good. There are some great performances, great cinematography, and Alfred Hitchcock's usual utterly fantastic climax and sometimes complicated plot. The plot itself for To Catch a Thief is not too hard to follow, but it is a bit difficult to fit into words. I love the comedy aspects in this film, and the climax. The climax, as usual for Alfred Hitchcock, is the best part of the movie. Well, the climax for Psycho was not the best part of the movie, the shower scene was, but this film still has a terrific climax.Here is the plot for To Catch A Thief. There are burglaries happening all over France. The police suspect John Robie, a retired thief, is stealing jewelry. Robie tries to clear his name. He develops a plan to catch the thief in the act. He then meets Jessie Stevens and her daughter Frances. They have the most expensive jewels in France. Frances believes that Robie is the thief, but she falls in love with him anyway. Then, one night, Jessie's jewels are stolen. Frances suspects Robie. He then goes to a house and is attacked by a man. He says he is the thief, but his fake leg gives it away that he is not the thief. Frances then tells Robie she is sorry about suspecting him and she helps him plan out a plan to catch the real thief at a party. They then discover who the real thief is, a young French woman!Overall, this is one of Hitchcock's most creative movies with some suspense and some good humor involved too. Yes, it is not Alfred Hitchcock's best movie, nor his worst, but this is actually one of his most underrated movies. Sure, I was kind of suspecting that that young French woman was the thief but it was still a good twist. Did I mention the music yet? No, I did not. The music in To Catch A Thief was not the best, nor the most creative, but it is still a solid score. Anyway, this is one of the many fantastic Alfred Hitchock films out there that you should not miss. Sure, the first couple minutes of this movie are really boring, but trust me, it gets better. Much better.8/10Recommended Films North By Northwest, Psycho, Rope, and Vertigo.The Cameo Of Hitchcock On the bus with Robie in the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"Grace Kelly was an excellent choice for leading lady","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, I'm no movie critic, but I'm willing to put in my two cents worth. I've watched 'To Catch A Thief' many times, and I love it.  I've been in the area, and if you want a good view of Monaco, go up to Eze and make your way to the restaurant (with a balcony) where Cary talks to the insurance guy. Great view.  I love the line from when Cary and Grace are having lunch in her car thigh or breast? - You decide.  If one reads Sex Lives of the Hollywood Goddesses one gets the impression that Grace was undoubtedly a very, very popular choice for leading lady (others were equally popular). There's no doubt that older leading men were (and still are) very much in favor of scripts which put them opposite beautiful young stars.  Let's just say that an 'up and coming' starlet (you should pardon the expression) might be 'motivated', or might simply get caught up in the role.  One doesn't hear that much about this aspect of Hollywood, but it must be a very important factor.  Undoubtedly, these older actor's fantasies are not always fulfilled, but they are often enough, I'll bet.  We don't even want to get into the power that directors and producers have, because of their ability to decide who gets in a picture.  Angels they ain't. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Un-Hitchcockian","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Cary Grant plays an ex-Cat burglar accused of a recent wave of robberies in the French Riviera (beautiful scenery). There's not much suspense in this minor mystery, save for a well-shot car chase; even the denouement is predictable. The great Alfred Hitchcock eschews any great camera shots or scintillating tension in favor of a frothy romance between Grant and tourist Grace Kelly, who's stunning. Yet Kelly had better roles in her two prior Hitchcock film, Dial M For Murder and Rear Window (both 1954). In the former, she's accused of murder, in the latter, almost gets murdered. Here she's strictly the love interest, as it's mainly Grant's story, supported by good actors Jesse Royce Landis, John Williams, Brigitte Auber (who has almost as many scenes as Kelly). Soon after this picture, Kelly became Princess of Monaco, and Hitch continually looked for replacement contenders Vera Miles for Vertigo (1958), but she had to bow out due to pregnancy, Eva Marie Saint in North by Northwest (1959), but not quite in the same mold, and Tippi Hedren for The Birds (1963) and Marnie (1964), visually spectacular but with wanting acting talents. "}{"Title":"See it for Grace Kelly","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely not one of my favorite Hitchcock movies. I found the story to be so weak that I didn't even care about it halfway through but Grace Kelly as always is drop dead gorgeous and Cary Grant delivers on this as well. A tad bit more suspense would have made this a better movie. Still I am glad this was released on DVD- hopefully more of his work that I haven't seen yet will be re-released.  "},{"Title":"its all about Grant and Kelly,,,,,","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very entertaining movie from the master.  A little bit lighter than some of his previous works, To Catch a Thief is still a very good movie.  What really makes this movie work however, is the amazing cinematography, and Cary Grant and Grace Kelly.  The witty banter between the two lead actors is more than enough to keep this movie going.  Plus there is some excellent suspense and that makes for some good movie watching.  If you want Hitchcock, but you want lightweight Hitchcock, then I highly recommend this movie.  Plus you can never go wrong with Cary Grant or Grace Kelly.  Its not revolutionary, but you don't always have to raise the bar.  Sometimes its just nice to get out to the riviera for a little r and r.  8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"The Potential Was There","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  You have a movie that has 2 of Hitch's all-time favorite actor/actress in Cary Grant & Grace Kelly.  The movie takes place in the French Riviera. Unfortunately, that's all the movie has--well, it does have great costumes and photography.  The plot was very thin and one wishes that Hitch could have come up with something of more substance for this pairing.  Grant & Kelly do a good job with what they are given, and John Williams, Jessie Royce Landis, and Brigitte Auber are good as well.  However, not a Hitchcock piece to take seriously. "},{"Title":"Lovely to look at, lacking in parts...","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I like to think that Alfred Hitchcock took a break occasionally from his efforts to push us over the edge, and this movie is probably one of those breaks.  It's entirely possible that Hitch just wanted to take a nice vacation in the south of France, and thought this would be a good way to get the studios to pay for it.  The film stars Cary Grant as John Robie, a dashing former jewel thief who is in danger of being arrested for a series of robberies done in exactly his style.  He sets out to catch the copycat thief himself and hand him over to the French police to prove his innocence. Along the way, he runs into Grace Kelly, playing a headstrong daughter of one of the thief's prime targets.  There really is not a lot of substance to the picture, but it is strongly supported by the sheer beauty of Princess Grace, the lovely settings and the fun support from Jessie Royce Landis as Grace's down-to-earth mother and John Williams as the proper British insurance agent who bets his job on Robie's chances at catching the real thief.  Among its disappointments are the script which is often weak, and surprisingly, Cary Grant, who just doesn't seem at ease in the role - perhaps he, like us, realized that he was getting just a little to long in the tooth for this sort of thing. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant & Grace Kelly are magnificent!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot believe how much I love this movie. This is probably Cary Grant and Grace Kelly's very best movie. This movie takes place on the French Riviera. She is a beautiful daughter;he's a former thief in the U.S. It can't get any better than this; two of the most famous actors together. Don't miss this! "},{"Title":"Uninspired","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In 1955, Cary Grant came out of retirement to shot To Catch a Thief.The Cat's storyline, which is completely unrefined, suspenseless and tensionless, is in fact just an excuse for what apparently is the true nature of this movie, an uninteresting romance between Grant and Kelly where dialogs are pompous and endless. The script unconvincingly navigates between these two lines, and the disinterest is such that the final outcome, the revelation of the Cat's identity, doesn't trigger anu reaction.Moreover, the movie is filmed in an uninspired way by Hitchcock who relied on a bit too conveniently on the beauty of the Cote d'Azur and its hinterland. A few accelerated shots and a cheap nuit américaine even arouse a real amazement.There is therefore not much to save from this movie, probably one of Hitchcock's worst, largely overrated by the critics as it is the case with most of the English's productions. "},{"Title":"The Stars Make This a Must See","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief (1955) *** (out of 4) John Robie (Cary Grant) was at one time the greatest cat burglar working in Paris but he turned his life around after becoming a hero in the war. His luck runs out when someone starts to rob jewels in the same fashion that he did so obviously the police think he is up to his old tricks so he must try and find out who the real thief is while at the same time courting a rich American woman (Grace Kelly).Alfred Hitchcock's TO CATCH A THIEF isn't one of the director's best films but it's certainly a good, solid little gem that manages to work best because of its two stars. If you're looking for a great suspense film then you're really not going to get it here, although there are a couple nice moments at the very end. This film really does seem as if the director just wanted to hang out in France and do something that wasn't meant to be all that serious.As it stands, the film works best because of Grant and Kelly who simply light up the screen with their charisma and charm. The two of them have a wonderful chemistry that certainly jumps off the screen and sets it on fire. This is especially true during the picnic scene, which has some terrific dialogue that the two are throwing back and forth as well as one of the more memorable kisses. The supporting cast includes a fine performance from Jessie Royce Landis and John Williams nearly steals every scene that he's in.The film benefits from the French locations and it also contains some nice cinematography and a good score. I think the mystery aspect of who the burglar is could have been done better but, as I said, perhaps Hitchcock just wanted to showcase the star's power and not so much the suspense. Either way, TO CATCH A THIEF isn't a masterpiece but it's certainly a nice gem that's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Problematic, but still worthwhile","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" That To Catch a Thief is regarded as one of Hitchcock's lesser films is not surprising. Its main weakness is an inconsistency of tone; the glossy cinematography undermines the apparent endeavour to make this partly a thriller, although the attempts at suspense are clumsy and poorly written (witness the flower market scene). It is lucky then that the crime plot comes secondary to the romance between Grant and Kelly. The witty cat-and-mouse dialogue between them is exemplary, full of innuendo, yet again almost smothered by the cinematography.That the script neglects to engage with the cat-burglar story to spend more time in the sunny languor of the Grant-Kelly scenes is forgivable. Given the lightweight nature of the film, this is hardly the most stellar performance from Grant, yet his composure and inherent charm are testament to his appeal. This, for me, is a definitive Grace Kelly performance. Again, it's not a demanding role, but it allows her to infer the wryness and verve, not to mention the barely contained sexuality, that's lurking behind all that etiquette. Two scenes alone make this film worthwhile, both infused with that great Hitchcockian wit and insight the moment when Kelly first dispels her good breeding by planting Grant with a serene and unexpected kiss; and especially the brilliant sequence where she recklessly speeds along the clifftop roads, making the hitherto unruffled Grant increasing nervous (the cuts to his restless hands are classic).For moments like these, To Catch a Thief is delectable cinema. It's a shame that it is lumbered with a perfunctory 'suspense' plot that eats into more than half of the running time. That the premise is fodder is not the problem; that the film perpetuates a relaxed attitude towards crime, then tries to make the cat burglar story more than a mere caper is a major blunder. Perhaps Hitchcock didn't trust himself to make a purely 'lightweight' movie. "},{"Title":"Both a beginning AND an ending...","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film marked both a beginning AND an ending.  This film was Grace Kelly's last with Hitch after appearing in both Dial M for Murder and Rear Window (quite possibly one of the greatest films ever made by a director) with him.  This was the film set upon which she ended up meeting with Monaco's Prince Ranier and the rest they say is history as we know it.  This was the last film that Grace Kelly ever made, period (unless you count her entire marriage to Ranier!).  This was the beginning of Hitch's greatest creative period in his life.  He would follow this somewhat mediocre film with quite possibly the quartet of his four greatest works Vertigo, North by Northwest, Psycho and The Birds.  However, he never would work with a woman quite as stunningly beautiful as Grace Kelly again (unless you count Janet Leigh in Psycho, but there she's only on screen for about thirty minutes give or take).If anything, this film is a great deal of fun to watch, not much happens and if anything big DOES happen, it all seems quite a bit contrived.  The greatest part of the film is the speeding chase throughout the hills above the French Riviera (eerily foreshadowing Grace Kelly's untimely death in 1982?).  Cary Grant is his usual suave, sophisticated, witty, urbane self here so there is really no surprise with his portrayal.  Perhaps this film's two greatest assets are the vividness of the color (this was Paramount's second foray into the ill-fated VistaVision, following up Michael Curtiz's cheerful holiday soiree White Christmas) and the costume designs of Miss Edith Head.  The outfits at the film's climactic masquerade ball are simply to die for!  I own this on videocassette and am a bit leery of getting the DVD, but am a huge fan of Hitch's middle period works, so will probably be getting it anyways, depending on the extra features.My rating 2 stars (and THAT'S being generous, but like I said before this film foreshadows what's to come later and besides how could you follow up a masterpiece like Rear Window with ANYTHING?!). "},{"Title":"Star power, coy plot, but a slow affair","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief (1955)I generally think Cary Grant can do no wrong, and in a way, he holds up his end of this movie. I also give Alfred Hitchcock the benefit of the doubt, and I'm not sure he does his best work here. Grace Kelly? She has more life to her than in other films, but she's still not someone to light up the screen. Still, I don't blame her for this hit or miss effort. Let's say it was just a toss-off for Hitch, not half bad, but nothing amazing.What makes it falter? Mostly the story (ah ha, someone else to blame, except that Hitchcock made a decision there, too). It is filled with great characters, some exaggerated types, and a post-war France (and Monte Carlo) that is making heroes of its Resistance, including an unlikely French presence in Cary Grant's character. There is a lot of talk, a lot of quaint scenes, some coy feints here and there, but generally a lighthearted affair. Sometimes you get the feeling that Hitchcock makes serious movies reluctantly. Even his masterpieces like North by Northwest have a comic element, or a strange unrealism in the serious parts.So here it's a chance to be lighthearted, have some nice costume scenes and great Vistavision widescreen shots, play some identity games, and enjoy the scenery. If you don't need anything more, and if you like Grant, you're in. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock loses his touch...slim story is over-glamorized...","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" All this talk about the chemistry between ice princess Kelly and debonair Grant is a lot of nonsense. They're just two perfectly photogenic people who happen to be cast in the same less than satisfying romantic mystery--she has the camera in love with her (probably the director as well) and he's still an attractive--if older--leading man. That's it.And neither of them can disguise the fact that they're stuck in a glamorous but lightweight Hitchcock film that has the slimmest of plots--an innocent man is thought to be the one committing the current crimes among the rich on the Riviera--a man with a past history as a thief. And it's played more for comedy than mystery. And that's it, in a nutshell.Hitchcock seems more concerned that GRACE KELLY is gowned in all of the latest fashions that will look good in Technicolor and that CARY GRANT will look impressive enough as her co-star to make everyone forget the age difference. He rounded up some real pros for a supporting cast, including JOHN WILLIAMS as an urbane detective and JESSIE ROYCE LANDIS as Kelly's mother (she was Grant's mother in NORTH BY NORTHWEST).But it's fluff--sumptuously mounted fluff and nothing more. Women will sigh over Grace Kelly's many costumes (even Lana Turner would be envious), and men will wish they had a chance to tour the Riviera with Grace as a guide.The suspense is a mere piffle with only one really suspenseful moment on a rooftop with Grant exposing the real culprit--and the one-liners meant to titillate are almost puerile by comparison with the witticisms in other Hitchcock films of this nature. The accent is more on comedy than thrills and the result is one of the weakest Hitchcock films from this period.Sorry. The heavy accent on glittering Hollywood glamor is not enough to sustain interest in a basically dull and obvious script, although it's easy to see why the color cinematography of lovely Riviera backgrounds brought the film an Oscar for Robert Burk. Hitchcock should have drawn a better performance from Grace Kelly instead of concentrating on her Oscar-nominated wardrobe. "},{"Title":"Has some elements of fun...","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Cary Grant is John Robie, a retired jewel thief (nicknamed The Cat) who is free on parole after playing a part in the French resistance during the war. When years later someone is using the same methods as The Cat and robbing rich tourist on the French Riviera, police look at Robie as their biggest suspect. Now it's time for Robie himself to find out who is the real thief...Typical Hitchcock movie, with a man accused falsely and a pretty blonde (Grace Kelly in what could be her best role). The movie has a nice pace to it, but is a bit disappointing near the end. We're used to nail-biting finishes on a Hitchcock, but this was something of a let-down.Make sure to catch (pun intended) Hitchcock himself while sitting on a bus near the beginning of the movie. For the rest it's fun to watch, but nothing really special.6/10. "},{"Title":"Very slow paced thriller but with nice pictures from South of France","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I found this DVD Special Collector's Edition at a cheap price in a DVD store and I didn't hesitate to buy it because the sceneries are set in South of France, one of my preferable holiday destination. I saw many nice places where the film was shot. The picture presents a great quality and lots of beautiful colors from this superb area. Therefore I was disappointed by the very lame story because I felt nearly asleep but fortunately the running time is not so long. Alfred Hitchcock directed no doubt better ones to remember THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH, THE BIRDS or REAR WINDOW. Sorry, but the rating with 7,5 is really too overrated and it deserves not more than 5/10. "},{"Title":"Aging director makes movie for young(ish) starlet","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" My wife tells me Hitchcock had a thing for Kelly and having seen this travesty I can believe it. Kelly is awful, her acting is so wooden it makes Climate Scientists sit up and go Hey! Carbon Sequestration. Grant is his usual OK self. Although, having said that the idea that he fought in the French resistance was laughable. The only person who could act was the Kelly's mother, she made an abysmal movie into an ordinary one. The predictable plot, boring old Hitchcock shot, and far too many frocks turned a possibly OK movie into what this is. Don't believe others when they say Kelly is great. It's simply not enough to look good unless you have some charisma too (and it doesn't hurt to be able to act either).In one word, turgid, in two words, Grace Kelly. "},{"Title":"Too much Hitch?","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the Hitchcock films I've seen, this is probably the one I least enjoyed.  Perhaps I'm finding I've watched too many, but I found this rather tiresome.Both Grace Kelly and Cary Grant were average in a tale of a reformed jewel thief who gets caught up in the chase for, you guessed it, a jewel thief - and is naturally the chief suspect.This dragged on a bit, the romance was as predictable as they get and I saw the ending coming a mile off.  I can't help but thinking that a man of Hitchcock's ability could have come up with something a little more imaginitive. "},{"Title":"the beautiful people","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" American John Robie (Cary Grant) is a retired cat burglar living comfortably in the south of France. He had earned his parole after working for the resistance during the war. After a string of jewel thefts in the Riviera, he becomes the prime suspect. His cohort's daughter Danielle Foussard has a crush on him. He goes on the run looking to catch the real thief to clear his name. The next likely target for the thief is Jessie Stevens and her beautiful daughter Frances (Grace Kelly).This is not necessarily Alfred Hitchcock at his most thrilling. It's basically two beautiful people filming in a beautiful place. They have a fun back and forth chemistry. There is a nice car chase on the winding mountain road. Grant is being suave and Grace Kelly is simply classic. I would like for John Robie to have a more exciting action packed ending. It seems the roof-top chase could be more vertigo-inducing and more thrilling. "},{"Title":"Beautiful view - boring acting - not a great love story or plot","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I am a very big fan of Alfred Hitchcock movies - and I still am!I do like this movie, due to the old days setting, beautiful nature, cars, French landscape - and now even more as I have been in that area more times - but this movie is boring.It was a film made before all movies (2000+) turned into effects only, unfortunate, it is missing what it should have, romance, acting and a complex plot.It is trying to be a romantic movie, but well, I just don't feel it. The acting is like a script read with a monotone voice and without emotions.There are many great old romantic movies, this is just not one of them.The plot is OK, but very simple and no where near to that of other Alfred Hitchcock movies, you can predict every move, every sentence and every kiss.10 for scenery. 5 for plot 3 for romance/actingAverage 6. "},{"Title":"solid, not great, Hitch","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock is so reliably good that his movies tend to only stand out from one another in their flaws. Very few have unique GOOD qualities (Vertigo does, and maybe we can count the horror thrill and misdirection in Psycho, but that's about it). The flaws are the fingerprints of the individual movie. The flaws in this one are that it's somewhat obscure - it's an English guy playing an American guy who'd been in a French prison and then fought in the French resistance, and now was living in Italy (I believe) ten years later. That's confusing. The whole French resistance backstory is confusing, and confusingly handled. We don't understand it at all early on, and then the French girl does an exposition dump and we more or less get it. So the film's saddled with a complicated and confusing and kind of weird backstory, that the screenplay doesn't do the deftest job of communicating to the viewer. And this all is also confusingly told and involved in the story - combined with the huge red herring (described below), this creates scenes of legitimate confusion - for instance I still have no real idea what happened with the wooden leg guy and his death and that whole scene, or who did what in that scene or what it meant.There's also some - not a ton, but enough to annoy - untranslated French, especially early. It's annoying in old books (Dinesen, looking at you) and it's annoying here. Untranslated anything is annoying. Each film has a language - anything spoken aloud in another language should be subtitled. Am I an uncultured ignoramus for not knowing French? Yes, sure, fine. Should it nonetheless always be subtitled? Oh yea. Then there's a narrative issue - the red herring. Big spoilers ahead, so tread carefully. The red herring is Grace Kelly's character. We're meant to think (I think) that she's the other cat burglar. It's not 100% obvious that she is, not an open and shut, maybe not even clearly suggested by the text of the film - but subtextually it's communicated to such a degree that a more or less astute viewer will more or less astutely assume it's going to be her, that he's in on the secret twist, and - he'll watch the entire portion of the film between Kelly and Grant with the expectation that it's her. Maybe it was just me, I dunno. But I thought it was her. I didn't judge it as good or bad storytelling that it was her, I just thought it was the story they'd gone with, and was interested in how they'd reveal it. But then it wasn't her at all, and Grant never even suspected her for a moment, as far as we can tell - nor, as far as we can tell, did the film suspect her for a moment (it just wanted US to suspect her). She was 100% a subtextual fakeout that afterwards the film has plausible deniability about even having set up as potentially being the other cat burglar. But one's thinking it's her seriously mars the viewing of the film, because - you're watching it all with something in mind that the film itself can't have had in mind during those scenes (it wanted you to be thinking that, but couldn't have been thinking that itself - to the film, the romance was just the romance), and certainly that neither character could have had in mind during those scenes. If I were to watch it again now, knowing what I know, it would play entirely differently - whether better or worse, I can't say, but entirely differently. I'd watch the whole romance as what it must actually have been, and appreciate it on its own merits. As it was, I watched it and the whole time there was this tension as I thought - as the film intended me to think - her entire flirt with him involved much more and much different stuff than it really did. So. You always lose something when you commit that much to a complete fakeout, misdirection or twist. In this case, you lose the viewer's ability to actually just watch the romance as it really is and enjoy it for whatever it really is. And this fakeout, I dunno when exactly we were supposed to snap out of it - I didn't snap out of it until literally the scene where the insurance guy is revealed in the costume and we see that Grace Kelly was in on that con. So you watch that much of the movie thinking Grace Kelly is the burglar. It mars it. But anyway, enough complaining. It's solid Hitchcock, and if you're reading this you know what that means. Cary Grant is great, and Grace Kelly is great. And you know what that means. She of course holds her own with him, and the age difference is no issue at all. He's barely old enough to handle HER, imo. Loved her character and performance, even after I understood her for what she really was (tho I must say that during the long red herring section, where we think Grace Kelly is a sassy young cat burglar who's copied this suave older burglar in order to lure him out of retirement in order to seduce him - well, that's an entirely different kind of girl and would've been quite possibly the sexiest character ever). The French girl in this is quite good, also. Loved her flirty performance and her witty comments. She was a firecracker. The scene in the water where she trash talks Grace Kelly is hilarious. So. It's a good movie. It's Hitchcock and it's not bad Hitchcock. Which is to say it's better than 99% of all the other movies ever made by major studios. You could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Hitchcock film, a showcase for the two stars","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite Hitchcock films. There will be spoilers ahead I'm clearly part of the intended audience for this film, as I love Hitchcock for the most part and I love Cary Grant. Grace Kelly I enjoy depending on the film and she's very good here. The chemistry between the two leads is great and this features one of the most famously memorable on-screen kisses in film history, complete with fireworks.The basic plot is vintage Hitchcock-A retired jewel thief, John Robie The Cat, is the prime suspect behind a series of recent burglaries. He's innocent, but virtually no one believes his repeated denials except an insurance agent who, against his better judgment, agrees to help Robie prove he's innocent.Robie comes into the circle of a mother and daughter from the US. Jessie Royce Landis plays the mother in a turn which almost steals the film. When the mother's jewelry is stolen, Robie is blamed and he must now catch the thief as quickly as possible. There's a series of twists and turns, as with virtually every Hitchcock film, but it isn't all that difficult to keep up or figure out who the real thief is, though I won't spoil that here. Robie catches the thief and clears his name. The ending is wonderful, though it's left as an exercise to the viewer as to whether or not it's an entirely happy ending.This film is available on DVD and Blu-Ray and is worth watching. Recommended. "},{"Title":"To Catch Grace Kelly.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch a Thief (1955) Dir Alfred Hitchcock / Cast Cary Grant, Grace Kelly, Jesse Royce Landis, Brigitte Auber, John Williams Glorious and enchanting mystery with rousing suspense, an unidentified villain, quirky dialogue, intriguing characters, and romance that is fastened into beautiful Riviera photography. It is a film about skill and stars Cary Grant as a one time thief framed for numerous jewel thefts. He sets out to clear his name and to do so he must trap the thief. He sees his opportunity when he meets an heiress and her strong willed mother. This arrives at a clever and exciting climax. This is Alfred Hitchcock at his best as he conceals identities and reveals certain information. Grant brings forth a cunning and often funny performance in his quest for innocence. Grace Kelly plays the heiress Francis who doesn't trust him and uses sly and seductive techniques to reveal his nature. She will eventually arrive at the ball dressed for the ultimate play on identities. Jesse Royce Landis plays her mother who doesn't take her wealth seriously yet is charmed by Grant. Brigitte Auber plays a petite mysterious woman from Grant's past who makes contact. John Williams plays an insurance agent who meets with Grant in curiosity regarding clearing his name. Exquisite aerial photography, lighting and a fireworks display that underlines the suspense with the ominous power of a kiss. Score 10 / 10 "}{"Title":"Cinematic Gold","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant and Grace Kelly's one film together is quite simply, in my book, the best of either one's career. Then, when you throw in Alfred Hitchcock as director, how could it not be great? The plot is fairly straightforward Cary Grant plays John Robie, a reformed cat burglar who is being framed for a string of recent thefts in France. Grace Kelly plays Frances Stevens, who is in Europe with her mother to find a suitable husband. I just wonder who that will turn out to be? Hmmm? Cary Grant could get more out of a scene with the way he cut his eyes and moved his facial expression than any other actor i've ever seen, not to mention being the best at comedic timing as well. After all, some of the funniest parts are the dinner scene where he purposely avoids looking at Frances or the fact that she kisses him in the doorway and he doesn't mention it until she brings it up the following afternoon.Without giving too much away, I will say that the ending is very twisting and definitely well worth the wait. Anyone who is a fan of Cary Grant or Grace Kelly owes it to themselves to see this film. I can guarantee that you won't be disappointed. I would give this film an A+, 5 Stars, a perfect ten, it is that great. "},{"Title":"Can be described in one word,","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Gorgeous. Or, luxurious. Or any synonym of those words. Hitchcock's tale of a cat-burglar coming out of retirement to catch another thief and clear his own name may not be Hitchcock's best, but is without question one his his best looking films. The setting, the French Riviera, illuminated at night by fireworks, becomes a character in and of itself, and gives Grant and Kelly's character chemistry a perfect backdrop.Hitchcock briefly dropped the suspense/ psychological angle for this one, an elegant, more lighthearted affair, and it works quite well.A grand romance/ comedy/ heist movie, never meant to crawl under your skin and frighten, or lodge itself in your mind and make you think about its intricacies, it was meant to amuse the audience, and show off the grand Riviera. (Although it should be noted, that without its exquisite locales, the story itself probably wouldn't be as memorable.) "},{"Title":"Two of the best in in a kinetic adventure!","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant (my favourite leading man) and Grace Kelly (my favourite leading woman, perhaps tied with Katharine Hepburn), make a fantastic foil to each other in this Monaco set piece.Grant plays a retired cat burglar and veteran of World War II who has been framed by the local constabulary for a copycat's crimes. They are, of course, convinced HE did it, but he knows he is innocent (and retired) so he finagles a stratagem with an insurance broker to lure the thief into a trap. We are never sure of the real culprit's identity. Is it John Robie (Cary Grant, The Cat) in a moment of dissociative personality? Is it the captivating and ethereal Frances Stevens (Grace Kelly), whose mother has her own collection of jewels, leading Robie astray? It is someone offscreen? Many are the possible culprits, including a slew of Robie's former squad mates working in a nearby restaurant.The movie's pacing is brisk. We're by now quite used to Cary Grant as the dashing cad, it is almost a caricature by now, but he tones it down here as he plays opposite Kelly, who suspects him of being The Cat and Brigitte Auber as Danielle Foussard, daughter of one of his restaurateur friends, love interest and foil. If we did not know Cary Grant had turned down a role as 007, he might as well have been in the role in this film.Great scenes include Kelly barrelling down the Monaco countryside with a sweaty-palmed Grant in the passenger seat, the kiss she steals from Robie before turning in, and a beach tiff between Auber and Grant that plays quite well. The finale, set in a costume ball, will leave you breathless as Grace Kelly looks delicious in a bouffant gold gown and Robie as her black valet...or is he? While not at the level of North by Northwest or Rear Window, Hitchcock pulls, dare I say it, a rom com thriller that is worth several watches. Scenery, suspense, screen legends Bravo for To Catch a Thief! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Most Stylish Film","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Definitely one of Hitchock's most stylish films, To Catch a Thief puts Kelly and Grant in centre-stage with spotlights focusing on them and the gorgeous scenery that envelopes the sizzling chemistry between the protagonists. The film tells the story of a retired yet still currently notorious cat burglar played by Carey Grant who attempts to juggle the pursuit of him by a young and gorgeous socialite - suspected next victim of a new burglar terrorising the rich and the wealthy. It is a romantic thriller before anything and often serves up a European style of noir cinema rarely referenced by Hitchcock. He seems to have been more relaxed in the production of Thief and thats quite enjoyable to witness, as the film is far less serious and self-involved than his works such as Psycho or Topaz. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The witty dialogue is delivered superbly by all the actors. The banter between John and Francie in the car and hotel is great. I also love Danielle's, Houston's, and Jessie's interactions with John Robie's character. There are lots of great scenes and dialogue. The writer did a magnificent job. I love the look on John's face at the very end of the movie after Francie mentions her mother. The costumes and scenery are breathtaking. The gowns and picturesque views of the countryside are beautiful. It is not suspenseful in a scary way like many other Hitchcock movies (which may disappoint some viewers), but the carefree nature of this movie proves the artistry and greatness of Hitchcock in a variety of styles. I always enjoy this movie no matter how many times I see it. "},{"Title":"A waste of a good premise - recommended for insomniacs only","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary (I've been tango'd) Grant plays former jewel thief John Robie. When a spate of diamond thefts occur in the local vicinity, Robie becomes prime suspect. However, Robie is adamant that someone is copying his tried and tested method of stealing the diamonds in order to make it look like Robie is perpetrating the crimes himself. With the help of insurance broker H.H Hughson (John Williams), Robie attempts to catch the thief himself in order to prove his innocence.There were a couple of major problems with this film and a primary example is the scene where the police arrive to question Robie and Robie comes up with an elaborate escape plan. I'll admit that this scene was clever and was quite amusing, but it didn't make sense. Why did he try and evade the police when he knew he was innocent? It might have been because he feared that they wouldn't believe him, but the fact that he scarpered would have just made him look guilty.Another example of stupidity is when Hughson meets with Robie and hands him a list of his 10 wealthiest clients even though at this stage he only has Robie's word that he's innocent. How stupid? If Robie was lying about being innocent, there would have been nothing to stop him using this list to rob the diamonds himself and then disappear off into the sunset with the diamonds. It just didn't make sense narratively.I'm not normally too harsh when judging a film with lots of plot holes as long as the film is either entertaining or interesting, but To Catch A Thief is neither of these things. It really started to go downhill when Grace Kelly's character was introduced and from this point on the film becomes pretentious, monotonous and downright boring. Kelly and Grant had no chemistry in this film and let's not even start with how phony their romance felt. Had the majority of the film focused on catching the thief rather than Kelly and Grant's dull and lifeless conversations then I'm sure this film might have been a lot more enjoyable.The film then switches tone in the final third and almost started to live up to its premise - it was a bit more exciting and then we have the inevitable 'twist' revealing who the thief was, but by the time the perpetrator was revealed I was already way past caring. It actually took me two attempts to get through this film - I fell asleep the first time and therefore decided I'd watch it again and nearly fell asleep on the second viewing. If you're an insomniac then you can consider this film your cure, but for anyone else I'd steer clear as there are far better Hitchcock films out there. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great, Hitchcock crime-drama","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Good, but not great, Alfred Hitchcock crime-drama. Back story and set up are good. As usual, Hitchcock maintains a decent level of tension and mystery.Scenery and cinematography are amazing. Set in the South of France, it makes you want to travel to there, and wish that you lived there.However, the movie isn't always interesting. It drifts, in spells, and seems padded at times. Far too wordy at times, and unnecessarily so.Also, the big twist / revelation isn't that much of a surprise.Good performances by Cary Grant and Grace Kelly in the lead roles. The chemistry between them is a bit hit-and-miss though, possibly due too the differences in their ages. "},{"Title":"Think of all those roofs you could climb...","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A series of jewel thefts along the Riviera has former cat burglar Cary Grant under suspicion from the police. So he sets out to find the real thief and clear his name. But first he needs bait. That's where American heiress Grace Kelly and her mother come in.The plot reminds one of any number of 'suave jewel thief' movies that littered the 1930s, but who cares? It's charming, romantic, sexy escapist fare. Cary Grant and Grace Kelly have sizzling chemistry, despite the age difference. Grace is gorgeous, of course. Wonderful support from John Williams, Jessie Royce Landis, and Brigitte Auber, who has a delightfully catty exchange with Grace. A badly-dubbed Charles Vanel is one of the movie's few drawbacks. Beautiful French scenery is a huge plus. A fine piece of entertainment from an amazing director and cast. Not one of Hitchcock's masterpieces but good fun nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'll provide the synopsis below. First the comments....I saw this on Amazon Prime and wow! I don't know if they upped the quality to HD, but the clarity was like nothing I remember from past viewing on DVD or TV! Absolutely superb.They don't make movies like this today. The color pops, the locales are extraordinary. Everyone is dressed to the nines.So neat.American expatriate John Robie living in high style on the Riviera is a retired cat burglar. He must find out who a copy cat is to keep a new wave of jewel thefts from being pinned on him. High on list of prime victims is Jessie Stevens, in Europe to help daughter Frances find a suitable husband. Lloyds of London insurance agent is using a thief to catch a thief. Take an especially close look at scene where Robie gets Jessie's attention, dropping an expensive casino chip down decolletage of French roulette player. "},{"Title":"A jewel of a caper film","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" You can't go wrong when you throw together the masterful Hitchcock, the suave Cary Grant as retired jewel thief John Robie trying to prove his innocence, and the smart and beautiful Grace Kelly. Unlike most modern thrillers, as you analyze the action of this one ever more closely, after seeing it many times, it fits like an ever more perfect puzzle. Excellent plotting, acting and ever more stupendous Edith Head costumes equals an outstanding film.As always with Hitchcock, the audience is privy to all the former cat burglar John Robbie knows the moment he learns it. The excitement is never milked by lamely hiding knowledge from the viewer. And once one knows whodunit after the first viewing, the fun is to pick up on the more subtle clues and imagine yourself in Robie's mind.The movie assumes an intelligent audience. For example, at the end of a chase in a flower market where the police catches Robie, Hitchcock does not bother to show you the boring arrest and cross examination; rather it becomes a phrase in passing from the Lloyd's insurance agent who is helping Robie prove his innocence in order to get the jewels back and avoid a large insurance loss. And so forth throughout the movie, which packs a lot more action per minute than overlong modern action movies. About the only lapse is too much English spoken when people would naturally speak French, but subtitling in such cases was about as popular as filming car chases in actual chasing cars instead of a rear screen projection back in 1955.Highly recommended good fun, romance and adventure for the whole family, as Hitchcock knows how to disguise his sexual innuendo in tunnels (not this film) or fireworks (definitely in this film). It is a little chilling though to see Grace Kelly, even if only by rear projection, race dangerously on roads of the Riviera not unlike the one that claimed her life many years later. "}{"Title":"Oh Brother!","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I've just started watching this film on its new DVD format and it's a sight to behold indeed but the plot is the dumbest thing to come down the pike in years! To begin with, we are to believe that Cary Grant, a reformed jewel thief, was in prison serving his term when the prison was bombed and he escaped only to join the resistance and become a hero in the process therefore absolving himself of all past crimes. Give me a break! And we are to believe this tripe? I'll watch the rest of it because I am a big Grace Kelly fan and she made so few films but whereas she looks absolutely breathtaking, Grant is way too tanned and almost looks African-American in some scenes. Why they didn't tone him down is something I will never understand. I'm giving it a 5 only because of Grace Kelly but between the absurd plot and Grant's absurd looks a 5 is the best I can do. "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals in Hitchcock's most entertaining movie","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Seeing this described as light-weight Hitchcock was simply wrong. It has a light atmosphere and there are better Hitchcocks, but it is well-paced and is among the the most entertaining Hitchcock movies yet.First off the landscapes of South-France! When the Tour de France is broadcast, it is as much a display of the cycling race as it as a clever marketing job with the most beautiful places of France convincingly filmed by the helicopter crews. Imagine a great director would take over and even further enhance this beauty. To Catch a Thief is just like that. It is a stunning display of the landscapes of South-France, with cars filmed from helicopters, terraces, marinas, skylines filmed from boats. Plot-wise, this is just that, a holiday trip. Nothing serious, but certainly entertaining, optimistic and beautiful. The cinematography here is the most beautiful yet in a Hitchcock movie. The landscapes, cities but also interiors look vivid, sharp yet natural. The costumed ball scene is a beautiful display of colours. The night scenes (with one clumsy obvious day-filmed scene) look mysterious in their green-blueish tint. Directing wise, with regards to composition of the shots, there are other Hitchcocks that are a little better (think Notorious, Strangers on a Train, Rear Window, Vertigo for example), but he's on fire here too. Compared with the cinematography this is a visual treat.Cary Grant is well-cast, strong here. Of the three movies Hitchcock did with Grace Kelly, this is her best performance. Kelly bursts out of the screen, sensual and eager, charismatic, but always elegant. It's no wonder she became a haunting memory to Hitchcock who was trying to recapture her looks in subsequent movies. "},{"Title":"A film well worth catching","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Is To Catch a Thief among Hitchcock's best? No, in fact I don't even put it in my top 10. Did I expect it to? Again no, it is a very high expectation that can't be applied to every single film he's made(and just for the record as much as he is my favourite director I am not one who says he hasn't made a bad or disappointing film). All I wanted is a good entertaining film to watch, and To Catch a Thief fit that bill more than perfectly. There are times where the pacing, particularly in the middle, does get draggy. However, when so much is so good mostly that is ignorable and can only be noticed when the story gets thin on the ground, which admittedly it can do. Of all of Hitchcock's films, which are all wonderfully made(Jamaica Inn for me was one exception though), To Catch a Thief is one of Hitchcock's most audacious visually. The scenery is just breathtaking and only accentuated by the cinematography, deservedly Oscar-winning, that is both colourful and sweeping. Grace Kelly's wardrobe is glamour personified also. The music is energetic and beautifully orchestrated, fitting perfectly with the visuals and the film's tone. Hitchcock directs superbly, this is not a film that you associate him normally with(light romantic-comedy-thriller rather than suspense-thriller) but it is never jarring and has some of his trademark touches, unlike Jamaica Inn or Under Capricorn I didn't have the feeling of this doesn't feel like Hitchcock. His cameo is worth looking out for too, as with all his other cameos in his films.The screenplay sparkles with wit and emotion, helping to at least keep us guessing until the last minute. The playful banter between Grant and Kelly and sexual innuendo are hugely entertaining. The story will entrance people and underwhelm others, while I can definitely understand the latter opinion and there were times where I felt it could have been tighter I was one of those who still found it interesting and involving thanks to the direction, cinematography and the leads' chemistry. There is the odd suspenseful touch, but there is more of an emphasis on the comedic and romantic elements, and both are done beautifully here with the comedy witty and playful and the romance sweet and touching. Cary Grant is very charming and urbane with a touch of arrogance, a side that you are familiar with with him but seeing as it's one that suits him to a tee you don't care. The gorgeous Grace Kelly I don't think has ever looked so beautiful and her droll yet understated performance is every bit as good as her performances in Dial M For Murder and Rear Window. The two have a sparkling chemistry which only adds to the enjoyment. Jessie Royce Landis is deliciously formidable and John Williams, a fine actor deserving of more praise even now, gives sterling support as well.Overall, well worth catching. It's not one of my favourites from Hitchcock and it's not one of his best, but at the same time it's not a film to be properly dismissed either. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Not Hitchcocks Finest,But He Cant Fail,","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To Catch A Thief is a brilliant classic movie with a terrific story line,a great cast and characters,and plenty of thrills,nothing you wouldn't expect from Alfred Hitchcock,one of the greatest directors of all time.Its definitely not his finest work,or even he scariest,but nothing he has done is bad,that is impossible,two of his main actors,Cary Grant and Grace Kelly,star in this,and this is Grace Kellys final film with Alfred Hitchcock,she will always be a great and very attractive actress,and I will always appreciate her work.John Robie (Cary Grant) is suspected of being the Jewel thief going around his town,but John hasn't robbed anything in fifteen years and must prove his innocence. "},{"Title":"To Catch a Thief is definitely worth catching for Grace Kelly","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes a film comes along in which after you've seen it, you felt like you've been on a very nice vacation. Alfred Hitchcock's 1955 classic To Catch a Thief is one of these films since watching it is similar to being on an awesome vacation. You get to see some beautiful sights, go on some potentially dangerous yet fun adventures, hang out with some cool people who you hope to see again soon, and have a temporary escape from reality. These are reasons why we like to go on vacations and these are also reasons why we like going to the movies in the first place. The relatively simple story of To Catch a Thief goes something like this. John Robie (Cary Grant), aka The Cat, is a famous jewel thief who is now retired and running a vineyard in the French Riviera. But when a series of robberies occur which resemble his style, almost everyone believes that The Cat is on the prowl again. However, The Cat claims that he's innocent and in able to prove it, he will go searching the French Riviera for potential victims and catch the real thief in the act. During his search, he comes across a wealthy woman named Jessie Stevens (Jessie Royce Landis), who may be the real thief's next target, and her daughter Frances (Grace Kelly), who eventually falls in love with The Cat. Probably the main reason why To Catch a Thief is such a memorable movie going experience is because of Grace Kelly. I absolutely adore Grace Kelly to the point that I would consider her my personal favorite actress ever, even if the main reason was because of her work in this film and Rear Window (1954). Grace Kelly simply looks spectacular in this picture. Between her natural beauty, her elegant wardrobe, and her lithe physique, she is literally eye candy every time she's on screen. Not only that, but her character is charming as well. I love that she's fascinated by people who are potentially criminals and that the possibility of danger turns her on. I also like how unpredictable she can be at times. You'd never guess when the first kiss between Grant and Kelly occurs or who makes the first move. Either way, I was pleasantly surprised by the way the scene played out. If To Catch a Thief had to belong to one character, it would no doubt be Frances Stevens. But the other characters are pretty good, too. Cary Grant is ideal casting for his role since we completely buy that there's a typical charm and coolness to The Cat, and Jessie Royce Landis is fun in her supporting role with the way she carelessly and excessively spends her money. The Technicolor cinematography in To Catch a Thief is just first-rate. The way in which the French Riviera was shot and put on film is nothing short of exquisite, especially with the nice blue ocean and the richly detailed architecture of the buildings in the Riviera. The cinematography also does great justice to Kelly's costumes. When the colors and texture of her dresses pops out at you to the point where you want to touch them, you realize just how excellent the Technicolor process was during that era of filmmaking. I love To Catch a Thief and I think it's one of Alfred Hitchcock's most underrated works. If this picture isn't a suspense-loaded powerhouse like most of his works, it's because it didn't need to be. To Catch a Thief was meant to be both a romantic love story and, most importantly, pure escapism complete with charming characters, eye- popping scenery, and a well told story to accompany it. So, for what it's meant to be, To Catch a Thief is an impeccable delight. "},{"Title":"Could have been amazing even without Hitchcock","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Man, is Cary Grant distractingly tan in this movie. I mean, it's as if he could burst out with a melanoma at any moment. If you just glanced at this thing with the sound off, you might think it's a story about an Indian immigrant who gets mixed up with a family of albinos. Seriously, can someone colorize this thing and make Grant look more like a human being and less like a catcher's mitt? To Catch a Thief is too good a film to be marred by a leading man who appears to have stepped right out of a broiler.Trading less on suspense and director Alfred Hitchcock's visual mastery, it's the sparkling dialog of writer John Michael Hayes and the light-as-a-feather/sharp-as-a-tack interplay of Grant, co-star Grace Kelly, supporting actress Brigitte Auber and the delightful Jessie Royce Landis that really make this a near classic. Which says a lot about Hitchcock that he could make something so entertaining and stylish without his own sensibility being the dominant feature. And I call it a near classic only in the sense that he has made much better overall movies than this, including ones with these same performers. If you term To Catch a Thief a classic, what do you call them? Super-classics? Ultra-classics? Fred?John Robie (Cary Grant) is a former jewel thief and French Resistance fighter who's been living on lifetime parole in the South of France. A recent rash of cat burglaries that resemble his work has set the authorities on his trail, though Robie is innocent. His former criminal compatriots are also angry at their old friend for bringing the heat down on them, so Robie cooks up a plan with an insurance agent (John Williams) to track down the real villain. Robie ingratiates himself with a rich woman and her coolly beautiful daughter (Jessie Royce Landis and Grace Kelly), waiting for the thief to try and make off with their expensive jewelry. But the daughter, Frances, finds Robie almost irresistible and in romantically sparring with her, he loses his chance to catch the thief. That leads to a third act of rather perfunctory plot twists and Hitchcock mixing his own brand of dramatic tension with a setting more suitable for a screwball comedy.When I undersell Hitchcock's contributions to this film, don't get me wrong. To Catch a Thief frequently looks great and has some delightfully staged scenes. However, the dialog here is so strong and the performances are so engaging, it's easy to imagine another filmmaker taking this same script and cast and turning out something almost as funny and captivating as the original. How many movies from someone of Hitchcock's stature can you even think that about?Grant is, naturally, Grant. He does seem a smidge to old to be playing opposite Grace Kelly, though that may be entirely due to his aggressive tannitude, but he still exudes that effortless grace and charm and perfectly balances the deadly serious aspects of John Robie with some very broadly comedic moments. Kelly, though, is the hands down star of the show and not because she's physically stunning in a way few females have ever been. She is marvelously nuanced as a very smart and commanding young woman who is often trying to act much more mature than she truly is. Kelly is playing a character who is putting on her own performance for the rest of the world and Kelly perfectly nails that duality. And Jessie Royce Landis isn't far behind as Frances' defiantly down-to-earth mother. It's a role designed for comic relief and Landis makes her more real than anyone else on screen. Throw in John Williams and you've almost got a master class in acting as four very different individuals are made to fit together like a well oiled machine.John Michael Hayes' writing, while a bit weak in the plot, is outstanding whenever anyone opens their mouth. He came up with brilliant repartee that succeeds in making you forget what an outstanding job is being done by the actors speaking it. The moments between Grant and Kelly are dazzlingly witty and the stuff with Grant and Brigitte Auber as the daughter of one of Robie's old cronies isn't far behind. It often seems like clever dialog is the end all, be all in much of modern screen writing, but here's a mid-21st century scribe who puts most of it to shame.To Catch a Thief is pretty much a must see, though maybe only after viewing some of Hitchcock's even more impressive productions. To compare him to a modern genius, this is like Hitchcock's Jackie Brown when he's also made a bunch of Pulp Fictions. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, once.","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To catch a thief is a very well made film, typical of Hitchcock. For its time period it is a bit of a spectacle, with wonderful images of the French Riviera in all of its Mediterranean beauty and rather especially Grace Kelly herself. Cary Grant's acting is trademark, standard swagger with a huge dose of added 'cool' perfecting the role of a veteran cat burglar living off stolen riches. My biggest criticism of the film is the ending, it's rushed and a little too obvious particularly when considering the suspense and surprise that Hitchcock is renowned for constructing.Conclusively, I would encourage all those who haven't seen the film to give it a go, you won't be disappointed, but after enjoying it last night I will not be in a rush to get it back out of the DVD case. "},{"Title":"Ballroom dance of deceit","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The story of a jewel thief suspected of a crime he didn't commit played over sunny backdrops of the French Riviera didn't sound appealing at all. I was saving this for a cold afternoon, a time when I'm most open to be amused by lighthearted things that don't look to challenge. To my surprise, this one does. First I had to bypass the construction of a movieworld for the speficic demands that a particular story be played out in it. Faces are pretty, locales are exotic, and it's all fairly glamorous. When Grace Kelly and Cary Grant first kiss, Hitchcock cuts to fireworks in the Mediterranean nightsky. To the degree the movie knows it has a marvelous personality, it enjoys itself.What interests me here, as with Notorious, is the romantic relationship between the two love partners which must be consumated from behind masks, with regards to the expectations of thirds. Grace Kelly is the figurative jewels, Grant the jewel thief who wants to have her, at first not because he feels strongly one way or the other, but for the same reason he used to steal jewels, as a mean that furthers a goal. I don't like his contrived backstory, criminal turned hero, and the extent to which Hitchcock goes to make light of his criminal side. The irony in Grace Kelly's personality is striking. At first infatuated with the famous thief, plotting along with him to be the sidekick, then irate with him when she thinks her mother was his target. As an actress I don't find her terribly interesting, all pretty looks and vacant stare, which makes her spoiled princess character only fitting.To Catch a Thief is like a ballroom costume dance in a lavish villa in the Riviera countryside, fabulous people dressed in spectacular attire bow each to each except everyone is not always who you think he is, masks are worn then removed, others are exchanging curious looks as the costumed spectacle goes on, then a man and a woman dance alone to the tune of a brass band. While this goes on, mysterious shapes and figures are hiding unseen in the shadows of the rooftops, plotting something. The finale is contrived again, all is well in that sunny corner for the rich who don't need to be perturbed by actual problems, but bits of it are fascinating. "},{"Title":"You're leaving fingerprints on my arm","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Heroic violence in the Hollywood sense is a great deal like the motivational researchers' problem in selling candy. The problem with candy is not to convince people that it's good...but to free them from the guilt of eating it. We have seen so many times that the body of a film serves merely as an excuse for motivating a final blood-crazed slaughter by the hero of his enemies, and at the same time to relieve the audience's guilt of enjoying this mayhem. &#x96; KubrickSome films are slices of life, mine are slices of cake. - HitchcockA 1955 masterpiece by Alfred Hitchcock, To Catch A Thief finds actor Cary Grant playing another Hitchcockian hero wrongly accused of a crime. Grant plays John Robie, a reformed thief who now lives on the French Riviera. When a series of thefts occur, local authorities begin to suspect John. In an attempt to clear his name, John sets out to catch the real thief himself.Like several of Hitchcock's lighter films, Thief's plot is a scrumptious fusion of thrills and romance. Here our love interest is the always divine Grace Kelly - she plays an opinionated socialite from Philadelphia - who teams up with Grant and slowly finds herself falling in love with him. The film's title thus has a double meaning, Grant playing a thief trying to catch a thief whilst Kelly tries to steal Grant's own heart. Hitch oft used suspense plots to investigate burgeoning romances. If To Catch A Thief's romance doesn't have the dark, psycho-sexual underpinnings of Hitchcock's more interesting films, it at least never pretends to offer anything more than light entertainment.Like North by Northwest, this is thus a giant travelogue, Hitchcock treating his 1950s audience to a colourful cinematic vacation. He invites them to forget about their black and white television sets, their annoying summer holidays - marred by ticket queues, sunburn and hefty luggage - and to instead sit back and soak up his scenic shots of the Riviera, his bubblegum plot and VistaVision postcard images interrupted only by some moments of light comedy and the occasional sprinkle of sexual innuendo laced witty dialogue. Throw in Hitchcock's aesthetic - clean lines, immaculate compositions, pop art modernism meets German Expresionism meets 1950s advertising - and you have a film that elevates tawdriness to High Art. Hitchcock's films often have a self-reflexive quality; they're about the perverse act of watching films. So on one hand, Thief plays to its audience's desires for escapism. It celebrates money, commodities, beauty, expensive homes, and rich, suave, sophisticated people who do devilishly debonair things and get away with it. On the other hand, the film critiques these very qualities. The film's wealthy characters find no real joy in their luxury, Robie argues that everyone's ultimately a thief, and Kelly's character, like we the audience (and her own character in Rear Window), ultimately gets her kicks by living vicariously through media personalities. For Kelly and Hitch, cinematic cake beats the real thing.The majority of Hitchcock's films are grounded in an Oedipal struggle which concludes with a reconciliation between Desire and the Law. At their best, this leads to creepy perversions and dark obsessions. At their worst, this leads to glossy crowd pleasers in which we're invited to soak up candy, outsmart everyone, steal jewels and make love to luminous movie stars. What these films ultimately do is sell consumption and post-war excess. Indeed, Hitchcock once described his audience as the moron masses, his films as cake, and admitted to collaborators like John Taylor and Peter Viertel that he despised those who watched his films. The truth, however, is probably somewhere in the middle. Glitzy travelogues like North by Northwest and To Catch A Thief, and even murder movies like Psycho, are supremely calculated, designed to push the most basic buttons. But its precisely his knowledge of an audience's desires which make Hitchcock's best films so creepy. Any puppet master can make a puppet jump, but not many can make a puppet watch itself watching itself. Incidentally, To Catch A Thief echoes a number of Hitchcock's war time, espionage pictures. For example, it is stated that Robie was a member of the French Resistance during the Occupation. It is also acknowledged that a number of his associates in the Resistance - national heroes even - have likewise turned to a life of crime. Of course Robie isn't French. He's American, and seems instead to resemble those Oregon (Robie says he is himself from Portland, Oregan) born American dissidents who supported the Mexican and Bolshevik Revolutions or fought against Franco in the Spanish Civil War. Under its glitz the film asks us to not only consider the fates of such unscrupilous wartime heroes, but to question identities; false identities, personal identities, usurped identities and so forth. I never stole from anyone who would go hungry, Robie says, as his Nazi strangling maid works behind the back of an insurance man.8.9/10 &#x96; Robert Burks would win an Oscar for Thief's VistaVision cinematography. See Donnersmarck's The Tourist. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"A minor Hitchcock movie with the greatest production costs","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Did You ever asked yourself, why Alfred Hitchcock never got an Oscar? If he deserved one, and in my opinion he did, it certainly was not for this one movie. This is a Cary Grant and Grace Kelly showpiece. A very bad one, for both. It is fully artificial and the Oscar, if any, should go to dressmaker Edith Evans. Hitch never won as Oscar, because he was not a Jew. He was a Roman Catholic. American Federal Government and the American Constitution pretend to allow equal rights to every religion. It is false. America and above all Hollywood cinema are in the hands of Jewish persons, mostly producers., even today. Just look at Murdoch. And Spielberg... Alfred Hitchcock was initially trained in Cinema Techniques in Germany. He was heavily influenced by German Expressionism in his movies made in England before he went to Hollywood. "}{"Title":"What Irony","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion how could anyone not love the duo of Cary Grant and Grace Kelly? But is it not ironic that Princess Grace lost her life on a road very similar to the one in the chase scene and in roughly the same part of the world? I was stationed on a mountain top in Italy when she died. The road to our mountain top was much more difficult to navigate than the one in the film. I'm sure the same can be said of the road where Princess Grace was killed. She was always so beautiful and elegant!!!I was impressed with the helicopter shots. I think they did amazingly well with the equipment that was available in 1954. Didn't even catch sight of a rotor blade shadow. Great job!What a delightful film!! "},{"Title":"Lightweight Hitchcock.","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" My Take One of Hitchcock's lighter efforts, and a truly pleasant and entertaining one at that.Relax and take a trip to the French Riviera with director Alfred Hitchcock, where you could take a drive in the placid countryside and enjoy the sights, bask under the summer sun on a warm beach, and enjoy exquisite cuisines. And to top it off, what Hitchcock vacation would be complete without A.) A man accused of a crime he didn't commit B.) His attempt to unmask the true criminal to clear his name and C.) A woman who is romantically involved with our hero and may be his only hope to help clear his name, if only she wasn't convinced with the evidences before her.TO CATCH A THIEF is one of Hitchcock's lighter and more pleasant efforts, with more emphasis on humor, romance and melodrama. In fact, some of the film's twists aren't too revealing or shocking; they just wrap up the film. Still, with the perfect pairing of Cary Grant and Grace Kelly, how could it not work? (Forget their age gaps, this couple shines!) Grant plays John Robie, aka The Cat, a former cat burglar who gets framed for the recent robbery of precious jewels in some of the Riviera's luxury hotels, but Robie hasn't been on the job for years! In an attempt to clear his name, Robie aids the help of wealthy heiress Frances Stevens (Kelly) and her amusing up-class mother (Jessie Royce Landis), whom he uses as a bait to unmask the real Cat. There's only one problem Their jewels were stolen as well, and Frances is not too sure who to trust.The film's isn't really as suspenseful nor as thrilling as Hitchcock's other endeavors, but seen as a lighter and more amusing affair, it works splendidly. Hitch and cinematographer Robert Burks (who won an Oscar for his work in this film) uses VistaVision as an advantage to give the audience a scenic view of the breathtaking locales. There's even a nearly perfect sequence in the film where Robie and Frances spend a night together while watching a beautiful display of fireworks on the evening sky. This visual tour-de-force is a scrumptious delight of eye-catching visuals that almost take your breath-away. TO CATCH A THIEF is Hitchcock at his glossiest. Unfortunately, this is the movie where Grace Kelly would meet the Prince of Monaco, which is the reason why she would quit Hollywood for true-life royalty.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Hitchcocks","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Gary Grant is wonderful as John Robbie a retire cat burglar in the south of France who has to prove that he isn't back to his old tricks, nor that he is a murderer. Helping him is Grace Kelly as the daughter of a rich American. She is lovely and charming and in some ways close to the perfect woman.This is one of my favorite Hitchcock film's its light and frothy and just a great deal of fun. I think that's why the film works for me, its simply not trying to be anything special its just trying to be a good time for both the audience and the filmmakers. If you like your romance tinged with a little mystery this is the perfect film for you. "},{"Title":"Hitch Takes Riviera Vacation","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cary Grant is John Robie, a hero of the French resistance, vintner, and a former cat burglar. When a rash of jewelry burglaries breaks out, everyone from the police to his former friends blames him. He is of course innocent. And why shouldn't he be? He lives in Turkish splendor in a stone house overlooking the piney hills of the Alpes-Maritime. Still, rumors persist, and he is finally visited by John Williams, an agent of the insurance company that has seen its assets eroded by the theft of all those insured jewels. Robie agrees to help Williams discover the identity of the real thief. Meanwhile he meets the glorious, glamorous Grace Kelly, looking succulent and blond, almost as deeply tanned as Dapper Dan himself. Jessie Royce Landis plays Kelly's mother. Later, in North by Northwest, she was to play Cary GRANT's mother although there was only the slightest difference in their ages. The outcome Grant winds up with Kelly and vice versa; the real jewel thief is caught; Grant is exonerated and received back into society.The scenes in the Carlton Hotel evoked warm memories of the place because I had been there. Been there in the sense that I walked into the lobby, glanced about at the wealthy guests and opulent appointments, then turned around and left. Hitchcock's view of foreign sites, later in his life, was always that of a tourist. The shabbiness of his early British movies, up to and including Jamaica Inn, were long behind him, the shepherd's pie long ago replaced by the quiche that Grant serves his guest on the piazza.There are a couple of entertaining and sometimes surprising moments. At their first meeting, Kelly has paid virtually no attention to Grant over dinner, but when he walks her back to her suite she languidly turns and kisses him briefly but with passion, then walking away with a so there! look on that face so full of good bone structure and sly horniness. And there's an amusing and understated pursuit by car around the hairpin turns of those hills. The photography is exquisite and has unusual depth of field for the period.For the rest, it's all pretty relaxed. The story itself is hardly gripping. Who cares who's stealing all those baubles. That's not Hitchcock's kind of crime. His crime is murder. I once tried to lull myself to sleep by counting the number of times John Williams, as the insurance investigator, had played an insurance investigator, detective, or lawyer, but I fell asleep before I could finish.Cary Grant waltzes through his part in stylish and mostly casual clothing, the kind that was fashionable at the time -- striped boat shirts and foulard. On one occasion, a formal costume ball, he's dressed as an Ethiopian slave.The dialog doesn't really have any tag lines, but if it doesn't sparkle, it's not flat either. The villain isn't revealed until the end. I have to say it's too bad that we didn't meet him or her earlier and that he or she didn't have a chance to enjoy his or her rottenness with more color -- God, I'm bending over backward to be politically correct -- but I'm thinking of someone like James Mason in North by Northwest or Joseph Cotton in Shadow of a Doubt. A truly classy heavy could have saved this movie from relative mediocrity.As it is, we must all sit back and enjoy the scenery. "},{"Title":"Solid entertainment - but only an average crime story","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is certainly not one of Hitchcock's best movies. The crime story lacks much of the intelligence found in other works directed by him. The story takes place in France at the Côte d'Azur. The atmosphere of this surrounding is responsible for much of the fascination which the movie still has, and this effect must have been even more dominating at the time when it was released. Also Cary Grant is very cool as the former jewel thief John Robie. However, as a character he remains a stereotype. This is also true for the remaining roles in the movie, including John's admirer Frances (played by Grace Kelly) who is reduced in this way to a nice decoration wrapped into some stylish dresses.All in all this is solid entertainment from the fifties. But it is not more than that. I gave it 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":" --- (Cary Grant) in luxury on the French Riviera --- ","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Even to the casual observer, it is plain to see why my aging mother enjoys watching To Catch A Thief. 1) escapist glamor with Cary Grant -- and Grace Kelly! 2) escapist, international intrigue. 3) breathtaking scenery -- an escapist PBS travelogue in VistaVision. It's a relatively simple formula; and Hollywood must have figured it out too -- sometime soon after Alfred Hitchcock released the film.From an admittedly limited position of authority, it seems to me that To Catch A Thief is the prototype that spawned an industry with generations of action films branching as two offshoots a) the direct copy - the cat burglar or grand heist, such as It Takes A Thief and The Pink Panther, and b) international espionage - Ian Fleming's James Bond 007 films, with a glamorous male lead, glamorous women, and an even more glamorous international setting. Today's violent Action films are a(n) (unfortunate) furtherance of this genre.Since the end of WWII, French Resistance hero, John Robie (Cary Grant) has lived in luxury on the French Riviera (Cannes) as a cat burglar, relieving wealthy tourists of their jewels. He is now retired from nefarious activities; but because of recent thefts bearing his modus operandi, he spends the entire film trying to prove his innocence, and -- To Catch A Thief. Many of the classic James Bond elements are here -- the alluring woman (Grace Kelly), the high speed car chase, the high society excesses, and a (subdued and restrained) free-for-all finale. David Niven, Sean Connery, and Pierce Brosnan followed with style; but the original was Cary Grant.If international espionage is an escapist subject for viewing, then the film's stunning, on-location photography of the French Riviera will surely send the viewer into orbit. The camera shots are vivid, picture postcard or travel brochure quality -- including dazzling scenes of the fresh flower market. Everything and everyone in the film is gorgeous -- the police, the sunbathers, and especially the landscape have spent extra time in makeup. Cary Grant's hair is never out of place while SWIMMING; and he never breaks a sweat!Buy this video if you've forgotten that there were two backroads leaving town in the 1960s - 70s. After saying goodbye to mom and dad, if you drove your Volkswagen bus - the one with the funny flowers on it - up the branch road to a commune, then To Catch A Thief was the road you didn't take. Of course, we all know NOW that the two branches came together again to form a road called REALITY. "},{"Title":"Grace Kelly and not much more","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Grace Kelly is wonderful. Period. The movie itself does not offer much entertainment, but it surely watchable over and over again. Long live the princess ! "},{"Title":"A drag to watch","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm sorry but I just did not care for this film. It's not very suspenseful, seems poorly & hastily edited, was slow to develop, and just not very interesting. If you're expecting a classic Hitchcock suspense thriller, you may be sorely disappointed. Something was just off about this movie. I don't think that it was well written. The only thing it had going for it was Cary Grant & Grace Kelly, and some beautiful shots of Nice. Big deal. There's no other reason to watch this film. I don't understand why this film gets the high rating that it does (7.5 at this time). I guess people like slow uneventful whodunits with major stars. Watch it if you must. "},{"Title":"Weak effort from Hitchcock, Kelly","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie again recently, and I must say, it's one of Hitchcock's weaker efforts.First, there is essentially no chemistry between Grant and Kelly. If this is supposed to be a love story between the two, it falls flat. Kelly simply isn't a good enough actress to carry her role, matched against a pro like Grant. The two other actresses in the movie, Jesse Landis playing Kelly's Mother, and Brigitte Auber, playing Kelly's younger rival for Grant's affections, make Kelly look like an amateur.The script, aside from a few amusing double-entendres (Kelly I thought you'd be longer with that French girl; Would like a leg or a breast?) and some good lines for Landis, is weak. The plot is consomme' thin. The cinematography lacks the usual Hitchcock touches; the pretty French countryside is portrayed in nothing better than postcard form. And even the music is undistinguished-where was Bernard Hermann? Yes, Kelly is beautiful-though to me less sexy than Brigitte Auber, who proves personality and wit can trump icy beauty. And Grace's gowns are lovely. Not that I'm a connoisseur of woman's clothes, but if you're into that sort of thing the clothes Doris Day wears in Pillow Talk, or those sported by Audrey Hepburn in Funny Face, certainly match the ones seen here, and in better movies.All in all, if you want to see Hitch's best '50's work, get Raer Window or Vertigo. "},{"Title":"Too slow","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Maybe if we were drinking wine and watching with friends we would have like it, after all it's a classic Hitchcock and Grace Kelly and the Riviera are very beautiful. But nothing really happens. Even the sinister car chases aren't exciting, although there did seem to be an effort to capture part of the chase with front-of-the-car cinematography. It was all so simple, the list of people and their jewels. But the thing that got us was the slowness of the relationship between Kelly and Grant and how they went on talking about it all the time, it was just too much. There is, in short, not enough danger to make the film interesting to watch. "}{"Title":"Jumble, Mumble, Okay at times, Yet Mess, What Acting?","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" hypnotic, slow, unforgettable. an ice circle of nuances and fascinating way to say a not very realistic story. all instruments of Hitchcock noir movie - the fragile woman, the charming man, the villain, the powerful mother, the tension, the love as ladder with many steps, the great secret, the happy end as closed room. and the cast, what may be her definition ? not names - just magnificent acting. not performance but delicate and precise drawing of light, night, gestures, fragments of images. a pure art slice. or only a magnificent Hitchcock.far from its time, exercise of perfect equilibrium, it is a lesson of good spirit and science to create perfect atmosphere. and this fact is really extraordinary. "},{"Title":"Alf is da Man!","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Grant plays a victimised burglar, who is on the receiving end of harassment from his friends, the Police, an insurance investigator, a market stall holder and even Grace Kelly!Everything about this Hitchcock film hits the mark. There's some beautifully shot scenes in the French Riviera, a funny screenplay and a fair sprinkling of magic. The scene where the band gives up the ghost is a case in point!Positives - EverythingDrawbacks - Too similar to his later work PsychoOverall - Masterpiece "},{"Title":"Like a decadent, tasty dessert, Hitchcock lays on the toppings and hopes we'll be satisfied by the presentation...","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Retired jewel thief living in a lavish villa on the French Riviera is accused of being notorious bauble-burglar The Cat, currently scaling the rooftops of the swankiest hotels in France; he sets out to discover who's copying his moves. Alfred Hitchcock and company on vacation; the film is a swirling, costumed, powder-puffed piece of eye-candy, and none of it leaves the slightest impression whatsoever. Cary Grant (looking overly-tanned) glides through the picture with a bemused smirk, while Grace Kelly fills her gowns (and Grant's arms) beautifully. Grace, playing the pampered, school-perfected daughter of a wealthy American, purrs seductively into Cary's ear during a fireworks show, asking him to finger the jewels around her neck; moments later, when her own mother's jewels have gone missing, she turns into an enraged, accusatory woman-scorned. Why? Because screenwriter John Michael Hayes (working from David Dodge's novel) can't come up with anything plausible or substantial to move this story along. Therefore, few of these characters acts in a sensible way, leaving us little to do but sit back and admire their wardrobes and surroundings. It passes the time. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"In this business, you can't do things the honest way","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps Hitchcock was becoming a little bored with his own brand, because it's around this point in the mid-50s where he starts to poke fun at his own formulae. To Catch a Thief begins with a woman screaming. But she hasn't found a dead body. She's screaming for her jewels. This facetious opener sets the scene for a playful crime thriller, with a breezy holiday atmosphere in its south-of-France setting.This wasn't the first time the Master of Suspense&#x99; had tried to meld comedy with adventurous escapades, and wouldn't be the last, although he put a different slant on it each time. The Lady Vanishes featured a rogues gallery of comical supporting players who could pop in and out of the narrative whenever a dull moment loomed. North by Northwest would keep the humour centred on the protagonists, but again saved it for the spaces between the chases. To Catch a Thief however wedges comedy into suspense sequences, having car chases held up by old ladies and chickens, or Brigitte Auber flashing her legs at the cops. The result is, unfortunately, neither good comedy nor good suspense. While a few of the gags might raise a smile, the action scenes have not been geared towards excitement and thus feel utterly flat.Arguably however the real tension is in the chemistry between the two leads, and Hitch gets to show the loves scenes in the scandalously passionate style that was his hallmark. Firework displays being cover-ups for sex scenes is considered a bit of a cliché of classic cinema, although it was probably thought a little corny even then as there is a sense of irony to the way it's shot. Compare it, for example, to the very sincere equivalent scene in Summertime, made the same year. But if a tongue-in-cheek tone was intended, it is again not well developed. And Hitch's efforts to established Kelly as an Ice Queen are unusually heavy-handed, with some jarringly obvious shots of her in profile which serve no other purpose.But the biggest problem with To Catch a Thief is, oddly enough, a violation of one of Hitchcock's textbook rules. As usual, Hitch aims to put us in the shoes of his hero (and incidentally this is done rather well. In Cary Grant's first scene there is a point-of-view shot when he looks down at the police arriving outside - but not just any point-of-view shot. It is heavily framed by the window pain, so we get the sensation that we, like Grant, are hanging back trying not to be seen). The trouble is, John Robie is not an everyman we can instantly identify with. He gets into trouble specifically because of who he is, and gets out of it because of what he knows. To Catch a Thief lacks the It could happen to you factor of Rear Window, North by Northwest and all those other Hitchcock classics.Hitchcock wasn't stupid, and I think he knew he had this problem, which is probably why he put more emphasis than usual on the comedy and sex. Still he falls far short of salvaging a good picture. Just as there are underrated gems among the less-often discussed portions of the Master's career, this picture from the middle of his most fruitful period is not worthy of the praise it has received. "},{"Title":"Premium, albeit production line glamour","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It would be oh so camp were it not for two of cinema's greatest icons - the only reason I didn't turn my TV off after lunch. I didn't even know it was Hitchcock - and would be forgiven for that, had I not seen his standard cameo (as well as the foreground-framing and final Vertigo-style rooftop sequence). It's really nothing to write home about. Script, story and acting are all a bit by-numbers; I did enjoy Grace Kelly's bored but bright Francie, and particularly Jessie Royce Landis' turn as her mother. Brigitte Auber is the indigenous love-interest and a competent foil for the stars.The joy of the film is in those things that we all tune in for, in guilty pleasure. The French Riviera and flowers in Technicolour, open top sports cars, Kelly in innumerable frocks, matinée snogs... 5/10 "},{"Title":"Slow, slow, slow","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'm gradually working my way through the Hitchcock canon as they come up on TV.  This had its moments, but there weren't very many of them. Predictable plot, horrible (as usual) Technicolor and Grace Kelly's dreadful delivery of some mildly witty dialogue (seemingly written for a quite different actress of the wisecracking variety like Ginger Rogers) made it something of a yawn. The good things were Cary Grant, giving off that faint air of menace even when you know it wasn't him, and some of Hitchcock's little jokes, notably his own appearance. "},{"Title":"It takes a thief to catch a thief.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A light romantic offering from director Alfred Hitchcock. Cary Grant is a former cat burglar that is getting the blame for a rash of jewelry heists on the French Riviera. A beautiful and  wealthy tourist, Grace Kelly, applies her charms on the reformed thief.Grant is cool and suave as ever. Miss Kelly is fabulous. The love scene with the fireworks display in the background is what dreams are made of.Great photography and scenery. Bright and whimsical musical score. Just enough humor and romance. Well paced and interesting; but this is not the type of movie that made Hitchcock famous. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Hitchcock.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a minor Hitchcock thriller. Its pleasures are all on the surface. Grant and Kelly rely heavily on their great charm and they don't really put their heart into their acting; I've seen them in other movies and they were more enjoyable. The whole movie is just too glossy for a thriller and, at the party towards the end, it almost becomes heavy-going. And the plot isn't THAT unpredictable. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant And Grace Kelly Make This Worth Watching","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie largely on the basis of the reputations of its leading figures director Alfred Hitchcock and stars Cary Grant and Grace Kelly, none of whose work in all honesty I have seen a lot of. How did they fare in comparison to what I expected? Grant and Kelly quite well; Hitchcock less so.The movie lacked the sustained suspense I would have expected from a Hitchcock movie. I wasn't expecting it to be a quasi-horror movie, similar to The Birds - which is really the only other piece of Hitcock's work I am overly familiar with - but I thought there would be suspense built around the identity of the thief, and that thief's attempts to prevent discovery. There wasn't. To its credit, the story kept me guessing. I never did figure out who the real thief was until the unmasking. There was nothing overtly offered to allow one to make a real guess. So my attention held while waiting for that secret to be revealed, but it was more mild curiosity than edge of your seat anticipation. As the movie went on, I found myself moving from scene to scene, hoping that the unmasking would happen soon. There was some mild humour along the way - particularly the scene in which Frances (Kelly) drives Robie (Grant) wildly along the mountain roads to escape the police, but overall I must confess that I found the story lacking.The deficiencies in the story, however, were more than made up for by the superb performances of Grant and Kelly. Both were excellent in their roles - Grant as John Robie, ex jewel thief being framed for robberies who sets out to - well - catch the thief, and Kelly as Frances, the American socialite who falls for him. Both were completely believable in their parts and had a nice, if I thought a bit awkward at times, chemistry (the kisses seemed forced, but the relationship was quite believable.) Based on what I see here, Grant clearly earned his reputation, while Kelly obviously gave up what would have likely been a stellar Hollywood career to marry Prince Rainier of Monaco. The supporting players were just that - supporting. They played their parts well, but didn't make a huge impression on me.There was enough in this movie to make it worth watching. It's even mildly risqué at times (mostly verbally) which adds to the humour which is a regular (if underplayed) component of this movie. Overall, I would characterize this as a so-so movie with excellent performances from Grant and Kelly. "},{"Title":"Purrs For Effect","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Not being a Hitchcock buff the selling point for me was Charles Vanel in a supporting role; in that same year he also appeared in Clouzot's Les Diaboliques and it's a pity that 'Master' Hitch didn't check that one out to see how the Big Boys do it. It is, on the whole, a reasonably albeit instantly forgettable romp and Hitch even manages to make the Riviera - the exteriors were shot on location in the South of France - look like Upper Sandusky on a wet Tuesday. Cary Grant, of course, would be hard pressed to turn in a bad performance and he is is as polished and urbane as always and keeps his end up (sorry, but that's the level of the dialogue) in several exchanges with Grace Kelly that pass for banter in the John Michael Hayes set, otherwise it's left to John Williams and Jesse Royce Landis to flesh out a weak storyline. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock's sexiest film....","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's funny, but the studio was really worried that audiences would not believe that Cary Grant could be believed as a romantic suitor for Grace Kelly. Why is this funny? Well, because although I could suspend disbelieve and accept the romance (after all, he WAS Cary Grant!!), what I could not believe in the least was when the extremely British and erudite Grant posed as a guy from Oregon!!!! Come one....give me a break! That's like having Marjorie Main playing the Princess Anastasia! This is a film that is perhaps a bit less suspenseful than most of Hitchcock's other films. After all, the film is not about murder! Instead, it's about someone trying to implicate a retired thief (Grant) in a new string of copycat cat burglaries. No one seems to believe him (except, perhaps, John Williams' character) and so Grant decides to investigate himself. This plan of Grant's brings him to a wealthy American and her gorgeous daughter (Kelly)...and much of the film is dedicated to this romance. In this sense, this is also atypical of the usual Hitchcock film.Believe it or not, the film is really less of a mystery and more of a sexy and deliberately paced film featuring a beautiful couple in extremely beautiful locations along the French Riviera. The mystery itself is nice enough but the elegant journey to the conclusion is the reason to see the film. And I must say it was very enjoyable--and I wish Hitchcock had done more films like this (North By Northwest has elements of this but doesn't carry it far enough--though I prefer this film). What I also loved was the very sexy and double-entendre laced dialog--as well as the Freudian imagery for sex sprinkled throughout the film. Hitchcock was really trying to tweak the censors' noses with this one--and it's a great joke that not everyone might get (such as the scene with the exploding fireworks). As a result, it's a film that deserves to be held in a much higher esteem--while it lacks great suspense, it more than makes up for it in style and romance.By the way, get a load of Cary at the costume ball. I'll say no more--just watch. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's worst; an effort at romantic comedy that falls, unfortunately, rather flat","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Carey Grant is the smooth cat burglar in this Alfred Hitchcock-directed romantic comedy/thriller that never manages to go much of anywhere. It's ultimately uninteresting, lacking the vital ingrediants of Hitchcock's earlier (and later - Psycho, anyone?) masterpieces.It is inferior to PSYCHO, SHADOW OF A DOUBT, ROPE, THE BIRDS, REAR WINDOW, VERTIGO, THE LADY VANISHES, THE 39 STEPS, etc., but hey - at least it's better than Hitchcock's final, flat effort, FAMILY PLOT (1976), right?All in all a waste of time except, perhaps, unless you are a die-hard Hitch fan and need to see this for personal reasons.Don't miss Hitchcock's cameo on the bus! "},{"Title":"Grace attracted people but she needed change a lot","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I saw a beautiful scenery of Riviera, France, Grace Kelly's hot body and her crafty eye sight liked like Heidi Klum on Alfred Hitchcock's 'To Catch a Thief'. Although Alfred Hitchcock likes to use Grace Kelly and Cary Grant in his movies, hiring them in this movie was inadequate. Because a 26 years old, blonde and blue eyed, slender beauty fell in love with a 51 years old guy? I think it was literally adultery.Anyway, I gave it 7 out of 10. Casting was good. And Grace's gorgeous bathing suit, her slender body and lovely tanned back and arm gave me a joy as same as when I saw the Victoria's Secret models. May be Marilyn Monroe had watched it, she felt strong jealousy about this German American(Marilyn Monroe was a Norwegian American), graceful blonde beauty.Come to think of the director, Marilyn Monroe never noticed any jealousy about her. Because Marilyn's movies are remembered by Marilyn's performance itself but lots of Grace's movies are remembered by a Gary Cooper(High Noon-1952), Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby's(High Society-1956) performance or an Alfred Hitchcock's product.Think about the movie itself, the plot was terrible. Even though film was very colorful and of high quality. Why? first, scale was small. At least to catch a murderer or suspicion are much appropriate than to catch a thief. And I don't like the title. Like Alfred Hichcock's 'Wrong Man' or 'I confess', if he named its title as 'I'm innocent', or 'Innocent Man', these are much nicer than 'To Catch a Thief' Last, I want to ask Grace if I could go back to the 1955. Can your slender body compete with Marilyn Monroe? You are in perfect conditions sexually. Then why don't you show to the public your personality in movies? I mean, do not accept chastity or elegance role, how about accepting more serious roles like vivacious or dangerously voluptuous? "},{"Title":"To Catch a Thief","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I can agree that this is quite a good Sir Alfred Hitchcock film. I can't remember everything that happens, but I know it is all about John Robie (Cary Grant), better known to others (in secret) as 'The Cat'. He is a thief who gets away with almost anything and at any time. One day he meets Frances Stevens (Grace Kelly) and they become really good friends, I'm not sure if they were in love. Soon enough John discovers that she was trying to prove herself that he in fact a thief. That's pretty much all I can remember, apart from a couple of chases and one robbery. Hitchcock's cameo is the man sitting left of Grant on the bus. It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design. Grace Kelly was number 86, and Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Grant was number 19 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, Grant was number 4 on Britain's Finest Actors, Kelly was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, Grant was number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Kelly was number 92 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Grant was number 23 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments, and it was number 46 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Good, as far as I can remember! "},{"Title":"Kelly is great , but Grant was bad choice .","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry to say this but Cary Grant can't be a thief . He just doesn't look like one . The movie is ok . not Hitchcock's best moment , but as usual he still gave us a great scene with the kiss. But Cary Grant (who was great in North By Northwest) just can't play a robber . Plus the movie is a little to long , you start to get board . But if you do rent it stay till the end , Hitchcock won't let you down there .  "},{"Title":"One of the worst Hitchcock films","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  To Catch a Thief is quite a boring movie. I doubt it would have been popular if not for the Hitchcock name. It plays as little more than a Cary Grant vehicle, and he looks too out-of-shape for this part. Not to mention his colour... he looks positively maroon. Grace Kelly is good in her part and the locations are spectacular but this movie drags way too much and is way too predictable. If I didnt know it was a Hitchcock film, I wouldnt have guessed it in a million years. "}]