[{"Title":"A spectacle in every sense of the world!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mike Todd's version of Jules Verne tale offers a refined English comedy, giant-screen travel landscapes, dazzling brilliant color, famous actors in small roles... as Phileas Fogg and his comical valet made the tour of the world beginning in England, going to Europe, the Middle East, India, and Asia... It begins in (1872) Victorian London as the wealthy, supremely confident Phileas Fogg sets out a wager that he can traverse the globe in precisely eighty days... The other club members at the Reform Club think Fogg is a fool, and challenge his claim and wager £20,000 that he is wrong...The snags begin almost immediately, as the true gentleman misses a train and has to travel by balloon... The wild journey takes Fogg and his new servant into a series of incredible adventures in every land they pass through... David Niven plays the true impassive Englishman Phileas Fogg... A polished man of the world, who makes no superfluous gestures, and is never seen to be moved or agitated... A puzzling personage, who believes in progress, science, and intellectual deduction... An eccentric quiet gentleman who talks very little and lives by a precise schedule of tea, whist games, fish and chips... He lives alone in a big house, and a single domestic sufficed to serve him...Mexican screen legend Cantinflas known as the comic genius of the Spanish-speaking world, plays Passepartout, the most faithful of domestics...Passepartout is a multi-skilled honest Frenchman with a pleasant oval face, slender and slight, soft-mannered and serviceable... Robert Newton plays Mr. Fix, the mysterious detective who had been dispatched from England in search of the bank robber... He is a slight-built personage, with a nervous, intelligent face, and bright eyes peering out from under eyebrows which he is incessantly twitching... Shirley MacLaine plays the charming young Indian princess, Aouda, who was married against her will at age seven... She speaks English with great purity... One of the main interests of the film is the various cameos played by stars of the time who give minute but exquisite characterizations- Finlay Currie, Mr. Fogg's usual partner at whist...- Robert Morley, one of the directors of the Bank of England...- John Gielgud, the dismissed servant who relates that his master wears two watches, and every available surface in his house is covered with so many clocks...- Trevor Howard, the club's member who rejects the news that the English gentleman has robbed the Bank of England... - Charles Boyer, the educated travel agent who proposes to the couple to travel with a hot-air balloon...- Martine Carol, the offended lady who slaps the new butler just for saying 'Mademoiselle!'- Fernandel, the French coachman who was not so content with the tip...- Gilbert Roland, the Arab who offers his ship to Marseilles just on one condition...- Cesar Romero, the henchman who sadistically insists Passepartout must fight a bull even if he doesn't know how...- Ronald Colman, the Railway Official who announces (No more railway!) all passengers know that they must provide means of transportation for themselves from Kholby to Allahabad... - Cedric Hardwicke, the officer who finds happily a means of conveyance  to cross the deep jungle on an elephant! - Charles Coburn, the Steamship Company clerk who makes the observation that the 'Carnatic' had sailed the evening before...and he doesn't expect any vessel to Yokohama one week from now...- Peter Lorre, the smiling Japanese steward who informs Passepartout that being broke without money in Yokohama... is catastrophic! - Glynis Johns, the sporting lady who bets with her companion on Fogg's outcome... - George Raft, the suspicious mob who chases everyone who stands near his glamorous woman... - Marlene Dietrich, the Barbary Coast saloon hostess who looks for a way to be free... - Frank Sinatra, the honky-tonk pianist...- Red Skelton, the drunken with great appetite...- John Carradine, the insolent colonel hit by an arrow... - Buster Keaton, the American train conductor who announces some delay...- Andy Devine, the first mate who refuses 'Henrietta' to be burn... - Victor McLaglen, the helmsman who is ordered ('Full steam!') to feed all the fires until the coal is exhausted... - John Mills, the sleepy carriage driver at the delicate moment...The other scenes that were actually outrageous and delightful arePassepartout scooping some snow off an alp to chill a bottle of champagne; his funny and graceful way of bullfighting; his burlesque dance with a troupe of Spanish dancers; his venture to ride an ostrich through a back-lot Hong Kong; his anxiety when he is captured by savage Sioux; his courage when he is almost burned to death with an Indian widow; his fault when he clears the 'human' pyramid; his ignorance when he breaks Hindus religious beliefs and his absurdity when he constantly tries to hit on anything in skirts...With terrific music, this Academy Award winner for Best Picture of 1956 is nice for the family to watch... "},{"Title":"The greatest supporting cast in the history of film","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Michael Todd's screen adaptation of Jules Verne's classic novel is a masterpiece.Beautifully shot in over 100 different locations around the world, it is one of the few novels which actually benefits from big screen treatment. No longer do we have to imagine these fine exotic places in our minds, they are presented here in full cinematic and Technicolour brilliance.The great David Niven plays the quintessential English gentleman to the hilt as Philias Fogg, the well to do bachelor who after calmly announcing that it was possible, accepts a £20,000 wager from his fellow Reform Club members to travel round the world in 80 days.In tow on this mammoth voyage are newly appointed man servant Passepartout played by Mexican entertainer Cantinflas, a rather miscast Shirley MacLaine as Aouda a recently rescued Indian Princess and the lovable and ever watchable Robert Newton as Mr. Fix the detective who is convinced Fogg is a master criminal who left Britain having just robbed the Bank of England. Yet what adds flavour to an already wonderful story and fascinating movie, is that no matter what corner of the globe our intrepid Fogg appears, he is helped, hindered, slowed down, befriended and attacked by a myriad of world renowned movie stars. Never before or since has a film boasted so many top named stars in cameo appearances.Robert Morley, Ronald Squire, Finlay Currie, Basil Sydney, Noel Coward, John Gielgud, Trevor Howard, Harcourt Williams, Martine Carol, Fernandel, Charles Boyer, Evelyn Keyes, Gilbert Roland, Cesar Romero, Alan Mowbray, Cedric Hardwicke, Melville Cooper, Reginald Denny, Ronald Colman, Charles Coburn, Peter Lorre, George Raft, Red Skelton, Marlene Dietrich, John Carradine, Frank Sinatra, Buster Keaton, Tim McCoy, Joe E. Brown, Andy Devine, Edmund Lowe, Victor McLaglen, Jack Oakie, Beatrice Lillie, John Mills, Glynis Johns and Hermione Gingold all come along for this bizarre journey. Now thats what I call a cast list.Niven is as always a joy to watch as the seemingly unstoppable and resourceful Fogg, so much so that the film can be forgiven its epic length. However, I do feel as though a good half an hour could have been trimmed had Todd decided to tone down some of Cantinflas' over long routines. We know what a fantastic and talented performer he was, there was no real need to hammer the point home with a nigh on 15 minute bull fight sequence, Japanese circus tricks and stunt horse riding. However despite this one criticism, the film is legend, the story is legend and was fully deserving of the five Oscar's it was awarded, including Best Picture of 1956.In fact I feel certain that if Philias Fogg had a film like this on DVD, he would have much preferred to stay at home and watch it. I know I certainly would. "},{"Title":"It Might Have Been In County Down, Or In New York, In Gay Paree, Or Even London Town","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Except for the horrible miscasting of Shirley MacLaine as a Hindu princess, Around the World in 80 Days comes close to being a perfect film. The rest of the cast paints to perfection the portrait of Jules Verne's odyssey about a very anal retentive man driven by a wager to complete a global circumnavigation in 80 days in the mid nineteenth century.Jules Verne unlike in a lot of his other stories makes one of his main characters here a Frenchman. Normally the international minded Mr. Verne never had any of his protagonists come from his native France. In this case the valet Passepartout accompanies English gentleman Phileas Fogg on the journey and comes close to wrecking it a couple of times.Michael Todd had to settle for second choices for both of his leads. The part was originally offered to Cary Grant who turned it down and Todd settled happily for David Niven. And even though Fernandel offered to learn English to play Passepartout, the process would have taken too long so the Mexican comic star Cantinfas got the part. Fernandel did have a small role as a Parisian hansom cab driver.It's still a mystery to me as to why Cantinflas on the strength of this and Pepe did not break out of the Latin American market where he was nothing short of a demi-god of the cinema. Certainly his presence in this film opened up a huge market of viewers in the Spanish speaking parts of the world. Also consider that the probably no other performer in the history of the cinema ever got as good supporting casts as Cantinflas did in both Around the World in 80 Days and Pepe. Maybe he didn't break into the English speaking cinema fan world, but it was no accident that all the stars who appeared in both wanted to be associated with him.Shirley MacLaine would have to wait until Some Came Running for a real break out role. She's just not the type to play a Hindu princess. Someone like Jean Simmons who played one in Black Narcissus would have been far better. David Niven however got on the crest of a big career wave that wouldn't reach maximum until his Oscar two years later in Separate Tables. This was one of his best career roles and nice that for once he would not have to carry a mediocre picture on the strength of his considerable charm.Mr. Niven sadly recalls in his memoirs that Robert Newton was already dying when he made Around the World in 80 Days. The doctors had told the screen's most celebrated alcoholic that he had only a short time left when he did this film, his liver was failing. Newton does a grand job as the unctuous conniving detective Fix who gets it into his head that Niven robbed the Bank of England.Around the World in 80 Days won for Best Picture in 1956 and four other Oscars including best musical score. Oddly enough the song Around the World was not nominated in that category even though it was a big hit that year. Bing Crosby for Decca and Eddie Fisher for RCA Victor had the big hit records of it, Frank Sinatra also did it for Capitol. It was a great tribute to its composer Victor Young and lyricist Harold Adamson. Young died in 1956 and the Oscar for Best Scoring was given to him posthumously.Producer Michael Todd and Director Michael Anderson did a first rate job in casting all the small bit roles with major players. A lot of these names are unfamiliar to today's generation, but if they see the film it's a chance to see a lot of great cinema names at one time doing real characters instead of just walking on as themselves.The film holds up well today and can still be enjoyed. Maybe someone will actually try to make it in the transportation mode of the Victorian era. Can it be done in 80 Days? "},{"Title":"Go and see it - in a cinema","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, and was shocked to see all the negative comments about it on IMDB.  Yes it's long, yes it's a fantasy rather than true-to-life, yes it's spectacular rather than deep drama. But what the hell, it's also (like the book) a hilarious send-up of Englishness as seen by a Frenchman.  The millions of cameo roles (actually I'm HOPELESS at recognising faces, so identified none of them) camp it all up splendidly.  This film is one of those, like the Ealing comedies or the Carry-On films, that define the British Myth.OK, so it won't work on TV, unless you have a widescreen TV and can shut yourself away from all distractions for several hours. But I just dare anyone to be bored by the film in a cinema. They don't make them like that any more, because these days films are made for TV . . . "},{"Title":"Best imitation of one of the finest work by Jules Verne.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well before ditching in this movie I had a glimpse of the book and I feel very delighted about the extraordinary vision of Jules Verne. He had predicted many inventions and innovations before the time, but I felt more delighted after seeing this movie. The true essence of Jules Verne's literal work is flawlessly captured by director Michael Anderson. This movie is true extravaganza with some special acting by veteran actor David Niven. His portrayal of arrogant, time-table stricken rich innovator was immaculate. This movie also has handful of cameos played by great actors like Frank Sinatra and others. Only one thing that can bother viewers is its immense length where some scenes are monotonous and make you feel loitered. Over all it's a great movie and best motional version of Jules Verne's finest work. The movie won five Oscars including best picture of 1956. "},{"Title":"This Picture Makes No Sense On A Small Screen","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the World in 80 Days is part comedy and part demonstration of a new wide-screen process. I saw it in its original run at the old Rivoli Theater in New York, where the screen ran from 48th St. to 49th St. People gasped at the size of the screen when the curtains opened, before the film even got underway.If you watch the new 16x9 DVD on anything less than a 50-inch television, the visual composition and the pacing are absolutely incomprehensible, and you're on your own to seize on the many little things that are there to entertain you. But as a whole, the film loses its reason for being when viewed on a conventional TV.David Niven is unbeatable as Phileas Fogg, Shirley Maclaine is implausible but slyly humorous as the Princess, Robert Newton appears sober most of the time and hammy all of it as Inspector Fix.Cantinflas is inexplicable as Passepartout, except perhaps as Mike Todd's attempt to corral the entire Latin American market. The Mexican comedian's English is very shaky; it slows him down, and his clarity comes and goes and makes me wonder if Paul Frees didn't replace a lot of his lines. At any rate, only in the seemingly improvised encounter with Red Skelton at a buffet does Cantinflas do anything remotely humorous, and there he's the straight man.The cameos are fun, and if you're too young to know who all these geezers are, it's worth it to find out, and use the IMDb to track down the work that made them famous. I remember the shriek the original audience let out when the piano player was revealed to be Frank Sinatra. Viewing the film now, I was most moved to see Edmund Lowe and Victor McLaglan reunited in the engine room of the Henrietta, thirty years after they riveted the industry in What Price Glory? Buster Keaton concentrates really hard in his appearance as the train conductor, to excellent effect. A. E. Matthews gives a terrific acting lesson in saying no a half a dozen times in a London sequence. Among the original bettors, locate Ronald Squire with the drooping mustache, hollow nasal baritone, and a slouching relaxation while performing that was a marvel - Rex Harrison publicly admired Ronald Squire's ease on stage all his life. In fact, Squire is so relaxed he makes someone like Dean Martin seem uptight.So, this film is an unusual case - requiring patience for lots of little joys on the small screen, but making sense only on a large one. "},{"Title":"known for its end credits and numerous cameos","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  'Around the World in Eighty Days' stars David Niven,Cantinflas, and Robert Newton (in his final role) but is mainly known for featuring zillions of people in cameo parts as Niven moves round his world trip.You can spot ... Marlene Dietrich, Frank Sinatra, Buster Keaton, Ronald Colman, Gilbert Roland, Shirley MacLaine, Tim McCoy, Hermoine Gingold, Charles Boyer, Finlay Currie, Trevor Howard ...Is it any good?  Well, it is too long but gives a good attempt to present countries and travelling on a big scale.  Niven is as charming as ever, while Cantinflas manages to stay irritating for three hours.  Robert Newton as the obsessed Inspector Fix is entertaining but he'd done better.One to watch at least once (and no doubt better than the recent remake).  And the end credits by Saul Bass are superb. "},{"Title":"The Parapatetic Novel of Jules Verne","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In 1946 Orson Welles decided to return to his Broadway roots and produce a dramatic version of the 1872 Jules Verne novel Around The World In 80 Days. It was to be a big production - with a musical score by Cole Porter, and Mike Todd as producer. Welles, besides directing it, was playing the part of the Detective (in the musical he was Dick Fix = presumably called that because of the slang term for a detective). It was an extravaganza, and Welles had plenty of gags in it including one where he brought out a kitchen sink (i.e. everything and the kitchen sink get it?). The show had a big opening night - and sank in a couple of months. It also had no song of any worth by Porter, whose normal abilities were finally shown not to be limitless (a typical song in the show was There goes Phileas Fogg - hardly sounds interesting from a man who created Night and Day or Begin the Beguine or Brush Up Your Shakespeare or Anything Goes). Welles had to declare bankruptcy, and had tax problems for years (which explains why after 1949 he did much of his work in Europe). He also sold his interest in the musical to Todd.That is why Michael Todd is given full credit for Around The World In 80 Days (the 1956 movie) rather than an angry Welles. He really had no leg to stand on in this case.Around The World In Eighty Days is really the odd duck among the major novels of Verne. If you read it, except for the use of a wind wagon in the Western United States portion of the novel, there are no odd devices or inventions or methods of travel in the story. In fact, the best known image of the movie (David Niven and Cantaflas flying in a balloon over the Pyranees) is not from the novel - Verne's balloon novel was Five Weeks In A Balloon (and he came out against balloons in Robur The Conqueror).Around The World was Verne's fun novel about English stuffiness (he disliked the English), wherein the phlegmatic and punctual Phileas Fogg makes a bet of his whole fortune to prove that he can get around the world in under three months. As such, the novel enabled Verne to show how travel was not very broadening to Fogg (a perfect name for the hero) and yet fascinating to his French valet Jean Passepartout (pronounced Pass - par - too). It is Passepartout who examines all the foreign peoples and lands he and Fogg travel through. Fogg only shows spirit twice in rescuing the Indian princess Aouda from being burned alive, and in getting into a duel with the obnoxious American Colonel Seth Proctor.When he wrote the novel, Verne was aware of an actual Fogg - but an American one. The eccentric American millionaire, George Francis Train (great name for a traveler) traveled around the world, in 90 days in 1870. Train would be so impressed by his effect on Verne, he did a second world tour in 72 days. And in 1889 the American journalist Nelly Bly did it in 69 days (when she stopped off in Nantes to meet Verne, he asked her where Aouda was). Verne made fun of the story himself in 1893 when in another novel he had a German aristocrat try to beat Fogg's record, but so botches up his schedule that he ended up taking twice as long.David Niven is good as Fogg in one of his comeback roles that led to his Oscar winner in Separate Tables. Shirley Maclaine seems good as Aouda, but she really is not eastern enough (maybe Merle Oberon could have handled the role twenty years earlier). Cantaflas rarely did English speaking films, and it is this one that gives non-Spanish audiences an idea of his abilities as a comic performer (but his Mexican films are better). Robert Newton was in his final performance as Fix - and he is very good. He comes across as conniving but witless at the same time. However I find that Peter Ustinov's performance in the 1989 miniseries was funnier.Then there are all those stars in cameo parts. A clever selling idea by Todd to ensure the public's attention in the film. As a result this is the only film where Ronald Colman and Frank Sinatra and Col. Tim McCoy and Red Skelton and Edmund Lowe all appear - though not necessarily together. As many of these stars of the 1930s - 1950s are no longer remembered too well, it is difficult to see if the cameo idea was such a hot one in the long term. But the film is still enjoyable, and should lead one back to reading the Verne original. "},{"Title":"Classic Cinema At its Best!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the famous novel of the same name Around The World In Eighty Days,is an undeniable classic,Despite a forgettable 'remake'it has never been bettered, David Niven star's as The eponymous Phileas Fogg, an Eccentric gentleman who wages a bet with his chums at the reform club, that he can attempt the impossible travel Around the globe in a record time,His epic journey takes Fogg to Paris Spain, India,Hong Kong,Japan,San Francisco, Mexican personality Cantinflas,plays Fogg's loyal Man servant Passpartout,who attends to Mr Foggs every whim, Shirley McClaine,in an early role is Aouda the Indian girl Whom Fogg rescues from a fiery death atop a funeral pyre, and subsequently falls in love with,This Classic was probably the first film to feature 'Cameo roles' the roles are an impressive list of who's who of stage and screen,the film's budget is certainly well spent every cent is up there on screen, lavishly lensed in Todd-AO which of course must be viewed in Widescreen,as it's totally unwatchable in 'Pan And Scan' "},{"Title":"It's not often one needs an elephant in a hurry","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Everyone enjoys taking a cheap shot at the Academy Awards, and this movie offers a great chance to do just that - Around the World in Eighty Days won Best Picture, while in the same year John Ford's The Searchers, one of the most iconic classics in the history of American cinema, didn't receive a single nomination.Around the World is three hours long, and feels like it. Every few minutes the movie stops to gawk at its exotic locations and smugly chuckle at its endless celebrity cameos (Look, isn't it funny that the saloon pianist is Frank Sinatra?). It has certainly aged badly. I remember enjoying it as a kid thirty years ago; rewatching it recently, I was surprised by how overlong it feels. I had a similar reaction to another on-the-road adventure/comedy of the same era, The Great Race, except the latter is propelled even today by Jack Lemmon's villainous glee as Professor Fate and by the sight of the adorable Natalie Wood in her lingerie. Around the World features also-adorable Shirley MacLaine - but, distractingly, she is unlikely cast as an Indian princess.Overall, though, this Jules Verne adaptation isn't a bad movie - a mildly entertaining travelogue with luscious vistas and a tone-perfect David Niven as a British gentleman so prim and fastidious that, if you tossed a couple of eggs in his luggage, two minutes later he would produce from it still immaculate clothes and a perfectly cooked omelet on a silver platter. In fact, Around the World is at its best when it focuses on Niven's Phileas Fogg dryly dealing with annoyances, obstacles and threats, and at its worst when it pauses to showcase the physical skills of co-star Cantinflas as Passepartout - so we have a dancing number, a bullfighting number, a circus number, and so on.The result is drawn-out; we complain that Peter Jackson added at least a whole hour of bloat in each Hobbit movie, but Hollywood was already doing that sixty years ago.6/10 "}{"Title":"And it feels like every minute ...","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This monstrously overblown 'entertainment' didn't just win the Oscar as the year's Best Picture but was also chosen by that august body, The New York Film Critic's Circle; it was hardly their finest hour. It's a producer's movie rather than a director's, (the producer was that showman Mike Todd), and he assembled a massive cast of 'stars' to appear in cameo roles to boost the film's box-office appeal and he made it in his own spectacular widescreen format, Todd-AO. Certainly everything about it was big and you felt like you were taking 80 days to watch it.The main parts of Phileas Fogg, the intrepid gentleman-adventurer, and his man-servant, Passepartout, went to David Niven and the Mexican actor, Cantinflas. Niven was actually very good considering his role never really amounted to more than being host in a large-scale travelogue, while Cantinflas was as annoying as foreign actors can be when cast as comic foils in large-scale 'international' productions. Perhaps the worst piece of casting was that of Shirley MacLaine as an Indian Princess, a performance just marginally less insulting than those of Peter Sellers in The Millionairess and Alec Guiness in A Passage to India.Lionel Lindon's photography ensures that it's consistently easy on the eye; otherwise all it proves is that the world's a big place and who would want to spend 80 days in this company going round it. "},{"Title":"Oscar injustice!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of the most overrated films of the '50s, the pleasant but undistinguished Around the World in Eighty Days edged Giant for the Best Picture Oscar of 1956 in one of Oscar's great injustices.  George Stevens won an Oscar for his direction of Giant, yet as one cynic of that time put it, How could '80 Days' lose if everybody in it voted for it?  A recent viewing of both films verifies that Giant has withstood the test of time; Around the World in Eighty Days has not.   "},{"Title":"Watchable once","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I stuck it out but was reminded that the previous time I saw it I had decided that I did not ever need to see it again. But this time it was in HD! Random comments This was obviously made for the Cinerama (Todd-AO) screen, with the many travelogue scenes that are pretty but now read like a demonstration reel for a new (1950s) projection feature at Disney World. Many look out the window, stock shot sequences. OK, so they weren't stock shots but it sure felt like it.IMDb says that at the time, Cantinflas was the highest-paid movie star in world. Apparently popular everywhere but the U.S. I did not find him particularly engaging or appealing.There is nary a bit of humor or tension in the whole film. Each crisis is instantly solved by either money or a simple Land Ho!. In fact, some sequences drag on way too long, specifically the ones in Spain. (Maybe for the Cantinflas audience?) There is a bullfighting sequence that goes on for nearly 15 minutes where absolutely nothing is at stake and the movie stops completely dead.It was startling to go from the cinematic location shots to the obvious backlot first unit stuff. For such an epic, it felt quite claustrophobic.I liked and recognized many of the cameos. Apparently this was the film that started that trend.The music was lush and wonderful, and the end title sequence was quite engaging (a Saul Bass production). This version had the Edward R. Murrow intro which I had not seen before, and the Intermission, Entracte, and Exit Music, all of which I quite like in an epic film event.I kept mentally comparing this to some of the other big event films around the time, especially It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and The Great Race, both of which I enjoyed much more.One thing that made me laugh is that one Indian fell off his horse three times. It may have been three angles of the same shot.I did find it interesting that Fogg used a telescope much like the antique one I found I have. Now I wonder just how old it is? "},{"Title":"Too bad your spoilers missed it","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is really too bad that most people didn't see ATWIED in Todd-AO, because, especially the pan-and-scan version butchered the movie from cutting off half the picture to cutting out the scenes that perform such an important linking function to the narrative. The worst rape was the last shot before the end titles. (If you see the full-screen version you'll know what I mean) To tell the truth, having seen the original form, I cannot bear to watch what HBO, AMC and now TCM has done to this gem. I have the good fortune to have the new DVD version, which is the full Todd-AO version, I also have the good fortune to have a front screen projector which throws the film onto a 13 foot wrap-around screen fully restoring the Todd-AO experience. If you who are disillusioned with the movie can get a copy of the DVD, try to watch it on the biggest screen you can, as close up as possible, and perhaps you will see it as Michael Todd intended you to see it.  "},{"Title":"great nostalgia trip","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It hardly seems possible that I was in the fourth grade when this lavish spectacle came out.  I can still clearly recall the massive p.r. blitz and the hype surrounding its release. There was a special air of adventure around the movie that was more common in those days, when Hollywood was striving for  increasingly fabulous and star-loaded vehicles, to compete with television's increasing inroads into viewership. This special quality has been completely lost in these days when cinematic `product' is churned out in an undifferentiated stream. It's impossible to imagine, except in a few rare cases , that kind of aura surrounding a contemporary movie.When our family went to see it (yes, there was a time when families went to the movies together! yes, there was a time when there were movies suitable for the whole family to watch!) I remember being completely swept away by the spectacle, the romance, the sheer sweep of the thing. I was too young at the time to recognize many of the actors who put in the plethora of cameos, but it's fun to do so today. The movie's main theme quickly entered the popular music repertoire and became practically ubiquitous. The problem in evaluating the movie now is not to allow fond nostalgia to interfere with an objective assessment.**** minor spoiler ****  The movie is a tad dated, but not, I think, fatally so. It still stands up as a fast-paced adventure yarn with a touch of tongue-in-cheek comedy and a certain archness  (as witness the very final closing words in an aside to the audience)  bestowed by David Niven's strong lead. The chemistry between him and Cantinflas works well, and Robert Newton provides a good foil as Mr. Fix. Shirley Maclaine, however, is miscast. (For a real hoot, by the way, click on the `full cast and crew' link of this movie in IMDB, where each and every actor, including ALL the extras, is listed alphabetically. What a riot!)  One previous viewer complained about a lack of character development. Yes, and one doesn't go to a hardware store to buy hamburger, either.And the exotic locales have lost none of their appeal. One quibble would be the Spanish scenes, where Jose Greco's Flamenco routine and the overly long subsequent bullfight sequence impede the flow.There is no question that the super-wide screen format of Todd-AO, which used a special fish-eye lens for the scenery shots, and which was shown on a special curved screen in the theaters, was essential for the travelogue atmosphere of the flick. To see it on a  tv-sized screen degrades the movie's impact considerably. I had looked in vain for years for this to be broadcast or re-released in letterbox and I am happy to see TMC has done so as of August, '03 !  As predicted, the letterbox format, and the rejuvenated print, reinvigorates this nearly unique film, which I somewhat hesitantly venture to call a classic.  "},{"Title":"A Pure Moods Cd has more culturally diverse value","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" At a time where the standards for good movie making was apparently a lot lower than it is today, Michael Anderson's Around the world in 80 days was the biggest stinker I've seen since Shaft in Africa. Im just kidding. I NEVER saw Shaft in Africa. When I was watching this movie all I could picture was the director saying Wow, what a great location! This will look great on film! Now.... the actors have to do something don't they..... oh hell why don't they just dance or fight or something for a while. The cameras have an auto pilot right? Man! I just cant get over this location! A perfect example is the pointless cameo by Frank Sinatra. He's playing the piano in the saloon and he turns to look towards the camera and gives it a kinda sad face. And thats it for Frank. Done. No explanation, no reason. Just an excuse to put a big name in the cast. Its obvious that all the budget was used on traveling to and securing locations, and not on such things as acting lessons or props NOT made of rubber. You can watch this movie if you want to waste about 3 hours of your time. But personally, I think you'll learn just as much about other cultures if you go to the Taco Bell drive through. "},{"Title":"I Saw It in Cinerama.  It was kind of dull even then.","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you have a chance to read the Jules Verne novel, do so. It's a great story. It is so much more than this glitzy piece of hash. Because Cinerama was such a big deal (the literally put you inside the movie), scenes that were chosen were chosen for their size and excessiveness. Phileas Fogg and Passeportout find themselves in one tough situation after another. The science be damned. It's an Indian tribe or a train or a balloon. Everything is big and colorful. This is fine if there is a really nicely thought out story. Yes, I know he had to get around the world, but each step becomes an excuse for the camera. David Niven is a nice screen presence; he excludes sophistication. Of course, there is a raft of big stars along the way. Some of them work, some just do the cameo thing with very little to do. I'm sure that at the time many were dazzled by this new cinematic technique (which never really caught on). Like the I-max thing, at times it becomes really distracting. Seeing it on the small screen is even more ineffective. The only thing that has this going for it is that it is better than the abomination that features Jackie Chan. "},{"Title":"4 Stars","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was very effective because it instilled a sense of adventure and fun. Very often, movies try to sell an interesting setting. Here's an idea? If audiences like a good setting, why not put lots of settings. And it's one that the movie pulls off. From the jungles of India to the Wild West, to the bullfights of Spain this movie is packed with entertaining settings. The movie's central plot is fairly weak. The strength comes mainly from the series of adventures that come with each place they travel. Another strength of the movie is the gradual but dynamic changes within the characters. Phileas Fogg starts out an upper class man, who doesn't really have much reguard for anyone who's not rich or well-respected. As he goes around the world, we see him having a heightened appreciation of the world around him. His conversations shows he has figured out what the people who don't spend their time drinking tea and talking about royalty are like. The two noticeable ways he changes are his friendship for Pasepartue, in which he sacrifices his valuable time to save him, and the Princess in which he also sacrifices valuable time to save her. That is the main message of this movie. About a snob who's eyes are opened up. What's great is that this message is sent on a bite-sized level easy to absorb. The movie is also heightened by the clever injection of an antagonist who's right under his nose. Lastly, David Niven delivers a masterful performance. His snobbish personality and cleverness shine through in everything he says and every action he takes. Fogg's cleverness radiates through the major dramatic actions. There is consistently a good balance of fun and adventure along with the major plot going on. Don't forgot, the ensemble. I don't think any one movie has ever assembled such an infamous cast of extras. People ranging from Frank Sinatra to Cesar Romero to Meredith Dietrich to Kit Carson starred in this movie. The cast of extras is an example of the fine touches this movie uses to heighten an already successful book, making it a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Perhaps if he'd have done it 20 we'd have been spared this rubbish.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I came into this film with quite high expectations, having read the book and having a high regard for Niven's abilities on screen...however I was highly disappointed.The film is a contradiction in itself - it is too shallow and Fogg appears to leap from one place to the next without really invoking any feeling for where he's at; but it is also too slow and unfocused on what it does include (like that Spanish Flamenco dance that seems to go on for sooooo long).There is very little character development (and in a film that is three hours long you really do need it), so much so I was hoping that by the time Fogg got to America he would sell Princess and his annoying little Butler to the Indians in return for a script.True, the photography is outstanding, but a high budget and pretty pictures does not a good film make, as they say.  And the bizarre psychadelic credits at the end?  How does that conjure up a nice image of Victoriana?  Which leads me to conclude that the whole film was an utter mess, not knowing where it wanted to go, how long to stay there and how to communicate it, despite the pots of money that must have been thrown its way.  Even trying to place this picture in its original context, I still cannot see why it ended up quite like this.  Spotting the stars was fun, spotting the script was not.2/10  "},{"Title":"Needs some serious editing - oh, and a plot too while you're at it","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For a big, bloated Hollywood excuse to show 50 or 60 cameos it's not the worst thing on film. I enjoyed spotting all the stars, but the overall purpose for this movie escapes me.This movie is in need of some serious editing. There was no reason to show five minutes of a flamenco dancer or six minutes of bullfighting or eight minutes of the French countryside from above, etc. No doubt the footage is impressive in and of itself, but these scenes as they are do not belong in this movie. It's shocking, actually, how terribly put together it is.It has its moments, like the cargo ship sequence, and Shirley MacLaine is beautiful, and Cantinflas is sometimes amazing as the non-specific European sidekick (is he Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese?). But it is way too long and there are too many tedious sequences. "}{"Title":"Some Sequences Are Enjoyable & Satisfying, But An Uneven Movie Overall","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With a project this ambitious, it probably should not be much of a surprise if some of it works very well while other portions are less effective. It's the kind of grand-scale movie that is so often highly acclaimed in its own day, regardless of what weaknesses it might have. It does have some very satisfying and entertaining sequences, yet overall the quality is uneven.There's no question that much of Jules Verne's story readily lends itself to the screen, and a somewhat less indulgent production might have made for a pretty good movie. A number of the sequences just go on a little too long, neither advancing the story nor providing much in the way of entertainment or thematic content. The story in itself is an interesting one, and the film works best when it stays on track.It's fun, of course, just to watch and try to catch all the cameo appearances. A few of them seem to have been forced into the script just to boost the total, but others work well. It's also enjoyable to see the footage from Méliès's Trip to the Moon, although after that the prologue ends up dragging on a little too long.There's more than enough here to make it worth seeing, and it is usually enjoyable - it's just that it's too long and sometimes a little too much, and a less lavish approach would probably have made it better. "},{"Title":"Around the World in Eighty Clichés","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Jules Verne is often thought of today as a pioneering author of science- fiction, but his Around the World in 80 Days is a novel without any futuristic, sci-fi elements. Rather than attempting to predict the technology of the future, Verne uses the novel to celebrate the technology of his own day, especially the railways and steamships which were starting to make the world a smaller place. Even so, he still thought that his hero was attempting the impossible; it is said that his original title was Around the World in 100 Days, but he changed it when his publisher pointed out that a tour of the world in 100 days was quite feasible so Fogg would not have found any takers for his bet. The basic plot is quite a simple one. In order to win a bet with fellow- members of his London club Phileas Fogg, a Victorian English gentleman, sets out to travel around the world in eighty days, accompanied by his valet Passepartout. Along the way they have various adventures. Their principal antagonist is a Scotland Yard detective, Inspector Fix, who dogs their footsteps in order to arrest Fogg, whom he believes to have robbed the Bank of England. (In reality, Fogg is the victim of mistaken identity). Fogg's love interest is Princess Aouda, a beautiful Indian lady whom he rescues from the fate of being burned alive on her first husband's funeral pyre. The film contains two odd pieces of casting. In the fifties the Production Code still officially banned depictions of mixed-race romances and marriages, but in practice the censors tended to overlook romances between white men and light-skinned non-white or mixed-race women, provided those women were played by white actresses. (E.g. Jennifer Jones in Love Is a Many-Splendoured Thing, Joan Rice in His Majesty O'Keeffe, Ava Gardner in Bhowani Junction, and others). Hence the seemingly bizarre casting of a young Shirley MacLaine as Aouda, although she is not quite as unconvincing as an Indian as one might have expected. Hollywood's squeamishness about interracial love did not die with the Production Code; when the film was remade in 2004 Aouda was written out of the story altogether and Fogg's love interest became a Frenchwoman. The second strange piece of casting is that of the Mexican comedian Cantinflas as Passepartout, a Frenchman in the novel. (Mind you, this role was even more strangely cast in the 2004 version when Passepartout was played by Jackie Chan). The reason is that the producer Mike Todd was a great admirer of Cantinflas, and the plot of the novel was even rewritten to accommodate him. Comic mock-bullfights were a Cantinflas speciality, and in the film Fogg and Passepartout travel to Spain, a country they do not actually visit in the book, so that such a scene can take place. Real bullfighting is a nasty, bloody business, but in the hands of Cantinflas it becomes a genteel, balletic affair, a sort of tango between man and bull who clearly have a gentleman's agreement not to injure one another. Although little known in English-speaking countries, Cantinflas was a huge star in Mexico and elsewhere in the Spanish-speaking world, where he was given top billing ahead of David Niven. The film could perhaps be described as Around the World in 80 Clichés, because each country the travellers visit is represented by a sort of easily recognisable visual shorthand- flamenco and bullfights in Spain, fezzes in Egypt, elephants, sacred cows and turbans in India, rickshaws and pigtails in Hong Kong, kimonos and temples in Japan, cowboys and Indians in America. No expense was spared in making the film; the cast and crew actually did travel round the world, shooting the various scenes on location in the countries where they are set, and a large number of established stars, including the likes of John Gielgud, Marlene Dietrich and Frank Sinatra, have cameo roles or appear as extras. The film won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture. This caused some surprise at the time because it beat films as good as The Ten Commandments and Lust for Life. There seemed, however, to be a tradition in the fifties of giving Best Picture Oscars to light- hearted films (An American in Paris, Gigi) as well as to serious ones (From Here to Eternity, On the Waterfront, Ben-Hur), and Around the World in Eighty Days falls firmly into the former category. It was a big success at the box office, and the Academy judges were obviously impressed by the factors that made it so- its grand scale, its attractive Technicolor photography, Niven's suave, dapper performance as the hero, the antics of Cantinflas and its general sense of fun and adventure. Although it would not have been my personal choice as best film of 1956, I cannot regard it as an unworthy winner. 8/10Some goofs. When Fogg arrives back at his club at 8.45 pm on 21st September it is broad daylight outside, although it would be dark in Britain at this time in late September, and would have been even darker in 1872 when there was no British Summer Time. We see a San Francisco cable car, although these were not introduced until 1873, a year after the date the film is set. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Photographed, Star-Laden, Yet Ultimately Poorly Structured Epic","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Michael Anderson's film is justifiably memorable for its huge cast, its memorable photography (by Lionel Linden), its catchy theme tune (Victor Young), and its sheer brio. It remains producer Mike Todd's crowning achievement, a lasting legacy for a showman whose life was brutally curtailed by an air-crash in 1958. The epic is held together by two memorable performances from David Niven as Phileas Fogg and Cantinflas as his loyal servant Passepartout.Structurally speaking, however, AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS is a mess. There are some memorable individual sequences - for example, at the beginning when Fogg makes a bet in London's Reform Club with his fellow-members (Finlay Currie, Ronald Squire, Trevor Howard, Basil Sydney); or the brief exchange at the domestic services agency involving Fogg's former manservant (John Gielgud) and the proprietor (Noel Coward). Later on Fogg has a memorable exchange with the Indian Peninsular Railway Official (Ronald Colman), in which the two actors compete for who can speak their lines in the best RP (Received Pronunciation) accent. Once Fogg crosses to the United States, he has another memorable encounter with a Barbary Coast saloon pianist (Frank Sinatra).Yet such sequences are often separated by long stretches of film where nothing really happens Passepartout has a long bull-fighting sequence, watched by Fogg and Achmed Abdullah (Gilbert Roland), that becomes tedious; likewise the funeral sequence where Fogg saves Princess Aouda (Shirley MacLaine) from death seems to be included simply to show off director Anderson's love of local color. In the end the experience of watching the film becomes an exercise in identifying the stars playing cameo roles - for a film buff of the mid-twentieth century, this can be a fascinating experience, but perhaps not to most viewers' taste. Nonetheless, it's fun to see actors such as Robert Newton, Joe E. Brown, Peter Lorre, John Carradine, John Mills, Glynis Johns, Hermione Gingold and even Buster Keaton in cameo roles. If you blink too much, you might miss them.David Niven doesn't have too much to do in this film, other than to reinvent his familiar screen persona as an urbane man-about-town, perpetually faced with the responsibility of taming his manservant's excesses. Nonetheless he does his task competently.AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS is an exhausting experience to watch, but one that still communicates incidental pleasures, especially to viewers from an older generation. "},{"Title":"Just not as exciting as reading the book","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I read the book first and then saw the movie as an 11-year-old in 1957, in the theater in the original Todd-A-O format (ie., an alternative to Cinerama). Saw it again on TV last night as a geezer. In both instances, I though it was too long and boring. As a kid, I thought it was way too long between action sequences as featured in the book, to focus on extensive and incredibly long travelog scenes around the world. I guess the writers and director also thought it would be a pull to cram in as many cameos as they could of actors of the past and the then present. This also slowed down the plot in many instances. In the 1950s, most folks couldn't afford the high cost of foreign travel, and that might have been a reason for showing so many, and so long, just plain scenery scenes. But kids like me at the time probably couldn't care less. In the 2000's, adults interested in foreign travel have been there, done that; get on with the plot, please! And kids today still probably couldn't care less. In both instances, though, I thought the animated closing credits were fantastic! In 1957, before they started the movie, the theater manager came on stage and recommended that everyone stay for the closing credits. He was right! "},{"Title":"Don't worry, the movie's JUST 3 hours..","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The movie that won the Best Picture of 1956, beating out, of all things, Giant, is a somewhat bloated extravaganza (see It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World for another example of this) that crams celebrity after celebrity while making us try to pay attention to the plot, an adaptation of Jules Verne's novel.Speaking of Verne, for those of you who don't know who he is, we spend a rather needless 12 minutes of the first part of the movie exploring his life.. actually scratch that, the only thing we actually get to know is that he wrote 'Trip to the Moon, and we also get to see the 1902 film in it's entirety! Why, I'm not 100 percent sure, as the accompanying film has nothing at all to do with that film.Anyways, the actual film details Phinneas Fogg, played by David Niven and his resolvement of a little bet he and his mates make down at the Reform club. The bet? Yes, go around the world in 80 days! So accompanied with his faithful manservant, Passepartout (played by the fabulous Cantinflas) he proceeds to do so. We follow them as they go from one exotic country to another, and most of the cinematography is great, but this is mostly spot-the-celebrity here.. Is that Buster Keaton as a train conductor? Was that Frank Sinatra as a saloon pianist? Look! It's Marlene Dietrich! And on and on it goes. Probably the funniest thing here is seeing Shirley Maclaine play an Indian Princess. I mean what were they thinking? The whole movie is not bad, it's 3 hours, but it goes by quickly. And please stay for the credits, they're quite possibly the best part of the movie. "},{"Title":"David Niven is the best Fogg yet","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Yet this film has become a bit old for a matinée, and most of all a very long matinée. I haven't seen the new one with Jackie Chan so I don't know if it's an improvement. I've read somewhere that in the silent days there is 8 minutes versions. Early on there is a part taking place in Spain, It tends to sink this film, because it's too long and too pointless to the rest of the story. Feels like it's only there so Cantinflas can do a few comedic things as a bullfighter. David Niven was born to play this role as the snobbish brit around the world. Cantinflas, well after this and Pepe in 1960, guess he never could be a star in Hollywood. Shirley Maclaine, well she is just there looking oriental, not asked to do too much. (She became much better later). And Robert Newton as inspector Fix, is that overacting and mugging and screen-chewing? Sadly his last movie role. A few notes about the cameos Ronald Colman according to a rumor got a Cadillac for his 15 seconds role. John Carradine is actually funny as the as an American who hates snobbish Britts. George Raft is also funny as a bar-owner, who cannot stand that they look at Marlene Dietrich, and Frank Sinatra Plays a piano! for 5 seconds! And Red Skelton steeling food. And the one and only round Robert Morley! as the most pompous members of the Reform club. Also fun was that Mr Fogg expected a newly ironed newspaper at his club!The Next Mike Todd Extravaganza planned was according to the book Don Quixote! But as we know was never made! "},{"Title":"I second the motion.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A previous commentator closed by saying, One of the most satisfying films ever made. I could not agree more. Michael Todd was far from a nice man, but his contribution to world cinema was assured with this one obra maestra.I saw it a couple of times in the 1950s as a boy and walked on air afterward. When the Victor Young score was issued on 33 r.p.m., it was my second classic record. AROUND THE WORLD was re-released in 1968 for theatres which did not have the Todd-AO sound system or the wrap-around screen, so ten years on I went (same spring as 2001) wondering what my mature response would be . . . and had my breath taken away. The romance! I returned on closing night a week later unable to let it go.There are a very few movies I refuse to view on the small screen. AROUND THE WORLD is one of them, so accordingly I have not seen it in over thirty years, but if I do it will be boyhood again for a few hours.  "},{"Title":"Not what I once remembered","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I was in highschool in 1956 I went with my friend to see Around the World in 80 Days on the big screen in a theater that had a really big screen not a little multiplex screen. We were really thrilled with its' big screen, big budget lavishnous.   This afternoon I saw it again after 44 years.  I saw it on my 35 inch TV on one of those premium stations but it was not in widescreen and half the picture was missing.   Also what might have been funny 44 years ago was not very funny anymore.    That overly long bullfight scene almost put me to sleep.    I think that back in those days producers thought that longer meant better.  A good editor could have turned this from a boring overly long movie into a nice tight 2 hour movie.   I couldn't wait for it to end.   Maybe someday a DVD will come out in the original aspect ratio and I will rent it. "},{"Title":"Still interesting, but very dated now...","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this film in a theater when it first came out, and enjoyed it immensely, but then I was only 8 years old at the time. I saw it in a theater just ten years later, and was surprised to see how dated it already looked. First of all, it has to be seen in it's entirety to be fully appreciated, and all later releases eliminated the silent movie prequel, and most of the butler's exciting bike ride through London. Not until the VHS version, and now DVD can we fully appreciate the film again.Basically an excuse to make a widescreen epic, with the new gimmick of major star cameos, the plot is totally tongue in cheek with clichés throughout. Cantinflas is totally, politically incorrect today, but exactly what the audiences expected during the racial stereotyping of that era.A curious blend of location footage, and studio sets, with occasional strange visual shorthand, the movie still looks good today although the plot and casting reeks of standard (cliche) Hollywood formula.One of the lasting highlights is Victor Young's fine music score which made a great LP record, and sounds even better on a CD. The widescreen process, Michael Todd's own TODD-AO, exhibits it's early weaknesses until it was perfected later (lots of distortion in places); and some shots show a rather poor light distribution (the opening shot of the British band marching across the screen, and many of the bullfight scenes).An interesting nostalgia trip down memory lane...thanks Michael Todd and rest in peace... (His last film, he died in a plane crash 2 years after it's release).Update October 2010. After purchasing and reviewing the 2004 2 disc set, I have developed a more forgiving attitude. First, seeing the entire film as originally released and in wide screen makes it much more appealing than all the cut versions through the years. And the passage of time has made the original conception much more apparent and admirable. Good job Mike Todd...RIP. "},{"Title":"Movie Within a Movie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched this movie as a Saturday matinée (rerelease) as a kid and will tell you it was funny, but not as funny as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World which came almost a decade later with its Cinerama screenings. Cantiflas was a big Mexican star and I remember his name being plastered all over the place in the Mission District in San Francisco. His performance in this movie was excellent and should have been nominated for an Oscar. He did win a Golden Globe for best actor.Watching it again about forty years later was still fun, but this time I was watching for cameos and the locations it was shot. The movie is an example of great family entertainment from the 50s (saw it the first time in the 60s). Jules Verne's imaginative story is pretty much straight-forward. I saw it on widescreen DVD which made it a real treat. The biggest treat was at the end for me. I have been reading about the genius and first great title designer Saul Bass and his capture of Around the World in 80 Days was absolutely awesome to watch. It's a movie within a movie. "}{"Title":"Slowish but worthy travelogue....","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Yah, I agree this is too long, too slow in parts, and the cameos are a bit much--Sinatra at the piano, Andy Devine on the boat, etc-kinda distracting if you aren't paying close attention. I enjoyed it just the same.Where else can you see greats like Cedric Hardwicke or Ronald Colman- from the India segment, or Robert Newton(who I had forgotten was in this) for that matter? It's great. Movies like this are meant to just be enjoyed, ankle deep but miles wide.Things to enjoy-Ronald Colman/Hardwicke/Victor McLaglen, Red Skelton, Philip Ahn. The great scenery from Spain, India, Japan, etc. The collapsing Bridge. The balloon segment, grabbing snow from the mtn top, etc. All fun.Things that don't work so well-well, it IS too slow, it could have used some tightening up, Fogg is basically a cartoony character, and the plot is just a linear travelogue. I liked Niven and the plotting, but--if it hasn't grabbed you by 15 minutes, then it ain't gonna get any better for you, for that is all the movie consists of-3 hours of it.Shirley Mclaine as an Indian Princess--that takes some stretching of the imagination too, though she is certainly a looker at that age.Enjoy this for what it's worth, certainly it's NOT better than other 1956 classics-10 Commandments, the Searchers, etc--but it isn't bad.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"A big, fun movie","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I first saw this on video as a little kid and immediately fell in love with it--the locations, art direction, cinematography and music really go a long way towards making this a quality film.Some wonder why it earned the Best Picture award for 1957, and I think the answer is just in comparing it to the movies up against it Friendly Persuasion, Giant, The King and I, and The Ten Commandments. I've only seen the latter two and can easily understand why Around the World took the statue. The best thing about The King and I was Yul Brynner (and he did get an Oscar for that), and The Ten Commandments is just too over-the-top and hammy in its performances to belong in the same league as Around the World, in my opinion.The book this is based on is also a fun read, from France's best-known science fiction writer Jules Verne. In the book there was no balloon ride or visit to Spain, which is a major change from the movie, and the other notable change was the omission in the film of Passepartout's encounter with a Mormon preacher as they crossed America on the train. But such changes aside, the spirit of the book was captured very well.My favorite moment Red Skelton's cameo in a San Francisco saloon. Fun for all ages, this movie is. A nice charming gem from the end of Hollywood's golden age.  "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Adventure","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the Jules Verne novel of the same name, the movie is an enjoyable adventure that the whole family can watch. David Niven put on a wonderful performance as wealthy Phileas Fogg, the staunchly English adventurer who wagers with his friends at the Reform Club that he can travel around the world in 80 days - not an easy task in 1872, when the movie is set. From that point on, we follow Fogg's adventures with his valet Passepartout (Cantinflas) as they battle against time to win the wager.There's a good use of humour throughout the movie. In particular, I enjoyed several scenes which demonstrate the English insistence on tea time, whatever the circumstances. While perhaps not culturally accurate, the movie also tries to give a flavour of the places that Fogg visits on his journey. So we see a Spanish bullfight, an Indian religious procession, a Chinese dragon dance, an American election and a fight against the redskins during a train trip from San Francisco to New York. All in good fun, and all enjoyable. There are also a number of cameos included (Buster Keaton, Frank Sinatra, John Gielgud among others) so keep an eye on who you're watching.The movie did slow to a crawl in a few places, mind you (I particularly think of the length of time we had to watch Fogg and Passepartout doing nothing in particular in the balloon.) However, overall the movie was quite enjoyable, if a little long at almost three hours. I don't know if this is an integral part of the movie or was just included on the version I saw, but this was worth watching if only for the first ten minutes or so, in which a narrator spoke about Jules Verne and then narrated the wonderful movie from the early 1900's based on Verne's story A Trip To The Moon as a lead-in to ... 80 Days.7/10 "},{"Title":"The name Cantinflas always fascinated me!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  1956 - what a time of freedom and crystal clean living (or was it?) I saw this film at its London premiere in 1956 and then a few weeks later with the school. It was one of the biggest movie events up until that time. A mega-colossal production that truly lived up to expectations.Mike Todd never set out to make a classic film. Entertainment was his game and ATWIED achieved just that - WITH just about the who's who of Hollywood at the time! It could even be said that Toddy himself gave birth to the cameo with this film.It remains today the ultimate adventure trip, a cinematic beacon just dying to be crucified at the hands of someone like John McTiernan or maybe Tim Burton who with $200 million at their disposal surely come up with yet another mind-numbingly pathetic remake.  What about Eric Idle as Phileas Fogg and maybe Heath Ledger in Cantinflas' old role. At least Sir John Gielgud is still around to lend the thing some class!Superb childhood memories accompany this film and even for those who have never seen it, here is a flick will still wipe the floor with most anything you're likely to see at your local multi-screen complex! "},{"Title":"Good adventure, but too dated for modern times.","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Around the World in 80 Days is a nice globetrotting romp, but it loses its excitement in a world where now people can travel the globe in mere hours. David Niven plays an excellent Phileas Fogg and Cantinflas is a refreshing new face showing off his Chaplin-esque abilities as Passepartout. As with many films of the 50's, Around the World in 80 Days is more of a spectacle than a film.  Producer Todd and director Mike Anderson seem more focused on extravagance rather than plot.  However, how much can be done when the goal is to follow Mr. Fogg through his wager-instigated journey? Overall, the film is a good one to save for a rainy day.  Some aspects of the film are just unnecessary, such as Passepartout's seemingly unending bullfight or the Spanish flamenco dance. But these scenes are hardly a bother, especially with the neverending list of cameo appearances.  Just playing spot the star is worth a viewing of the film.  "},{"Title":"Travelogue - the first in the world!?","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well, this film simply is a world wind balloon ride, nothing like your modern day whilrwind baloney rides and that's what I enjoyed most about it it's simplicity and quiet elegant charm. It's more like a travelogue that treks the globe highlighting the wonders of the world and the stereotypical elements and characters. But then, right there you have to check yourself when you critique it like that, because if you're going to fail to place it in context and in its time, one could even fault Jules Verne's original work for being banal. So, let's just say that the film through no fault of its own, but rather because of the whole conceptualisation of stereotypes and expected ideas pertaining to the world we live in (e.g. no surprises regarding bisons in America, circus troupes in japan, bullfights in Spain, etc.) that we have now kind of inevitably render a sense of dated backwardness to the film. Yet, let's contextualise it, for technical aspects of the film were superb, the use of set design was phenomenal for one. To recreate on an epic scale the junks of China, the bullrings of Spain and to pat down even the costumes of the 19th Century Colonial era took great effort. Sure the film was considered big budget material with a $6 million budget but hey, they had to pay for Frank Sinatra, Buster Keaton, a made-up Shirley Maclaine (spray tans didn't even exist then...) and all the celebrity cameos didn't they! Also, even though I was watching a poor quality transfer version (not quite the 1992 Disney re-transfer so hyped about), I found myself gripped by the way in which the script stayed relatively true to the concept of Phileas Fogg (the pedantic timekeeper in true colonial gentleman form), Passpertout (of whom Cantinflas the actor really stole the scenes in this film) and really brought some engaging scenes and panoramic views (not literally for me of course) unseen in film at the time. The film also serves as quite the time machine-like portal for me now that I've watched it in 2005, where just analysing how films were made and structured (the naievete of it all, etc) in 1956 is as intriguing as watching the content itself. Truly, its main flaw is that it watches as much like a modern day travelogue, simply glossing over the intrinsic sense of adventure and threat or thrills even in the most parts, that really glued the Verne original. There was the sense that the storyline could have better been adapted to screenplay such as in the scene where they rescued the Indian Princess. It could have been filmed to be more exciting, as was the part where Fogg too easily uses deduction to merely relink with Passpertout when it could have been done much more accurately and with twists. Nonetheless, the best part of this film is that inasmuch as it may not be the perfect adaptation or as entertaining, or even worthy of being compared flawlessly with the original book, it still retains the fundamental touch. What is that? Well, as a fan of the classic, I've always felt Around the World in 80 Days was the definitive guide to being a traveller, whether a universal one, a comfortable one, a backpacker or a thrill-seeker. No matter how one strayed away or lacked story elements, or over dramatised it (i.e. the Pierce Brosnan Mini-Series version), it could never be badly done because it is a story that is based on the universal fact of travel and adventure. "},{"Title":"Who's Driving the Train????","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It only seems fit that they got Buster Keaton to conduct the train in Around the World in 80 Days. The little General rides again as Buster Keaton is honored with a cameo as his famous role as the train conductor in his early silent film THE GENERAL. "},{"Title":"Jules Verne Would Be Very Proud","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  David Niven is given a bet that challenges him to go around the world in eighty days. He decides to wager his entire fortune, just to prove that he can do it. He sets out in a hot air balloon with his new butler (Cantinflas). They get to Spain instead of Marseilles, and Cantinflas finds himself in a bullfight to win tickets for their destination. But Robert Newton is on their trail because the bank of London has been robbed and he thinks Niven did it and is trying to escape.Niven and Cantinflas get in other adventures, including rescuing a princess (Shirley MacLaine) and saving a train from hostile Indians.Niven plays his role with great ease. He knows what he's doing and he does it well. Cantinflas is the comic relief in this movie. And he's quite funny. All in all Around the World in 80 Days is one of the best adventures you'll ever have. It won five Oscars including Picture, Adapted Screenplay, Cinematography, Editing, and Score. It was nominated for Director, Art-Direction, and Costume Design. "},{"Title":"Part Travelog, Part Movie","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  WARNING These comments may reveal portions of the film's plot.With David Niven as Phineas Fogg, you will find that this version of the Jules Verne story is almost as broad as the subject of the film -- around the world.As is often said, they don't make them like this anymore. According to the brief description in AMC's viewer guide, the film was shot on location in 13 countries with 75,000 costumes and 70,000 extras -- and it shows! Look at the list of credited and uncredited actors in the IMDB and you'll be hard pressed to find a film with more leading and character actors. Just spotting the faces of the classic actors in the film is a game in itself.Another aspect that will show dramatically is that some sequences are incredibly camp -- they are obviously cut from travelog movies of the day. And in many cases where the footage was shot new, it still has that flair.Where the film succeeds best is when it goes for the comedic bits. Watch the scene in the saloon out west, where Mr. Fogg's valet, Passepartout runs into Red Skelton as a drunk while listening to Frank Sinatra play the piano!Overall, most will find the film a bit long. The many scenes that are shot from the point of view of the actors simply watching the scenery go by drag the film. Even some of the action scenes run long. When Passepartout must fight a bullfight early in the film, the fight goes on and on and on. Hang on for the funny bits in the film -- and the cameos -- and you can't go wrong. Enjoy the scenery! "},{"Title":"Delightful and Wonderful!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most delight comedies ever made. I totally agree with one comment that says Around the World in 80 Days like a fine wine, it gets better with age. Featuring fine performances from David Nivven, Cantinflas, and the rest of the cast in this wonderful movie about a man and his servant who try and travel around the world in just eighty days. This movie oddly enough was 175 minutes long and in all honestly I didn't believe that for second when I first heard because it really only seemed like 88 minutes. One of the most fun, wittiest, and delightful films of all time and that's coming from a person who adores film and has seen plenty in his (my) day. I do not recall the last time I had so much fun while watching a movie, it's basically just one big fun fest! The cinematography and photography are unarguably some of the best ever in any film. How anyone could call this film boring is beyond me. It is fun, witty, delightfully written, directed, and as I already mentioned acted. The score is also a work of genius. See this film, then see it again. If you hate it, well, then you need to lighten up a bit (no offense intended).Final Grade ***** (out of 5) "}{"Title":"Cantinflas Saves This Trip Around The World","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a bit dated by now, but still not a bad film to watch. It seems like more of a travelogue than anything else, at this point. Frankly, at three hours and being a mid-50s film, I thought it might be too slow in too many spots but that was not the case. Only the bullfighting scene went on too long. The rest kept my interest.David Niven gets top billing but the real star of the show is Cantinflas, a Spanish actor who, to my knowledge, only made it big in this movie.....at least in this country. He is very likable and entertaining. The only thing is he is not always easy to understand. I used English subtitles a few times when he spoke.Niven played his normal stiff-neck Brit role. Thank goodness we don't see those, I say, old bean characters from GB anymore. However, I have always appreciated the British vocabulary, so much more refined than here in North America. Shirley MacLaine was so young I didn't recognize her. Of course, she made it difficult to spot her playing a brown-skinned Indian princess.In all, decent entertainment but one that might bore a lot of people today, which is probably why they did a re-make. I haven't seen the re-make, but I'll bet it isn't as good as this movie. "},{"Title":"Fun But Much Too Long","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Adaptation of Jules Verne's novel about a Victorian Englishman (David Niven) who bets that with the new steamships and railways he can do what the title says.What is most interesting about this film is that it is science fiction. Today (2015) it seems historical, but at the time the story was written it was quite a feat to circle the earth in 80 days. Now, it can be done in 80 hours (or less).The film has some down sides, notably the length (over three hours). This could probably be helped by cutting the intermission and the Trip to the Moon segment. There is also the strange casting of Peter Lorre as Japanese (though this is far from the first time). "},{"Title":"Around The World in 80 Days is rather long but colorful. I could see it playing in the background of a little party.","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the World in 80 Days is the 1956 adaptation of the Jules Verne novel of the same name. We follow the eccentric, particular, and peculiar Victorian gentleman, Phileas Fogg. By particular, I mean, he orders that his breakfast be served at 837, not 836 or 838, and that his toast be precisely 87 degrees. As with most gentlemen around that time he has a valet to help him with his day to day tasks but because he is so difficult he's gone through half a dozen in five months. His latest valet is an earnest, Spanish acrobat named Passepartout. Now, the journey begins when Fogg bets his fellow Reform Club members that he can go around the world in 80 days. Hence the name. They visit places like Madrid, Pakistan, Thailand, Japan and it was filmed on location in many of these places.At 167 minutes, this is a long movie and it feels like it. When the group is in Madrid, Passepartout takes part in a really lengthy bull fight. Being from 1956, before I saw it I anticipated a musical. That would explain the length, I thought. That's one of those things about musicals around that time. There is always a song followed by an extended dancing sequence. Not that there is anything wrong with dancing but, you know, after a while, let's just keep the movie going. But Around the World in 80 days is not a musical. Instead of dancing sequences, they have parades which are used to showcase a given culture. This is something interesting about this movie too. It provides an opportunity for the 1950's audience to see cultures around the world. There are lots of very relaxing shots with the camera mounted on the front of a train as it passes through the landscape.Now, this is 1956 after all, and being 1956 you have the problematic racism and sexism that you'd expect. For example, when the group goes through the jungle somewhere in India, they come across a group of cannibals who are sacrificing an Indian Princess, played by the ever so Indian Shirley McClaine. When the groups goes through America, they encountered a group of the Sioux or as the movie calls them violent red skins. It was one of those movies that I just had to say it was a different time.Something that struck me as odd was the massive number of cameos. If you look at the wikipedia page for this movie there is a whole section devoted to just the cameos. Frank Sinatra for example is a piano player in a Wild West saloon. He's on screen for maybe a second and has no lines. He just turns around and smiles. I only recognized a couple of people but I'm sure it would be fun if I knew more of them.The acting overall is good. I liked David Niven as Fogg. He is persnickety but at the same time endearing. Passepartout is a really nice character too. He's like a Spanish acrobatic Charlie Chaplin. The whole tone of this movie is that of a lighthearted adventure.Would I recommend Around the World in 80 days? Because it is colorful and long, I can see it projected on a wall to be a backdrop for a party. I once went to a club where Rapmania the Roots of Rap was projected over the bar. Rapmania is a hip hop concert from the mid-nineties. While it was projected on the wall, current music was being played over the speakers. Nobody was really watching the movie unless they were using as a break from conversation or if they were sitting at the bar. It served as a sort of visual stimulation. On it's own though, because it is rather racist and sexist and very long, I wouldn't really recommend it. "},{"Title":"1956 Disney Verne and Todd Verne","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Time has dulled my memory of this film. Bought the restored DVD a few weeks ago and began watching it last night. And it is one of those odd films that was great in 1956 when travel was new and the audience unsophisticated. What struck me today is now simple it really is. Some locations, London, Paris and Spain are gorgeous, plus local to Europe. The music is grand, and it works like a charm. As soon as the film departs Spain, we enter (a) Hollywood backlot sets and (b) traveloge territory where all too long we are treated to gorgeous, and dull, camera shots of distant countries while Niven and Company are off screen. Only Europe and America are really used in real-time sets. The rest is amazingly artificial. Now, I love Cantinflas who is a wonderful clone of Chaplin in this film - blood cousin to the Tramp. Niven is precise and perfect. MacClaine is rather wasted and dear Robert Newton is a treasure. Victor Young's score is ideal. BUT SINCE WE ARE on Verne in 1956, turn the page to 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA and we have Verne done RIGHT!!! Disney's best action film ever, and far superior to Todd's globe trotting epic. So watch this 1956 memory with some careful planning. Be prepared, your memory may be better off to keep without spoiling it. "},{"Title":"It comes off like a 9-hour travelogue,  but maybe it's something you may want to see once.","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As I watched Around the World in Eighty Days tonight, I noticde that it is a beautiful and spectacular film. The first time I tried seeing it was on a 25 TV--this time it's on a 58 one and the beauty is much more obvious. Too bad I couldn't have seen this on the big screen using the amazing 70mm cameras. And, if they brought it back to the theaters, I might be tempted to see it that way--even though the film does have many shortcomings.I've got to be honest here, I tried watching this film years ago and gave up on it. The only reason I am watching it through to the end now is that I would like to eventually see all the Best Picture winners--even the incredibly overblown ones. This brings me to a pet peeve I have. I HATE films that feature a bazillion cameos. I find that often the plethora of stars tend to get in the way of the story and often soak up a huge portion of the budget--leaving precious little for writing. Some of the stars in the film are very international in flavor and I never would have recognized them the first time I tried to see this movie 25 years ago. Now, after having seen and reviewed a ridiculous number of films, I was actually excited by some of these casting decisions. Catinflas, though completely unknown in America did some marvelous little comedies in Mexico--and he is the other reason I chose to try watching the movie again. I was to see Fernandel (who also made many wonderful films--in France and Italy). But, I was also maddened because his cameo as a hack driver was so short and unfunny--completely wasting his wonderful comedic talents. And this trend continued for several more of the cameo--wonderful actors who really have nothing to do and are pretty much wasted.At least 30 minutes could have and should have been cut from the film. I am NOT against long films...if they are well-paced. Too many times in this movie, however, scenes just unfold way too slowly--such as when the balloon is going over the Alps. A VERY LONG period of nice music and shots of the balloon are shown--when it really seemed interminably long. This reminded me of the major problem with Star Trek The Motion Picture--too many unnecessarily long shots which killed the film's momentum. The bullfighting scene is also one that goes on and on and on and could have been 1/3 as long. Many other such examples followed.So is it a great film? No. I agree with another reviewer who felt the movie got an Oscar for Best Picture simply because it was such a spectacle--not because it was especially good. It's one of the weaker Best Picture films of the era, in my opinion. However, I must give the film its due. The movie is beautiful in every way--great costumes, amazing locations and sets, breathtaking cinematography and a scope that cannot really be matched. But, it is also very, very , very long with poor pacing, suffers from an overuse and wasting of cameos and just isn't that interesting. Catinflas was a very gifted and funny man--here you don't get a great sense of that at all. Likewise, David Niven was a very fine actor--but here he's more like set dressing and you don't get to see him at his best.Before I conclude, let's talk about the cameos. With all the many cameos, why did they pick Shirley MacLaine to play an Indian princess?! Talk about bizarre casting! And why have Frank Sinatra in a cameo that takes two seconds and he just turns and smiles at the camera?! I don't get it. And what was with John Carradine?! Even for him he over-acted horribly. "},{"Title":"Adventure, Colorful and Long.","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Lots of money, effort, and publicity on display in this story of an fastidious British gentleman, David Niven, who manages to use the technology of the Victorian era to travel, well, around the world in 80 days, with sidekick Cantinflas, and picking up Princess Shirley MacLaine along the way. Producer Michael Todd put everything he had into it.It was a tremendous splash at the time using a special projective technique, plenty of music that went into a best-selling album, and the face of every recognizable actor of every nationality imaginable. There are theatrical knights in abundance. Let's see. There's Sir John Gielgud, Sir Cedric Hardwicke, Sir John Mills, and Sir Frank Sinatra.Now, fifty-six years after its release, it's hard to see what all the fuss was about. It's BIG of course, but it more or less had to be. What was happening in 1955 to the movie industry? It was being replaced by television and studios were desperate for novelty, something the audience couldn't find on their small black and white sets at home -- in this case, a MAGNIFICOLOR extravaganza in TODD-A-OMG-VISION! Look -- there's Marlene Dietrich! And that's the guy, what's his name, the sergeant from that John Ford cavalry movie! Gosh! The problem with the flick is that it's really designed to elicit gasps from a family audience. Not laughs, not thrills, not clenched teeth. You're supposed to sit back as at a travelogue and marvel at the sights of a Spanish bullfight, in which a clumsy Cantinflas taunts a bull while trying to hold his pants up (ha ha), and a painted elephant in India, and all kinds of definitely retrograde stereotypes -- bullfights, flamenco dancers (good ones), thugee, suttee, jabbering Chinese, bowing Japanese, a steamboat that has to destroy itself to provide its own fuel, hostile American Indians attacking a train, a rescue by the cavalry. It all must have been thrilling if you'd never seen it before, but in order not to have seen it before you'd have to be no more than fifteen years old.There are some smiles. Here's the one that got to me. The opening scene is in one of those stuffy, tradition-ridden English gentleman's clubs. The figures are mostly motionless. The gentlemen sit playing whist or reading newspapers. No one is speaking. A cat pads through the room. And one gentleman complains to a steward, Can't you stop that animal from stomping around? I wish there had been more jokes or physical gags. I wish it wouldn't depend so heavily on a viewer's ability to be astounded by all the production values and the innumerable cameos. Want to see a more entertaining movie along the same lines? See The Great Race. "},{"Title":"Dated Production","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When this film was first released, it had publicity galore. It got everyone talking about it, and its p/r campaign was full of flashy marketing. It's flamboyant producer, Mike Todd, dominated the spotlight, and his then marriage to Elizabeth Taylor helped to buoy this massive enterprise.Unfortunately, the picture hasn't aged very well. When first viewed on the huge, pristine Tood A-O screen (specially set up in key cinemas) the overall visual effect was really quite thrilling. Now that the original screening technology is gone, the film is revealed to be more of an elaborate travelogue with added dramatic touches.Cantinflas doesn't come off all that well, probably due to the language barrier. What foreign audiences saw in him may be based on their knowledge and appreciation of his foreign films.I'll never forget the brazen quality of the film's Oscar celebration, with Todd renting out Madison Square Garden. A particular episode with Mike and Liz on a carriage-go-round, tossing out cake to the worshipful attendees, tends to stick in my memory bank of absurd past moments.Still, all these are side line items; the real thing is the film, and on that score it now rates a grade of B-. "},{"Title":"Todd Goes the Whole Hog","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" On a bet, 19th century British gentleman David Niven (as Phileas Fogg) and his Mexican servant Cantinflas (as Passepartout) circumnavigate the globe in eighty days. During the interminable running time, they rescue Indian impersonator Shirley MacLaine (as Princess Aouda) from a deadly traditional rite; and, they defend themselves against Robert Newton (as Mr. Fix), who thinks Niven stole some money.Michael Todd definitely makes this film a TODD-AO spectacle. The expense shows. But, there is no strong, sustaining story or comedy. The main interest could be cameo-spotting. Don't pass the bar scene, with Marlene Dietrich, George Raft, Red Skeleton, and Frank Sinatra. Alas, you won't see Bing Crosby, Greta Garbo, or Elizabeth Taylor. The award-winning Victor Young soundtrack music is a major strength.***** Around the World in Eighty Days (10/17/56) Michael Todd  Cantinflas, David Niven, Robert Newton, Shirley MacLaine "},{"Title":"Great sets","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The set pieces are great, the actors seemed to have a lot of fun and I'm sure it sounded like a lot of fun on paper. Don't get me wrong, this movie has classic written all over it. Still it doesn't really cut it.Why that is? While putting a more or less emotionless character (here a British one to fit the cliché) next to a lively one (again more or less a cliché) is a good idea, it doesn't work as well. The British character is just too emotionless and while they might have had great fun shooting the whole thing, it doesn't translate 100% on screen. It's a better sketch show, where some skits(countries) work and some just don't.While the twist at the end is neat, it is not convincing and has many flaws. I can't go into them, without spoiling, just don't try to over think the whole thing and then it's quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Truly a must-see movie","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Never has a movie that does not depict its own times (in this case, the 1950s) had more to do with them. Watching this movie - which, to the best of my memory, I had never actually seen all the way through before - I was reminded of the lavishly-filmed travelogues that they used to show in movie theaters between pictures back in the 1950s. (World travel in those days was a LOT more expensive than it is now, so for most people travelogues were the only way they were going to see the world.) And that is what this movie is. The plot, which everyone knew, is strictly incidental, a framework on which to hang one magnificently filmed travelogue after the next. In that sense, it was a very original movie, and certainly deserved the Oscar for best picture, though the acting is at best incidental. This was a triumph of movie technology and inventive vision, not a dramatic work.One could, I suppose, quibble about the treatment of Verne's text. Casting a Mexican comedian as the very French valet Passepartout did strike me as strange, for example. Sometimes he even forgot that he was playing a Frenchman and said Señor rather than Monsieur. And, of course, with his accent, which he made no attempt to disguise, no one was going to mistake him for French. Since Fernandel has one of the many cameos in this movie, I thought that he might have made a more authentic choice, as he was not just French but a great actor, both in drama and in comedy. Still, this movie is just based on Verne's novel, not meant to be a faithful adaptation of it. Since Passepartout's nationality is only incidental to the action, it didn't really matter that he was so clearly not French. The same would apply to the other infidelities to the novel. The actual purpose of Verne's novel, however, not just this one but most of them, was to provide adventure-coated geography and history lessons to young boys. Verne's books were sold as educational, and Verne did do a lot of research for them. (He wasn't always good at making that research interesting; the long technical descriptions of underwater flora and fauna in 20000 Leagues under the Sea make for slow reading even for an adult.)In that sense this movie very much captures the spirit of the novel, even if it changes parts of it it provides a VERY entertaining way of getting to know the visual wonders of the world. This is truly a picture to be seen in a theater with a big screen, though. I enjoyed it on my TV, but kept thinking how much more overwhelming it would have been in a theater with a wide screen.Treat yourself to it. It's pure entertainment, and very beautifully so.--------------------I saw it again on TCM today. The real star of this movie is the cinematography. Some of the shots and camera-work are really breathtaking. "}{"Title":"the Oscar must have been won for how the film plays on the BIG screen","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mike Todd's epic travelogue must have looked spectacular on huge screens of old, but on my 42 inch widescreen TV it was just okay. Yes I've seen the film before but only in pieces or cut up never had I seen it widescreen before, not had I seen in complete in at least a decade.. For the most part its an empty movie. Only Caniflas as Fogg's man servant has any real character since his is really the only person given anything to do.The film lurches from spectacle to spectacle with only the odd moment to get to know the characters. Its one of those movies that really makes you go how did this win Best Picture?. Then again if I saw this in a theater with a huge screen I would have been floored...or not. Worth a look for the scenery and because it is a good film-though far from great. "},{"Title":"Spot the cameo in 5 Oscar winning epic.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the wonderful writing from Jules Verne, Around the World in Eighty Days is just shy of three hours, this was my first ever visit to the film and my reaction is mainly positive, tho tempered with a small sense of unfulfillment.Phileas Fogg takes a wager from his fellow London club members that he can't circle the globe in 80 days, this it should be noted is 1872 where transport was not of the fast and dynamic variety. Fogg and his trusty servant Passepartout, set off on a journey that brings many adventures, and many humorous scrapes. They meet a wonderful array of characters and travel on many forms of transport, it is in short a magical journey.The production here from Mike Todd is gargantuan, the sets are incredible, the multiple locations befit the multi cast of actors that grace the film have fun playing spot the star in this one. The costumes and the score are spot on, while Lionel Lindon's cinematography rightly won the gold award because it's lush and cloaks the delightful story with a number of treats for the eyes. David Niven is perfect as Fogg, whilst Cantinflas as Passepartout is perfect foil for Fogg's staid stiff upper lippery.Yet in spite of it's obvious beauty the film is a touch overlong, some scenes are padded far too much when surely a shorter take would of made it's mark more than enough? I was surprised by the ending being so short and sweet, yes, sure it's fitting, but after sitting thru just under 3 hours of film you are not being unreasonable to expect a grand fanfare type of ending. Still, it doesn't take away from this being a good cinematic achievement. As to if it stands up to repeat viewings? I'll have to see on that one..... 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Overblown, but fun","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This leisurely paced epic is jocular and is a cameo-appearance-watcher's heaven.  It's all a bit too top-heavy to support a rather simple story.  But Cantinflas is a lot of fun as Passepartout, and Robert Newton is marvelous as Niven's nemesis, Fix.  Shirley MacLaine lends her beauty and wit to the proceedings as Princess Aouda.  The film seems to stop for spectacular cinematography and the cameos at times.  But, it is still beautiful and enjoyable.But, speaking of Newton and MacLaine, I must take IMDB to task for this one although I recognize they are merely copying from the film's cast list.  Still, when one transforms from one medium to another, some judgment must be exercised.  In order for the uninitiated to find out that Newton and MacLaine (two of the film's four major characters) are even in the film, one must click on the blue more button for additional cast members, One normally does not bother to do this because all one normally sees are credits for the likes of Jennifer Baliniczewski, Haley Tiresius, Forrest J. Ackerman, Zvi Frischman, and Skip Jackson.  Please IMDB, bring Newton and MacLaine up front with Niven and Cantinflas.  The movie's top stars should be featured at the top.  Then the rest can be listed alphabetically. "},{"Title":"The Days of Showmanship","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mike Todd's Around the World in 80 Days may be the quintessential epic of the fifties.  Designed as a spectacular show as well as a narrative, Todd successfully simulated Cinerama's illusion of peripheral vision with his bug-eyed 65mm lens used for the travelogue shots. Unfortunately, in it's current pan and scanned version, the effect is completely lost on television.  It would probably be lost if it was letterboxed too.  What can be appreciated is Lionel Lindon's breathtaking cinematography. How different it is from the aesthetics of current camerawork. The use of color, depth of field, superior sharpness and use of widescreen was meant to simulate an enhanced version of reality which it did in it's theatrical engangements (both Todd-AO 70mm curved screen presentations and 35mm anamorphic dye transfer Technicolor flat screen bookings)  Current cinematography features de-saturated and bland colors, grainy under-exposed negatives and prints, shallow depth of field and an aesthetically ugly look in many cases.If one watches the film as a Cinerama type travelogue with humor and spectacle it works better than as a straight narrative.  However, the performances are all fine and the cameos amusing.  The videotape version is missing a four minute chase scene with Cantinflas pursued by Indians along with the freeze frame intermission tag and fade into reel #7.  While it has the complete prologue, the changing aspect ratios is lost due to the pan/scan format.  This film deserves a theatrical restoraion and subsequent letterboxed video/dvd release. A good suppliment would be the Bilco show that Todd guest starred on prior to his death in his private plane called The Lucky Liz. (She was sick and missed the flight). "},{"Title":"Very spectacular and glamorous adaptation  with a cast of thousands , breathtaking scenarios  and funny  scenes","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This fun picture deals with known story about gentleman Phineas Fogg wagers he can circumnavigate the earth and he sets off on spectacular journey . Lavish rendition with all-star cast , it finds Victorian gentleman wagering that he can circle the globe in 80 days . Classic adaptation based on Jules Verne novel with a marvelous duo , David Niven and his faithful butler well played by Cantinflas who confront much excitement and a lot of adventures along the way . The film provides ample amusement and entertainment , it concerns about a Victorian English gentleman named Phileas Fogg (David Niven always professed that Phileas Fogg was his favorite role) and his manservant named Passapart (Cantinflas, in the mid-50s, he was the wealthiest movie star in the world, and was given top billing in Latin countries) . He takes a wager with various gentlemen from 'The Reform Club' that he can circle the globe around the world in 80 days . Just before the time they leave , a valuable lot of money is robbed and the authorities and president of Bank of England believe that unflappable Fogg is the guilty and a Detective set out after him . Later on , they save a damsel in distress, a gorgeous Indian girl (Shirley MacLaine to this day contends that she was miscast in this, her third film) . Using various means of transport as balloon , trains , steamer , flying machine and following a way , Fogg along with Passepart go to Dover , Paris , Spain , Calcuta , Burma jungle , Hong Kong , Yokohama , Forbidden city of Pekin , San Francisco , Omaha and New York , as they are trying back to London . Meanwhile , they are chased by an Inspector named Fix (Robert Newton) who suspects him of a daring bank theft .This funny picture is plenty of adventures , humor , action , rip-roaring and spectacular outdoors . From start to finish the entertainment and amusement is continued . The bullfighting sequence filmed in Chinchon , Spain , was added because Cantinflas had bullfighting experience , he actually was in the ring with the bull, eschewing the use of a stunt doublé ; this was one of the first sequences to be shot. The film features the longest closing credits sequence up to that time and for many years afterward - six minutes and twenty-one seconds , splendidly realized by Saul Bass ; all of the film's credits are shown only at the end, and the very last credit to be shown is the film's title . Big-budgeted take on by two great producers , Michael Todd and William Cameron Menzies , as the film used 140 sets built at six Hollywood studios, as well as in England, Hong Kong and Japan , 74,685 costumes were designed, made or rented for use ; the cast and crew flew over 4,000,000 miles ; 68,894 extras were used while shooting the film in 13 countries ; 90 animal handlers managed the record 8,552 animals used . Michael Todd's original estimate for the film's budget was $3 million ; the film ended up costing nearly double that, largely thanks to Todd's demands for verisimilitude and location shooting. There appears a variety of cameos , the star-gazers will particularly enjoy several known actors by many Hollywood's biggest names with more than thirty cameos for buffs such as Marlene Dietrich , Robert Newton , John Carradine , Noel Coward , Ronald Colman, Ronald Squire, Cedric Hardwicke, John Gielgud, Trevor Howard , Victor McLaglen and John Mills , Robert Morley who repeat in a 1989 TV version , among others ; in fact , the term cameo, meaning in this case a small part by a famous person, was popularized by the many cameo appearances in this film. The colorfully cinematography by Lionel Lindon is well showed on sensational landscapes ; being second Todd-AO production , the first was Oklahoma!. Unforgettable and lively music by Victor Young including catching leitmotif .This classic ¨Mike Todd's Around the world in 80 days¨ that hasn't lost its charm over the years was compellingly directed by Michael Anderson and generally considered the single largest film project ever undertaken in Hollywood . However , the movie began shooting with John Farrow as director, and Emmett Emerson as the first assistant director in London ; both were replaced. Filming was completed in 75 shooting days . Other versions are the followings  , Australian retelling titled ¨Around the world in 89 days (1986)¨ by Stephen MacLean and recent adaptation (2004) offering full of entertainment directed by Frank Coraci with Jackie Chan , Steve Coogan , Cecile De France , Mark Addy , Owen Wilson , Luke Wilson and many others . And a TV version (1989) with by Buzz Kulik with Pierce Brosnan , Eric Idle , Julia Nickson , John Mills, Robert Morley , among others . "},{"Title":"I am the true Kimi Gee, love hot air balloon rides","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I actually took a hot air balloon ride, so yes. I give this film a 10. Just to think a film from the 1950s could be so popular, Around the World in 80 Days, from the 1950s... Kimi Gee, being that I did the hot air balloon ride, probably almost made what was so exciting seem more. Why did this film get so popular? Maybe because I also went on a hot air balloon ride. What an adventure, going around the world, not knowing whether the wind would blow you to some remote island in the middle of no where or whether you would land somewhere popular that people had heard about your adventure... now I am in Guam. I tried the ride... and will try again one day... come on, it's just a balloon. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have to admit I kind of liked this movie. The book is better of course, but this version is better than the 2004 film. There may be those who say it is overlong. The film is long admittedly, but I think a film adaptation of the book needs to be long to do any kind of justice to it. I do agree with those who complain about the pace, when I first saw this film, I admit I found it hard to get into initially as it goes by at a snail's pace. Most of the film is entertaining and colourful, but some scenes are dull or overlong, the bull-fighting scene is the perfect example of both. That said, the direction is fine, and despite complaints of it being dated the film does look great with great cinematography and colourful sets and costumes. The music is terrific, the script has its good moments and the story is interesting. Another notable strong asset is the cast. David Niven a likable lead, but the real joys are in the cameos, Robert Newton is especially good here. Overall, maybe not best picture winner for me, but I actually found this film interesting. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Around the World in Eighty Days","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I will admit I saw the Disney/Jackie Chan remake before seeing this original, but this one feels completely different, and much more extravagant, from Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Michael Anderson (Logan's Run). Basically not very emotional Phileas Fogg (David Niven) has a bet for his entire fortune with the Gentlemen's Club that he get around the world in 80 days. So with his faithful butler Passepartout (Golden Globe nominated Cantinflas), they begin their journey by hot air balloon to reach Paris, given to them by Thomas cook after missing their train to Marseilles. This balloon actually takes them to Spain, and they get their new transport on a ship with Passepartout's bullfighting skills. On their journey, they keep bumping into Mr. Fix (Robert Newton) who is trying to slow them down, or better yet stop the from succeeding. Next is the Indian jungles, where the butler's skills are needed again to rescue beautiful Princess Aouda (Shirley MacLaine) from being burned alive. Going on to Hong Kong, getting involved with a few drugs, and then to the United States of America, where the wild wild west kicks in with cowboys and Indians. Along the journey Fogg is keeping an eye on the schedule, and slowly he and the Princess are falling for each other, an emotion he wouldn't have expected. There is the point where they think they have reached day 80 and failed, but Fogg forgets the time changing from country to country, and manges to win the bet in the end, just in time. Also starring and with cameos from Noël Coward as Hesketh-Baggott, Trevor Howard as Denis Fallentin, Robert Morley as Gauthier Ralph, Charles Boyer as Monsieur Gasse, Marlene Dietrich as Saloon Hostess, Peter Lorre as Steward, Sir John Mills as Carriage Driver, Frank Sinatra as Saloon Pianist, John Carradine as Colonel Proctor Stamp, Buster Keaton as Train Conductor, Sir John Gielgud as Foster/Fosdyke, Batman's Cesar Romero as Achmed Abdullah's Henchman, Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Sir Francis Cromarty, Red Skelton as Drunk in Saloon and Mary Poppins' Glynis Johns as Sporting Lady's Companion, with prologue narration by Edward R. Murrow. It may be a little too long, but Niven and Cantinflas make a good travelling duo, the many cameo appearances make for good viewing, but the it is the location filming that ultimately dominates this adventure, with a vast array of countries and colours lighting up the screen. It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Music for Victor Young, Best Writing, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"The fascination of the railway age","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In 1954, now more than half a century ago, Mike Todd produced and directed this very fine film of the novel written by Jules Verne in 1872. It won many awards including five Oscars, and remains an outstanding work of art, but unfortunately it is not widely known to film enthusiasts today. At the time it was created the film industry felt itself threatened by colour television leading to film studio bosses launching wide-screen cinema, hopefully to differentiate 'artistic' cinema from 'plebeian' television. Progressively more exotic 'improved' wide-screen presentations became increasingly de rigeur for new films, and Mike himself was largely responsible for developing one of these, called Todd AO. This film was the second of only two that were released in this new format in its originally designed 30 f.p.s. mode. A small number of major cities had cinemas built to show such films in all their glory, but most of those who saw them when first released watched them in cinemas that, although adapted, seldom showed them as intended.Quite spectacular at first sight, any letterbox format can unfortunately prove distressing when used for extended viewing.. Artists, who have more sensitivity to the acceptability of visual presentations than most people, probably create a majority of their images in portrait format. Works in landscape format come in a variety of aspect ratios, but these are never extreme. Only panoramic murals usually have aspect ratios comparable with wide-screen cinema images, and whilst they may be great art who would want to visit an art gallery simply to view murals? There is a reason for this - the work of the vast majority of artists is designed to occupy acceptance angles similar to those of the human eye because our brain has evolved to process the information in such images in a balanced way. We can handle an exceptional aspect ratio image once in a while without mental distress, but the continued presentation of extreme aspect ratio images causes mental stress that is quite incompatible with an entertainment medium. This has led to the creation of many very fine movies we do not want to view at home in their original 'letterbox' format, that only adapt with considerable difficulty for effective display on home video systems. Unfortunately Around the World in 80 days is one of these films.We can easily understand what happened to this great film during the half century since it made its first dramatic impact on the entertainment scene of its day. TV is now struggling to develop its own near wide-screen presentations, whilst the true large screen cinema has given way to several small more intimate auditoria in which different films appealing to different audiences can be presented simultaneously, usually in formats just meeting bread and butter standards. It is quite amusing to look back on these changes, but unfortunately they were not kind to what was one of the great films of its decade. I am not interested in triviata, such as the fact that Mike Todd did not have modern computers to create his special effects. Regardless of such concerns, if properly presented, this remains a great film that can still 'knock the socks off' most of the junk we are invited to watch today, but for a considerable time it almost disappeared from circulation. Finally in 2004 Warner released a DVD version for home viewing, formatted with its original aspect ratio of 2.2  1. Whilst quite kindly received by critics, this DVD suffers severely from the original decision to use such an extreme visual presentation. DVD's can be viewed on a wide range of domestic equipment, but computer monitors usually provide better definition than standard TV receivers in small rooms, and my preferred choice at home is a wide-screen computer monitor with a 1.6  1 aspect ratio. Remembering watching the film when first released with something akin to awe, I bought a copy of this DVD, but found it very disappointing to watch. Its letterbox format is not designed to be viewed as a small image a few feet from where one is sitting, the composition of the image is far too complex - I finally concluded that my awed recollections must have been due to lower expectations when relatively young, - it could not be such a great film after all.I did not watched the film again for a very long time, but this week I noticed there was a TV showing coming up on Encore Avenue. Initially I paid little attention, after all even my DVD had been a disappointment........... At the last minute I just wondered - perhaps this showing was based on the modified version which had been properly formatted for TV viewing. I turned it on with 2 minutes to spare - expecting to turn it off again almost immediately. Then joy of joys, I had a really good picture on the 1.6  1 computer monitor I use for TV viewing. I quickly turned the recorder on, and now at last I have a disk of this film to treasure. It is even better than I actually remembered, I was quite frankly amazed by how many clever little sequences I now remember savouring 50 years ago, which never even caught my eye when I was watching the DVD, again became clearly evident during this TV presentation.If you have not seen this film delay no longer, the DVD is still obtainable at a cost of about $25; but unless you have a very expensive widescreen TV in a very large living room or home theatre, my advice is to steer well clear of it and buy one of the old VHS tapes that are still widely listed by mail order suppliers, often at prices as low as a buck. "},{"Title":"What a Great Trip!","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a superb movie. From the introduction by Edward R. Murrow, to the animated credits at the end, it is one continuous fabulous film. The cameo appearances in the film are fantastic, including almost everyone who was anyone in movies at the time (slight exaggeration, but it includes such stars as Frank Sinatra, Gilbert Roland, Andy Devine, John Carradine, George Raft, and Marlene Dietrich, among many others). The music is excellent, and the photography is outstanding. It is sort of a high-class travelogue, and even includes many scenes using the Durango & Silverton Railroad (a train I have ridden a couple of times). Based on the book by Jules Verne, it is a great adventure story, although quite fanciful. The stars, David Niven, Cantinflas, and Shirley MacLaine, were perfectly cast. I will watch this film again many times. "}{"Title":"Good in DVD, but hypnotic in 70 mm!","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the World in 80 Days (1956) may seem good on DVD, particularly if you have a home theater, great sound, and sit close, BUT it was HYPNOTIC when projected from a 70 mm print in Todd-AO. I saw it many times that way during its long run (well over a year) in San Francisco in 1956-1957. It was one of the few films (along with 2001 A Space Odyssey) that used 70mm, and a huge deeply curved screen suggesting the arc of vision in a way that produced a truly mesmerising effect. At the time, people discussed whether the screen filling spinning world globe near the end of Edward R. Murrow's prologue could have produced true hypnotism, but, no it was just the magnificent photography, the engulfing nature of Todd-AO, the extremely powerful, involving sound (a 114 piece orchestra and 6 channel stereo, warmer and probably better than today's digital), and the high level of audience involvement.If a fully restored 70 mm print is ever shown in one of the few remaining 70 mm theaters (e.g., in Seattle, Wash), I urge you to go!See http//www.widescreenmuseum.com/ and http//in70mm.com/ "},{"Title":"must see for  all ages","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What a lovely movie if you consider the year of production... certainly one of the top 100 movies of all time. music,dance,acting,adventure,comedy,performance,costumes,production value all in one movie... particularly the DVD collector's version is marvelously . This movie crosses the time barrier and provides entertainment to all. Particularly I enjoyed the music and colour cinematography of this movie. It is watchable across generations. The Spanish comedian and supporting actor appears to have lots of skills avoiding dupE IN BULL FIGHT SCENES. What a great producer TODD is. I understand he has produced only one movie but his contribution to the film world is huge. "},{"Title":"My comments on the Accuracy of this Production","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This production hews very closely to the original novel on which it is based, except for three things (SPOILER! SPOILER! SPOILER!) 1. There is no balloon flight in the original novel - the characters have to make their way around the world by boat and train.2. The trial scene - where Fogg and Passepartout are put on trial for sacrilege - is entirely missing from the film.3. Princess Aouda is dressed in Hindu garb all throughout the movie, while in the novel it is specifically said that she is wearing a dress of Scotch material, a large cloak, and a magnificent otter-skin coat, for which (Passepartout) did not hesitate to pay seventy-five pounds. She only appears in Hindi garb when she is first introduced during the processional to the place where she is to be sacrificed to Kali, the Goddess of love and death, which was her husband's deity.These three problems cause me to award the movie a score of eight out of ten points. "},{"Title":"what do you say?","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think it is high time to award this movie the points it deserves. Chan may have enhanced the role of the side kick, but where is the remake in the Oscars? THIS FILM BEAT OUT THE TEN COMMANDMENTS AND OTHERS FOR BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR IN THE Oscar NOMINATIONS in 1956! It is timeless and priceless. I thank Turner and others for preserving it long into the future. Furthermore, the DVD version of the film has restored a long lost sequence of Passepartu (sp. ?) between when he was thrown from the train and the posse is formed to rescue him. I highly advise Chan fans to go back and look at the original. It may not be better, but it was first, and made with very primitive imaging equipment, and when people fell off their horse, THEY FELL OFF THEIR HORSE! Look to the source. May the source be with you. "},{"Title":"Different End Credits","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've been puzzled for years when I have seen the re-releases and earlier video versions. I remember seeing a different and longer set of End Credits when the picture was released and on its 70mm (Todd-AO)road show. It featured shots of the various actors in there roles. A remember in particular that they did not show Frank Sinatra's face during the film, only revealing it in the end credits. I only saw the fully animated version when the 35mm version went around. So which version of the end credits were original attached to the movie? Was it the version I saw the original or was Bass's animated version?Still an important DVD release.  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Adventure","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the kind of film you see when you're young and remember with fondness for the rest of your life. Based on the Jules Verne story of an English gentleman who takes his manservant around the world with him in order to try to win a wager he has made to a fellow member of his London club, it combines charm with warmth, humanity and a sense of adventure. David Niven is perfectly cast as the perfect English gentleman abroad. Needless to say, the film was made long before Hollywood decided that the only role for an Englishman was that of nasty villain! The supporting cast is wonderful too. Of course this is not a great film in the accepted sense, but it never set-out to be, and that is part of its charm! Just enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"My Personal Favorite Film Pick!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Wow! 1956. That was a little over 40 years ago. And here we are, today. The movie AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS has not lost any of its power. Although movies rely on visual effects to create scenes so spectacular that they'll attract any and everyone, there is still a place for this film. In fact, it's bigger than any other movie of recent years. And Victor Young's beautiful symphonic score is too great for words. It's my nomination for best film score-EVER! Of course, maybe I'm a little biased-I'm an old movie fan. However, I realize what I say when I say AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS is a real classic. And the guest cast! The largest EVER assembled for ONE film! Take your pick. For silent film fans, you can enjoy the antics of Buster Keaton, or even Joe E. Brown. For you music fans, there's Frank Sinatra! And the cast goes on. See Andy Devine, Victor McLaglen and Edmund Lowe, Jack Oakie, Beatrice Lillie, Col. Tim McCoy, Marlene Dietrich, and great British regulars like Robert Morley, Noel Coward, A. E. Matthews, Ronald Squire, Harcourt Williams, and even the great John Gielgud (who made his debut in a British film in 1924, and is still going strong 75 years later in films like ARTHUR1981, SHINE1996, and QUEST FOR CAMELOT!1998).Anyhow, enjoy this film. Its key ingredients are fun, adventure, and a sense of humor.Rating(out of *****)***** "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment 1950's style","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the World in 80 Days is fantastic adventure that takes its audience along on a terrific journey from the cosmopolitan streets of Paris to the jungles of India and on the transcontinental railroad across the American West. The film is very faithful to the novel written by Verne, and David Niven is perfectly cast as the intrepid Mr. Fogg. The cinematography is well done and the various locations that were chosen are the most exquisite spots that have ever been shown to audiences. There is a good amount of humor, and the story works well at keeping its audience interested. I had shown this film to a group of my friends who had never seen a movie that was made beefer 1978 and they were certainly astounded the enormity of the film. I highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys great entertainment 1950's style. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but could have been much better.","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The movie is about a Londoner Phileas Fogg, who bets his club members that he could go 'Around the world in 80 days'.He sets on his quest with his Man-servant Passepartout and along the way they encounter a lot of unusual situations which are overcome in equally unusual manners.All along they are pursued by a Scotland Yard detective who thinks the twosome is responsible for a Bank Robbery in England. This is a movie that i eagerly wanted to watch as i found the book by Jules Verne 'unputdownable'. I loved it very much but the 'what happens next'suspense was lacking like when you were reading the book. I know books cant be exactly converted into movies but i found the Screenplay writer omitting important incidents. Apart from that every aspect of the movie was really good and was aptly rewarded by the Academy with 5 Oscars. The casting was great as you can totally picture David Niven as Phileas Fogg. Shirley Maclaine was believable as Princess Aouda and Cantinflas as Passepartout was exceptional. A lot of cameos by Hollywood Who's who like Marlene Dietrich, Frank Sinatra etc made it interesting. If we are willing to forget the minor glitches regarding authenticity of certain facts made by Jules Verne while writing the Novel we can find the movie a wholesome entertainer which we can watch with our family.I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"Overblown, but fun","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This leisurely paced epic is jocular and is a cameo-appearance-watcher's heaven.  It's all a bit too top-heavy to support a rather simple story.  But Cantinflas is a lot of fun as Passepartout, and Robert Newton is marvelous as Niven's nemesis, Fix.  Shirley MacLaine lends her beauty and wit to the proceedings as Princess Aouda.  The film seems to stop for spectacular cinematography and the cameos at times.  But, it is still beautiful and enjoyable.But, speaking of Newton and MacLaine, I must take IMDB to task for this one although I recognize they are merely copying from the film's cast list.  Still, when one transforms from one medium to another, some judgment must be exercised.  In order for the uninitiated to find out that Newton and MacLaine (two of the film's four major characters) are even in the film, one must click on the blue more button for additional cast members, One normally does not bother to do this because all one normally sees are credits for the likes of Jennifer Baliniczewski, Haley Tiresius, Forrest J. Ackerman, Zvi Frischman, and Skip Jackson.  Please IMDB, bring Newton and MacLaine up front with Niven and Cantinflas.  The movie's top stars should be featured at the top.  Then the rest can be listed alphabetically. "}{"Title":"Best Adventure Movie Ive ever seen","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's really amazing how so many critics and reviewers are stupid in underrating this movie.. If those morons have not found out yet that the main element of it is fun, they never will.. Much better an adventure movie than even so called classics like The Wizard Of Oz .. As a child watching the movie was exhilarating and it's like a 2 hour trip through history.. a great movie "},{"Title":"A merry romp","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mike Todd created the movie cameo -- a big star in a bit part. But recognizing the stars in the little parts is just one element of the fun in the film, and even if the viewer doesn't recognize the stars, the film is still enjoyable.    Jules Verne's classic is given royal treatment here, and we viewers are taken along for one of the most entertaining quick tours ever conceived.    Even the closing credits, which are done as a cartoon retelling of the whole movie, are entertaining. "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I recently re-read the book, Around the World In Eighty Days, and was surprised at how few liberties were taken with the plot of this movie (the largest being the famous ascent in a balloon which never occurred in the book). S.J. Perleman, one of my favorite authors, wrote the screenplay, which won an academy award, and he certainly deserved it, for he hit the tone of the novel dead on.The casting, in most cases, was dead-on, David Niven making a perfect Fogg. Cantinflas was also excellent as Passepartout, even though they had to change his nationality from French to Spanish. The only really big problem came from casting Shirley MacLaine as an Indian princess.As stated before, the tone of the movie (if not the entire plot) was very true to the book. The jokes were understated and had an earnest gentility about them which was very common in movies from the fifties and early sixties.I think the biggest problems of this movie were the movie's two principle gimmicks. The first were the guest stars. A sampling of some of the most famous actors of the day made cameos in the movie. To get some of the in jokes, you had to really know who these people were (which would be the case with most audiences from 1956), however these days, either the actors have faded into obscurity, or we have become so used to seeing these people aged forty or fifty years, that its hard to recognize their younger selves (like Frank Sinatra's cameo, for example).The second big problem was that the movie was filmed in cinemascope, which meant letterbox format, as opposed to the square format in which more of the less expensive movies were filmed. I suspect, in order to get their money's worth out of this technique, and to make this movie more of a spectactle, the movie has been crammed with tons of shots of nothing more than the picturesque scenery of the countries through which Fogg and Passepartout are passing. This was probably a big deal at the time, but today seeing scenery shots of foreign countries is nothing new. On many of the versions of the movie that have been circulating, these have been edited out, however they have been restored to the DVD version. I have to say that the first time I saw the unedited version, I found them kind of boring. This shouldn't keep you from watching the DVD though, since its easy enough to skip past the scenery.All in all, one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"An adventure of great proportion!","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The thing that surprised me about this movie was how big this production was. Thousands of extras and costumes and dozens of cameo's in a trip around the world.Unfortunately the movie has lost some of its power throughout the years. It is beginning to get outdated and it almost seems like a miracle these days that this movie has won 5 Oscar's including the one for best picture in 1957. Especially the pace is outdated, there are some endless long scene's that just don't seem to end and go on and on.The movie is filled with cameo's (the first movie ever). But I'm ashamed to say that I hardly recognized anyone. We are talking about 1956 here, those who were big stars back then are now long since gone. The only one I recognized was Sir John Gielgud, no I even didn't recognized Frank Sinatra or Marlene Dietrich.David Niven was in his element and was a great leading man. I can't say that I'm completely happy with the casting choice of Cantinflas as Passepartout but fortunately it doesn't ruin the movie in any way.The story is great and adventurous, there are countless fun and entertaining moments in this epic production.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Best Road Movie ever!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay. Everyone's either heard of the story or has actually read it, but if not, here it is Phineas Fogg makes a wager with his bridge buddies that he can make it around the world in 80 days (hence, the title.) So he and his servant, Passparetout, set out around the world, save a princess, get chased by a detective who thinks Fogg is a bank robber, and end up flying in a balloon (Well, maybe not in that order.)The first time I saw this film was when I was in 2nd grade. Even then, I knew how great it was, and I still remember it fondly. Films like this were meant to appear in widescreen format. It starts off with an introduction by the very informative Edward R. Murrow, telling the audience about how Jules Verne was very prophetic, and they show the dlightful little film by George Melies of From the Earth to the Moon. The acting is some of the best ever. David Niven, the quintessential gentleman, was born to play the role of Phineas Fogg (he later even said he would have played the role for nothing!) Cantiflas, an award-winner for his role of Passparetout, is equally good, although a flash in the pan. Where are you, Cantiflas? Shirley McLaine makes an early appearance in her career as Princess Auoda, and she still shows her pixie-like charm she has in The Apartment. And Robert Newton, who played Detective Fix, is wonderfully sinister, but like Cantiflas, he never did anything else memorable besides playing Captain Hook in Treasure Island. Oh, and there's lots of cameos (Frank Sinatra, Andy Devine, John Carradine, Cesar Romero to name a few) but too many to count. (This was the first film to have cameos, by the way.) Other award winners include the writing, which owes it humor to the fact that one of the writers (James Poe, John Farrow, and J.S. Perelman) wrote for the Marx brothers. The music by Victor Young is bright, maginifcent, beautiful . . . all good adjectives come to mind. And Lionel Lindon (The Manchurian Candidate) has some of the best cinematography ever to be shown on the screen (this was before the days of computer generation, of course, when they actually went to 11 countries to film on location.) And the credits, by Saul Bass, are, like many people who have commented on this have said, are extremely entertaining in their re-telling of the movie. This has got to be one of the best Oscar-Winners of all time. It's right up there with Casablanca and Gone with the Wind. It's a shame that this was showman Michael Todd's only film. Lord knows what he would have brought us if it weren't for that fatal plane crash.  "},{"Title":"Saw it in 1956, 54 years later it isn't any better!","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" How this movie rated any Academy awards, let alone five, has always amazed me. The story is a faint shadow of Jules Verne's excellent book and ends up being a wide screen travelogue with no redeeming features. The only thing that temporarily piqued my interest was spotting the veritable plethora of stars in cameo roles. Even the great photography eventually became tiresome. The numerous delays Fogg experienced during his travels were oh so predictable and the assortment of characters he encountered were nothing more than hackneyed clichés. If you have yet to see this film, do yourself a favour and spend your time and money on a movie with real quality. "},{"Title":"Short Story Long","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What astounds me is how things change. Here's a film that was celebrated in its day.In fact, I remember my third grade class taking the day off to go to this. (The year previously, we had gone to see a Cinerama movie in the same theater.) We had reserved seats and popcorn was disallowed. We sat through maybe 20 minutes of overture, three hours of movie and 20 minutes of intermission.And I loved it. This was a lifealtering experience, so grand, so exotic. And yes, for a seven year old, romantic.Everyone loved it. In its day, most everyone got caught up in the sheer audacity of thing, the cinematic scope, the number of stars and extras, the locales (which we thought were genuine). The introduction by Ed Murrow seemed apt for something so newsworthy.I haven't seen it in 50 years. And now, even in the full ToddAO experience it is dull except for the wonderfully bombastic score. There's really nothing to it except that it exists.It reminds that many films I see, new and old, depend on context. The new ones are simple. Things we get excited about now will seem juvenile in just a short time. Die Hard was eclipsed on its own terms in short order. Speed even more so.But the old ones...Sometimes they are so strongly evocative of an era that watching them pulls us into that era, giving us a whole world by association. Others cannot pull us, or aren't set up to, but are so weak they fall apart. Its a slippery game, watching old movies.But in this case, it is simple. Big bowl &#151; thin soup. But a grandly shaped bowl.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was movie making at it's best. Unlike the movies of today. Fine Acting, Photography, Costumes, Filming, Script and especially the who's who in the movie world doing their cameos. In my view the finest performance came from Robert Newton, who in my view stole the picture. It was reminiscent of his performance as Long John Silver in Treasure Island. Just as devious. Young children of today enjoy this version, even though they have been brought up on the Jackie Chan version, which is far inferior. David Niven himself stated that this was his favorite film and i can see why. I would also imagine that the participants all had a great time.A true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Cantinflas takes you for a ride around the world with gentleman David Niven, clumsy Robert Newton and the dream princess Shirley McLaine","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was something of a cult film of my childhood, and it's a very fascinating experience to see it again after +50 years. As a child it was only a great adventure experience, and the spell of the exciting travel thriller story made you wallow in the book for years. 50 years later you can better assess its qualities and faults. Of course, there are any amount of deviations from the book, although the main structure is all there, but some of these deviations make the best parts of the film, especially the first adventures with the balloon into Spain with José Greco even treating you with an almost full evening ballet performance, let alone the bullfight the morning after. Cantinflas is the major acting asset of the film, creating a thoroughly sympathetic minor factotum of many arts almost like a Latin Chaplin, but David Niven is convincing enough as Phileas Fogg, Shirley McLaine make a beautiful princess, and Robert Newton as the cockney detective couldn't be better. Still, the major highlights are the great feast scenes, the Spanish adventures, the San Francisco brawl, the Indian funeral, the Japanese circus and the train rides, &#x96; only the sea voyages are cut a bit short. Of course, they should be experienced on the wide screen they were made for, but even in a computer frame the adventure still brings out all the magic enhanced by a very well composed score with the unforgettable balloon waltz as the jewel in the crown. In brief, this great adventure of the 50s carrying on the moods from Jules Verne and George Méliès is well worth watching still today for the major entertainment it is, on perhaps the best travel story ever written. "},{"Title":"Mike Todd's big gamble paid off, and includes a timeless theme song.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I clearly remember when this was released. The exotic locales and numerous frustrating impediments to achieving the goal of circumnavigating the world in 80 days, in 1872, by various conventional and unconventional means, climaxed by the unexpected ending, provided a generally exciting drama for a kid of those times. The cameo appearances of various very well known or somewhat familiar actors added to the appeal, as did the very memorable theme song. You have to remember that nearly all TVs were B&W then, and travelogue programs weren't that numerous.This film was the baby of the innovative, compulsive gambling, Mike Todd his only conventional feature film that he produced, which needed to be a big financial success to wipe out his massive debts from gambling and lavish lifestyle. Having previously financed a stage version of the subject, which was a big financial flop, he nearly went bankrupt before finishing this promising version. Having previously been involved in the commercialization of the 3-camera Cinerama film process, Todd had joined with American Optical Company to develop a single camera wide angle version, which included 6 sound tracts, dubbed Todd-AO, which was first used in the production of the spectacularly successful musical Oklahoma. It's second use was for the present film. We can readily see the influence of Todd's experience with Cinerama in the splendid travelogue visuals. In recent times, TCM has shown this film occasionally. I stopped to rewatch it in it's entirety. David Niven was, of course, perfect for the role of the unbelievably stiff, robotic, Fogg, who represents an extreme version of the time, speed, and money-obsessed modern man. Inexplicably, he hires his virtual opposite in the happy-go-lucky Latino Passepartout(Cantinflas) as his valet and traveling companion., who provides a window into various adventures in various exotic lands that the ever robotic Fogg couldn't provide....Robert Newton has a typical villain role, as a detective, who is sure Fogg was the mastermind behind a large Bank of London heist, the day before Fogg left on the journey. This clearly non-aristocratic sleuth is bent on foiling Fogg's attempt to circle the globe on time to win the prize, as well as arresting him at a convenient time. By forcing Fogg to spend a night in jail in London at the terminus of the journey, before learning that he was not the guilty party, Newton's Mr. Fix is finally clearly fingered as the chief villain of the tale, saved only by Cantinflas's subsequent discovery that it's a day earlier than Fogg assumed. This was Newton's last film role, after establishing himself as the archetypical pirate of the Golden Age of Piracy, in several pirate films. It was clear that his liver wouldn't hold out much longer. Too bad, as he was such a charismatic heavy.As she later admitted, Shirley MacLaine was miscast as the very young Indian widow rescued by Fogg from being forced to burn to death atop her deceased husband's funeral pyre. She didn't look or speak anything like a typical Indian, and she contributed virtually nothing to the interest of the film, after her rescue by Continflas. True, her part was underwritten. The suggestion of a marriage with Fogg , at the end, looks problematic. She is grateful for his? rescue and addition to the traveling group. He seems agreeable, perhaps out of pity. I just wonder if a middle-aged man of his extreme type could alter his persona sufficiently to make an appealing mate, aside from his obvious wealth(of undetermined origin). Just what he normally did with his time is left unexplored.Like the subsequent Moon River, the theme song Around the World is a very memorable soothing inspirational waltz, which was played ad nauseam throughout the film as background, including multiple arrangements during the intermission. Unlike Moon River, it very surprisingly wasn't nominated for Best Original Film Song. I suspect this is partly because no lyrics were sung during the film, although they soon appeared in various single recordings released. However, Victor Young did receive the Oscar for best original score in a non-musical, and since this was the only original song in the film, this serves as sort of a consolation award for the song. I consider it more addictive than Moon River, and I'm sure it added significantly to the case for voting this as the best film of the year.The section where the party is trying to make their way across the western US comes across as sort of a western, including several encounters with Native Americans while on a train, a loudmouthed trigger-happy pest in John Carridine, a near train wreck while crossing a rickety trestle being destroyed by flood waters, and an improvised sail--powered(supposedly) rail maintenance hand car, when no train was available in the near term. Incidentally, sail-powered rail cars were tried in the early days of rails, but proved impractical. Fogg's bunch presumably lucked out in having a steady prairie wind in the desired direction. Incidentally, the aristocratic Reform Club, of which Fogg was a member, and which was the initiator of the prize for achieving his goal, is based upon a real London club, whose original purpose was to promote reform of the House of Commons, later to become a bastion of the Liberal Party. "}{"Title":"A sprightly whimsical endearing journey!","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Michael Todd's Around The World In Eighty Days is a generally disregarded Best Picture winner, considered a throwaway epic that's simply of its time, nothing more nothing less. It's neither considered one of their best or worst choices. And while that mild legacy is relatively accurate, it's actually an enduring entertaining experience. It's thanks to its spright whimsical tone that exudes the timeless spirit of adventure. Sure, its characters and cultures are caricaturesque and utterly romanticised, of which would be interesting to analyse those interpretations for film history studies despite the inherent inaccuracies, but it's not exactly supposed to be raw and authentic. Instead it's concerned with its grand scale, and it's a total marvel. With dozens of huge locations, thousands of extras and an anxious use of wide angle lenses, the proportions of which the story is told are gargantuan.While there's not much of a sense of time, it certainly results in a sense of distance. It's event cinema that's held its weight for near 60 years. Mexican star Cantinflas' Passepartout is the Chaplin-esque heart and soul of the film and elevates the whole project with his bravery, loyalty and dilemmas. Niven's stoic yet bold protagonist Fogg simply blends into the background, and is a mere vehicle for Passepartout, if not an overt one. The iconic score is the backbone of the film, setting the camp tone with an assortment of familiar anthems. Naturally, there's fundamental flaws with the story as it's bloated beyond comprehension and it's structure is inconsequentially episodic with its series of obstacles with little to no insight into the characters besides a brief flirtation with common loneliness. But above all, the film is a silly but endearing romp that doesn't take itself too seriously, lending it to being thoroughly accessible viewing.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great travel documentary...","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Not bad. Had the potential to be frightfully boring, especially considering its 3-hour running time. The plot is quite conventional, and feels reasonably padded. Also can be a bit mundane if you already know the story (and who doesn't).However, it was fairly entertaining. Made so mostly by the scenery and excellent cinematography. Felt like a travel documentary.The occasional humour also helps.Performances are nothing to write home about. David Niven is overly stuffy as Phileas Fogg. (But that's all he knows how to do). Supporting cast have a host of big names in minor, sometimes very fleeting roles Noel Coward, Sir John Gielgud, Trevor Howard, Frank Sinatra, Marlene Dietrich, John Carradine, Buster Keaton.Certainly didn't deserve a Best Picture Oscar, but not that bad. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Cinematic Adventure!","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on Jules Verne's classic novel, Phileas Fogg bets that he can travel around the world in 80 days during the Victorian Era. People have complained over the years over the fact that this film won the Oscar for Best Picture, beating out films like The Ten Commandments, Giant, and The King and I, and while I would have given the award to Ten Commandments, I will gladly admit that I can see why the Academy would give this the big winner. It's got what the Academy loves in a movie; sweeping cinematography and a wonderful adventure story. It's amazing seeing how this film was made in the Todd-AO techniques, as it was amazingly filmed. There were some amazing performances along the way, like David Niven as Fogg, Shirley Maclaine as the Indian princess, Cantinflas as Fogg's assistant, and Robert Newton as Inspector Fix. Plus there's a ton of massive celebrity cameos along the way, like Charles Coburn, Frank Sinatra, Hermione Gingold, and Buster Keaton. It may not have the best reputation in the modern era, but as for me, I was really impressed with this motion picture. "},{"Title":"Great but All Awesome!","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Saw this as a kid in school. Really liked it but really thought that David Niven was way too cold as a fish. And that Niven's Phileas Fogg though he is that way in the novel. Until Fogg showed some emotion when he and his valet Passepartout, rescued Shirley McClaine's Auoda from the fire.But still despite Niven IMHO who was the weak link in the movie. Loved Catlinflas as Passepartout. In the novel, he is French but in the movie, he is Spanish. He was big in Mexico until his death but wished he made it in America. Oh well! Still the movie had great scenery and really great all-star cast. This is where the term cameo appearance was coined.Michael Todd the producer of the film would die in a plane crash a year or so after the movie won the Oscar for best pic for 1956. He also was married to Liz Taylor at the time. "},{"Title":"this movie has more than a handful of cast and wonderful cinematography","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is movie that goes on for 2 hours and keeps you wanting more, for the journey had beautiful scenery and nice international cast. The movie stared David Niven as Fogg and Cantinflas as Passepartout.Both characters being contradictory, Fogg is a gentleman, well-dressed, well-spoken, and extremely punctual, whereas Passepartout was the comic relief in the movie, he loved women and was a jack of all trade, their union boasted of talents and wits that saw them through the entire journey.This adventure film was produced by Michael Todd and is based on a novel of the same name by Jules Verne.Well comparing this to the 2004 remake that had Jackie Chan and Steve Coogan is going to be difficult as some of the attributes of Passepartout were given to Fogg making you lose respect for Fogg himself and the 1956 version is far different in the adventures embarked upon by the two compared to those in the 2004 version.The movie was actually filmed in 75 days and the cast including extras totaled 68,894 people and 7,959 animals. The wardrobe department spent $410,000 to provide 74,685 costumes and 36,092 trinkets.This movie packed a punch as the producers visited every country that Fogg and Passepartout passed through. The plot is about an English man in 1872 who is a member of the Reform Club, his name is Phileas Fogg (David Niven) he claims he can circumnavigate the world in eighty days.This made the other member of the Club view his claim as a bogus statement so he makes a £20,000 wager (equal to over £1,000,000 today) with several members of the Reform Club. The wager states that he will arrive back within 80 days before 845 pm.Together with his resourceful valet, Passepartout (Cantinflas), Fogg sets out on his journey which saw him save a princess, battle Indians, and as he was on his journey was named the chief suspect of stolen £55,000 (equal to over £3,000,000 today) from the Bank of England.This movie's wonderful cinematography was done by Lionel Lindon who won an Academy award for his work and he was involved in the photography of The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.The movie won five Academy awards, beating out critically acclaimed films like Friendly Persuasion, The Ten Commandments, Giant, and The King and I. The wins were Best Picture, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Music and Best Writing, Best Screenplay, Adapted.This is a movie that is fun to watch and captivating to see.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Good entertainment, although it drags at places.","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" First I saw the Spanish cartoon adaptation in 1984, which can be quite nice for a kid's first introduction to Verne's legendary tale. Then I read the novel, and later I saw this movie on TV on a Saturday afternoon, and I loved it. Years later, I bought a VHS copy, and only two years ago I got the restored DVD edition, which comes with a lot of material some of which is interesting and the rest is a load of nonsense they added up just to have an excuse to produce a two-disc set. The restored movie runs for 174 minutes against the 160 or so of the old VHS. The newly added sequences are the intermission and exit music segments and some action shots previously edited that have been put back. I have to say that I find the restored film quite slow at times, with some sequences like the Melies' Journey to the Moon, the balloon voyage, the Spanish episode and the attack of the Sioux unnecessarily overlong and quite boring. Still, I also have to say that the film shines as to production values and its faithfulness to Verne's novel except for the balloon sequence and the Spanish adventure. And some members of the cast are just right for their roles. I can not imagine anyone else but David Niven as Phileas Fogg, and Bobby Newton is likable as Inspector Fix. But then Cantinflas, with all his natural skills for mimicry and his ability to talk like a gun-machine without saying anything solid is a bit out of place here, since he talks Spanish at times instead of French, which is the nationality his character is supposed to be. And Shirley MacLaine,fresh from The Trouble with Harry, seems to have been passing by when Mike Todd spotted her and immediately pulled out his chequebook and signed her in on the spot. But then, as a consolation, some of the cameos are a real delight Coward, Gielgud, Boyer, Dietrich, Hardwick, Gingold, Lorre, Mills... But it is John Carradine the one who stills the movie as the cigar smoker, vulgarian Yank. Anyway, despite its flaws this film still is one of my favourite adventure epics of all time. In the old days movies looked much nicer and less fake than they do today courtesy of CGI crap. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, fun spectacle-- but only when watched as its creator intended","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of those movies that suffers when viewed on a small screen. Made during a time when television posed a huge threat to the film industry, Around the World in 80 Days is a spectacle if there ever was one, a showcase of gorgeous cinematography and production values which can be appreciated nowhere else but in the theater.The acting and story were obviously of lesser importance than all the visuals. David Niven does a good job playing the quintessential British gentleman, and Cantinflas gives the most memorable performance as his comedic servant. The only lacking performance is given by Shirley MacLaine as Aouda, not only because she looks nothing like she's from India, but because she's uninteresting and never brings her character to life. There's also dozens of cameos sprinkled throughout, which are fun to look for if you're familiar with classic Hollywood personalities.For those who don't mind style over substance, Around the World in 80 Days is a treat indeed. If you're not one of those people, then hold off unless you ever get to see it on the big screen, where one can most appreciate all the film has to offer. "},{"Title":"Around the World in 80 Days....An Oscar Winner-Methinks Not ***","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the world, I've searched for you.I traveled on when hope was gone for a rendez-vous.Well, something like that in this 1956 so called movie. Wasn't this really a travelogue? This film should never have been in the best picture category. Yes, it had a phenomenal cast, but the plot was rather thin. It was as if this were being told in documentary form.The Oscar here should have easily gone to The Ten Commandments. Hands down. Even the other nominees including The King and I, and Friendly Persuasion, were far better. It just became a case of the academy in love with Mike Todd and the ever beautiful Liz Taylor, deciding to reward our dream couple.David Niven and Cantiflas were standouts but the film was way too drawn out. "},{"Title":"its a long journey","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Actually I was rather disappointed seeing it again after so many years. David Niven is perfect and its fun watching and guessing who is who. The end credits are just wonderful. The film looks beautiful and the score is perfect. I love the fact the wide screen DVD has an overture and entracte. The exit music is lovely. The balloon sequence is the highlight of the film with its breath taking arial photography. The plot is confusing and sadly it plods along even though its not without merit. The most annoying aspect of the film is Cantiflas who may well have been famous in his own country simply has little screen presence and clumps along quite incoherently. Cantiflas slows the movie down, you cannot understand what he is saying and the bottom line is that he is just not funny. When you think of the great clown Red Skelton who was also in the cast you cannot help wondering how much better the movie would be with a real talent opposite Niven. It still remains quite lovely to look at. "},{"Title":"Now on TCM in letterbox!!","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Beginning on 25 August, Turner Classic Movies finally ran ATW80 in the letterbox format. I'm guessing that it was taken directly from the new DVD print as the old Warner Communications logo which accompanied the ugly full-screen version was missing from this version. (In fact, the closing credits acknowledge a United Artists release, but I guess they don't actually own the film.) There was also an 'exit music' epilogue. Still don't know if this was the Todd-AO print of the film or a less inflated 'Cinemascope' version. (Producer Michael Todd made history when he shot his first widescreen film, 'Oklahoma!' in *two* extremely expensive formats; one can only guess that the budget for this international travelogue film must've been even higher.) Beautiful to look at, however. We can all exhale now.  "}{"Title":"new thoughts on an old film","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" i was fortunate enough to see this movie on opening night in new york city ,,,almost 50 years ago...i watched it again today on TV,,,enjoyed it then and was not nearly aware of its entire scope until watching it on TV..the credits at the end and the format in which they were done, speaks volumes as to what movies were about back then,,and that was a mere 50 years ago.i grew up watching movies on Saturday after noon as a kid in the 30's ,and perhaps never realized then,,what films were all about..entertainment,is and always will be the key word...David Niven as Phogg,Cantinflas as Pass Partou,and the entire cast were truly memorable,there are many cameos,even Sinatra is there.. do yourself and your grandchildren a favor ,,watch it with them,,they don't make movies like that anymore..Mike Todd deserves all the credit I realize that these are my comments on what is a review long overdue and subject to your comments .. love to hear from some of you who saw this film back then or those of you who saw it after reading my remarks "},{"Title":"Best Picture 1956, and meant to stay there","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I didn't enjoy this movie at all.  There wasn't much of a plot and character development was essentially nil.  But I can't really write it off as a bad movie, just a movie from a much different time.  Some of the shots are still very beautiful, and combined with a dainty little score, they provided the entertainment that was there.  But unlike other movies from the era (Bridge on the River Kwai came the next year), this is definitely not a timeless classic.  Personally, I found there to be almost nothing there.  According to my 2002 standards, this movie is awful.  Watch it only if you want mid-fifties excitement and humor.I would usually end my comments with a rating, but here I will refrain.  Years later, it's just not meant to be judged. "},{"Title":"BOOORRRRINNNGG!!!!!!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In the '50's, TV was wrecking the movie industry, so the studios fought back with gimmicks like 3-D and bloated studio set pieces like Around The World In 80 Days.  There is nothing to this vapid marathon of cameos and strenuous set designs in the way of emotional concern for the characters or a feeling of a time and place long gone.  This film is unwatchable after an hour, but it won the Oscar for best picture anyway.  Which goes to show that the Academy was rewarding mediocrity back then, as it does now. (Recent winners  Cher, Kim Basinger, Roberto Begnini.)  Not that there weren't some great films in '56...Friendly Persuasion, Giant, Kiss Me Deadly, The Killing, Rebel Without a Cause, Baby Doll...but not this indigestible tripe. "},{"Title":"A monument to the death of Hollywood's Golden Age","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mike Todd was a promoter. He was a man with the talent for carrying out the colossal hype, someone who could sell the proverbial refrigerator to an Eskimo. He certainly displayed his genius in this glut of scenery, costumes and extras, selling this mess of a movie to the public in 1956. This film is so charmless, so humorless, such a depiction of stereotypes and clichés, and not less egregious, a squandering and misappropriation of acting talent. David Niven holds his own, but he single-handedly can't sustain the whole show. The talented Shirley MacLaine stands around wondering what she's doing and how she got roped into agreeing to be part of the cast. As to how Todd could have lured name stars to take on cameos, is a mystery to me. Maybe people such as Frank Sinatra and Marlene Dieterich had nothing better to do that day? Possibly the wide screen Todd A-O process engulfed viewers and glued them into their theatre seats where they watched like spellbound captives back in 1956, but today, there is absolutely nothing to recommend this movie. If nothing else, this movie stands as a testimonial to Hollywood's desperate bid to lure 1950s audiences away from their TV sets and back into the movie theatre. "},{"Title":"Mike Todd's baby","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Elaborate, star-studded adaptation of Jules Verne's story about adventure-filled global journey for a fussy Britisher and his valet. Long but occasionally energetic piece with beautiful balloon-flight sequences in the first half, but the second and third portions fall off considerably. David Niven's stuffed-shirt becomes annoying after a time, but Cantinflas(as Niven's gentleman's gentleman)is wonderful. Oscar winner for Best Picture, Best Scoring, Best Editing, and Best Screenplay; the latter seems the least convincing, as the film's exhaustion seems directly tied to the flagging script, not the handling or most of the players. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Sometimes charming but way too long","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have to put myself in the group who don't really find this movie that good. The story is a classic, David Niven does his usual ultra-British character (and he is good at it) and Cantinflas makes a great Passpartout, but the movie has a very low pace.We already know the whole story (right?) so what can the movie give us? I guess it can be watched like we watch Lord of the rings to get a stunning visual representation of the book. Around the World in Eighty Days doesn't fail in that respect.Scenery is generally great, acting is generally not. Except for Cantinflas (who, again, is superb, although somewhat over-used, like the tedious bullfighting), the only actors who do their roles well are the straight British, Niven, club members, servants. In other parts of the movies, many actors perform poorly.The movie has many great stars (some now forgotten), including Buster Keaton and Frank Sinatra. That is usually a bad sign, and indeed they add little to the movie, but are rather distractions. Sinatras appearance is a pure cameo appearance, while Buster Keaton does a Train Conductor, stone-faced as he should, but he isn't funny. A very young Shirley McLaine is almost impossible to recognize until rather late, but I'm not sure if she was considered a star at the time. That made her the most enjoyable and challenging star-spotting. Spotting her is easy, actually recognizing is harder.If you don't mind the slow pace with many way too long scenes, the movie delivers much beauty as well as some dry British style. I understand that that can be appreciated. I could not keep up my interest for quite that long. With some shortening (not that much really) it would win much. "},{"Title":"Why the fast forward was invented!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember liking this film well enough when it came out but it doesn't wear well at all. Almost all the scenes are too long (such as Mr. Greco's flamenco and Cantinflas' bullfight), the lines are stilted and the characters are cardboard. Shirley as an Indian princess? Oh please!In all fairness, early in her career, they probably didn't know what to do with Ms. Maclaine.There is the scene where the saloon pianist turns around slowly and reveals himself to be (ta da!) Frank Sinatra. What a thrill!The version I saw was the letterboxed one shown on AMC and I enjoyed Robert Osbourne's comments more than the film. Seen with stereo sound, it gives an o.k. approximation of the original even without the original Todd-AO widescreen process. Pretty but empty!6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Around the World on the Back of a Snail","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After viewing two movies with this title, I seriously wonder what the book is about. Because there's no way a successful 19th century novel could be this bereft of ideas. The version is a wide-screen travelogue, and the most developed theme the movie offers is an anti-racism message, while the movie somehow still manages to be racist. Niven plays uptight, Anglocentric prig Phileas Fogg. Cantinflas, with no discernible talent whatsoever, either triumphs in various int'l tasks, in a way Fogg could never (anti-racist), or wreaks havoc on each new place (because he's also an ignorant stereotype).It a movie with a lot of problems. The first half hour is bogged down in what must be the world's most inert setup dialog, so that the rest of the movie can go silent for long stretches. The movie cheaps out too much - preferring to stick its stars in front of a flat wall in a Hollywood studio, and cut to location vistas they're seeing, to keep costs down. This is pretty shabby-looking. When we arrive in Suez we're on an interior set of an exterior (a harbor). Who wants to see that in wide screen with Todd-AO? Cantinflas' Passepartout is intended to provide comic relief, but his bits are lazy and undeveloped, and he plays his buffoon with a flat affect. He has zero screen presence. The movie eats up more than 90 minutes, before in desperation it switches to cameo overload mode in an effort to liven things up. Everything ever filmed moves quicker than 80 Days.If you had to pick one of the two movie versions to watch, it's a toss-up. They're both bad. This one at least offers a lesson about film history. Every Best Picture winner flatters viewers ideas about themselves in some way; in this case voters rewarded a movie that suggested they were cosmopolitan. "},{"Title":"Ah, the Fifties","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  With the exception of On the Waterfront the Academy  went  out of its way during the fifties to award the Best Picture Oscar to movies that were safe, family friendly, non-controversial, non thought provoking and politically neutral .  Around The World in 80 Days is no exception. Basically, this is just a 3 hour travelogue  with pretty photography and alot of over the hill actors in cameo roles. Read the book by Jules Verne instead and skip this turkey. Even on a big screen, its not worth wasting 3 hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Grand exotic travelogue but otherwise boring and possibly even racist","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From the Jules Verne book, Englishman Phileas Fogg (David Niven) accepts a bet from his fellow Reform Club members to travel around the world in 80 days putting up £20k. Passepartout (Cantinflas) comes looking for a job and becomes his valet for the trip. The Bank of England has been robbed of £55k. Inspector Fix (Robert Newton) believes that Fogg had stolen the money and follows him in pursuit. It's a wild ride across the globe. On the way, they rescue Indian Princess Aouda (Shirley MacLaine) who joins them on their quest.Without a doubt, this is a grand movie with lots of footage from all around the world. It was probably quite an eye opener for its time. With the exception of these exotic footage, the movie is a slow, prodding, unfunny affair. The trip is monotonous. A lot of it is wild, some are insane while others border on racist. I guess people actually believed that ostriches pulled carts in HongKong back in the day. However one must admire the daring it took to make such an impossible film. "}{"Title":"A mostly mindless, outdated and childish work, with very few redeem values","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the World in 80 days is a comical adaptation of one of the classic works by Julio Verne, which was great and is a universally acclaimed writer for being one of the most important personalities in the literature history. So, making an adaptation of a classic by such an artist is better be good, right? Yes. I can imagine how great and kinda groundbreaking this film was in its release time, back in 1956. But nowadays, it is irrelevant. Firstly, this film is very outdated. Not because of the visual effects, that are outdated, but not that much, I mean, comparing with other films made in the time, this one aged very well, but the kind of humor used in there&#x85; come on. I doubt if even the people that lived in the 50s would find this film any funny. It's so dull, and childish, it challenges both the patience and the intelligence of the viewer. You know that kind of childish jokes used in that cartoon named 'wood-pecker'? Right. The jokes in this film looks exactly like that. The kind of jokes that you laugh your ass off when you are in the age of 6. This is the kind of humor in the film. For an allegedly comedy film, that is very bad, I must say. I know, comedy is subjective and etc. but I really doubt if anyone will find funny the humor in this film nowadays, since the standards are completely different. The story still interesting to a certain extent, it has some intelligent points, like the critic against the modern man, and about the English way in general. I really liked that part. It's an important redeem value. And say whatever you want, but I liked a lot the main character and I thought that the acting was good. The guy was funny, but he never lost the serious essence of his character. A great work, in my opinion. The rest, meh. I can live without them.One thing that was also ruined due the time was the traveling and the nature appreciation presented in the film. It's so outdated. Nothing on it is spectacular or wonderful like is intended to be. The cinematography on this film, by nowadays standard, is average at best. Some of the scenes were clearly made into a studio, is obvious the presence of a painted background in most scenes which are supposed to be passing on other countries. The music was cheesy and annoying. Being said, the visual effect's weren't at all that bad, again, I'm taking in consideration the fact that most films at the time couldn't accomplish the technical level reached in this film. Anyway, it's not a boring film, despite being very long,and for those who are fans of cameos, certainly won't be disappointed with the film.It don't requires any kind of concentration or whats or ever from the viewer. But I'm certainly not spending my time to watch it again. After all, it's a popcorn flick. And I generally hate popcorn flicks, specifically if they are as outdated as that one. 6.2/10 "},{"Title":"big but not much else","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Time has not been kind to this one-time crowd-pleaser, a lumbering adaptation of Jules Verne's famous story, and one of the weakest Best Picture Oscar winners ever. It's hard to see what beguiled audiences back in 1956, unless it was the sheer size and scope of the movie. It works best as travelogue, and the famous musical score nicely compliments the pretty visuals. However, despite its episodic nature, the movie seems even longer than its 3-hour running time, and it's a mild chore to sit through it in one viewing. David Niven is his usual smoothly professional self and the Mexican comedian Cantinflas has some moments of good physical comedy, but Shirley MacLaine as an Indian princess (!) must surely have an honored place in the Miscasting Hall of Fame. This is the film that introduced the word cameo, meaning a small role for a big-name star. There are plenty of them here (Frank Sinatra, Marlene Dietrich, John Gielgud, etc.) but none of them are used in a particularly witty or memorable way.  "},{"Title":"Around the World ... is a BORE!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When audiences went to see this dud during its initial run this epic was a commercial success! The book it's based on is a classic, but from today's standpoint this film is devoid of inspiring a sense of love for God or adventure. An uptight Englishman named Fogg, who could be representative of Jesus Christ instead, makes a Devilish bet to travel around the world in 80 days. Along the way countless (then famous) stars appear and are given not much to do to communicate Christian values (ie.- the back of Sinatra's head, Lorre as an all-to-brief valet). This film receives credit for casting Cantinflas in the comical second lead. He brings joy to his work and it shows in such a positive Christian way, but why wasn't a BELIEAVBLE actress cast as the Indian princess!? "},{"Title":"As Unnecessary as It Could Possibly Be","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the World in 80 Days recreates the sensation of looking through someone else's vacation pictures. Some of them may be pretty, but by the time you've seen your fifth picture of palm trees and sand, you're ready to move on.This movie existed solely as a big F*** YOU to the television industry and the threat it was making to film box office in the mid-50s. Hollywood wanted to show what film could do that T.V. couldn't, which meant BIG films in exotic locations on enormous screens. Unfortunately, these added benefits came at the expense of just about everything else that makes films good -- pacing, character development, dramatic tension, etc.David Niven sleepwalks through this film, Cantinflas is only slightly less irritating that Roberto Benigni, and spotting celebrity cameos may keep you interested for the first half hour, but they're not the hook on which to hang a three-hour movie.Think of all the things you could do in three hours and do any of them instead of watching this film.Grade D "},{"Title":"Curious Best Picture Winner of 1956","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Around the World in 80 Days is a classic example of quantity winning out over quality.  Overall the film is watchable and somewhat fascinating, but not because of the actors, the screenplay, or the direction.  The set direction, cinematography, sound, and editing are all impressive considering the date this film was made.  However as previously mentioned, none of the characters make an impression. The story (based on Jules Verne's unimpressive novel) is disjointed and somewhat annoying, and Michael Anderson's direction is never clear at all.  In my opinion, Around the World in 80 Days is easily the sorriest film ever to win a Best Picture Oscar.  4 stars out of 5 (sympathetically because it did win the Best Picture).   "},{"Title":"PhD Adaptation","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After the success of 'The Ten Commandments', Sir Cedric Hardwicke went on to appear in this all star cast adaptation of the Jules Verne novel which makes several references to black people as 'niggers' titled 'Around the World in Eighty Days'. An entertaining film that should be seen once, but not part of the Cedric Hardwicke canon. "},{"Title":"Dated and boring","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Most Dated The fact that a 19yr old girl is paired with a 46yr old man as his future wife was laughable. This is from the days when men could be the hero well into their 50's and still be paired with a girl about 20, whereas women were past it at 30. The intended humor was not funny in the least and there really was no urgency or feeling that he was never going to make it in 80 days- he was the hero after all and they were not. Boring = the length and lack of drama. This film is from the days when people found a man dressed as a woman hilarious and 3hr+ plot-less films with pictures of exotic locations innovative.If you don't mind being patronized to while watching a very long holiday film, believe that men can get any girl they want who is 30yrs younger than them (just because her husband died and she 'needs' a new man), and don't mind knowing that he makes it in the end feel free to watch. "}]