[{"Title":"Absolutely Perfect. One of the best films ever made. 10/10","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"89 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a little known fact that India produces more films per year than any other country. The reason that most people don't know that is because their films do not generally appeal to us, and we would see them as oddities suspended in their own culture. Possibly they'd be amusing or interesting to watch, but they would probably be hard to enjoy (to demonstrate the difference in taste, Roger Ebert attended an Indian film festival a year or two ago, and when he questioned its director what American film did the best business over there, he answered that the movie _Baby's Day Out_, which is basically like one of those Popeye cartoons where Sweet-Pea wanders through construction sights blindly, except extended to 90 minutes, had theaters packed in India all throughout its run; the film bombed completely in the US). Tastes differ. Humanity does not. This is proved to the utmost in Ray's masterful _Pather Panchali_. This film has got to be the best ever made about, well, life in general. It reminded me a lot of a Chinese film, Zhang Yimou's _To Live_, which was good, but its situations finally seemed a bit contrived. _Pather Panchali_ feels as real as life itself. To be sure, it contains great moments of sadness, but, for the most part, it concentrates on the beauty of the world around us. One of the major characters is this ancient woman, maybe even in her nineties. She is hunched over, has no teeth, and has crooked eyes. But Ray makes her form beautiful. He often finds characters with exaggerated and odd features. And there is nothing more beautiful in this world than the love between members of a family, and Ray revels in this. The relationship between the brother and sister is heartstoppingly beautiful.I could not say anything bad about this film. But there is one thing I would like to see a DVD version of this film, and indeed of each of the films of the Apu Trilogy, and only Criterion could do this effectively, which is kind of disappointing, since I know a major film company already owns its rights and would probably never give them up without huge pay; a DVD version with scholarly commentary. Hindu symbology is present in a large quantity in this film, along with several Hindi ceremonies. Of course, I loved seeing this. I am not completely unfamiliar with the culture, so I was able to catch a little, but there is so much I don't know. A commentary track on a DVD would help me understand the film better, and thus love it even more.  "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Movie!","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know how even 6.4% of the female voters could have given this movie a 2!!!!! This was Ray's first movie, but his economy of dialog, his synchronization and sympathy with India's rural life is incredible. So little said, yet so much! Apu and Durga following the sweetmeat seller, the scene where they run through a kash field....superb, the work of a real artist, a master. The film develops its characters and the atmosphere slowly and resolutely. The narrative builds up to a powerful climax. Ray had an ancient camera while shooting this movie, did it matter? No. His expression and technique was more than sound, although this was a maiden venture. Some critics found(and still find, I might add) the film to be too slow. Satyajit Ray wrote about the slow pace - The cinematic material dictated a style to me, a very slow rhythm determined by nature, the landscape, the country. The script had to retain some of the rambling quality of the novel because that in itself contained a clue to the authenticity life in a poor Bengali village does ramble.There you are, if you have not watched this movie, you'll probably missed the greatest movie made on Indian rural life. That's why Akira Kurosawa said of himTo have not seen the films of Ray is to have lived in the world without ever having seen the moon and the sun "},{"Title":"Possibly the best film ever made about childhood","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *** WARNING SPOILERS ***The three films Pather Panchali, Aparajito and Apur Sansar form a trilogy, and, although each holds up well in itself, they are best viewed as a unity. Speaking on a purely personal note, I know of no greater achievement in cinema, and have certainly seen nothing that moves me more profoundly.The twin themes of these films are progress and loss. The former implies the latter, and both are, in a sense, inevitable. This is, as all summaries must be, an over-simplification. Certainly, the loss of childhood, of innocence, of parents, is universal to the human condition. Growing up, progressing from childhood to maturity, is similarly inevitable. But Apu wills his progress at least, he wills its direction. He always grapples with life, painful though it is. Only once, after the death of his wife (in the third film of the trilogy), does he turn his back upon life, but this crisis is temporary the trilogy ends with Apu once again facing the future willingly, uncertain though it is.It is this refusal to turn one's back, to stagnate, this refusal to renounce, that forms the backbone of this trilogy, and gives it a unity throughout its often disparate episodes. The central character of these films, Apu, always aspires towards becoming something greater, other than what he is. He wants to educate himself. This, in a western context, appears somewhat obvious, but, given Apu's background, education is something to strive towards, to struggle for; and Apu, despite great temptation, never abandons this struggle. It is not that he sees education as a means towards wealth or power this is not, after all, anything so crude as a rags to riches story. But he does want to outgrow the village, to understand, and come to terms with life and the larger world outside. And in this he is, as  is suggested by the title of the second film, aparajito, undefeated.Over the three films, we see Apu progress from childhood to, perhaps, his early thirties. In this progression, we see his character develop through experience. This experience is often painful, and Apu is not always capable of rising above the pain. Perhaps no other film has depicted with such a terrible intensity the emotional pain of loss; but the vision, ultimately, is far from tragic. The last film - Apur Sansar - actually ends with a sense of joy. The joy is by no means unqualified it has been hard won, and we, the audience, recognize its fragility. But it is, nonetheless, exhilarating.Pather Panchali, the first of the trilogy, takes place some time early in the 20th century, and covers the years of Apu's early childhood. We see him born into a poverty-stricken family in rural Bengal. Later, we see Apu at play with his sister, Durga; we see him excited by the travelling players; we observe the uncomprehending wonder of Apu and Durga as they see a train for the first time. We are shown all those events of childhood that are apparently trivial, but which nonetheless shape the adult personality.Apu's mother Sarbojaya (the superb Karuna Banerjee), is understandably harassed, trying to keep her family clothed and fed. The father, Harihar, is good-natured, other-worldly, and quite unpragmatic. With the family lives an aged aunt, Indir. She is a pathetic figure, helplessly eking out a meagre existence on the charity of those who barely have enough for themselves, and relying on Durga - with whom she has a close relationship - to supplement her inadequate diet with stolen fruit. Aware of her status, Indir generally speaks and acts in an ingratiating and conciliatory manner; but there is a repressed rage within her that bursts out on occasion. It is a magnificent performance from the aged actress Chunibala Devi. Sarbojaya has no patience with this old woman, and takes little trouble to hide the fact that she is  unwanted. This is not out of deliberate cruelty, or indifference it is simply that looking after her own immediate family is burden enough. The old woman, desparately trying to retain the last vestiges of her dignity, is forever storming out, attempting to find a roof to shelter under from some other relative. But she keeps returning even a hostile roof, after all, is preferrable to none. It is a picture of desperation which moves the heart beyond mere pity. There is one particularly heart-rending scene where she sits in the dark singing of death in her old, cracked voice.This first part of the trilogy ends in tragedy - Durga's death - and I know of nothing in cinema that delivers so powerful an emotional punch. It took me quite unawares at first viewing, and even on repeated viewings, it moves me like nothing else I have seen. Particularly unforgettable is Apu's final, quiet act of love for his dead sister, which really needs to be seen in its proper dramatic context to be appreciated. It is the end of a chapter in the family's life, and they move on. The sense of loss is overwhelming.This is perhaps the best film ever made about childhood. I watch the entire trilogy about once every year, and wonder afresh at what cinema, at its best, is capable of achieving.  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is certainly a masterpiece. The film is overwhelmingly real and the key element in the movie is the maintenance of this realism. The characters are so true to the ethnic rural-sixties Indian existence that one is compelled to wonder if the film was captured through surveillance cameras. Pather Panchali, released in 1955, is the first film of director Satyajit Ray's Apu trilogy. The film is a serene and beautiful depiction of a little boy's childhood in the Indian countryside in the 1950s.The film was made on a shoestring budget by a hitherto unknown director. Apart from a seventy-year-old woman who made her name in the 1930s on the stage, none of the cast had ever acted before and many had been plucked from the Indian rurality. In contrast Satyajit Ray completed the trilogy on the behest of the Indian Prime Minister, pointing to the film's cultural impact.It's a quiet, simple tale, centering on the life of a small family living in a rural village in Bengal. The father, Harihar (Kanu Bannerjee), is a priest and poet who cares more about his writing and spiritual welfare than obtaining wages he is owed. The mother, Sarbojaya (Karuna Bannerjee), worries that her husband's financial laxity will leave her without enough food for her two children, daughter Durga (Uma Das Gupta) and son Apu (Subir Bannerjee). Harihar's family often lives on the edge of poverty, coping with the unkind taunts of their neighbors, the burden of caring for an aging aunt (Chunibala Devi), and the terrible aftermath of a natural catastrophe.Most of what transpires is shown through the eyes of either Sarbojaya or Durga, and, as a result, we identify most closely with these two. Harihar is absent for more than half of the movie, and, before the penultimate scene, Apu is a mere witness to events, rather than a participant. Until the closing moments, we don't get a sense of the young boy as a fully formed individual, since he's always in someone else's shadow. The simple story of the Bengali family will definitely stay in my heart for a long time to come. If you haven't seen it yet, what are you waiting for?........ "},{"Title":"simply wonderful","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...it is one of those greatest works of art..so lyrical yet so composed. there is one phrase that Ray has used extensively in his writings; something that his professor use to say when he was studying painting in Shantiniketan look at Fujiyama, Fire within and Calm without. There is the symbol of true oriental artist... i think it best describes Ray's work where he suggests in his cinema enormous reserves of power and feelings which never spill into emotional displays.the strength and variety of the cinematic craftsmanship in this film can be explored endlessly, but what strikes me the most, is the way his work has confirmed, sustained and nurtured the existence of an art form, western in origin, transplanted and taking root in Indian soil. in a way pather panchali is so 'rooted'. it is so earthy and 'regional' at core and may be thats why its 'international', may be thats why, despite being the product of its time and place it is universal in its appeal. the moods and moments that he creates are simply 'matchless'. so simple, and yet so profound. the Indir Thakuran sequences of the film remain for me the highest, noblest and rare expression of art in Indian films so far (except films by Ghatak and Mrinal Sen) The film induces a kind of contemplation and a sense of wonder, about the truth, individual and privet. almost without you being aware of it it opens windows to the truth that lies within and beyond the boundaries of cinema itself. "},{"Title":"What a story!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have just finished Pather Panchali. To be honest, it took almost two weeks to watch it. Not only interruptions, but the shear poverty of the individuals--the family--is overwhelming. Each member exhibits their poverty and destitution in a different way. My favorite character is Durga, who gives and gives until she reaches the point where she is tired of not receiving.I will forever remember this movie, and I hope to watch the other two parts of the trilogy.I have to have this film in my collection. Movies that make you think and think again, and search your heart for answers that sometimes never come. "},{"Title":"As good as remembered...","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I originally saw the Apu trilogy in 1961 in a little theater in Berkley. Sat through a straight showing of all three films and walked out after six hours in awe. It was a defining day in the development of an avid film buff. I have waited three years for the DVDs to be released, and hoped against hope that Criterion would get the rights, but it was not to be. Sony has released an unadorned, Mirchant and Ivory Foundation restoration but they are finally available. I bought all three of the Trilogy the day they were released, but have been reluctant to put them on. So many of my memories of great films have made me wonder what I was on when I saw it to think that was great. Think Brewster McCloud. My experience of Pather Panchali and the full trilogy was a memory I didn't want diminished in any way. Tonight I came home from work, put the Pather Panchali in and sat totally rapt for the full two hours. The DVD production values and the print quality are really bad in spots, but all that fades as one of the really great art films takes over, and the immersion in the lives behind the film works its magic. Film doesn't have to be an act of corporate commerce Pather Panchali is living proof that film can be a medium of great art.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time.","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've been asked what my favorite film of all time is. It's a silly question, and the answer might have changed over the years. But I am certain now. It is Pather Panchali, completed by Satyajit Ray in 1955. Strange that I would settle on an Indian film, since I have specialized all my life in Italian movies and think I know a good deal about them. But no, Pather Panchali, spoken in Bengali and made on a budget that couldn't buy a coffee break on a major production anywhere today, is my favorite film.Why? Oh, goodness...because of its poetry, its humanity, its timeless and haunting lyric beauty, its imagery, its powerful portrayal of a family and a culture. I first saw it when I was a senior in high school. I went to the Avon in Providence, where it played for a week in 1959. Overwhelmed, I went three or four times that week. I told people about it but nobody seemed interested. And it's futile even now to promote this film among folks who only respond to graphic action, moronic one-liner comedies, thundering vacuous soundtracks, the vapid melodrama of snakes on planes. Pather Panchali means Song of the Road, and was the first film by its director, made as a total labor of love. He began in 1952 in 16mm, then got financing from the Bengal government to complete the work in 35mm. It took four years, and was shown to great acclaim at Cannes, where it won one of the top awards. It was a radical departure from Indian film convention which has characters breaking out into song every ten minutes, regardless of the story.The movie was the first of a trilogy Ray completed in a few years. The Apu Trilogy is about the life of an idealistic hero. Pather Panchali deals with the youth of Apu and his impulsive sister Durga, and the travails of his Brahmin priest father and his worrying mother in the midst of crushing poverty. The second and third parts are Aparajito and The World of Apu. All these classics are highly acclaimed masterpieces and very much liked by discriminating audiences.Pather Panchali turns everyday childhood occurrences into wondrous events, whether it is brother and sister crossing the fields filled with white feathery rushes to see a train in the distance, a pursuit of the candy man, a Hindu feast, the wonders of the natural world, an ancient aunt telling bedtime stories to children. Death interrupts the family twice, taking away young Durga too. The scene in which the long-absent father returns to learn of the death of his daughter is a lacerating wail from the beyond. Apu's concealing forever the suddenly-learned truth of a secret theft by his sister is a moment, once seen, can never be forgotten. In sadness, mother, father, young son move away. The film ends.Musician-composer Ravi Shankar did the beautiful score. He was a virtual unknown at the time, but I traced down recordings of his music (decades before his legendary Woodstock appearance!) and still listen to them. Ray was influenced by the Italian neo-realists, particularly De Sica in The Bicycle Thief, which he said bowled him over.In the mid-90s the films of Ray were restored and reissued to great acclaim, and retrospectives took place everywhere. Pather Panchali and the rest of the Apu Trilogy are available on video or DVD at libraries and retailers and form the nucleus of any collection of world cinema. It is a shining work of art. "},{"Title":"A song for a long road ahead.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is this one scene in Satyajit Ray's Pather Panchali when the eruption of a conflict between Apu's family and a quarrelsome neighbour brought the film to a complete standstill (for me anyway). Those few characters' state of mind and their relationship dynamics at that point in time, was conveyed with such explosive intensity, I got gut punched drunk.Pather Panchali boasts of suitably melodramatic yet highly intuitive performances. Its breath taking cinematography ranks alongside existential beauty this side of Malick heaven. The musical scoring, by the great Ravi Shankar, is identifiably Indian, yet universally sublime. Together, these myriad parts melded into a whole so grand in its social consciousness, so incisively intimate in its portrait of one family, I could do nothing but be slowly devoured like a most willing prey. On 4th Oct 2003, I saw my all time favourite film, Tokyo Story. The feeling I got today from Pather Panchali, is as close as is possible from that fateful October day. Pather Panchali is one of the best films I have ever seen. This will be a night to remember. Now on with the other two then. "},{"Title":"Pather Pachali","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a tour de force around a family's quest for that better future amidst sheer poverty. The film's success is not limited only to realistic depiction of human condition in early 20th century Bengal, but it brings up the triumph of human spirit, love and affection in spite of utter struggle in the most poignant way that one may think. Anybody remotely connected with movie making should also watch APARAJITO AND APUR SANSAR, to complete the experience, and off course to understand the art and craft of cinematic expression from the Maestro. No doubt it ranks in top 100 movie list from Time magazine, not to speak of almost all Indian publications connected with films rate this one as THE MOVIE. "}{"Title":"An Indian Classic","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ray's Pather Panchali, the first of his unforgettable Apu Trilogy, is a remarkable film experience. The acting is strong, the direction and script, sure, and the total work, eloquent and moving. A film which one can return to again and again, and each time one can discover new elements.  This is a staple of my video library, along with Ray's other two films which complete the trio, Aparajito and The World of Apu. I have watched the trilogy in a continuous sitting on two occasions, and the experience was emotionally overwhelming.   "},{"Title":"one of the most beautiful Indian films.","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This has to be by-far Satayjit Ray's most beautiful and greatest achievement in cinema. Looking at all the aspects, will definitely inspire someone to make a film more like this in our generation. I saw this film at a recent 50th anniversary screening in my hometown. I really loved the director's beautiful creation, his attention to detail works very neatly and exactly as the director had planned. I wish i had got to see the Apu Trilogy, the character which followed in the other two sequels, must be watched also.The story is simple, only focusing on the life of one family. but the true trademarks of the film go to the Actors, the Director and his screenplay. Anyone who wants to learn film-making must not miss this film. A true cinematic achievement's and one of the most beautiful films from one of the most important directors of this era. "},{"Title":"The Beginning of a Legend","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSPather Panchali is not only the start of a highly recommended trilogy (the so called Apu trilogy) but also the first film of the legendary Indian director Satyajit Ray.It is hard to believe that his entire team as well as himself were busy on their first ever film project.According to Ray himself the first half of the movie is not satisfactory as it is in some ways amateurish.The second half however is very fluent.These are his words and although I concur with his analysis I have to say that the first half is also of a high level.The second part however is truly great and even more so when you remember that it is his first movie ever.That the movie was finished is all thanks to the West Bengal Government who saw some parts of it and wanted to finance the rest,since Ray's money was all spend. As said,the first half is a bit slow and incoherent but that doesn't take away it's overall drama and power.Most of the actors were unexperienced but that doesn't really show.All star performances are from Chunibala Devi as the old Auntie (she died before release),Uma Das Gupta as Durga and Subir Bannerjee as the young Apu.These two youngsters played only in this movie,I wonder what ever happened to them. My favorite performance comes from Karuna Bannerjee as she plays Durga's and Apu's mother,a very powerful and convincing role it is.The story is about family life in rural Bengal and although there are several great scenes in the movie my favorite one is the scene in which Durga is sick and her mother tries to cure her in the middle of the night while the storm is raging outside.This scene is so realistic that it actually feels that you are there,the chills came over me.The next morning Durga has died and left her mother helpless while the father (played by Kanu Bannerjee) is returning from his voyage in search of money.Another important part of the movie (besides Ray's great directing) is the music of Ravi Shankar,who is best known for his friendship in the late sixties with The Beatles (listen to Within or Without You on the legendary album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band).The music can be annoying to some people because of the always present Sitar,but to me it is a necessary add-on to the movie. For me as a film lover this movie was very much an experience since it was the first Indian movie that I say.I've rented the entire trilogy so I can't compare them yet,but I will do so in the comments on the other two. Anyway,as I am a film lover (and future Film student in September) this was a personal must see.After watching it I can't wait to see the rest of the trilogy and other Ray movies.9/10 (currently number 61 in my top 100) "},{"Title":"one of the most profound films ever made","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I won't go into detail about this film, because the greatest films ask that you really just sit back and enjoy them without questioning. This is in a very very small handful of films that create a kind of 'ecstatic truth' that Werner Herzog is always talking about. There is not a moment of hand-fed emotion, and that's probably what hits you first after the film is finished. This is probably why the film has not hit even the first 250 on the IMDb list, while it is more easily accessible than, say, most 'foreign' pictures, it still refuses at every turn to make a cliché out of itself or to be unfair to the audience or its characters by making its machinations obvious, a ploy that most filmgoers fall for time and time again. A reason for this might be that Ray, a young director at the time who had already worked with Jean Renoir on his landmark film about India called 'the River', really didn't have a lot of money or power to wield around, and made this tight, intimate story on a shoestring with an amateur crew, without real concern for anything else but this story that he wanted to tell. A lot of that comes across - the locations, the actors - were all real, however this is a work of masterful collaboration between director, cinematographer, actors, sound recordist, and particularly the editors, a collaboration that is unparalleled in most modern, big budget films. This is a movie created solely with passion, and I am joining in the crusade to make this one of the top 250 on IMDb, though it should, by default, belong on the top 10 of anybody's list. "},{"Title":"Brilliance of a brilliant story teller...","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  10/10... arguably the best ever Indian movie. I don't like to repeat on the statements which my fellow reviewers have already expressed. What more you can say of this movie..a masterpiece, oh no!! I think you have to term a word which is more superlative than superlative. It's a pity the year Pather Panchali was released there was no Oscar category for foreign language films, otherwise, India would have won one, of course, if the Indian government had chose to send this above the bollywood movies.I liked one of the comments of the reviewers, if Hollywood is 'dumb' then bollywood is 'dumber'. Really speaking, I doubt if anyone in India can ever cross the brilliance of this film, hailed as a masterpiece! At least tell me any B'wood films which even comes half close, not even the over rated Lagaan!! This movie and of course, other Ray's movies are intelligent, real and visualistic art. So what are the b'wood ones tissue papers....and the worst part of it is years after years these dumber movies have been sent for Oscar nominations incessantly! Time to grow up b'wood, isn't it?? And what the foreigners see?? The scraps of the traditional bollywood dumber movies; what they miss the excellence of the regional Indian movies!! Hey, are you listening Bollywood??  "},{"Title":"A film of Quiet Perspective and Natural Beauty.","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali, Satyajit Ray's debut film about life in a Bengali village, was the first movie from India to gain wide recognition and acclaim in the west. It is an affecting story of a rural family struggling to deal with poverty and tragedy in their ancestral home. Ray adapted the script from Bibhuti Bihushaw Banerjee's semi-autobiographical novel of the same title and retells it with natural beauty and a quiet perspective. The filmmaker, who came from a literary and artistic background(He was a product of the Indian Renaissance) was interested in the contemporary problems of his country-and he shared with the Neorealist films from Italy- a simple and direct approach to making movies. Ray created ordinary scenes that were incredibly life-like. His films contained very few strains of artifice. He believed that the raw material of cinema was life itself. Ray generally concentrated on small subjects and ordinary people. He favored using non-actors and shooting on location to heighten the realism. He made films in his own style; dignified and subtle; sincere and with a conscience. In Pather Panchali (Song of the Little Road) Ray makes superb use of his milieu. The viewer immediately feels the cramped conditions of the families' decaying house and the open-air confines of the surrounding forest. When Ray sends his camera beyond the village, the observer can sense the allure and freedom of the vast fields that spring immodestly from a thin, winding trail. Rays' was a cinema of thought and feeling, in which emotion was deliberately restrained because it is so strong. This restraint adds to the psychological intensity in his work. Nearly all of his films are marked by this remarkable depth of feeling. Pather Panchali, the first installment of the Apu Trilogy(Aparajito and The World of Apu would follow) depicts a young boy (Apu) exploring his ever-expanding universe with a growing sense of wonder. Ray excelled at showing how children and adolescents confront mystery and joy; sadness and death. The director shows Apu's burgeoning awareness with a masterful use of the long shot. High-angled, distant shots track Apu and his older sister Durga, as they run spiritedly through white-kashed fields. This sense of discovery gives the film it's emotional power. The director's main subject was India-it's customs and culture. It's conflicts between the traditional way of life and the impact and influence of the West. He tried arduously to capture this synthesis between western ideas and traditional Hindu values. His concern for human problems and not issues of national politics gave his films universal appeal. Pather Panchali delineates the small joys and acute sorrows of a poor Indian family. It is an endearing testament that poverty does not nullify love and that even the most afflicted person can find some modest pleasures in their world. The film's indigenous sound track is vital to Ray's story of ancestral limitations. Twanging ektaras, wailing tarshehnais and six-stringed sitars resound liberally throughout the movie. It would be difficult to imagine Pather Panchali without it's memorable score. Satyajit Ray was an unpretentious filmmaker. He was genuinely uninterested in commercial considerations. His films were life-affirming, authentic and honest; gentle and poetic- truthful observations on human behavior that employed simple but strong themes. Ray's unadorned style of film-making was intimate, probing, and revealing. (Possible spoiler) The final scene shows the grieving family leaving their home in an ox-driven carriage to begin a new life. A trailing camera in medium close-up captures a compelling mixture of emotions on their faces. Expressions of pain and resolution; hope and despair; the future and the past. A seemingly simple yet unmistakably powerful scene that typifies Satyajit Ray's profound cinema. A cinema of gentle but deep observation, understanding and unabashed love of the human race. "},{"Title":"Brutal on your face artwork","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an intense movie. It smells of earth after a sudden downpour in mid-summer. Unexpected, slightly uncomfortable yet devinely inspired. There is subtle poetry of emotions underlying the movie. The characters are honest and very human. The best part of the movie is the Camera work considering the movie was made in 1955. Overall comfort food for mind, though I would not recommend it as a first date movie. "},{"Title":"At last I happen to see this masterpiece","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Growing up in India I had heard of this movie as one of Satyajit Ray's classics and a movie which showed the utter poverty of rural India. Anything classic used to evoke a feeling of a movie usually boring and worse it's most likely would be a black and white film lamenting on the sorry state of human affairs. Of course those were the childhood metrics to gauge what a good film should be and thankfully I have outgrown those notions. Nevertheless I wanted to watch this movie when Satyajit Ray died in 1992 and once again media was talking about his movies. But somehow I didn't have access to this movie anywhere (those days of VHS tapes).I watched this movie recently and was in a stunned mode throughout the span of movie. What an emotional roller coaster ride this had been and it has been done without even making you feel that it's a movie, it's just seems real life happening in front of your eyes. I don't want to describe much the story here(as other have already commented much) but more of what I felt watching (re-watching)this movie. The beautiful and poetic flow of this movie is so smooth that you sort of start living the life as depicted. This movie conveys the reality of hard life but with such gracefulness that you don't feel utterly bad or depressed rather you start contemplating about your existence and the beauty in such mundane things that we tend to ignore. This film gives you the moment, the pause, that forces you to reflect on the meaning of life. There were many moments in the film which touched the heart in many ways - Durga and Apu's longing for sweets and following the misty kaka (candy man) in hope. - Old Aunt's happiness on such small things as getting a stolen fruit, couple of stolen chillies, etc. - Mom's inner strength on managing on in a hopeless situation and shattering of it with Durga's death. - Father's wail on hearing the fate of Durga... - Apu's instinctive hiding of the truth about Durga's theft.I am fascinated and surely will watch the other two movies in the trilogy... "},{"Title":"Powerful stuff.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This astoundingly powerful movie depicts the life of a poor Brahmin family in a rural Indian village. The movie conveys the power of hope that can sustain ordinary people beset by the most hopeless of circumstances. The acting was sublime. I wonder where they found the woman who played the old auntie. Rake-thin and bent over, she could convey entire worlds of meaning with her sunken eyes. I don't want to even try to explain the movie, conveying the essence of this one is beyond my abilities. I could not get this movie out of my mind for weeks. I am not the sort of person who even remotely feels like crying during movies, but this one had me weeping like a child.Magnus. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film Ever Made.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  True art transcends its medium.  Like being connected to a higher spirit of life.  God bless you Satyajit Ray.  The reason I became a film maker.  The essential element here is, I think, humility.  Humility in the eyes of one's fellow man, in the eyes of a higher common spirit. Puts to shame the common ego on display by most directors. Ray puts his characters, their story, their humanity before all else. This is what the great art of film making is for, and what it can teach us all.  A film of a pure and great love. "}{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As an anthropologist who is a film buff, I'm always fascinated by films with solid ethnographic content. Ironically, I must confess that I had never seen Pather Panchali completely. The several times I started to watch the film, seemingly something arose during those few times and I never got very far into it. However, now in my senescent years, I finally got around to seeing it after realizing that I never had taken the time to see it. Having read about the trilogy and about Satyajit Ray, I look back and wonder why of all the classics I've seen, I'd overlooked these works of Ray. Maybe it was the trauma I experienced 50 years ago at UC Berkeley while taking a year of Sanskrit but I doubt it. I'll only say now I must have been saving it for a treat during my later years. And, what a treat! The film has a languid quality and moves slowly, listfully. The imagery is diffused due to in part the quality of the film but the eye of the camera misses nothing from shots of nature to a kitten stumbling and licking itself, to the old Auntie brushing away flies from her food. The starkness of their poverty does not affect the world of a little boy as it does his frustrated mother and sister. His father, a kind-hearted dreamer, seems resigned to his lot and is willing to take less to keep his sense of life and desire in balance. All of this life trajectory is classic Indian and Ray shows us to us through the camera's eye in a way that is moving, joyous and profound. This is their world and Ray lets us see it through their eyes. Akira Kurasawa called Ray a genius and we guess we could say, it took one to know one. "},{"Title":"A triumph of lyrical, beautiful cinema","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film popular the world over amongst film scholars as a 'World Cinema' masterpiece. For various reasons it is most definitely that - a masterpiece.Ray started making this film in 1950 and finally completed it in '54. The problem? Lack of a financial backer. The reasons for this were two 1)Ray was an unknown in the film-making business and 2)his ideas for the film were deemed unworkable in terms of catering to a paying audience. However, Ray persevered and managed to obtain the financing from the local West Bengal Govt. and in the process changed the face of Indian cinema forever (and it needed some changing too).This is a miraculous film if one is to look at what had preceded it in India and most of what has come after. It is sensitive to the ambiance of rural Bengal (which is brought out oh so beautifully by the graceful photography and the musical score of Ravi Shankar) and it is - unlike most Indian cinema - honest and tender to its rustic characters without a shade of any patronising or exploitative element. The result is a beautiful, warm, languid film that truly captures the essence of village life in Bengal in a celluloid form that any movie-goer the world over will be able to not only appreciate, but more importantly, love.The acting is stunning considering a lot of non-actors were used here - a la De Sica's 'The Bicycle Thief', an inspiration according to Ray. I must mention the lady who plays Chunibala - you will not find a role better executed in cinema. A prostitute in her younger days, Ray tracked her down at the local Red Light District where she was living with her daughter. Ray was always an expert at picking the right man for the role and then prodding them along till they produced near-perfect performances on screen and this film is no different.This is a landmark film for Indian cinema in so many ways - the first time in India that shooting happened almost entirely outdoors, the first time someone with any knowledge of the film medium and film-making the world over handled a camera, the first time that actors acted naturally instead of the melodrama-infused performances that were and still are the norm in Indian cinema. Keeping everything surrounding the film in mind, and then watching the film for the beautiful journey that it is - makes you realise just how immense this work is. A remarkable tour-de-force. A triumph of cinema in a truly hostile environment for intelligent film-making. "},{"Title":"document of unbridled realism","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ray's Pather Panchali is a document of unbridled realism which explores the life of a Bengali family in their struggles with the harsh conditions of early 20 th century India. Existing in an infinate desert of mainstream 'in your face' hollywood cinema, I found this film a wonderful oasis. I do admit that this film moves very slow and I did initially struggle with this. However, its slow pace allows one to slow down and explore the richness of Ray's portrayl of symbolism and quiet desparation. In the recent North American curiousity of Bollywood films, Pather Panchali is NOT this. Rather, this film is a  genuine masterpiece that will be treasured for generations. "},{"Title":"Moving and beautiful","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching the Trilogy of Apu is an incredible experience, it makes you wonder how could ray describe happiness, despair and love in such a powerful way in movies where not much happen. This is pure poetry accompanied by the most wonderful music of Ravi Shankar. It is not by chance that some scenes from the movies of Shankar became a ever-classic... they are memorable. "},{"Title":"masterpiece","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful film. For those who have not watched any films from India or heard of Ray, I strongly recommend it. Full of sadness, hope, innocence, and despair, it is an emotionally evocative portrait of the life of an Indian family, their trials, and their courage and persistence throughout. They go on, not because they are exceptional, but because they must, because they are human.Ray does a masterful job of capturing the simple joys of childhood, and the ambitions and dreams which make us all human, regardless of where we are. Simple scenes such as a disfigured elderly woman seated on a porch, singing of her approaching death, are very moving. I have never seen the basic elements of life treated with such an incisive yet soft touch as Ray has in this film. It is wonderful to watch in comparison to the broad writing strokes and vulgar generalities of most directing and writing today. At the risk of sounding trite, this is a film which is not merely entertainment or art, but one which reaches into your heart and makes a place for itself there. It belongs there. "},{"Title":"a film which created waves in world cinema","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather panchali....perhaps,the greatest film the world ever seen.It's a powerful film which portrays the Indian culture.When i saw this film for the first time, i couldn't speak for a moment....It's a first film by legendary satyajit ray..the way he directed the movie was just incredible. Great cinematography by subrata mitra..A scene involving candy seller is just amazing.what i really like about this film is...the performance given by the old aunt..i think she was some 80 years old when she did this role..i think the credit should go to Ray.I've never seen a film like that before...i salute Ray for his outstanding work.. "},{"Title":"Insubordination of the human soul","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Exotic (Adjective)- 1. Strangely Beautiful THE GENRE Ray developed a language of his own through the Apu trilogy- a slow, lush, languid, lyrical language reminiscent of enchanting poetry in the most maudlin and mundane circumstances. He didn't ostracize poverty nor did he glamorize it, He didn't exploit it but merely romanticized it. He found romance and beauty in the most hideous of circumstances. It was like a pain that was so severe that the agony became sweet, a sore so deep that its anguish felt sensuous. Like death- so terrifying that it's freeing, exonerating. It's the kind of erotic pain one feels in the muscles after a hard day's work. You want to laugh at the pain almost with contempt and with a condescending, patronizing attitude, never realizing that it is your own pain that you're laughing at. But you want to wallow in it all the same because you think that it'll make you more profound and hence you're thankful for it having been bestowed upon you THE TREATMENT Ray gave an explanation to the people who have a problem with the pacing of the film by saying that the slow rambling rhythm of the film was a clue to the subject matter itself, as villages in rural Bengal do, in fact, ramble. Pather Panchali has numerous colloquial anecdotes in chaste Bengali but despite the localized context, the message of the film is universal because pain and suffering knows no boundaries- they transcend and pervade our hearts, overcoming mythical barriers of race, religion, nationality, language, time, place and other such superfluous demographic constraints. Pather Panchali is ultimately a comment on the indomitable insubordination of the human soul THE POETRY Ray is rather unforgiving in his vision. He chooses stark landscapes sans an iota of conventional beauty and surrounds his world with equally pathetic and ugly faces but he finds a beauty amongst them that is so pristine and divine. He literally hears the beating of a heart in the throbbing of a wound. The small moments- a torn bed sheet (torn, mind you and thereby being an article that if placed in any other film, would conventionally arouse feelings of sadness but not in Pather Panchali for here that very article becomes a magnificent artifact) through which Apu's eyes can be seen for the first time when we see him as a child. It assumes an artistic expression of its own. The kaleidoscope becomes a voyeuristic instrument, enabling a glimpse into the world of fantasy albeit one that is decidedly and inexplicably, out of their reach. The simple act of following a sweetmeat seller and the hope of eventually extracting some savories from him or from the house he's selling them to, becomes a 'chase sequence', the tragic mood uplifted by the lilting Sitar music by Ravi Shankar. We feel victorious when Durga is given sweets by her young friend right under the disapproving gaze of her bitter mother. THE TRAGEDY 'Song of the little road' is a joyous journey through a road of unbearable suffering. Tragedies are many- the death of the aunt being the first moment, Apu's first encounter with death. Whether he fully comprehends the situation or not is debatable but the indelible impression of this one incident on his nubile mind, is not. Then, the second tragedy- the death of Durga, Apu's sister and his best friend is even more heartbreaking than the earlier tragedy simply because of the higher shock value it has. Durga is in many ways the protagonist of this film. Apu is merely a bystander who observes rather than experiences most situations in this film. It is Durga- playful and protective, child and woman, innocent and naughty- so captivating is Uma Dasgupta's performance that the viewer falls in love with the character and therefore cannot quite accept her death in the film. Why she was here just a few moments ago- playing carelessly in the rain with Apu and then, suddenly, nature seems to have defeated her but isn't there a lesson in that? The lesson being that it took death to conquer her undying spirit, for she wouldn't have succumbed to her circumstances while alive. It's as if she was saying- You may take my life away but you'll never conquer my spirit. Her presence wraps the film like a halo and she is enshrined forever in the viewer's hearts. Another exemplary sequence is the one where Durga and Apu run out of their house to watch the trains go by. The haunting look in Apu's utterly captivated eyes touch the viewer. Steam Engines, like the kaleidoscope, are again a symbol of movement and fantasy and yearning for an outside world and these symbols of change and freedom become even more evident when seen within the startling paradoxical context of their waking existence of stillness in their never changing lives that they partake everyday like bonded labor. The difference between Yesterday and Today is barely discernible in their village where life follows the hum drum of a set pattern. So set that it's almost a sacred ritual. THE INSIGHTS Relentless in its pursuit of reality, Pather Panchali is a neo real masterpiece. I have been fortunate enough to have visited the actual location where Pather Panchali had been shot. The landscape is still the same, still as barren, the sons and daughters of the villages still look like Apu and Durga, Ray's voice still seems to resonate through the hollow tree barks and Ravi Shankar's soulful Sitar strings still peek from behind the antediluvian cobblestones. Because just like an old painting, the colors may have dried and got slightly discolored, but Ray's impeccable genius is still visible through the Gothic canvas. "},{"Title":"Song for generations","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read 'Pather Panchali' before I was ten years old when it was being published in a magazine in translation. There were many things I never really understood at that time in the novel. I read it again after growing up, as a young man. I first saw the film in 1973 at a film festival in India. In 2004, I bought the trilogy on a visit to India and watched all the three films more than three times. It is an indescribable experience. Words fail me to express the intensity of the film in its visual beauty, thematic power, splendid acting, unbelievable camera-work and haunting music by Ravi Shankar. I do not know the names of all the actors, actresses and technicians, but I have never gone through such an experience except when watching movies by Ingmar Bergman. Satyajit Ray took Indian cinema to the world stage, not through the hollow men and women at Hollywood, but through the Berlin Film Festival, Cannes Film Festival, etc. The sensitivity of his films makes watching them the best cinematic experience. I have unabashedly awarded it 100%.Watch all the three films, if you watch this one. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An absolute wonder, from beginning to end.  The large frame takes you right into this strange world instantly and never lets you go.  I don't think I've ever seen a film so un-selfconsciously perfect.  "},{"Title":"One of the very best movies I have ever seen ...","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If ever a movie was done to evoke strong emotions, this is one of the best. It is an experience that remains with you all your life and once acquired it's taste all other movies seem shallow and superficial. This is not a movie for the traditional fun and excitement, rather a serious movie that evokes parts of our emotional spectrum that we did not know existed. Humanity is one of its strongest appeal. In Panther Pachali, Satyajit Ray gave us an immortal gift! "}{"Title":"One of the most accomplished narrative films ever made.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pather Panchali is simply one of the most perfectly executed narrative films ever made. It is an extraordinary experience that really should be witnessed to be appreciated. The evocation of a specific place and time balanced with a profoundly universal humanism draws viewers into this film in intensely personal ways. This is one of the few films that has elicted some kind of respectful response from every person that I have talked to about it. Simply a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The best narrative film ever produced..","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it's hard to describe the feelings about pather panchali as u find hard to describe ur emotional feelings; it's simply superb; one of the perfectly made film ever; with such rhythmic flow; precisely chosen dialogues and overall a classic background music by Ravi shankar, the genius.And u have to keep it in your mind this film was made without any modern technical help; not even to the standard at that time.The eternal family relations and bonding are beautifully portrayed by Ray in this masterpiece. I think this is the best narrative film ever produced touching the true values of humanity and emotion.Salute to the master. All the Ray lovers should watch his other classics like rest of Apu Trilogy, Jalshaghar(the music room). Nayak,Charulata,mahanagar... "},{"Title":"The Best  Movie I have Ever Seen","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie 'Panther Panchali' is the best movie I have ever seen in Indian film industry and also one of the prolific one in the International film industry. Panther Panchali describes the world from the view point of a young child with dreams, imagination, interpretation of the world around him and his encounters with reality through the characters around him and the surrounding. This makes the movie a well balanced mixture of revelations of realism and the imagery interpretation of that realism through the mind and eyes of a young child Apu. This very fact also provides the film with a simplicity and flow that is very striking while at the same time bringing out the hopes and sadness, happiness and struggle of a newly emergent nation, primarily rural society based, still struggling and striving to raise itself to a higher level. It is reality interspersed and woven through imagination and hope, the striving for a betterment, the eternal flow of the path of life through hopes and struggle of a common Indian poverty stricken rural family which is the striking reality of a nascent nation where even today more than 70% of the population live and die in the same abject poverty yet resilient enough to hope and endeavor for amelioration of their social status, a better life. This hope for better future has been nicely portrayed at the end of the movie when the whole family move out of the village in search of a better life in the city in-spite of their losses and uncertainties. The whole movie has a poetry like characteristics in its unfolding of the realism woven through imagination of a young boy and his striking encounters with the real world and its malaise through incidents like the death of his sister with whom he shared a very sweet relationship, his revelation of the theft of his sister after her death and the though that flows through his mind and his act of throwing the same in the pond in an attempt to consciously deny and forget the negativity in his beloved world surrounding him, his first encounter with the modern world of steam engine and trains, etc. The skillful screenplay and the wonderful musical tune in the movie has definitely helped in bringing out the central flow of the incidents and the inner meaning of the movie. It is eternal in nature and not really confined to a particular family, time or place, it brings out the very real and everyday story of millions in similar surroundings in Indian society. This is a movie which leaves you thinking and filled sweet and melancholy emotions after you have finished watching. This movie stands out for the very fact that it brings out the striking harsh reality in a sweet and nice manner like a poetry, a musical tune, the tune of life of millions. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story of a poor family and a adolescent girl","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't even think myself as someone who could write comment on Satyajit Ray's movie. But I have to tell people what I feel about this movie Pathar Panchali. Let me ask you a simple question have you ever been 'moved' emotionally? Well! If you have! Then you know what I am talking about, but you haven't been then I am sure you want try that out. Watch this movie and then you will know. Pathar Panchali is a very different movie and is not about romance, wealth, beautiful faces, relationships, cars, computers and cellphones. Not about bombs, wars, jails, science, space and fiction or whatever. The movie is the first one in famous Apu Trilogy and is about a poor brahmin family in West Bengal (India). It is an story of a girl in this family, how she grew up among in a poverty stricken family and never had a chance to all things (garland of fake pearls, dolls, candies, bi-scope and hair oil) a girl kid deserves. She grew up a very good girl despite the fact she never went to school. Her brother was born when she was about 5-6 and she loved him a lot. Her plays with her villages girls were very well done. The scenes when one of her friend got married were wonderful and show that how mature she was in her thinking that she is never going to get married was more than a reality. The story captures real moments (hard to describe here!) from a typical poor family in India when (1955) it was not even a decade since India got independence. Poverty was a real issue in India during 1955 and it was Ray's vision to capture it in his movies for generations to see after hundreds of years later what India has come out of today when Bollywood makes $10bn budget movies and they fail to even break-even on box office.Its amazing that Ray had a vision of making such movies when rest of the country was struggling to survive. These movies are really really low cost movies and are example of pure intellectual work. When I was one of the Italian movie La Strada then I thought that perhaps it is the only movie which comes close to Pathar Panchali.I would say all three movies in Apu Trilogy (Pathar Panchali, Aparajito and Apu Sansar) are great jewels in Indian cinema and they will continue to amaze people for hundreds of years. If you haven't watch them then you will never know what a true will looks likes. It moves you! No kidding! Pathar Panchali is really a best human document ever produced. "},{"Title":"Peerless, heart-rending","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is tied with Aparajito (part two of the Apu Trilogy) for my favorite film ever.  Part three, The World of Apu, seems a bit flawed by sentimentality and overly melodramatic qualities, but is still a masterpiece, if a more minor one.   Pather Panchali is visual and moral poetry, and provides enough thought-provoking material to last a lifetime--or more.  Meditation on the human truths exposed in these three films can be a very salutary thing.  Satyajit Ray was one of the very great moral-centered filmmakers--which is not to say he's preachy or condescending, just the opposite he does what great dramatists have always done from the Greeks through Shakespeare and onward, which is to search the human soul, compassionately revealing its weaknesses and strengths so that each member of the audience, if attentive, may learn more about himself or herself.What nobler purpose could drama, or film, serve?  It's a joy to see this done, and a privilege to witness the work of such a master. "},{"Title":"Superb photography and passion for the story","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw Pather Panchali as an undergraduate in 1973 at Vizag, India. I heard a lot about Ray by then, & had already seen his Mahanagar, which I did not appreciate.The first thing that struck me was the superb photography. Everything was shot in un-improvable fashion, from the marriage arrangements at the rich neighbours' house to the wrinkles on the old aunt's face.The second thing is that Ray's passion for the story comes through so clearly. I heard he gave up his job, and pawned his wife's jewelry to make this movie, but still did not have enough. He apparently kept on wondering if he would be able to make the movie before the boy who played Apu grew up or Chunibala Devi, the old aunt died.The beauty of the story grew on me over subsequent viewings. I even had the good fortune to view the entire Apu trilogy on three subsequent days - it was very clear that Pather Panchali stands head & shoulders even over the other two.Please see the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the finest in the history of movie cinema","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Probably, the most palpable flow of the story on the celluloid. The most lasting facet of the film is the universality of its expression and the its capability to make the linguistic boundaries meaningless. Never ever one feels that one is watching a film as it is so real in terms of the performances and directorial ability of Ray. "},{"Title":"A Journey to Another World","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For sure this is a beautiful and haunting movie.  I can only echo the comments of other viewers who rate it a masterpiece.  Those who are looking for action should stay away though.  This is a fascinating look at life in rural India, but also has a lot to say about the human experience.  All aspects of film-making are outstanding but, for me, the Ravi Shankir score made the film. "},{"Title":"i 'm speechless....","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First and foremost thing is that u need to have taste. A taste for movies which doesn't show an incredible or cheap story lines, but which are beautiful snapshots with each scene depicting its own saga.'Pather Panchali'(song of the little road) is one of such movie. It's a 'kaaljai' (one which is not bounded by space and time) piece of art.Though some people will find it fragmented, but the truth is that Ray has worked on each and every scene. Some scenes are historical like 'rain shower' and 'the vessel floating'. Surely Ray is the Shakespeare of Indian cinema, who loves to develop the characters. Though the movie dates back to late 50s still you can find traces of the 21st century's society (Indian) and the universal behavior of human. Bound in the ties of selfishness, ego, our own problems and society often the behavior of human is quite disgustful. But when it comes the time of crisis our true heart is revealed which is loaded with love and is hungry for it. The climax really highlights this notion in a beautiful way. Secondly, Ray seems to be well acquainted with the importance of family. And the selfless love among family members is the part and parcel of the movie.The innocence of Apu and Durga, brother-sister love, humanity, mother's care, relation between Durga and her aunt and (of course) the miseries and songs of the aunt had made the movie eternal. About the acting, I'll say that Chunibala Devi (Indir Thakrun) is the person who suppresses all other great performances. From her scene first to the very end she seems to steal all the scenes. I would call this one of great Indian performance. Uma Das Gupta has very well presented the character of Durga (I personally find her most amusing part of the movie). Both she and Subeer Banerjee (Apu) had presented their innocence quite artfully. There are some songs in the movie which in spite of being in Bengali (incomprehensible for many people and me) flow with the movie. Perhaps I might be wrong but they (songs) don't satisfy as such. At last, if you still had had no opportunity to watch this classic then I would personally recommend it to you, but with two precautionsFirst watch it if you really have taste buds for such art films (as I already have said). And second the film is of 50s so prepare your mind for a slow and no larger than life or exciting events in the story (it is quite realistic)If you are mentally prepare then don't wait just fetch it anyhow and see the 'weird beauty' of your own world through a genius' eye&#x85;.. "},{"Title":"Simple yet powerful","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I previously heard about Satyajit Ray, often considered among the greatest filmmakers of the 20th century, but had never seen any of his films or any Bengali films at all for that matter until last week. The Apu Trilogy is usually regarded as his magnum opus, while the first part of the trilogy, Pather Panchali, was the first film he ever made. I finally decided to watch it (with subtitles) last week.I'm usually into watching more fast-paced films, so I wasn't quite used to Pather Panchali's slow pace at first. The film started out interesting, then got a little slow in the middle, and then picked up again in the last third which managed to keep my interest throughout. By the time I was finished watching the film, I found myself staring blankly into the screen for some time while in deep thought. I still couldn't forget about the incredibly moving ending, which was simple yet touched me in a way very few films before ever have, not to mention the unforgettable music by Ravi Shankar (whose music I had previously only heard in some Beatles songs but his earlier music in Pather Panchali was far more effective). It was probably one of the most powerful and memorable endings I've ever seen.9/10 "}{"Title":"one of the greatest pictures ever made","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What to say about this masterpiece?I think one would have to ransack the dictionaries to find any apt word to eulogize this movie.The human emotions portrayed in this work of art transcends the barriers of language,region,religion,culture.This film speaks in universal language.If you truly love the movie watch it without the subtitles,then watch it with the audio muted.The effects would be the same.I have been brought up in a culture where this movie is regarded as the ultimate creation of art though I deliberately did not watch the movie until I thought myself to be a little bit capable of appreciating the best work of Ray.I watched it at 27 and since then in the past two years I have watched it more than 27 times.Here are some of the remarks about the film-Pather Panchali is perhaps the finest piece of filmed folklore since Robert Flaherty's Nanook of the North.-TIME,as deeply beautiful and plainly poetic as any movie ever made. Rare and exquisite.-Hazel-Dawn Dumpert of LA Weekly, one of the greatest pictures ever made- Philip French of The Observer.Watch it as many times as you can and every time you will discover a new dimension of the movie.Sublime,humane,sensitive this pastoral elegy is Indian cinema at its best.And never forget this movie was made with a shoestring budget with amateur casts. "},{"Title":"Monumentality hidden in small gestures","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali is full of poetic depictions of humans in all their pettiness, silliness, honor, and beauty. We live with a typical family over the years, as they struggle, love, fight, laugh, cry, and die. Shot beautifully in black and white, the moments are shown in lingering, thoughtful ways, whether as direct observations or symbols. This is a slice of life film but with a monumentality hidden within the smallest of gestures. You must be in no rush. This is a very patient film with no big punch lines or actions sequences. Allow yourself to join these people, and take some of their experiences home with you. This is part one of a trilogy, often called the Apu Trilogy. They are all directed by Satyajit Ray. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Somewhere between the Oriental placidity of a great Yasujiro Ozu film and the harsh reality of a great Vittorio De Sica film lies the world of Satyajit Ray's Pather Panchali, the first of his Apu Trilogy of films. And in case there was any doubt, that place is a very, very good one for any filmmaker to be, for the two aforementioned filmmakers were masters of their own sorts of films, and- if this one, and first, film of Ray's is an indication, the same plaudits can be ascribed to Ray, a former advertising firm's employee who struck out on his own to raise Indian cinema from the melodramatic doldrums it had been in since its creation.This almost two hour long black and white film, made in 1955, was not only Ray's debut in the medium, but the first 'serious' film in Indian history- at least that made by an Indian. It is no surprise that Ray, a Bengali, made his film in his part of India- funded by the provincial government of West Bengal, away from the more commercial films of what would later be called Bollywood. The film's English subtitle is Song Of The Little Road, but this is a bit of a nonsequitur since the film is based on a novel by Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay, and the only road with any prominence in the film is a recurring hagiography of a local set of railroad tracks. Some websites claim that the title connotes the subtitle, and that Pather, in Bengali, means of a path, and Panchali means a kind of Bengal song; however, other sites and critics dispute this claim. The tale is set in the early 20th Century, although the film never specifies a date- at least not in the white English subtitles of the Artificial Eye DVD The Apu Trilogy three pack, which includes the other two films, as well Aparajito and The World Of Apu.Like the Italian Neo-Realist films of De Sica, Ray relied on an excellent script (adapted by Ray, from the novel) and amateur actors, for the most part, to pull the film off. A low budget made 'big' scenes an impossibility, but Ray shows off, in this film, some nice touches with the camera that cost nothing but a few minutes of cogitation. These skills all led to international praise of the film in many quarters, and a special award at the 1956 Cannes Film Festival.The plot of the tale is rather simple, and easily conveyed, but this film is a great example of how merely recapitulating or summing up a plot utterly does an injustice to the deeper and greater story....Pather Panchali is a truly great film; it is not only a classic of its native land, but of the very art form of film. And, as mentioned, it not only derives its power from Italian Neo-Realism, but also from the diurnal do of Yasujiro Ozu's films. Ozu is another filmmaker who has been criticized as dull and tedious, but both men are keen observers of their fictive worlds. In those realms the flicker of an eyebrow can have greater consequence than an army brigade's assault on an enemy. Yet, to the viewer not yet weaned off of the Lowest Common Denominator, such moments are not even noticed. I only wish that Satyajit Ray, who died in 1992, was still around to know that his film was yet influencing more people in the positive way all great art does, but realize, as he surely did, that he need not be, for great art always and eventually fills out the places the human body gives way to. In watching Pather Panchali, one gets a sense of Satyajit Ray, as he was. Go know him. "},{"Title":"If Only...","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" On watching this masterpiece of Indian cinema, I was left disgusted with the rest of the Indian Film Industry, especially those self-indulgent asses in Mumbai. This is what film-making is all about. This is the power of cinema. This is a movie SRK, Aamir, Amitabh, Karan Johar, Rani Mukherji, Ash and all those idiots would never understand and don't even think that they would make it. With Nayakan and if one can exclude the pomp, Lagaan, this is the creme-de-la-creme of Indian, nay, Asian, No, World Cinema! A masterpiece. Technically brilliant, artistically outstanding and a movie our stupid audience and even stupider film industry can never appreciate and understand, thus it must contend with praise from phirangis. "},{"Title":"One of the Best films of our times","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What can I say about this movie? What can be said about this movie that has not been said already? Each image and each scene is imprinted on my mind as if I was there when it all happened.First one from the Apu trilogy, this was also Satyajit Ray's debut film. It seems, Ray came across this Novel 'Pather Panchali' by Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay and became obsessed by making it into a movie. He had to face a lot of hardships but was somehow able to fulfill his dream. And what a debut it is. Each character and each scene is so real that this is not just realist cinema but reality itself.I always wonder how Ray got those performances out of children. No one seems to be acting or performing and yet it is so entertaining. Apu with a cardboard crown trying to copy that character from the play he watches, Durga trying to comprehend a telegraph pole, a stray dog following Durga and Apu as they follow the sweat vendor are scenes that make you wonder how did Ray got these so perfect. And he uses elements of nature to accentuate each of his scenes so well that each scene is complete in itself.I won't say the obvious like it's a masterpiece or it's a classic or it's brilliant because everyone has started using these terms for almost anything these days. All I will say is that it is one of the most beautiful movies that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A powerful and transcending experience that deeply impacts the very core of your soul and makes you feel holy and blessed. One of the greatest movies in existence.","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For twenty whole years of my life I lived in ignorance without having seen the sun or the moon but today I have finally seen the Ray and I feel holy and blessed now. Akira Kurusawa, the man behind Japanese classics like Rashomon and Ran rightly said years ago that living in a world without having seen a Satyajit Ray film is similar to living without having seen the sun or moon; almost every film I've watched feels effete after living in Ray's world. It is a transcending experience watching the late Bengali director's debut effort Pather Panchali, one that deeply impacts the very core of your soul in a way that makes you feel afterwards as though you've lived two lives &#x96; one before having watched Pather Panchali and one after. It achieves the remarkable feat of invoking your senses to a higher state of consciousness; the experience watching Pather Panchali is similar to reading Leo Tolstoy's War and Peace or some of William Blake's or Emily Dickinson's finest achievements, or watching Meryl Streep's iconic turn as Sophie Zawistowski in Sophie's Choice. The feeling is so powerful that it took me more than an hour to get back to my original state; the hardest part for me was to return the DVD to the movie rental store because I knew the true worth of what I was holding. May god bless the guy who recognized Pather Panchali's worth years ago and preserved the original prints so the world today can have a chance to be transported to the precious little magical world of Apu, the film's protagonist. This little world is black and white to the outer eye, but the film is so richly filmed and composed that it colors our mind with the most exquisite palette. The opening credits, which wouldn't be understood by anyone who can't read Bengali, still captures the spirit of Pather Panchali though Ravi Shankar's playful, whimsical and yearning tabla beats and sitar strums; only Michael Danna could hypnotize us in 2012's Life of Pi with a similarly evocative score. Ray's world opens not with Apu or his sister Durga but with the film's most antagonistic character, the rancorous neighbor of Apu's family who's worshipping the tulsi plant early in the morning. Satyajit follows her as she notices Durga, the still-unborn Apu's sister, stealing fruits from her courtyard. Durga runs along the woods to her shanty home and hands the fruits to her senescent grandaunt Indir Thakrun after keeping milk for her three little cats. Ray then cuts back to the nagging neighbor who is berating Durga and cursing her family for raising a thief; in an excellently composed sequence, Ray is able to seamlessly capture her, the lady listening in the next house balcony listening to her and Durga's pregnant mother Sarbajaya and her empathic friend collecting water from the well behind the neighbor's house, well within earshot of the woman's bitter rant. Sarbajaya confronts her daughter for stealing fruits and then berates Indir Thakrun for encouraging Durga's bad behavior. Indir Thakrun leaves the house temporarily, frustrated by Sarbajaya's nagging, but returns soon as Sarbajaya gives birth to Apu. A couple of dissolves then takes us some years ahead and we see Apu now as an innocent school-going kid who's most fond of his sister Durga. His family is barely able to fulfill their basic needs, with Apu's soft- mannered father Harihar Roy being too lax about asking his dues from his employer; he is neither able to make much as a playwright. This situation makes it especially tough for Sarbajaya to manage the household needs as she herself doesn't like begging others for monetary or any other help; she therefore is all the more harsh on Indir Thakrun, who sometimes like Durga is wont to taking food items from Sarbajaya's kitchen without permission. There are two sequences at different points in the film which include Harihar and Sarbajaya; both retain the same posture in the sequences but while in the first sequence, Harihar gives a more optimistic image to Sarbajaya to pacify her, in the second he sounds less enthusiastic while Sarbajaya looks more worried for their future. Apu is still too young to be affected by the family problems and we only see him enjoying his childhood days with Durga and his friends. Durga is extremely supportive of everybody including her mother, who reacts violently towards Durga when same neighbor in the beginning accuses Durga of stealing her daughter's beaded necklace. The family's problems persist after Harihar travels to nearby city to find work and tragedies strike one after the other; the family's only hope, as told by Harihar in his letters to Sarbajaya after leaving, is to leave everything to God's Grace keeping in mind that everything happens for the better. To Satyajit Ray, every image and every sound, both on-screen and off- screen matter. It's his craftsmanship as a movie visionary that segues the film so well that you are bemused to hear that it's his debut film. I've read one of his books, a compilation of his essays and theories on film, and he mentions how his inexperienced crew hadn't even operated a camera before filming Pather Panchali and so the first half was a little choppy in editing. I don't have any clue what he's talking here because to my eyes, every image was seamlessly stitched together. To me he didn't capture images but rather created images on film; it's difficult to express just how wonderfully he captures Sarbajaya's gradual breakdown in the film without using superlatives. And his genius picture is complemented by Ravi Shankar's background score, which includes sound of bells that ring during a cheerful sequence with a candy man and also during some of the haunting moments; it reminded me of Edgar Allan Poe's brilliant poem The Bells. Pather Panchali is scintillating, and Satyajit is the Ray of Light. "},{"Title":"Hope, Sometimes Unanswered","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1956, Pather panchali opened to the least possible fanfare at the Cannes Film Festival. It was shown at midnight the same time there was a party in honor of Akira Kurosawa, and only a handful of film critics bothered to attend the screening. We can be thankful for the ones who did, among them Bazin, Moskowitz and Anderson. They demanded the film be shown again, and the rest is history. I paraphrase from the essay Distant Music written by Philip Kemp, available in the booklet for Jalsaghar ('The Music Room', 1958), released by the Criterion Collection.Ray is absolutely amazing. Charulata (1964) was my first love, after which I was able to see this and then Jalsaghar. Now I've been going through his select filmography, and I'm going to have to visit Charu again in the near future.Just like Jalsaghar, the three films that are the Apu trilogy are an overwhelmingly sober account of life and death, and everything in between. Each film is structured around death, and normally we would have reconciliation. But here we have perceived reconciliation through death, perceived in the sense that each time it's short of complete; something is left unsaid, something is amiss. It's all quite shocking, really. Emotionally very draining, and this is Ray's absolute gift. He is able to touch upon a subject like this and examine it whilst retaining a sense of vitality, allowing him not to succumb to heavy-handed melancholy (something I feel Bergman occasionally swerved to) but instead stay rooted in life &#x96; bittersweet, full of hope, sometimes unanswered.There are some iconic and haunting images in this film that are yet to be matched in their intensity. A beautiful death poem, and a life poem, as well. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece, A Stunning Document of Human Life and Childhood.","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Pather Panchali', the first one in Satyajit Ray's 'The Apu Trilogy', is a cinematic masterpiece, and the best one in the trilogy. The story, the characters, the situations, everything in this movie overflows with such excruciating reality and brilliance. It well-deservedly won the 'Best Human Document Award' at the 1956 Cannes Film Festival.No matter how old and slow the movie is, it's captivating and extremely absorbing from the very beginning, and shows the heights a film, at its best, is capable of achieving. It stands out because of its poetry, its humanity, its haunting lyric beauty, its imagery, and its remarkable portrayal of a family and a culture.Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay's impressive screenplay, along with Satyajit Ray's exceptional direction, portrayed through powerful performances by every actor in the movie, makes it the film that it is.Ray's direction is top-notch and one-of-a-kind. The characters, their hopes and dreams, their behaviour and relationships - everything is shown with such brutal realism, relatability and poignancy. I was really able to empathize, and feel the angst and pain of the characters. And if this is not enough, imagine this was Ray's debut movie, and made on a budget that wouldn't buy a five-star meal these days! The movie proves why Satyajit Ray is referred to as the Grand Master of World Cinema.This first part in the trilogy takes you through the starting years of Apu's childhood when he was living in his ancestral home in Bengal, with his parents and sister. The dual themes of progress and loss form the core of this film, as well as the whole trilogy.On a personal note, this is the best film I've ever seen which explores childhood so stunningly. The movie's places, characters and every other thing reminded me of something from my childhood; it was nostalgic and heart-wrenchingly beautiful. There are so many scenes of the siblings which remind wondrous events from one's childhood the pursuit of a sweet-seller, running across white fields to catch a glimpse of a moving train, a simple picnic among friends in the forest, playfully getting wet in rain, and hiding some evidence so that the other sibling doesn't into trouble.Even the range of intriguing characters in the film is vast; the hardworking but seldom-present father, the overburdened mother, the innocent siblings exploring the world around them, the always complaining or blaming neighbour/landlord, and the old and usually silent old lady in the neighbourhood who's always in her own world. Even at this age, the Trilogy is considered to be one of the most important and brilliant pieces of Cinematic History. Legendary Japanese Filmmaker, Akira Kurosawa once aptly said Not to have seen the cinema of Ray means existing in the world without seeing the sun or the moon. "},{"Title":"This movie is a milestone in Indian cinema","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watching the film, Pather Panchali (Song of the Little Road) directed by Satyajit Ray, you would have thought that Ray was a season veteran director, but in truth, it's his debut work about the life of a family in Bengal living in poverty. Based on the novel by Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay, when Ray started this film, I think Ray had literally never held a movie camera. I understand that Italian neo-realist films had a big influence on him; all to the better. There are a number of key scenes shot in the film that beholds the beauty and emotional depth in itself. The film never had a complete script; it was made from Ray's drawings and notes. Ray tried to extract and build a simple theme out of the apparently random sequences of significants. Some notable shifts from the novel in the script include the death scenes of key characters, one which occurs quite early in the novel in a village shrine at the presence of some adult members of the family; in the film that key character dies in the open in the presence of the family children, Apu and Durga. The scene of Apu and Durga running to catch a glimpse of the train is not there in the novel, neither child manages to see the train there, although they made an attempt. That scene alone is well played. Such a beautiful scene. I love the sounds of the wind and the hum of the electricity, and the slow, fading edits. It captures perfectly the landscape and the young child's curiosity. The train shows the changes happening in India, and we know the children will grow into a world that is different to their parents. They are left gazing at a thin veil of smoke as the sound of the wind returns. It is very moving. Camera work as usual in Satyajit Ray's film is always brilliant as it has used lot of drifting tracking shot. There almost cosmic emotional power in some other scenes, such as the sunset with Apu and that of the monsoon. The scene from when the snake creeps into an abandoned 'house of sorrows' to their stunned faces on the ox cart was a unforgettable Ravi Shankar theme. I think it foreshadows death. Apu & sister Durga share an intimate bond, they exploring their little world and sharing secrets are the most remarkable aspect of this film. The language might be foreign to me but the emotions were completely native. The film took three years to complete the shooting, and it's was just lucky it got finished with little to no money to product. Pather Panchali was followed by two films that continued the tale of Apu's life 'Aparajito' (The Unvanquished) in 1956 & Apur Sansar (The World of Apu) in 1959. The only faults I can find in this film is that it's insanely depressing. The movie has a lot of death, and nothing really get any better for the family as the film goes on. There is no happy ever after, as this isn't Slumdog Millionaire. The movie is hard to find, and if found, it's rarely in English subtitles and the video transfer is horrible, the sound transfer only marginally better. Another factor is the disconnection by scene to scene, and gives an all-inclusive quality to the film; yet it is also distracting and contributes to the film's great weakness its general diffuseness, its inability to command sustained attention as the film pace is slow. For Pather Panchali, remarkable as it may be, is something of a chore to sit through. It's run time is 122 mins, and there are long periods of time of nothing going on. One can stare in dull amaze for only so long looking at nature. The first half is nearer to social realism, setting out the social hierarchies, introducing characters and their social or family role, defining them against other people, their home and nature. The second half of the film, however, becomes more abstract, even mystical. There is less reliance on words as characters go through strange rites where the emphasis is on observation or action. Film is still better than 2 most of today's loud, flashy torture bollywood movies. This film is true art. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are movies that you watch and forget even if they were good and then there are some that linger on for some strange reason. This, as expected, was one of those very few.The technical quality can be discounted completely as it was made in the '50s and on a shoestring budget but, what really stands out, is the quality of the content per every minute that the film rolls.... Unbelievable!!! The message that is conveyed is universal and the subtlety is remarkable. I am not saying this because I am from India but for the fact that Ray was as brilliant universally as Bergman and the likes.Watch it with an open mind and you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Remarkable debut","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Part one of Satyajit Ray's Apu Trilogy which concludes with Aparajito and Apur Sansar, Pather Panchali (literally translated as 'Song Of The Little Road') is a Bengali masterpiece and the film that introduced the master filmmaker to the world. Made on a shoestring budget, it focuses on the struggles of a poverty-stricken Bengali family seen through the eyes of their smallest child Apu (played by Subir Bannerjee). The film came about when Ray was illustrating a new edition of Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's novel, and the idea of writing a film script occurred to him as he admired the lyrical writing and honest depiction of a struggling family. Ray assisted Jean Renoir as he shot his film The River and suggested the idea to him, to which Renoir reacted with enthusiastic encouragement.The film follows the Ray family as they go about their day-to-day lives in a small, rural village in Bengal. The mother Sarbujaya (Karuna Bannerjee) carries the weight of the burden, seemingly forever cleaning and working and living off the land. The father Harihar (Kanu Bannerjee) helps out doing odd jobs and mostly working away, chasing back payments he has not received from his landlord boss. Durga (Uma Das Gupta) is the teenage daughter who seems to have a weakness for petty theft and has something of a reputation in the village. The grandmother Indir (Chunibala Devi) spends her time stealing food from her daughter and wandering the village. Watching over everything is the most recent arrival Apu, who sees everything with a wide-eyed innocence and remains generally silent throughout the film. By the way, the mother, father and Apu are all played by actors with the surname Bannerjee, although they are not related.One of Ray's key influences to filmmaking are the great films of Italian neo-realism, such as Vittorio De Sica's masterpiece The Bicycle Thieves and Roberto Rossellini's Rome, Open City. It is evident here, as the film has the same visual poetry and social realism, as well as the ability to transport the viewer into a world that they most likely have never, and will never, experience first hand. It is a fascinating insight into how some people of Bengal had to live during this period, and their social attitudes. When Durga is accused of stealing a necklace from one the village children, the women of the village form a kind of posse to confront her mother, accusing her of being unable to raise her children correctly. The family have conflicting attitudes to the rogue- ish grandmother who spends her time almost begging for clothing to keep her warm; the mother looks down on her as a leech, yet the children, especially Durga, look upon her as a lovable character, and someone they can always seek comfort in.It's a film dominated by outstanding performances. Devi was discovered by Ray living in a brothel, having previously starred in two films in her heyday. She is lovable and tragic, and her performance here would become her swansong, at the age of 80. Tragically she died of influenza before the film was released but she will be immortalised for her portrayal here. Karuna Bannerjee is also a standout, switching from sadness to joy to tragedy with effortless conviction, especially during the third act of the film where the family struggles to hold out during monsoon season, where her home risks being ripped apart by the torrential rain and wind. The biggest star of the show, however, is Ray himself, creating a multi-layered film of visual poetry and gorgeous cinematography, with very little funding for his project. He would go on to be one of world cinema's most creatively successful and critically acclaimed directors, making over 30 features in a 35-year career. At the start of filming, Ray had never directed anything in his life, the camera had never shot a film, and the majority of the actors has never acted in front of the camera. Absolutely outstanding stuff, and deserves it's place amongst the world's greatest films.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"The way of life through Ray's eyes *May contain spoilers*","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali is one movie that touches the inner soul of whom so ever seeks to find themselves. Ray's extraordinary ability to bring out the most raw feelings from the audience without being the least bit dramatic is all visible in this first installment of his masterpiece.Although the story line is seemingly thin, its the depth and slow development of the characters that gets to the audience. Ray uses relationships as the strongest tool in his narrative, he breaks beyond the normal conventions of good or bad, but builds more on the 'nessesities of relationships'. One fact that surprised me in the comments is a lack of this understanding. For example Apu's mother and her Husband's old sister(the legendary old woman), they have a relationship pelted with nessesary Harshness. The scenes where the Old woman tries to bond with Apu's mother but without results is heartbreaking. Although at first you would think Apu's mother is a horrible person, on second thoughts you would realize she's simply putting her children before this woman who at an old age had become an extra mouth to spend for at home. Ray is so brilliant in his narrative that even the worst of worse characters gain the audiences sympathy.The beautiful camera work, music is something almost all reviews have inolved in them. Though before ending this review Id like to answer one question that haunts quiet a few people 'Why is this movie so great?' Well in all honesty amidst all the poverty, The characters in Pather Panchali live the most purest of lives, one devoid of the evils of politics, racism and all such Urban social evils and absurdities. They live among nature and touch on the very basics of life, something most of us can never feel because we're lost in a seemingly materialistic world. "},{"Title":"Speechless","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Speechless.. Yes that's the word that can describe the beauty of this movie. Oh wait, even that cannot, nothing earthly , be it words spoken or written can describe the splendor of this movie. Ray raises the art of movie making to ethereal levels. The human relationships and their subtleties portrayed in this movie have no parallels. The music suits the moods of the movie perfectly . Every person involved in the making of this movie - ranging from the cameraman to the actors - has put in the performance of his or her life time. Kudos to all ! Again words fail me in describing one of the best movies of the world. Apu the protagonist, his sister, his mom , his dad , his granny and their lives in the small village make the world in this movie. One has to see this movie to appreciate the nuances in this world consisting of fallible humans and their helplessness. Poverty and its effects are convincingly and realistically shown unlike most movies that seek to make drama out of poverty. This movie is etched in my memory forever. There is not much dialog in this movie and that adds to the beauty of this movie. "},{"Title":"Attention all panther panchali lovers","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If u have enjoyed panther panchali and the APu trilogy then try to catch his other masterpieces like Mahanagar (The Big City) -- about lower middle class struggle and how some manage 2 keep up their conscience despite hungerJalshaghar (The Music Room ) -- reminiscences of a noble lord amidst the decaying settings of his ancestral palace.Chobi Biswas one of Bengal's finest actors gives an electrifying performance of one lost in the nostalgia of lost grandeurAgantuk (The Stranger) -- His last work.an absolute masterpiece in concept.An úncle' from past life suddenly appears in the life of a modern bengali home and he is immediately suspected of being con with uterior motives.City life makes us all wary of fellow human beings.how can one establish one's identity.witnesses can be conjured up ,records and passports can be faked. then how???If u have enjoyed Panther Panchali the movie plz plz read the book.The writer Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhay was a philosophical penner and his novels are like Joyce's work with rich shades of emotions and no perceptible actions.u will luv the book.i am not sure if there are English standard versions available.I and some frnds are trying to translate.contact me 2 know about progress.Aranyak or the forest saga is the writers favorite book where he explores man's relationship with nature.Rich in Imagery like Thomas Hardy. his only action book 'Chander Paahar '(Mountain of the Moon) is about a young bengali boy Shankar's adventure in the Richtersveld mountains of Africa with a gold prospector Portugeese called Diego Alvarez.A stunning children's classic with suspense and inspiration.comparable 2 the Moby Dick.regards 2 allRomit  "},{"Title":"pride of bengal","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Truly brilliant film. Until I had seen the film in its entirety I had always heard others talk of the brilliance of these films but I myself had only seen bits over the years. I considered myself somewhat of a film buff until I read somewhere that 'you know nothing until you have seen Satyajit Rai' how true that was , I found myself falling in love with this masterpiece of cinema.  "},{"Title":"Great Contribution to Indian Cinema","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A refreshing change from most of India's movies.  Most movies conform to the Bollywood standard, Hollywood's idiot cousin. Of course, the metaphor is scathing because Hollywood is no paradigm of brilliance. Bollywood is the dumber to Hollywood's dumb.  The movies that Ray has produced has shined light upon India's dismal cinematic portfolio.  When looking for other good Indian movies, you must look at either the films of Bengal or Kerela.Other Ray movies not to be missed The rest of the Apu Trilogy (duh),The Music Room, Charulata (Ray's and my favorite), and Devi. "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Pather Panchali' is an impressive film about life in a poor part of Indian subcontinent, where the people live a very basic life, and every day is a struggle.Meet the small Bengal family whose life is depicted in the film Hardworking, conscientious mother, Sarbojaya; her dreamer husband Harihar, who writes stories that don't get used; their first-born, a girl, Burga who nicks fruit from the neighbour's orchards. And then the young boy, Apu, who goes to school and gets to learn to read and write. Living with the family at times is their elderly aunt.At insistence from his wife, Harihar gets a job, but only gets paid after three months. His wife is concerned about the lack of maintenance work at their home, but his reply always is that there is no money. But, incidentally, enough money for his tobacco. He eventually realizes that he must increase his income and leaves to find work in a large town.Months go by without a word from him, the family runs out of food and the wife has to sell her precious silverware to get food. When the husband eventually arrives back home, he was in for an unpleasant surprise...The film has many elements it highlights the huge difference between how men and women were treated. A boy gets preferential treatment, gets to go to school and gets better food than his female siblings. The girls stay at home to assist their mothers with housekeeping chores. The film also effectively shows the dynamics between the poor and the very poor.This kind of subject matter can easily be sentimentalized, but it is handled with restraint. The natural cast is amazing, the black and white cinematography and sound track excellent. A masterpiece. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Bengali for Song of the Little Road. Engaging, but not a complete story.","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For a black-and-white movie released 60 years ago, Pather Panchali was fairly engaging because it managed to keep me glued to the screen for two hours.However, it is not a complete story; it's more like the beginning of one. That could be because it's the first in a trilogy, but I feel that despite that, it would have been better for it to have followed at least roughly the traditional structure of beginning-middle-and- end, even if it was meant to be an adaptation of only the first part of the novel Pather Panchali.I didn't give it a rating of less than 7 stars because the focus and message of the movie were executed pretty well. The focus was upon childhood spent in poverty in a developing country, the message being that childhood is universal.In any case, Pather Panchali surely helped me achieve my initial purpose of, being from India, understanding Indian cultures different from my own, in this case the culture of Hindu Bengal.A note about the subtitles English subtitles are great, but if you're like me and speak an Indian language that isn't Bengali, try finding subtitles in them instead of in English. I found Hindu subtitles online and they were much more accurate and culturally- appropriate than English ones, and using them challenged and consequently improved my ability to read Hindi. "},{"Title":"A Key Indian Film","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Impoverished priest Harihar Ray (Kanu Bannerjee),dreaming of a better life for himself and his family, leaves his rural Bengal village in search of work.The realist narrative style of Pather Panchali was influenced by Italian neorealism and the works of French director Jean Renoir. In 1949 Renoir came to Calcutta to shoot his film The River (1951). Ray, a founding member of the Calcutta Film Society (established in 1947), helped him scout for locations in the countryside. When Ray told him about his longstanding wish to film Pather Panchali, Renoir encouraged him to proceed.I absolutely love Renoir's River, so I am pleased to see there is a connection between that film and this one. Unfortunately for me ,I saw a copy that was less than great. It looked pretty washed out. The 2015 Criterion version is no doubt the must-see edition, but I did not have it available to me. "},{"Title":"The first and the best of the Apu Trilogy","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Last weekend it was my fortune to see the entire Apu trilogy at the DIA Film Theater. It was a pleasure and relief after reading stories of burned negatives of Satyajit Ray films and anxiety that seeing his films again after 40 years may be a disappointment. I had seen a clutch of his films at a festival in Bombay and had seen Pather Pancheli again in late 70's as a student in U.S. I had not seen the other two films in the trilogy, Aparajito and Apur Sansar before. It was great to see all three films in a two day span, but this also helped me obtain perspective on this great filmmaker. Pather Panchali is superlatively great. Nothing in Indian film repertoire approaches it for its freshness, naturalness, authenticity, playfulness and ability to relate its experience to the audience. Words are inadequate to describe how affecting Chunibala Devi is as an 80 year old close to death. She walks back and forth from being a beggar/thief to a loving aunt to Apu and Durga. In the extreme conditions she lives in, there is no contradiction in the two roles. Subeer Banerjee as Apu is absolutely charming and Uma Dasgupta as Durga with her rebelliousness and budding sexuality breaks our heart. The photography of Subrata Mitra has few equals in B/W film world. It is not only beautiful; it finds beauty in the most unexpected places such as tattered huts and dark unlit interiors; but is also expressive and lyrical. Ravi Shanker's music is mostly enchanting, but occasionally a little too overpowering for the gentleness of the scene. Kanu Banerjee as the hopelessly romantic father and Karuna Banerjee as the ever suffering mother are excellent.One can view Pather Pachali is the story of India's urbanization. From the beginning, the life in the village is hard and there are always stories about jobs and opportunities in distant cities. The railroad tracks outside the town beckon Apu and Durga and fill them with wonder when they finally see a train passing by. There is no electricity in the village (or running water, paved roads etc), and the electric lines outside town hum and sing to the two children, singing the song of modernization and breakup of the rural culture. It is inevitable that the family will end up leaving the village and our hearts collectively ache about this possibility and are afraid for them. Their pain is palpable as they leave in a rickety bullock cart, and Satyajit Ray makes us share that pain. What an astonishing achievement!After the glorious achievement of this first film, the other two films disappoint. Aparajito seems mostly to be a transitional piece and Apur Sansar ends on an oddly sentimental note. Although death comes regularly in all three films, it is less and less able to shock and sadden as the trilogy wears on. When the last death occurs in Apur Sansar, it seems gimmicky. Subrata Mitra is still spectacular and watching Sharmila Tagore as the bride of Apu is a treat in itself, but most other characters seem wooden and the storyline increasingly becomes artificial. Worse, Satyajit Ray does not seem to have a good grasp of or a point of view about the city life as he does about village life in Pather Panchali. This is especially true when the story shifts to Calcutta in the third film. It is difficult to identify or sympathize with the grown up Apu and we become less and less interested in his fate. Too bad. I loved Apu in Pather Panchali and still cared about him in early parts of Aparajito, but by the end of the trilogy, he seemed more a stick figure created by Ray, than a flesh and bones human being. To me the Apu trilogy had lost its humanity. "}{"Title":"Turning On a Light","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali (1955, Satyajit Ray​), a study of childhood​, is one of the greatest films of all time. Widely regarded as India's best movie, it is a major cultural landmark. It made an instant superstar out of Satyajit Ray. Despite the frequency of scenes depicting mundane life for a family of four peasants in India, Pather Panchali really packs an emotional punch.It is based on Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's 1929 Bengali novel. Apu (Subir Banerjee), a young boy, is the protagonist. In one of his earliest scenes, we wonder if he will wake up to face the day. Apu has a naughty older sister Durga (Uma Das Gupta). Durga's habitual lying and stealing causes conflicts with the neighbors. Sarbojaya Ray (Karuna Bannerjee), mother of Apu and Dirga, is frustrated with her daughter's ways but must defend her from accusation. The patriarch, Harihar Ray (Kanu Bannerjee) is emotionally distant from the troubles of the other three family members. He's a priest earning meager wages during the work day. At night he cheerfully writes poetry, plays and stories with the optimism his artistry can wipe out his family's debt. Indir Thakrun (Chunibala Devi) is the very old (80) aunt who also annoys the matriarch. The needy old woman is the picture of misery. (While Chunibala Devi died before the film was released, Ray had visited her and showed her an early version.)Pather Panchali was controversial at the time for its unflinching depiction of villagers experiencing bone-crushing poverty. Destitution is weighing everyone down, like gravity. There are scenes where characters eat rice with their fingers from a bowl on the floor and it feels like you have been transported to rural India. Yet the peasants are mostly stoic, and inspiring for how they generally cope with their burdens.Two performances really strike a chord. Karuna Bannerjee as the beleaguered, fatigued mother trying to discipline as well as hold her family together is amazing to watch. When she mentions during one moment of despair that she used to have dreams of a better life it really pulls heartstrings. Uma Das Gupta as Apu's naughty sister Dirga is also very memorable. The mother and daughter roles are both exquisitely realized. The 34-year-old novice director (Satyajit Ray) started his career at a very elite level.Ray begins the film with many scenes that are dark, even though the family seems to be prospering. When Fate has dealt the family a bad hand, the scenes are well lit and occasionally, in deep focus. The lighting pattern is counter to how many filmmakers would have approached the material. In addition, the conclusion is foreshadowed. Notice how often one character seems to occasionally stumble or falter. Regarding the music, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar​'s score adds authenticity and depth to the narrative. Shankar's music is very highly regarded among film critics. It also inspired George Harrison about a decade later.For those who see Pather Panchali on the big screen, expect to emerge from the theater a changed and wiser person. Satyajit Ray demonstrates the world is available to a young artist who hasn't given his soul to the dark side. "},{"Title":"Not to have seen  the cinema of RAY means existing in the world without seeing sun and moon.","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The above title is not mine, rather than the great giant of cinema, Akira Kurosawa's. (creator of The Seven Samurai, Rashomon.) I can't help but quote a few from Andrew Robinson's Book The Apu Trilogy - making of an epic (after describing the 'wobbling sweet seller' sequence) The brief wordless interlude of lyrical happiness belongs uniquely to the cinema; it is the kind of peak in Ray's work that prompted Kurosawa to conclude;'Not to have seen the cinema of RAY means existing in the world without seeing sun and moon.' What can the 'humble' I say about one of the all time best films produced by world. There are lyricism, a lot place of poetry, from Marie Seaton to our critic Amitava Chattapadhyay..they are the renowned man who described about this. One can read the books by those I've mentioned, and also by Andrew Robinson's. Personally I can say, Ray is the man from whom I learned everything and still I'm learning. I'm learning not only how to read a film, but also how to write English! I am far younger than him, probably my age is similar to age of his grandson, but he's my Teacher, of all kind..from cinema to literature to painting to photography and music. He's the man whom I respect most. "},{"Title":"A great watch","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film follows a relative poor family through their up's and downs somewhere in India early in the 20th century. The family consists of a father who's a writer who has been in debt for years, without much success in paying it down. A mother filled with responsibility for the house and her rather careless daughter that the neighbors keeps making complaints about. Then we have Apu, the younger brother and the protagonist. What I personally found the most appealing in the film was the natural setting and feel to it. It's by far a more simplistic world, yet very authentic. In some way it also gave me a glimpse of nostalgia, just not my own. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Blend Of Poverty, Existence, Material & Death!","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Satyajit Ray's debut! A masterpiece. Why? Because it makes you cry. It will make you pull your emotions out. It will do what no other film can do introspect!Pather Panchali depicts the life and times of a poverty-stricken family, the way the lead lady copes with her life, her kin and her children. The fascination of the kids to see the train pass by, the young girl's eagerness to get married as her friends start settling with their spouses, the little boy's (Apu's) innocent activities will all make you think, think and think. This is not just cinema, this is a wonderful epitome on which we all must try to rely as we continue to lead our lived without meaning. Pather Panchali is EPIC!If you are looking for serious cinema or not, you gotta watch this before you die!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESLanguage No Sex No Mouth-Kiss No Violence No Nudity Women do not wear upper underthings. "},{"Title":"Best in serving its purpose.","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is a true example of presenting the humanity. The film is about a poor Bengali family who is struggling to make their ends meet. Their wishes are very simple and true to the situation. The two children are amazing. First Durga mesmerizes you with her looks and her running styles and then comes Apu, whose eyes say everything.The one who steals the show is the mother of children. Circles around her eyes always say a lot more than she wants to represent. Their father also performs the role very nicely. I was very happy to see the acting. The soundtrack although not too much engaging, at times gives a strange nice feeling. The story is no doubt good but what makes this film more fascinating than it might have been in the book is the ability of a great maestro (Satyajit Ray) to represent them with so profound emotion. The outcome after the difficulties he had faced during the making is truly a treat to watch. MESSAGE Life goes on.VERDICT A must watch for all cine lovers. "},{"Title":"The Master's first brush-stroke","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali marked the introduction of Satyajit Ray, arguably India's finest filmmaker. Pather Panchali, based on Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay's identically titled novel, is the story of a small family in a rural Indian setting. Pather Panchali is the first film of the Apu Trilogy, the three Ray films chronicling the life of Apu, a village boy, over the years. The film bears signs of what would make Ray a renowned name in world cinema in the years to follow. The immensely faithful portrayal of the life of the primary characters, complete with their hopes, dreams, petty troubles and idiosyncrasies, resonated deeply with the psyche of the Indian audience. "},{"Title":"A mix of seasons and emotions","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali, The directorial debut of Satyajit Ray. The movie is all an emotional roller-coaster ride. Its just like you are flowing against a river of emotions. You never know what's ahead. The movie is a matter of pride for every Indian. This movie is a major landmark of Indian and World Cinema.Talking about characters. Characters were defined with such depth and scope. Each character has its own uniqueness. The old aunt and Apu were outstanding. The old aunt played by Chunibala Devi acted out very well. Every actor just brings out the realism in the story. I think watching Apu and Durga brought out immense joy in me. Durga stealing Guava and the happiness in old aunt when Durga gifts it to her.The role of music in this movie. Movie is not about visual treat by Ray but a collection of melodious tunes by Pandit Ravishankar. Every frame in the movie is backed up by a background score suiting the ambiance and mood at that instant. I guess the score added to the beauty of the movie. For instance the scene where Durga and Apu are drenched in rain. The music played a great role in giving the warmth to the visuals.Apart from story and music, Ray's visuals attracted me mainly. A perfect visual treat. The cinematography is stunning and apt to the theme of the movie. It never failed the ambiance or feel of the movie, Lyrical maybe. I loved the scene where a cat cuddles by a dog. Likewise, old aunt showing the hole in her blanket. Apu finding the necklace Durga stole. Perfect.As Akira Kurosawa said of himTo have not seen the films of Ray is to have lived in the world without ever having seen the moon and the sun "},{"Title":"Amazingly, filmmaker Satyajit Ray's debut feature was not universally acclaimed on its initial release.","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Satyajit Ray shot the ultra-low budget film over four years, on weekends and Indian public holidays. In a small Bengal village, the son of a would-be writer grows up in poverty and tragedy before setting off with what remains of the family to seek a living in Benares.Pather Panchali is an extraordinary debut from an Indian director that immediately became a classic of world cinema clearly influenced by the Italian neo-realists, Ray employed a non-professional cast to film this story of extreme hardship and separation, viewed largely through a child's eyes. Pather Panchali is today considered one of the greatest films of all time. "},{"Title":"A Very Great Film","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali is a very true film by a great director Satyajit Ray.Its a wonder that a director of this caliber stayed mostly in India making film which made the audience laugh,cry and agonize over as well as feel the presence of a great film making.The film based on Bhibutibhushan's novel tells the story of Apu a Bengali boy in the non independent India.He struggles to earn his food and see the happiness of family.The poverty ridden people couldn't even afford their food.A old woman who was criticized by Apu's mother often visualizes the pain of living a tenant.Meanwhile Apu's father Subrata dies leaving problems of livelihood.Apu departs silently.A wonderful experience to be enjoyed by whole family. "},{"Title":"How Can One See and Not Be Changed","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have waited a long time to view this trilogy. I finally managed to get a copy at my local library and just viewed the first part. This is such a subtle, graphic portrayal of life in India in the Fifties (an probably today). In a small village, a family is just barely keeping going. A man, his wife, and their two children live on a subsistence level, trying not to starve. He is a man of honor and, on the word of a neighbor that his family was owed money, has given over an orchard to them. This may or may not be true. Now when his daughter steals a bit of fruit from the orchard, she is branded a thief. The man is an idealist. He is a poet and playwright who is optimistic that his work will be published or performed. Meanwhile, he works for nothing, trusting his employer to give him back wages. The family lives on handfuls of rice, also looking out for an ancient aunt. They are shunned by neighbors. The wife takes on the huge burden of the family, respecting the wishes of her husband, but knowing that he is a hopeless romantic. Apu, for whom the trilogy is named, is a little boy who manages to kee constantly on the move. He is sensitive and hard to read. His sister realizes that her peers will get married and have a better life, but she is convinced this will never happen for her (their economic state pretty much assures this.). This film is technically magnificent. Ray does things with the camera that are so on point. The black and white photography is stunning. His close-ups of the locals are masterful. We live and die with the family, hoping things will get better. The father is sort of Hindu priest who goes to another city to perform a religious ceremony for a rich man and disappears for over five months. Upon his return he is devastated by horrible news. The story of this family will now move on to another place for Part 2. It is as much about the human spirit as any film I've seen. "}{"Title":"So much depth, so many emotions...so damn good.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't believe I waited so long to watch this movie. I recently rented it on Google Movies with some credits I had, half-way into the movie and I regretted my decision to have not purchased it outright. This is not just a movie it is an event in cinematic history you have to experience. You feel an unreal connection with all the characters and they linger with you long after the end credits. I don't know if this movie will ever leave me, I certainly hope not. I understand now why they call Satyajit Raj one of the greatest filmmakers of all time. All the actors have acted amazingly for being amateurs. I simply cannot forget Durga or the old aunt, Indir Thakrun. Chunibala Devi, who plays the aging aunt delivers one of the best performances I have ever seen. Watch this movie and let it sink in. You will simply be unable to comprehend all the different emotions you encounter throughout its run time.I will wait some time before watching the rest of the trilogy. This is way too much for me right now. "},{"Title":"A correct profile picture is the minimum that Pather Panchali deserves","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is a wonderful film, but it is sad to see that IMDb is using a wrong cover picture for the film. the cover pic is actually from Aparajito, NOT Pather Panchali and this mistake actually tells public attitude about this film. More people would rather talk about this film than watch it carefully. The film misses the Ballali Balai part of the novel by Bibhutibhushan which is a must read for a complete picture of the background of the film. Bibhuti's novel consists of three parts, a) Ballali Balai, b) Aam anti-r bhnepu, c) Akrura Sangbad. Ray covers Aam aanti-r bhnepu in Pather Panchali film and the AKrur Sangbad deals with the first half of Aparajito which ends with Harihara's death. "},{"Title":"Wonder of simplicity, one of the most  beautiful Bangla film.","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most beautiful films from one of the most important directors of this era.First and foremost thing is that u need to have taste. A taste for movies which doesn't show an incredible or cheap story lines, but which are beautiful snapshots with each scene depicting its own saga.'Pather Panchali'(song of the little road) is one of such movie. It's a 'kaaljai' (one which is not bounded by space and time) piece of art.Though some people will find it fragmented, but the truth is that Ray has worked on each and every scene. Some scenes are historical like 'rain shower' and 'the vessel floating'. Surely Ray is the Shakespeare of Indian cinema, who loves to develop the characters. Though the movie dates back to late 50s still you can find traces of the 21st century's society (Indian) and the universal behavior of human. Bound in the ties of selfishness, ego, our own problems and society often the behavior of human is quite disgustful. But when it comes the time of crisis our true heart is revealed which is loaded with love and is hungry for it. The climax really highlights this notion in a beautiful way. Secondly, Ray seems to be well acquainted with the importance of family. And the selfless love among family members is the part and parcel of the movie.The innocence of Apu and Durga, brother-sister love, humanity, mother's care, relation between Durga and her aunt and (of course) the miseries and songs of the aunt had made the movie eternal. About the acting, I'll say that Chunibala Devi (Indir Thakrun) is the person who suppresses all other great performances. From her scene first to the very end she seems to steal all the scenes. I would call this one of great Indian performance. Uma Das Gupta has very well presented the character of Durga (I personally find her most amusing part of the movie). Both she and Subeer Banerjee (Apu) had presented their innocence quite artfully. There are some songs in the movie which in spite of being in Bengali (incomprehensible for many people and me) flow with the movie. Perhaps I might be wrong but they (songs) don't satisfy as such. At last, if you still had had no opportunity to watch this classic then I would personally recommend it to you, but with two precautionsFirst watch it if you really have taste buds for such art films (as I already have said).And second the film is of 50s so prepare your mind for a slow and no larger than life or exciting events in the story (it is quite realistic)If you are mentally prepare then don't wait just fetch it anyhow and see the 'weird beauty' of your own world through a genius' eye "},{"Title":"The Indian Sonnet","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I approached this movie with as much hesitation and trepidation as I would approach a book by Sartre, Camus, Nietzsche or music by Beethoven or Mozart or movies by Fellini or Kurosawa. I mean, you just can't watch a Satyajit Ray movie as if you are watching 'Hum Aapke Hain Kaun' or 'Wedding Crashers', especially when the movie is listed in all possible 'all time great' movies.'Pather Panchali' translates as 'Song of the road' and what a beautiful sonnet it turns out to be ! I have never seen before anywhere such beautiful portrayal of village life of India. As a master artist Ray has painted a poem on the canvas of celluloid. The beauty lies in the depiction of characters that are so real, I felt as if I am not watching a movie but actually living with them. Not a slightest of melodrama (that Indian movies are famous for), the movie is all about how life flourishes amidst extreme destitute. Its not the words, but the eyes tell the story. Eyes tell the story of joy and wondering of Apu, adolescent curiosity of his sister, forlornness and disappointment of his mother, hope of his father and prayers of his old wizened aunt.For me the most moving performance was given by the stooped wrinkled woman playing the old aunt who is waiting to die but wishing to live everyday fully. It reminds so much of our old grandmothers. And yet her death scene was shown so realistically without any histrionics, that you won't have anything but praise for the director.As some one said every frame of the movie is a work of genius. Be the births and deaths in the family, or the discovery of train or watching a musical, every scene is worth remembering. Top of that the soothing background score is heartwarming, thanks to Ravi Shankar. However, the best scene of the movie for me is where Apu finds the stolen beads in her dead sister's closet and disposes it surreptitiously to preserve her dignity.Only complaint that I have is, that it lacked a narrative story. May be it is just a prelude to the complete tale. Now, I so want to watch the other two movies of Apu trilogy.(Originally posted @ weirdo-on-movies.blogspot.com) "},{"Title":"India's Tobacco Road","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Notwithstanding the emphasis given to the character Apu in the title of The Apu Trilogy, this first movie of that trilogy really seems to be about his mother, Sarbojaya Ray, who is so beset by grinding poverty that she has a hard time being nice to her family. Her elderly cousin, Indir, whom the family calls Auntie, is a poor old woman who can barely see or walk, and Sarbojaya treats her miserably, eventually driving her away and forcing her to die alone in the woods. The woman's husband, Harihar Ray, comes across as a slacker and a dreamer (he thinks he can make money by writing plays), but maybe he is just a victim of the caste system. Her daughter, Durga, is a thief, but she is likable. Finally, there is Apu, who will play a larger role in the sequels. After his sister dies, Apu destroys something she stole so no one will know, even though everyone really knows anyway. While the husband is away for months without sending money, a storm hits and destroys their house, because he never got around to making the needed repairs. This forces them to move to the city, where we doubt that things will get any better. "},{"Title":"A deeply emotional story exploring human nature","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A deeply emotional story exploring human nature (particularly its weakness), family ties/disconnections and karma which is really well told despite being slow and meandering at times. Black and white definitely adds something to the film. One of the best things about this film is that the interpretation is left up to you - just like life. I get the feeling my empathy will change from one character to another depending on my viewpoint of life. On this occasion I focused on the mother, her isolation, susceptibility to the opinions of others and how this distorted and transformed her intense love for her family into something wicked and ugly. I have huge admiration for the character insight provided by the director always shying away from telling the audience what to think or how to interpret it. Still puzzled by the long scene showing dragonflies and lilies on the pond. It was waaaaaaaay too long. Also the religious references were lost on me. "},{"Title":"The ultimate home movie","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING PRETTY BLATANT SPOILERS!That's basically what this film is -- a big home movie. It's production was initially about that sophisticated, it all takes place in the same neighbourhood, and the mother and daughter characters really are mother and daughter. The result of all this is that the film is far more affecting than it would have been if it had been more obviously made.This movie is based on a novel apparently, but there's really not much plot, simply because real life never has much plot. It's just plodding along from day to day, with interesting things occasionally happening along the way, and where only a sudden, horrible tragedy can really break things up. There is not one false note to be found in any of the characters, who are some of the most real I've ever seen. They each have their sweetnesses and their villainies, and you like them or not on balance of them. If you doubt how effective this is, I'll only say this NEVER have I so hoped a character wouldn't die as I did when the climax of this film drew near.India is a country that seems to thrive on excess, both in its own Bollywood productions and in the sort of films it generates in Hollywood (Passage to India, Gandhi, Kama Sutra, for example). This is totally the other extreme, showing us the mundane, undramatic lives of the ordinary people. This doesn't even have the absolute-rock-bottom drama of Salaam Bombay. For most viewers, it's the sort of movie their life would adapt into. "},{"Title":"poetic dramatic writer's narration by Satyajit Ray","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" first time i m feeling little weirdo...when i am writing a review about this movie.. me thinking if i am capable of throwing review to Mr ray but total respect for sir Satyajit ray..so when my wacky cinematic train arrives at Satyajit Ray poetic writer's narration platform.. giving me some nappy shocks it try to cover you in cinema power.. i am impressed by Satyajit special moments he creates by his creative work...slapping the old Indian society politely as well as truly showing the joy of kid struggling but still enjoying with his innocence...the framework connects the basic of cinema...some calls it slow i call it smooth..zooming in and out to shows emotional zone...perfect touchy... i am against who talk about his camera-work.. capturing nature in camera gives rhyme scheme to poetic story he narrate...i have followed french new wave cinema and Italian cinema before i came to know about Satyajit ray.. it was recommend by some french director.. my ride throw Bengali Satyajit ray movie was equally good as french..he knows how to justify the beautiful written characters . he succeeded in melting some stone heart for sure by beauty of relations n cover genres of emotions.. i loved the character Thakurji (aunt) and Apu the most ..they took me some cloudy wave experience.. only thing i hated about the movie was i watched it late... still i cut two points because of acting ..and less involvement of crew... "},{"Title":"Really well done minimalistic family-drama.","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a movie I'm really crazy about but I can certainly appreciate the way its made and how it turned out. It's an effective little movie. There is simple no denying that this is a greatly done film.It's one very minimalistic movie. Not only with just its sets, costumes or camera-work but also- and foremost, with its story. It's being very simplistic, which in this case is a real good things, since it lets things seem and feel real. It basically focuses entirely on one small poor family, in Bengal, India, at the beginning of the the 20th century, who are trying to survive and overcome everyday's struggles.It has lots of melodrama and other dramatic developments but yet the movie manages to keep things real and maintain a realistic approach and feeling to it all. This is all due to its minimalistic approach, that makes the movie feel very honest and real. Despite it's minimalistic approach and low budget, the movie still took a lot of time to make, due to lack of sufficient funds. Luckily after the success of this movie Satyajit Ray didn't had this problem again for the rest of it's trilogy, that got based on the novels by Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay. And yes, that's really actually a name.A great example of good and effective minimalistic and simplistic film-making.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Interesting, but cryptic","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, it's interesting. And it's really watchable compared with the singing Bollywood junk. I read that the crew had no previous experience, but I say you can have a certain feeling of sincerity you simply don't get with the polished junk produced in Europe and States in the last twenty years. Maybe it's a delusion, maybe it's wishful thinking, maybe it's really there, that soul of the light impression. Sadly, it's extremely hard to digest. For a local, or anybody familiar with the culture and life, things might be more than obvious with the flowers or the interactions based on outer appearance. For me it was a search in the dark. Does the little girl praying to the showered flower means she the character is improvising hoping for the better? Or is it a ready-made formula of good luck? Does she look forward for a marriage because her friend and neighbor did it? Does she look forward as a way to help her mother and brother ease on spending thinking one less mouth to feed? Does she want to marry well to escape the poverty? By her actions it seems less plausible. But maybe she wants to have someone to help her family. Or something else. As I have written - for a local it must be quite clear. If not from the scene itself, maybe from the context. For me it just raised questions. And only a few of those questions were erased from the list and even fewer answered. "}{"Title":"Pather Panchali","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pather Panchali, or Song of the Little Road if you want, is the first part of director Satyajit Ray's acclaimed Apu Trilogy, all of which features in 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically it is the 1920s in Bengal, in the village Nischindipur, and the story focuses on the impoverished Ray family. Wife and mother Sarbojaya (Karuna Bannerjee) takes care of the home and the two children while husband and father Harihar (Kanu Bannerjee) earns the meagre money from being a priest. Sarbojaya finds living in the home hard when she has to share it with very old, toothless and hunchbacked cripple sister-in-law Indirtharkun (Chunibala Devi), especially when accepting stolen fruit from her children. Sarbojaya's children, daughter Durga (Runki Bannerjee and Uma Dasgupta) and son Apu (Subir Bannerjee) have a close relationship, and they enjoy sitting quietly under trees, chasing a candy seller, running about through the surrounding Kaash fields, and catching a glimpse of the passing trains. After many irritations with the fruit stealing and just being around, Aunt Indir is found dead in the bushes, and Harihar meanwhile is travelling abroad to find a better paying job. While he is gone the family sink further into poverty, with Sarbojaya becoming lonely, and worse, Durga develops a cold and fever from rainfall, from which she dies. When Harihar returns home he and Sarbojaya burst into tears because of Durga's death, and in the end, Apu finds a necklace that Durga denied stealing, which he throws in the pond, and they all ride away to their new destination. Also starring Tulsi Chakraborty as Schoolmaster. The performances are all very well done considering that the cast consists of non-professional actors, and the story combined with good Indian music and a marvellous director make this great drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Very good! "},{"Title":"More an exotic rarity than a particularly good movie.","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Authentic account of the life of a poor, rural Indian family's life and hardships during a few year's time. Universal in theme but doesn't really get gripping until the final 15 min's during a memorable rain storm. Feels almost like a student project in its utter simplicity, technical limitations and primitive montage storytelling... which at times makes it a bit hard to follow in exactly what's going on (some bits are just frame filling and have no cause-and-effect whatsoever). I read after watching it that the father is a priest, and that it's supposed to be set in the early 1900's... gee - good to know, because the movie itself certainly doesn't tell me so! But most of the time it's just unclear if we have a main character The mother? The daughter? No, apparently (again, after reading more about it afterward) it's supposed to be Apu, the son - which is weird since he honestly doesn't get more attention - OR personal character development than anyone else!I badly want to be more generous (like when you have to be nice about commenting a small kid's poor, ugly doodle drawings) because of its earnestness and alleged historical influence/importance to Indian cinema. But I can't - because it's simply not good enough. It's more an exotic rarity/half-documentary than being a particularly good movie. Do I feel like watching the sequels? Not much.4/10 from Ozjeppe. "},{"Title":"Overrated.","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love foreign films because they tell the truth of the human condition unlike Hollywood-studio movies that usually sugar-coat life. Foreign films like The 400 Blows, Summer, Ikiru, Wild Strawberries, Early Spring, Late Autumn--all had a profound effect on me. They were like the independent films of today.I should like Pather Panchali, but I didn't. Yes, it told the truth of the human condition. Yes, it had beautiful cinematography. Yes, it had an effective soundtrack. But that was it. It didn't have anything else. Let me put it this way--it didn't emotionally move me like the above- mentioned films. Why? Probably because of a lack of character development. The father is hardly even in the film. The mother is a witch to her daughter. The aunt is a caricature of an old woman who means well. Same goes for the daughter. The son comes late in the film and basically copies whatever the daughter does. The neighbors are like the bad people in a chorus of a Greek tragedy. How can anyone be emotionally moved by characters like these?! They were all pretty much one-dimensional. And to top all that off--there was no plot! Well, I wasn't surprised to see that because how can you have a plot when you have only static characters. I do not recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A flawed, but rich slice of neo-Gothic.(possible spoiler in last paragraph)","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Panchali' has been acclaimed for its Renoir-like naturalism, but the tale it tells is as close to Gothic as  'Toni'.  The noble family in decline, the crumbling family house, the steady, overpowering incremence of nature onto civilisation, the generational conflict where the hopes of youth are tainted with decadence of the past, the climactic storm scene that brings everything to a head.  These are all staples of the Gothic story, and although the world of the film blazes in an intolerable sun, the film itself is shrouded in ominous, often impenetrable shadows (although, admittedly, the print I saw was very saturated).  But this is not a study of an old, fat, corrupt, European country hobbling on its last legs, the usual subject of classic Gothic, but a newly emergent nation less than a decade old.  Is the film, like most Gothic fiction, an allegory for the nation?  Ray doesn't make hammering political points - there are references to a neighbouring landlord who probably conned the gullible family of land; there is the bizarre and comic sight of impoverished elders in tatty British uniforms playing a discordant brass version of 'It's a long way to Tipperary'.  The hideous old crone for whom Durga steals fruit, and whose presence exasperates her mother, is called India - it is tempting to see her age, her expulsion, her constant need for water, her enlisting the young in dangerous schemes to feed her, her abandonment, her lonely death by a stream, as some kind of allegorical reading, but of what?  Certainly, throughout, Ray is constantly pushing his realism further than mere observation, so that scenes that seem simply to record a way of life are pregnant with hidden meanings.  For instance, the harrowing depiction of poverty is frequently disrupted by spectacle and play, from the children's games to the theatrical melodramas that enrapture Apu.  Even Ray's style continually, disarmingly changes registers, alternating calm, distant compositions with urgent sequences broken up by strange angles, choppy editing, heightened music and sound.  The film's structure seems to embody this duality between realism and the figurative.  The first half is nearer to social realism, setting out the social hierarchies, introducing characters and their social or family role, defining them against other people, their home and nature.  It is full of rich characterisation, even comedy, and full of set-pieces that reveal character and society.  The second half, however, becomes more abstract, even mystical.  There is less reliance on words as characters go through strange rites where the emphasis is on observation or action.  The nature that had been encroaching on civilisation spills over in these sequences, with stunning montages that recall Dovzhenko.  The whole film feels slower, more meaningful and monumental (and sometimes duller).  My favourite sequences are in this half, the discovery of the road and railway, the possibility of another life; the silent roaming through a beautiful, dwarfing landscape that recalls the mysticism of the Archers' 'A Canterbury Tale'.  This clash between nature and the home is expressed in the immediate terms of children growing up, their senses (and sensuality) awakening, seeing clearly the flaws of much-vaunted tradition.  The film is very acute about gender, to the point of schematism; the dependence of the culture on servile, worn-down women, the charming, irresponsibility of men, the doom of any girl who might seek independence (figures who quickly (or maybe always were) types).  The fate of Durga, after her sprightly impishness at the beginning is heartbreaking.  The film is also a sophisticated analysis of modes of representation and the nature of cinema, of looking, linked to social control - Apu's entrance, where, after a lengthy build-up, he returns the observing eye, is as shocking and exhilarating as 'Un Chien Andoulu'. "},{"Title":"Nicely seen, but...","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's hard to feel gratified by a story the only ambition of which is to show how hard an impoverished family suffers. And suffers. And suffers. For some reason, the characters aren't allowed to learn and grow. From the perspective of basic storytelling, it seems a terrible mistake, narrowly conceived. The story here might only make sense if it's a kind of prelude or first chapter to what will unfold in the succeeding parts of the trilogy. But after the drudgery of this first one, I'm not inclined to look further.But for all that, the cinematography and other filmic qualities are of good quality. Too bad Ray couldn't have put his skills to a more fully developed and insightful script. "},{"Title":"Static. Boring.","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One recurring theme is the precondition, the act and the aftermath of theft of goods belonging to the neighbor the children first steal vegetables, then even the beads of a necklace, finally only a coconut which had fallen from a tree due to the Monsoon wind. The embarrassment caused is understandable, as the people are very poor.There was at least funny scene a kitten playing with a dog. Else the kittens are always kept at their neck (as if we could not keep them under their belly) and thrown to ground.In an extraordinary scene we see a Bengali steam train passing by, and the boy running beneath it. The boy, as meager as he is, anyway seems at every opportunity be running through backyard and field.Note that I wrote SILENT PICTURES, not SILENT MOVIE, because this film makes a persistent static impression. So that I fell twice into sleep, something which had never happened to me before. Hitchcock warned not to make films by photographing people who are talking. This films shows a lot of scenes with mother, children, neighbors talking. In addition, we become witness of how to cook under that environment.What kept me a bit under suspense the people always walk or run bare-feet through the bosky backyard and garden, as if there could never be a snake.The sound was of bad quality, the soundtrack by Ravi Shankar, too. It is not sufficient just to play the sitar a fast a possible.I have the impression that it is the one and same person who wrote the other reviews, which are too good to be true. Or maybe they are employees of the Bengali film office, since that was the sponsor and producer of the work.I have written reviews for films which are nearly 100 years old (and they are FAR better than this one). I have also annotated another upbringing film Padre Padrone. Thus I don't consider it primarily due to my lack of understanding that I cannot agree with the adulations here. "}]