[{"Title":"Influenced Numerous Filmmakers","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"81 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Du Rififi Chez Les Hommes/Rififi(1955) can on the surface be described as a French variation on John Huston's seminal heist film, Asphalt Jungle(1950). The difference between the two films is Rififi(1955) pays a little more attention in detail to the robbery sequence.  Also, the police aren't involved in the aftermath of the robbery in Rififi as much as in Asphalt Jungle.  In the end Rififi(1955) is in my opinion a slightly better film than Asphalt Jungle(1950).  Remarkable Noir picture that defines 1950s French Cinema.Spartacus(1960) may have been the one which broke down the infamous blacklist, but in my opinion Rififi(1955) was the film that began to break apart the unbreakable Hollywood blacklist.  First film in five years for Jules Dassin who was victimized by the McCarthy communist hunt of the late 40s to early 50s.  He got some sort of retribution when Rififi(1955) became a success around France and Europe.  Thus defying the poisonious Hollywood blacklist in a major way that probably inspired others to do the same. Rififi(1955) is the most important film of Dassin's career because it not only restored his name, but also gave him a second chance at making films.Jules Dassin gave the filmworld and its ever growing audiences a masterpiece of influential proportions.  His handling of the material is exceptional and direction of the actors is flawless.  Builds up tense situations with precise craftsmanship.  Dassin came full circle in the Film Noir genre by directing his best and last Noir, Rififi(1955).  Marked the end of Dassin's period in filmmaking when he was involved in doing Noir pictures.Rififi(1955) is the number one film in an arsenal of thirty plus films for director, Jules Dassin.  A masterpiece in acting, cinematography, directing, editing, and writing.  Not a film to leave your seat for one minute because there is always something memorable going on.  As brilliant as anything by Jean Pierre Melville who was a master of this type of film.  Masterpieces such as Rififi(1955) are relatively small compared to the probably billions of films made in motion picture history.The one fascinating aspect of Rififi is the precise planning and careful execution of a robbery that takes up a bulk of the 118 minute duration. The main characters plan and execute the jewel heist in the same way a film director prepares for the pre-productions, production, and post-production of a film.  Shows how difficult a Jewel heist like in Rififi(1955) is in committing and why very few would do something like it.  The fact that the scene hardly contains a mess up like in other heist films turns this scene into something even greater.  Close as one can get to having a perfect sequence in a motion picture.Lack of unnatural sound in the landmark thrity minute heist sequence puts it in a realm of absolute realism.  Any dialogue or/and music would ruin any suspense and tension the director is trying to create.  The use of natural sound makes the heist sequence a rewarding film viewing experience.  Now Filmmakers and producers would use dialogue and music in a scene like this because of a lack of confidence of a mainstream filmgoer's patience. Sustains a level of consistency that never once lets down.Maintaining a high level of suspense is what makes the heist sequence tick to perfection.  The director achieves suspense in the heist sequence that's rarely equaled in most robbery scenes from heist films.  Jean Servais and the rest of the main actors contribute to the suspense with some low key acting.  Getting suspense put in a scene is a task few are capable of doing. The robbery sequence of Rififi(1955) reaches a Hitchcockian level of suspense and tension.Many filmmakers from the years following Du Rififi Chez Les Hommes(1955) have been influenced if not inspired by it.  One filmmaker influenced was Jean Pierre Melville(original choice for director of Rififi)who used variations of the heist sequence in Le Doulos(1961), and Le Cercle Rouge(1970).  Another filmmaker influenced was Stanley Kubrick who made a similarly themed film in The Killing(1956).  Also, Quentin Tarantino whose debut feature Reservoir Dogs(1992) was inspired by this film.  Other film directors influenced are John Woo, Michael Mann, Paul Schrader, Ringo Lam, etc...Du Rififi Chez Les Hommes(1955) is comparable to Bob le Flambeur(1955) in many ways.  One, Jules Dassin and Jean Pierre Melville directed groundbreaking films in Rififi(1955) and Bob le Flambeur(1955).  Two, each film involves an aging criminal who plans and carries out a daring heist. Three, Bob le Flambeur and Rififi finishes in fatalistic fashion.  Four, each film shares many motifs and situations that classify the two as film greats.Part of Rififi's charm are the colorful characters that surround the story such as Tony le Stephanois, Jo le Suedois, Mario Farrati, and Cesar le Milanais.  Most of the violence is implicit yet effectively brutal.  The main characters led by Tony le Stephanois abide by a strong outdated code of honor that is remindful of Sam Peckinpah and John Woo.  Jean Servais becomes the role of Tony le Stephanois with his cynical outlook and tired looks. Du Rififi Chez Les Hommes/Rififi(1955) became a favorite of mine the moment I saw it on the big screen from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"It's not just the heist scene","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rififi deservedly gets a lot of mention for the famous heist scene, and, indeed, that scene deserves all the credit it gets. It's a masterful piece of suspense, character interaction and photography. But Rififi isn't just this one scene - every scene in the film is as masterfully put together, and as a whole, the film is not only taught with suspense, plot and character, but an adroitly told moral tale that set the scene for film noire for years to come.Cinematically and technically, the heist sequence may be the most impressive scene of the film, but for me, it's the final scene that holds the most power - Tony le Stéphanois's hallucinogenic drive towards redemption. "},{"Title":"Film noir meets New Wave","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)Or vice-versa.This is a French film noir directed by an American film maker (Jules Dassin) who had to leave the country because of being blacklisted by Hollywood thanks to HUAC. The premise of the story is rather familiar--one last jewel heist for Tony le Stephanois and his buds--and so is the ending with everybody getting... Well, no spoilers here, for sure, since this is the sort of film in which tension toward the ending is important.Dassin filmed in realistic lighting in black and white on the streets of Paris using actors and actresses who are not glamorous. The engaging--sometimes intruding--score by Georges Auric nicely enhances the movie and will remind viewers of many a similar score from American film noirs from the forties and early fifties. Jean Servais plays the hardcore, consumptive lead in a fedora much as Humphrey Bogart might have played him. Tony's recently out of prison, past his prime, but still tough and decisive when he has to be, his mind still sharp when focused, the kind of anti-hero whose eyes water even though the tears will never fall.Dassin plays the Italian safecracker and would-be ladies man who knows the rules but gets careless.In film noir we are forced by the logic and focus of the film to identify with the bad guys. Often there are levels of bad guys, the good bad guys we are identifying with and the bad bad guys who are out to do in our good bad guys, and then maybe there's a really bad, bad bad guy or two. (Here we have Remi Grutter, played by Robert Hossein, a slightly sadistic druggie.) Then there are the cops who are irrelevant or nearly so. In more modern film noir the bad guys are not even good bad guys, and they get away with it or something close to that. In the old film noir, which evolved from the gangster films of the thirties, the usual motto, following the old Hollywood code, was Crime Doesn't Pay, with every criminal having to pay for his or her crime before the end of the movie.Probably the most impressive feature of Rififi is how nicely the film moves along. The plot unfolds quickly and seamlessly much the way the great film directors always did it, directors like Stanley Kubrick, Louis Malle, and the best of Hitchcock. Some have actually compared this to Kubrick's The Killing (1956) and suggest that Kubrick stole a little. Well, directors always steal if need be, and there are some perhaps telling similarities, such as it being one last heist for the protagonist, and having the girl gum up the works. The similarities may go deeper because as this film was nearing its end I suddenly thought, oh, no! the suitcase in the back seat is going to fly out of the convertible, hit the ground, burst open, and all the money is going to fly into the air! Those of you who have seen The Killing may recall what happened to the money near the end of the film! Which reminds me of another film with something bad happening to the money Oliver Stone's U Turn (1997) starring Sean Penn. There the money in his backpack gets blown to smithereens by a shotgun blast. Ha, ha, ha! Getting the dubbed version of this film would be an act of sacrilege since the dialogue (when there is some the heist itself is done entirely without dialogue, about 30 minutes worth) is terse and easy to follow requiring only an occasional glance at the subtitles, which, by the way, are quite utilitarian and guiding as opposed to having every word spelled out.One other thing all the brutality is done as sex used to be done in film, that is off camera. A guy gets his throat slit. We don't see it. I kind of like this approach. We don't have to see the gore. You could almost let your kids see Rififi--almost.Catch this one now and be on the lookout for a Hollywood reprise starring Al Pacino and directed by Harold Becker coming out next year in which you can be sure that the violent scenes will be played out in full. "},{"Title":"the absolute best","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"48 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" If any film approaches perfection, this is the one. Pound for pound and scene for scene it is the best. The only others even close are the Maltese Falcon and Asphalt Jungle, but this is the baby that beats even them. For sheer black and white beauty it is the equal of Asphalt, and just never lets up. Its ending is one of the best of all time, easily the equal of Citizen Kane. And making it even more amazing it that it was cobbled together in desperation and made for practically nothing. In short, a bloody miracle.It builds beautifully. Everything in it works, even down to the great music of George Auric. Shot in early winter or late spring, it is authentic down to the white gangster breaths on the air. Paris never looked more dangerously beautiful.Of all the films I have ever seen, it is the only one I would give a nine and a half to. And since most of it works very well without comment, probably it is best to just say, watch it and behold. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Fim-Noir","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" After five years in prison, Tony le Stéphanois (Jean Servais) meets his dearest friends Jo (Carl Möhner) and the Italian Mario Ferrati (Robert Manuel) and they invite Tony to steal a couple of jewels from the show-window of the famous jewelry Mappin & Webb Ltd, but he declines. Tony finds his former girlfriend Mado (Marie Sabouret), who became the lover of the gangster owner of the night-club L' Âge d' Or Louis Grutter (Pierre Grasset), and he humiliates her, beating on her back and taking her jewels. Then he calls Jo and Mario and proposes a burglary of the safe of the jewelry. They invite the Italian specialist in safes and elegant wolf Cesar (Perlo Vita) to join their team and they plot a perfect heist. They are successful in their plan, but the D. Juan Cesar makes things go wrong when he gives a valuable ring to his mistress.Du Rififi Chez les Hommes is a magnificent film-noir, certainly among the best I have seen. The screenplay has credibility, supported by an awesome direction of Jules Dassin, stunning performances of the cast and great cinematography. Jean Servais has outstanding performance in the role of a criminal with principles guided by the underworld rules. The famous long silent sequence of the heist is amazing and extremely tense and certainly among the best ones of the cinema history. I am listing this great movie in my list of favorite movies ever. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Rififi "},{"Title":"Simply stunning.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I see alot of movies at the cinema (103 so far this year) and I have to say that this is by far and away the best film I have seen this year, even though it was released back in 1954!I sat in awe and watched this work of genius and felt quite ashamed that I had never even heard of it before my local art house cinema decided to show it for a week on what looked like a new print. The best part of the whole movie has to be the 28 minute break in where there is no speech and no music, merely the sound of the men carrying out the heist. Pure quality. Although really dark in places it is lightened with the dry humour.Not many films score 10 out of 10 but this does and also gets a gold star for effort!! If you ever get a chance to see this movie, please do not hesitate, it's a classic.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood, come up with your own ideas!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" RIFIFI (Jules Dassin - France 1955)To me, it seems a very risky idea to attempt a Hollywood-remake of Jules Dassin's 1955 classic RIFIFI. Planned for release in 2007, Al Pacino apparently is gonna play the lead, taking on the role of Tony le Stephanois. Risky business... How they're gonna pull this off?Ironically, Dassin was blacklisted in Hollywood and went on to try his luck in France and made this little masterpiece, aptly called by some The Grandddady of all caper- and heist movies. In my opinion, it remains a one-of-a-kind classic, beautifully filmed with one of the most memorable endings ever to be put on film. Whatever one's opinion of the film.In the last couple of years RIFIFI has become dangerously overpraised. Nevertheless, this French noir-classic shouldn't be forgotten. Go see it, before the remake is out there, in order to have some ammunition for comparing the two.Camera Obscura --- 9/10 "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly brilliant! Still one of the greatest crime movies ever made.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Rififi' is so damn good it takes your breath away! Director Jules Dassin, blacklisted from Hollywood, was living almost hand to mouth in Europe and taking any job he could get, when he made this movie, a project he was initially not at all excited by. Happily he turned around an awful situation and ended up making a classic thriller which is still one of the greatest crime movies ever made. One of the most influential too, having an impact on movies like 'The Killing', 'The Anderson Tapes', 'Thief', 'Reservoir Dogs', 'The Score' and many, many others. 'Rififi' is a classic heist movie but it is much more than that, it is a superbly written and acted character study. The robbery sequence itself is regarded as one of the most impressive in film history, but it is by no means the only thing worth watching this movie for. In fact I'd go so far as to call it perfect. Every time you watch it you discover something more of interest. Jean Servais, who later appeared in the entertaining horror sexploitation movie 'The Devil's Nightmare', is absolutely wonderful as Tony, a veteran criminal talked into joining his young friend Jo (Carl Mohner) in a daring robbery.  His performance is first rate, but Mohner and the rest of the cast are equally good, including Drassin himself as Cesar, an Italian safe-cracker who inadvertently causes the gangs ultimate downfall.  There's a brilliant scene between Servais and Drassin towards the end of the movie which is short but unforgettable. Look out for it. Truffaut raved about this movie calling it the best Noir he'd ever seen. I don't think he was exaggerating, it really IS that good, and personally I think it's a much better movie than Truffaut's more celebrated 'Breathless'. If you enjoy crime thrillers it doesn't get much better than this! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Pure gold standard...","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is a work of pure class from start to finish, for a moment forget the famous 28 minute no dialog heist, forget that it's set in Paris and forget it's Noir. The film itself, the premise and the execution make this a pure gold experience.. it's sharp intelligent and thought through in great detail, just like the heist itself. It portrays real characters that are not only believable but whom you empathize with. It's a film that doesn't glamorize the notion of a robbery but shows it for what it is.. theft. It shows that a heist is hard work and ultimately not worth doing. Now all things considered put on top of that a daring 28 minute sequence with not a word spoken and set in gorgeous Paris with truly great attention to detail and fantastic cinematography and that last scene ...when you look up and see those trees... wonderful use of raw and basic filming techniques... it is a master piece in my view and I'm glad to have seen it. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The minutiae of what's involved in carrying out a robbery is what makes this one of the best of all heist movies. Then there's the robbery itself, a wordless, thirty minute nail-biter that has never been surpassed, followed by what is probably the cinema's most pronounced example of dishonor among thieves as things begin to spectacularly unravel, and we have what is unquestionably the greatest of all heist movies.This was a tough and unsentimental film when it first appeared in 1955 and it is just as tough and unsentimental today. (It displays some of the edgy brutality of Dassin's earlier Brute Force). There isn't a flabby moment or duff performance in the entire film and Dassin captures the milieu of seedy clubs and Parisian back streets like no-one else and the final drive through Paris by a dying man is one of the most iconic closing sequences of any movie. A classic. "}{"Title":"Brilliant & Totally Engrossing","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the most striking features of this classic heist movie is just how successfully it imparts so much information about its characters, the robbery and all that happens afterwards, in the limited time available. This is done with great skill and without ever appearing to be rushed. Time is taken to introduce the various characters and to show their relationships to each other before the meticulous planning process is carried out and every stage of the robbery is then shown in great detail and every aspect of the numerous events that follow is depicted briskly and commendably, without any loss of clarity.The robbery itself is shown in a remarkably tense 28 minute sequence during which there is no dialogue and every action seems vital to the success of the operation. The suspense then increases further when it becomes clear that the time available to the gang is very close to running out.Tony le Stephanois (Jean Servais), an ageing criminal who's just been released from prison, meets up with his protégé Jo le Suedois (Carl Mohner) who suggests that they carry out a jewellery robbery together with Mario Ferrati (Robert Manuel). After considering Jo's proposal, Tony decides not to take part and instead tracks down his ex-girlfriend Mado (Marie Sabouret) who, in his absence, has taken up with Pierre Grutter (Marcel Lupovici) a rival gangster and nightclub owner. Tony takes Mado back to his apartment where he becomes angry about her relationship with Grutter and brutally beats her with a belt. Afterwards, he reconsiders Jo's offer and decides to take part in the heist subject to various changes being made to the original plan.The three men take on expert safe-cracker Cesar le Milanais (Jules Dassin credited as Perlo Vita) of whom it's said that there's no safe that can resist Cesar and no woman that Cesar can resist. On arrival in Paris, Cesar soon starts a relationship with Viviane (Magali Noel) who's a singer at Grutter's nightclub.The four men successfully carry out the robbery and arrangements are in hand for the hot jewels to be fenced. During the robbery, without anyone else noticing, Cesar took a diamond ring which he kept and later gave to Viviane. When Grutter sees Viviane's ring he quickly deduces who's carried out the high profile heist and after getting information out of Cesar, goes after the other gang members so that he can pocket the proceeds of the heist for himself. The action that Grutter subsequently takes (including the kidnapping of Jo's son) ultimately leads to none of the gang profiting from the success of the heist.Rififi was the second film that Jules Dassin had made in Europe after having been blacklisted in Hollywood during the McCarthy era and interestingly his character betrays his fellow gang members just as he himself had been betrayed by others who gave evidence about him to the House Committee on Un-American Activities.Tony is man who looks drained, disillusioned and haggard and who doesn't even look forward to enjoying the rewards that he can reasonably expect to gain from the heist. Jean Servais is magnificent in this role as his appearance and manner so perfectly reflect Tony's state of mind. He also conveys powerfully the innate sadness of a man who's compelled to live by his own code of principles even when doing the right thing brings him profound regret (as happens when he has to deal with Cesar's betrayal). He is though, also capable of kindness and selflessness as he had protected Jo from having to serve a prison sentence and also had a warm relationship with his Godson (Jo's son).Gang member Mario provides the movie with its most humorous moments and Viviane supplies the musical entertainment with a great rendition of the title song which explains the meaning of Rififi.The moody Paris locations provide an ideal backdrop for this story of greed, cruelty, betrayal and revenge and it's incredible just how engrossing this low budget movie remains so many years after it was first released. It really is a marvellous achievement and a wonderful example of top class filmmaking. "},{"Title":"It's good overall, and exceptional in the middle","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've watched many film noirs in my day, but this would be one of the few French noirs that I've seen. In some senses, it's like most other film noirs you have tough guys (rififi meaning tough guy), capers, and things going bad. There are no femme fatals in this one though.So why does this film stand out? Why in the world would I watch this over any other of the hundreds of film noirs that were made in the world? Well, for the first half hour of the film, I couldn't figure it out either. In fact, it was kind of mundane. And then came the jewel heist. This is a stunner--for almost half an hour, there is not a word of dialogue and minimal sound effects. What's more, the tension gets thicker and thicker despite the silence.The rest of the movie goes forward in a more typical fashion, but the caper itself is pretty impressive. The rest of the story is fine, a far as film noirs go. It doesn't help to elevate the film a lot, but the middle section makes the film worth watching.It's good overall, and exceptional in the middle. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Perfect mix of material and director's sensibilities","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jules Dassin is a director who always manages to surprise me. The descriptions of his films never sound appealing but once I start watching them they always quickly suck me in. The reason for this is that Dassin is unusually good at pacing his narratives so that suspense is built while the story economically moves forward and the characters' personalities are revealed through action. This is complemented by his technical prowess his directing style never draws attention to itself, yet Dassin isn't afraid to innovate with unusual techniques. An excellent example of Dassin's innovation is the heist sequence in Rififi, which is completely free of dialogue and music. Such a long period of silence is hardly common for films from this period yet no one who has seen the film can doubt its effectiveness. In fact, this may be the most famous scene of Dassin's distinguished career. A similar level of experimentation is apparent in a later scene in which an injured criminal drives his convertible at breakneck speed through a park and the camera careens wildly around him, conveying his disorientation to the viewer. Though every film I've seen by Dassin has exceeded my expectations, none has had quite as much to offer as Rififi. Its plot unfolds with the tragic inevitability for which noir is known yet at the same time Dassin explores the causes of his characters' downfall with a keen eye. This is a film which understands its characters' virtues and flaws equally and isn't afraid to show both. Rififi is a film in which the material and the director's sensibilities mesh perfectly and the result is extraordinary. "},{"Title":"The French caper","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" If the caper genre owes a lot to Walter Huston, it also has a debt of gratitude to Jules Dassin, a man that was ahead of his times and who suffered a lot because of his blacklisting when Edward Dmytryk accused him of being a Communist. The end of his American career would have meant the end of Mr. Dassin, but moving to Europe proved he was bigger than the same people that had contributed to his Hollywood demise.Rififi is an elegant film in which all the right elements come together thanks to Mr. Dassin's vision. He decided to adapt Auguste Le Breton's novel because he saw the possibilities for turning it into a caper film that became an instant classic. Jules Dassin was penniless in Paris when he discovered the city that were going to serve as the background to his film. The bad weather paid off for Mr. Dassin as the streets were always wet and not much had to be done to show them that way.When we first meet Tony, he is playing cards. Tony appears to be in bad health; he coughs all the time and sweats profusely. After losing all his money, he goes to see Jo, the Swede, who tells him about a possibility for a robbery at Maupin & Webb, the fancy jewelry store at a tony section of Paris. They pass the idea through Mario, who suggests Cesar, the Milanese, an expert safe cracker.Tony, who has come out of prison recently, learns that Mado, his former lover is now with Grutter, a creep that owns a night club. Upon confronting Mado, instead of love, all he feels is contempt, and the meeting ends badly and he throws her out of his place. Grutter has no love for Tony, who is his natural enemy because of his connection with Mado.When the day arrives, the gang is able to get to the apartment building where on the second floor, right above the jewelry store, the owner lives, but he is away. Everything goes well and the gang gets away with the jewels. Cesar, the Milanese, a typical ladies' man, takes a ring as a souvenir, which in turn he gives the chanteuse at the Grutter's night club. This tactical mistake is the spark which unravels the well thought plan.Jean Servais made an excellent Tony. He showed a tired man who was possibly doing his last robbery. Carl Mohner, Robert Manuel and the director, Jules Dassin, are seen as Jo, Mario and Cesar, the quartet jewelry thieves. Marie Sabouret plays Mado. Marcel Lupovici plays Grutter with a subdued intensity. Robert Hussein, who would go to direct movies later on, makes an impression with his Remi, one of Grutter's men.The film best asset is the great camera work by Philippe Agostini, who captured the atmosphere of Paris and the locales where all these criminals operate from. Georges Auric's music plays well with the action in the film. Jules Dassin was peculiar in his choice of films that he directed, and unfortunately, that is our loss because this man was a genius as proved mainly with The Naked City, Night and the City and Rififi. "},{"Title":"A classic for its silent robbery sequence, and a classic French polar noir","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A recent re-issue of the French crime film (original title 'Du Rififi Chez les Hommes'), with its famous 20-minute silent jewel heist sequence, now comes in the US in a gorgeous new print from The Criterion Collection with improved subtitles and some extras. Jules Dassin was an American (born Julius Dassin in Middletown Connecticut) who was forced to make films in Europe because he was Blacklisted. Rififi was well publicized in the US and did well in art houses. Later Dassin became a lot more famous in the US for 'Never on Sunday' (1960) starring his wife, the Greek actress and political activist Melina Mercouri. (Greece was again glamorized and popularized for Americans and others with Anthony Quinn in Mihalis Kakogiannis' 1964 'Zorba the Greek', which was even a big hit in Cairo.) The new Rififi DVD includes a recent interview with Dassin. I did not previously realize that one of the main robbers, Cesar the Milanese, was played by Dassin, who stepped in when the original actor became unavailable. He's one of the most memorable characters, a dandified Italian safe cracker who speaks no French.Although this classic has all the trappings of French film noir--the black and white twilight world of well lit apartments, shiny black cars, men in suits, the nightclub scenes, including a dramatically filmed and lit title song performed at the club, the stony faces and the Gauloises in hand or mouth--I don't think it's as atmospheric or has quite as distinctive a style as Melville's films do. But there's the mesmerizing robbery, which still holds up today as a tour de force. It goes like clockwork, with a fine sense of craft and teamwork among the robbers. Some nosy cops are efficiently dealt with. Things quickly go wrong after they go home and distribute the loot when one of the players gets sloppy and gives a dame a ring with a million-dollar bangle in it. Has there ever been a heist film whose perps lived happily ever after? It's the wordless heist sequence that guarantees this a special place, and Dassin, an American director who had an unusually varied and exotic career, deserves full credit for that. He took a novel so conventional he was going to reject it, and added some key elements that make it special. In the event, he couldn't pass on doing the adaptation he needed the money too much. Jean Servais, who plays the lead character Tony le Stephanois, was an actor rather down on his luck. His grim face is perfect for the role. He was later to play the lead in Dassin's He Who Must Die (1957), which used French actors in Greece for a political tale. 'Topkapi' is a somewhat disappointing 1964 caper film (it pales compared to 'Rififi') that also got US distribution. It does have a good setting, but it's wasted, gone all bland and bright and prettified. Of Dassin's post-Hollywood oeuvre, 'Never on Sunday,' with its catchy theme song and charismatic heroine, is the popular choice (and won Best Film at Cannes 1960); 'He Who Must Die' the political choice; 'Rififi' the genre choice. An odd piece is his 'Phaedra' with Mercouri and Tony Perkins (1962). Purists of tough-guy Hollywood genre work would eschew these and favor Dassin's early films, which include a prison drama, 'Brute Force' (1947);a cop flick, 'The Naked City' (1948); and two hard core noirs, 'Thieves' Highway' (1949), and 'Night and the City' (1950). Personally I tend to like French noir and American neo-noir spinoffs better than the original American noir source material--hence my enduring fascination with 'Rififi'. But Dassin is rather unique in having not only made Hollywood noir but then going over to Paris and producing a memorable example of its Fifties French derivative. "},{"Title":"Quite An Accomplishment","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Four professional crooks attempt to steal a fortune in jewels from a heavily guarded jewelry store. This is quite a good film. And it's probably the best heist film I have seen. Tension and suspense are maximized during a 28-minute segment in the middle when there is no dialogue of any kind ... what an accomplishment.The opening third of the film is almost as good, as we meet the four crooks, led by Tony (Jean Servais), a man just out of prison, but one who cares about his friends and is especially fond of kids. One by one, the other three crooks are introduced, and each contributes his expertise in the planning and preparation, leading up to the actual heist. At a chic nightclub called The Age Of Gold, we meet Viviane (Magali Noel), a tall, stylish singer with big lips whose stage show includes the song Rififi, a word used to describe the danger of streetwise tough guys and their risky, outlaw pursuits; how appropriate.But Viviane's sexiness leads to a situation that causes problems for the four guys, and this plot turn occupies the final third of the film. At nearly two hours the film is a bit long. And this final section, somewhat tedious, might have benefited by a few scenes being shortened. The ending neatly wraps everything up with what is probably the only conclusion that would have been acceptable to an audience in 1955.The B&W lighting is terrific. With lots of wet streets and no sunshine, outdoor visuals convey a grayish tone throughout, consistent with the film's theme. Side lighting contributes a noir atmosphere in some indoor scenes. The score, especially at the beginning, suggests an element of danger and a noir atmosphere of chic sophistication. Casting and acting are fine.Rififi is an example of a top-notch film made on a low budget. It's got an interesting premise, a well-written script, great visuals, and a Director that knows how to put them all together to entertain audiences; no expensive gimmicks or high-priced actors needed. "},{"Title":"Rififi.....Still a Great Movie","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is like a French Brandy...It gets better with age. This French movie, made in 1955 remains the definitive French noir. It is great for many reasons, and todays directors could learn a lot from it. Directed by Jules Dasson (an American,who had a hard time in America during the obscene McCarthy witch--hunts), the movie was made for a small amount of money. It is essentially the first real heist movie, and still the best.The central character played by Jean Servais does a great job. Jules Dasson said he got lucky because of the industrious crew who worked tirelessly on the project, but to make this...you needed more than luck. Its strange how some of the old, classic black and white films films don't get dated. This is one of those. "},{"Title":"The Greatest of French Gangster Films","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is, quite simply, a masterpiece. Dassin's most famous film is an exquisite piece of film noir that has stood the test of time and remains a unique piece of cinema due to its clever plotting, unconventional narrative structure and intricate set pieces.Most famous of these set pieces is, of course, the heist scene. The near-silence of this scene builds the tension and reinforces the realism, as is the fact that large parts of it are played out in near-real time.The use of lighting and shadow throughout the film is a text book example of conventional noir technique, perfected by this time after its development in both France and the United States from the 1930s onwards.The characters are well-drawn and come across as extremely intelligent, through their use of the fire extinguisher to muzzle the alarm and the umbrella to capture the falling debris. The writer and director ably show, not tell, just how clever and indeed skillful they are, albeit at such an immoral trade.The play within the play (the musical act at the nightclub) foreshadows the real clash to come in the second half of the film. The stylization of noir is parodied in this play with dark lighting being taken to its extreme conclusion shadow puppetry.The second half is, however, a little problematic as the tension doesn't quite match that of the heist scene resulting in it feeling mildly anti-climactic.However, the use of the child as the moral centre in an otherwise amoral world is effective. He is symbol of innocence that even the gangsters and their cohorts recognise (by feeling the abductors have overstepped one of the few boundaries in this violent, ruthless world).The child also provides some wonderfully ironic scenes, especially in his role-playing of the violent cowboy game with the mock gun and the pathos injected by the scenes of the otherwise ridiculous bouncing clown.The irony of the mix-up at the end comes across well and the final montage of Tony's ride home with the child conveys his confusion as he comes close to losing consciousness.On all levels then, this film transcends the typical noir gangster story, simply due to the mastery of film-making technique on display. The use of sound and silence, real-time filming and montage sequence, farce and brutality. The characters are ruthless killers but they are intelligent and their are limits to their misconduct. This film's reputation as the greatest of French gangster pieces is thoroughly deserved. "},{"Title":"Probably the best of French Film Noir...and that's saying a lot!","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The 1950s and 60s brought the Film Noir style to France. Up until then, the darkly lit and grim crime stories were the domain of American directors--such as Jules Dassin--the man who actually directed Rififi. In the late 1940s and very early 50s, he made four of the best films Noir had to offer--Night and the City, The Naked City, Brute Force and Thieves Highway. So, it seems that he was THE link between the two cinemas--bringing the best of American Noir and fusing it with French sensibilities and actors. In a sad way, it was a GOOD thing (at least for cinephiles) that the Black Lists forced Dassin to relocate to Europe to make films (for more on this, by the way, watch the interview with him that's included as an extra on the DVD).I was surprised when I saw one reviewer referring to this film as an early example of French New Wave. I didn't get this at all--it clearly was like Dassin's American films in most every way--except, perhaps, it tended to possibly glorify criminals in a way his earlier films had not done and the budget was lower. This film just doesn't look like that of famous New Wave directors like Truffaut or Godard--and I am happy about this, as New Wave did NOT work well with Noir (a great example is the failure of Godard's Alphaville as Noir--it just didn't seem at all like any Noir film unless you are taking LSD while viewing!). Perhaps it IS a lot like the French director Melville's films in many ways--and I am sure Melville was influenced strongly by Dassin.I would say that Rififi is among the best Noir films ever--and probably the best Noir France has to offer--and that's saying a lot, as I often prefer the French Noir films--they are THAT good. That's because even more so than the American versions, the criminals are incredibly cold and scary. Because of this, there was a wonderful realism. Instead of the often bigger than life criminals in the American versions, the French ones were more restrained--and as a result more believable.So what is so wonderful about this film? First, there are so many wonderful caper films (such as Bob le Flambeur and Grand Slam)--yet this is THE best of them. Second, the caper itself was brilliantly handled. Having thirty minutes of dialog-free action without music really, really heightened the tension and was riveting. My deaf daughter usually hates this sort of film, but she sat transfixed as well. Third, the ending was wonderful. It was very dark and free of sentimentality and it also was tense and well-made--and it's hard to imagine anything better. Fourth, the film is just perfect--there is NOTHING I can thing of that I would change! About the only Noir films I might like better (and this is hard to say for sure) might be The Killers....maybe. It's also a film that cinephiles must see...period.By the way, look closely at the Italian thief in the gang--that's Dassin himself. He did act in a few movies here and there in addition to directing--and his most famous acting role was probably in Never on a Sunday (in which he co-starred with his wife).If you liked this film, some other wonderful French crime films would include Bob le Flambeur (which, in many ways, is a re-tooling of Rififi), Le Samourai, Un Flic and Le Circle Rouge (all by Jean-Pierre Melville), Le Balance (sort of an early 80s reinvention of Noir) and even Diva (yes, it's NOT Noir but has many Noir qualities). There are many other films, but frankly my review is getting a bit long-winded and I have other things I must do! "},{"Title":"A great film of noir cinema American in Paris","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififíis an extraordinary film that remembers to all classic films of the noir cinema American, and the put between the better that have done. This is because its director Jules Dassin is one of the affected thing for the action of the McCarthy senator., after it who was moved to France. It conducted to the creation of a film as Rififí, dappled in Paris, and that by exchanging the stages for other in USA it goes out other masterpiece of the noir American cinema. The photo in black and white of Philippe Agostini is outstanding. I not think so never improves it the color. The frames of the scenes are perfect, and the stages of Paris of the first years 50 are not to lose them. The main protagonist Jean Servais carries out a very good action it remembers to Bogart.The part of the across developing the holdup keeps a tension very achieved, but the end it conforms to the classic in these films of noir cinema. It's a film that cannot stop to see. "}{"Title":"An intelligent robbery movie","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The fact that after 50 years, it is still a highly watchable movie, says a lot about it. It is more intelligent and interesting than almost all recent movies of the same genre you can find, and has a certain endearing feeling of innocence to it. I am not a big fan of this type of movies, but I could watch the whole thing without being bored, which makes it a good movie to watch with someone who does not necessarily share your taste in films. I liked the black and white palette, the excellent casting, the clever heist scene that keeps you guessing about what trick they will pull next, and the ending like everyone else. Watching the heist sequence makes one realize the power of silence, which is unfortunately so underused in today's cinema. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It is odd that it took me so long to see Jules Dassin's Rififi given how much I loved several of his American films and how high this film's reputation is. I am almost glad, however, that I came to this film at a later point as comparing it to other films of its sort (of which there are certainly many, many excellent ones) simply proves that this is a perfect film if there ever was one. Rififi is dazzling and engaging from start to finish, simultaneously a masterful thriller and captivating drama, and quite possibly the most plausible, realistic, and involving heist film of all time, and among the most perfectly engineered Noir films ever made.Rififi runs for just over two hours but moves at a faster pace than just about any other film I've seen, consequently feeling less than an hour long. The sheer intensity of the film is relentless with even the opening scenes dedicated to developing the characters and setting up the premise of the film are absolutely beautiful and integral to the film as a whole. Enough has been said about the heist sequence already but it really is one of the tensest and most entertaining sequences in cinema and quite possibly the single greatest heist sequence ever filmed, not to mention the most plausible.Rififi is far from a simple crime thriller, providing a thorough examination of human behavior and psychology which is worked into the main plot excellently in the screenplay written by Dassin, René Wheeler, and Auguste Le Breton (who also wrote the novel the film is based on). It is always interesting to see a crime or specifically a heist film where the heist itself doesn't even come close to failing but by the simple inclusion of the human element the consequences are tragic.Beyond just featuring a perfect screenplay, Rififi is nothing short of a visual masterpiece. I cannot think of a single scene where Dassin isn't at the top of his game, Georges Auric (The Wages of Fear, The Innocents) provides one of the greatest and most suitable musical scores of all time. Finally, Philippe Agostini's stunning black and white photography helps the film maintain its terrific atmosphere and sense of style.Rififi, outside of my personal favorite film Vertigo, is quite possibly the most involving, intense, and purely entertaining film ever made. It is also a film of substance and immense technical precision. I have nothing but praise for this flawless masterpiece.10/10 "},{"Title":"More than just the classic heist scene","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have been wanting to see this since my French teacher recommend it to me over forty years ago. Perhaps the long wait was worth it, since the Criterion Collection DVD restoration is impressive.In its outline this movie follows the time-worn script a quartet of men diligently plot a difficult heist of a bank vault, the heist takes place, a small seemingly insignificant event leads to the ultimate demise of all. Even though the heist footage is transfixing, it occurs rather early and is ultimately not at the core of the film. This film separates itself from the typical heist movie by giving us insights into the personalities of the characters and their motivations - its plays as much as a drama as it does a thriller. Relationships play a big role and a kidnapping is tacked on, giving us two movies for the price of one.John Servais plays the idea man Tony le Stéphanois (always referred to as le Stéphanois) with such world-weariness that he could have just stepped out of a Camus novel. Tony has just recently gotten out of jail and resists re-entering the life of crime until he has a highly unpleasant interaction with his ex-lover (who has taken up with another man) where, as punishment, he physically whips her with a belt. Thankfully that scene occurs off camera, but you are not likely to forget it. After that sobering event, since there seems little hope of reviving that relationship, Tony meets with two of his old partners in crime, Jo and Mario, and decides to join them in one last big heist. They enlist the services of Cesar, an Italian safe cracker - played by director Dassin himself - and we are off to the heist.The heist goes off without a hitch. But Cesar's womanizing bent is a personality trait that turns out to be fatal for all concerned. However, we can understand his attraction to the nightclub singer he has fallen for, since there is a brilliant set piece where she performs a sexy and cinematically inspired nightclub act - it has to be one of the most memorable scenes from any noir film.It is established early on that Tony has a close relationship with Jo and his family; in fact Jo's son refers to him as uncle. I think it is partly to help Jo's family that Tony agrees to the heist. The ending scenes, where Tony saves the life of Jo's kidnapped son, partially redeems his more brutal and amoral actions. But only partially. "},{"Title":"seminal French caper film is as jazzy, dark and fatalistic as any American noir","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's a mystery to me as to why I haven't caught up to this masterful 50s caper film &#150; turned brooding noir until now, but I'm certainly glad to report that it didn't disappoint. I haven't seen any of Jules Dassin's American films for several years but based on this I'll probably be going back and re-watching Brute Force and Night and the City quite soon.Jean Servais, a name unknown to me but a face rather familiar in its world-weariness and coldness, has recently completed a lengthy stay in prison and as is the way in these films (hey, there wouldn't be a story otherwise) isn't coping well with the straight life. An opportunity presents itself an easy multi-million-dollar jewel heist that can be done at night with no fear of discovery by a few men. The taut filming of the robbery, half an hour of total silence, is what people most remember about the film of course, and indeed it's pretty remarkable; but I liked the half-completed location of the final shootout, once the robbery has gone sour thanks to the big mouth of one of the thieves; the excellent portrayal gritty sides of Paris in stark black and white; and Servais' channeling of both Eddie Constantine and Humphrey Bogart in his spare but brutal performance.Perhaps it's a bit too sentimental in the end, but this is one of those classics that really does live up to its reputation just as pure entertainment even if what it has to say about the human condition isn't exactly deep or thought-provoking; George Auric's at turns modernist, romantic, and jazzy score is another highlight. "},{"Title":"All criminals follow a strict code of honor.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Du rififi chez les hommes is a brilliant film which studies criminal minds and allows viewers to have a better understanding of criminals who are fundamentally not different from ordinary folks like us.What director Jules Dassin shows is that criminal do have families and they care a lot for them.That is why they adhere to a strict code of honor. For them a family is not only made up of wives,mistresses and children but also include casual acquaintances and close friends.Contrary to what many might find it hard to believe,Jules Dassin has not tried to glorify crime in his film as rififi makes it clear that crime never pays.It shows that all kinds of bad activities result in some kind of human loss.Apart from its philosophical stance Rifif is worth watching for its technical finesse.While watching one of the film's most brilliant sequences about breaking of a safe,one would find it hard to believe meticulous precision with which criminal minds execute their plans.This is a scene which nobody has dared to copy in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Fabulous film noir...","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" You can take the crook out of the joint, but it seems exceedingly more difficult to take the joint out of the crook. We've seen this kind of character in this kind of situation before (and since) in movies like BOB LE FLAMBEUR, ELEVATOR TO THE GALLOWS, TOUCHEZ PAS AU GRISBI, THE ANDERSON TAPES, etc. Too many times to mention. What helps make this one one of the more notable is (of course) the heist itself, which plays out wordlessly in real time, and the demeanor of the lead. Bogart would think twice before crossing this guy. The ironic ending is perfectly suited to this story (it almost demands it). All around, one of the better films noir. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Heist Film","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are not many films which I would describe as perfect, but Rififi definitely fits the bill. No other heist film has come close to it, before or after. The plot is simple, but engrosses you. It never ceases to amaze me how absolutely gripping the film is every time you view it. You care for all the characters, even though they are bank robbers, because they are presented as human beings with all their problems and flaws. It's hard to imagine any other actor besides Jean Servais in the role of Tony le Stéphanois. When the members of the crew are each talking about what they are going to do with their money and finally get to Tony, his answer and the expression on his face says it all. While the 30 minute heist sequence is the most famous part of the movie(and rightfully so)the film actually gets better afterward.The director Jules Dassin knew what he was doing when he decided to not have any music during the heist scene or the final shootout, but instead inserted a great climactic score during Tony's final ride towards his destiny. To think that if Dassin, an American Director, had not been blacklisted in Hollywood and forced to work in France, this masterpiece of cinema would never have been made the way it was. It certainly wouldn't have been as good if it was made as an American film during that time. It was absolutely horrible what Dassin had to go through, but he did achieve his greatest work because of it, to the benefit of all of us. I'm just cringing at the thought of the upcoming Al Pacino remake. Most heist films since Rififi have already borrowed from it in some way or another. There's no reason to remake this masterpiece other than money. Leave the classics alone! "},{"Title":"Classy French gangster film","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" American expatriate Jules Dassin makes an award-winning French gangster film. The plot involves Tony the Stephanois, a hoodlum just out of prison, who takes his band of thieves on a $240 million jewel heist. Unfortunately, his ex-wife's relationship with a notorious gangster named Grutter, an Italian safe-cracker named Cesar with a weakness for women, and the missteps of his own friend Jo cause the successful heist to turn into a bloody race against time as Grutter holds Jo's son hostage for the cash in typical crime never pays tragedy fashion.The rififi in the title is explained in a song to mean slang for basically violence and sex, and the full title, Du rififi chez les hommes means roughly Some naughty in the house of men, which is pretty much where the fatal flaw of the characters take place. Leave it to a gangster film to place most of the emphasis on the missteps on the women, but this time Jo's wife gets the last laugh (if you could call it a laugh) when she predicts All of you are just going to kill each other. The characters aren't the most sympathetic and the women are mostly weak, but Dassin still builds an extremely well-crafted suspense film out of them as they pull off a heist that requires the utmost quiet, hide the goods, and then attempt to survive what basically becomes a cross-country cat and mouse game. In the mix are some very amazing photography and a fine attention to detail in editing, leading to a pacing and visual experience that well overstates the otherwise generic plot. It's not only easy to see why this is held as a classic, it's also easy to see why it's among the top 250 on the IMDb it's suspenseful, visually magnificent, full of sex and violence, and maintains that classy gangster attitude we film buffs like so much. "},{"Title":"The Steak Tartare of gangster films","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a very European especially very French movie. France is home of the elegant romantic movie, of fluffy comedies and needless to say fine food. There is sensuality in all these. France, in the 19th and 20th centuries was home to sex tourism - fine dining was coupled with expert sensuality and frank sexuality. A mixture of passion and rawness. French magazines too would show more gore than their British or American equivalents. French postcards would show more explicit sex than the rest.Riffi combines this frank rawness with a kind of sensuality - the intimate details of a meticulous robbery watched silently in close up. The frank interested stare at the action as it proceeds. The pure rawness is represented by the horrible exploitation of a drug addict, and the work he's called on to perform. It was real adult cinema then and still is now. "},{"Title":"four men star in this amazing film noir film to plan the perfect robbery, but others intervene....","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" To start with, I have done some further research on the film. Firslty, Jules Dassin directed and acted in this extremely imaginative and different film noir crime film. Secondly, This was a very low budget film, created in the Rennaissance of the prime moment of film noir. Thirdly, the jewelers where the robbery was attempted is an actual jewelers. The producers of Rififi asked them to film their, surprisingly, (I quote Jules Dassin in a recent interview on the subject, surprisingly, for some not very obvious reason, they were delighted at the idea of a crime film being set in their shop). It's impeccable characters and plot fit in so beautifully with their surroundings. To add on to my praise I will say this; some might say that this was a typical Hollywood film, on the contrary, this set the base for the regular plot of a Hollywood crime film. Laslty, I would like to say that I support this fresh idea of a film where not only one side wins, and that side doesn't always have to be the good one. For once, I can say that a film is not predictable! Ten stars! "}{"Title":"Excellent French noir","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps, it is one of the greatest films I've ever laid my eyes on. Maybe I'm fooling myself but I know what I see because it is one of the terrific films. You guys probably want to know what the hell I am talking about. I'm talking about Rififi, a brilliant French heist film.Rififi means 'trouble' in French, so it has very interesting meaning to the film. To me, no other film (except for precious few) had executed 3 acts so well like Rififi. It's just absolutely well done film. I think it's one of the amazing heist films because it has famous 30 minutes silence heist sequence with no dialogues or music. My heart kept pounding fast every time I see that sequence because it get my blood rush and you feel really afraid for those guys.As I mentioned, it executed 3 acts very well. First act focused on preparation of heist. We see the characters established themselves and how they interacted with each other. Also, they rehearsed for the heist sequence so they can be ensuring that it will be successful. Second act focused on heist itself. No words are spoken nor is the music playing in this sequence because it would distract and that would be wrong. It is the center of the attention of whole film, no doubt about it. Third act focused on the results of the heist, which isn't pretty sight but that's expected since its film noir. You know what happen to people in film noir, right? Jules Dassin, whose had fled from USA due to blackmail and red scare bullshit and someone had named him as a communist, had made this masterpiece because it's his last chance to redeemed himself after being denied numerous projects due to intervene from USA embassy in Europe. Rififi was based on novel but Dassin despises that book because it had contained numerous references to racism and necrophilia. In fact, the heist sequence only take about 10 pages of whole book so Dassin work his way around that part to create a masterpiece, which is very neat. You can see Dassin in Rififi, he played safe cracker. Very cool character.When it was first release, it caused uproar among governments because several people used similar methods from Rififi to committed burglary. Imagine what happen if director tried to pull same thing today. I would be laughing too hard, that's for sure.I think it's one of the greatest heist films of all time, period. But someone had brought up good point that The Asphalt Jungle, which is finest film noir that center around heist sequence but nowhere that level similar to Rififi, had appear 5 years earlier. I will admit that I enjoy The Asphalt Jungle a lot but it's more of character driven, whereas Rififi is primary heist driven film, if that makes sense. But the heist sequences in those films are very different from each other. Rififi makes The Asphalt Jungle looks like grandfather in motor scooter, make no mistake about it.The interview with Jules Dassin in special features on DVD is amazing because he discussed how he struggled when bad things happen to him and he wept when blackmail thing happen and he had to fled to Europe. It just moved me because he's very passionate man.I find it bit strange that Rififi only cost two hundred thousand dollars to make because it seem cost a lot more since it is fantastic motion picture. The cinematography is just absolutely top notch and it makes several beautiful shot of Paris. Makes me want to visit Paris really badly because of that movie.I don't think that this film should be missed because it's really amazing. 30 minutes heist sequence will live up to the hype, make no mistake about it. "},{"Title":"Heisty","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's difficult to appreciate this today as virtually every scene is now intolerably clichéd. We are supposed to marvel at the ingenious preparations for the jewellery store heist, but find ourselves simply musing instead on how rough and quaint things were then. The best parts have nothing to do with the robbery the nightclub scenes which has a woman laid out on the floor like a snake, in stunning contrast to the humourless heavies around her (though Tony is so downbeat he is sometimes funny); the final astonishingly-shot drive through the streets in which a kid playing in the back of the car holds a gun to Tony's head. Also notable were some risqué moments that must have stirred them up in the fifties peek-a-boo nipples, and the invitation to a nightclub floozy sit your money-maker down here. Bogey would never have been allowed to say that, though I'm sure he would have loved to. "},{"Title":"Rififi - just another viewpoint","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I find myself continually perplexed by people who come to watch a film from decades ago and cannot make any allowance for the age of the film, atmosphere that comes from it and all the little signs of the culture and society of the time. I am happy to allow that when this was made all the world was black and white and we didn't have the modern technology. Acceptable morals were different, everything was different. It is indeed a keyhole into a view of life in the early fifties. I like the way that film makers of that age left different things to our imagination, so different to nowadays! We have so much spelt out! The characters in Rififi express so much with their eyes, the editing is sharp and the story pure melodrama. Yes, you can plonk me down on my settee to watch Rififi any time you like. It's like an old friend. "},{"Title":"homage to Dassin","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What a gas of a movie! Film Noir has always been one of my favorite genres, but this one stands apart from the rest. Only The Big Sleep, Out of the Past, Murder My Sweet, and The Killers can come close to this caper classic. I know these four American films I mentioned are not caper movies per se, but rather detective stories with complicated story lines, which still exude a noirean, gritty quality about them, similar to Rififi.What is different here is the way Jules Dassin sets into motion the total ambiance of the film, not only in the gritty realism of the principals, but also in the usage of the streets of Paris as a subliminal character and co-conspirator unto itself! The movie centers around le Stephanois, a dark, moody and complicated ex-con getting pulled into one last shot at the hefty payoff. Even though he is an unsmiling and hard-nosed tough guy, one still senses in him a yearning for some kind of redemption by extricating himself from the demons of his past (hey, he saved little Toni!). Dassin picked the right guy (Jean Servais) for that role.That aside, the rest of the story development kind of falls into place as we journey through the famous silent caper scene to the the eventual demise of the principal perps. Only their women survive, except for Ida, Mario's honey. They seemed to best understand the underlying futility of it all! "},{"Title":"Stylish and Thrilling","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is a terrific heist movie, and one from which subsequent heist films have drawn ever since. Jules Dassin had a feel for the seedy underworld in which these thieves live---you will not find here the Hollywood glamour of Ocean's Eleven. The robbers in Rififi don't rob for the thrill, and they're not playing a game. They rob to survive, to pay for their children's upbringing, to prove to themselves and others that they still have something to offer the world. The much-lauded heist scene is a nail biter, filmed in virtual silence. I did have the feeling that the plot went on a bit longer than it needed to, but the high-speed race to deliver the child to his mother that ends the film is classic.Be warned---this movie is very bleak. But it's also very good.Grade A- "},{"Title":"an overlooked french film that is almost perfect","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is a great film that is overlooked. It's a crime drama where a man gets out of jail and plans another job. It's an over used story but this one is different from the others. They round up the usual suspects for the job. This film takes a look at how the family gets torn apart as time goes on. The actual heist scene is one of the best I have ever seen. Instead of a suspenseful soundtrack the director decided to go with silence, around thirty minutes of silence. This fits the mood perfectly and is often copied these days. Of course things get out of hand and people die and it ends in a great ending that builds up in suspense.So if you're looking for a great film noir that not a lot of people talk about this is a great pick up. "},{"Title":"WOW! WOW! WOW!","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  RIFIFIThis was a fantastic film by Jules Dassin. Great characters, heist, villains and photography. This was the complete opposite of Kubrick's The Killing. With very little expository dialogue in the script, so much of the movie was told through actions and glances and was left up to the viewer to decipher, whereas The Killing had a narrator helping the audience feel stupid. What I really liked was the main character---he was such a bad-ass that he had a `The' before his name...Le Stephanois.The passage of time has been very good to Rififi and I think today's audiences will be surprised at how many of today's directors have borrowed form Rififi. Paul Thomas Anderson's HARD EIGHT comes to mind, as the character Sydney is very similar to Le Stephanois. Also recently, Steven Soderbergh's THE LIMEY comes to mind as being influenced by the characters in Dassin's masterpiece. The story is classic film noir Bad guys pull off heist, get duped at the end. I think today's audiences will like the story. The only thing that doesn't quite hold up is the scene with the woman singing Rififi in the nightclub. It's quaint to watch, but there aren't many(if any) clubs left like this today. Other than that, it holds up excellently.It was easy to root for Le Stephanois because he was such a decisive man of action. He knew what to do, how to do it, and you know he would get it done. The villain was cast perfectly. He and his junkie brother were wholly contemptible and you REALLY didn't want him to get the money from such an exhilarating heist.The scene in the film with Le Stephanois trying desperately to make it to Joe's home is brilliantly juxtapaosed with the boy gleefully riding in the covertible as if it was a carnival ride. It was truly a creepy film moment and one of the only times where there was no sound effects and just soundtrack music playing.Wow, this is the coolest film noir ever. The infamous hush-hush(20 min.) heist scene, and the fact that a blacklisted American makes the ULTIMATE film noir while in Paris, FRANCE...if you haven't seen it...what the HECK are you waitin' for!?!?!? HURRY!!! HIGHEST RECOMMENDATIONS! "},{"Title":"Rififi... Means Trouble!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A great film noir/caper movie. Great story, great shots of Paris that seem a little gritty. Great moments, too, including the 35 minute sequence of the actual heist which had no dialogue and no music, but was still involving; Dassin's own Forgive me scene; and the car ride at the end of the movie. The Stephanois (wonderfully played by Jean Servais) ranks up there with Bogie's Sam Spade and Welles's Hank Quinlan as one of the best film noir characters. "},{"Title":"A classic Movie with many small mistakes in the story.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" After seeing NAKED CITY and NIGHT AND THE CITY (which is still my favorite Dassin) I was more than excited to watch his Masterpiece (O-Word Criterion) RIFIFI.Now i am a little bit disappointed about the story.So I have at least these five questions in my mind1. In the final Countdown Louis Grutter shot from the inside a house the main Character Tony le Stéphanois. He couldn't know if he is still alive or not, but he didn't care about it and ran directly after it outside the house (with the money) to reach his car. So of course Tony wasn't dead and shot him. BIG QUESTIONMARK.2. In another important scene the specialist in safes Cesar gave directly after the robbery as a present a diamond ring (which was a part of the robbery) a Woman which was working for Louis Grutter in a night bar. Stupid, because before this character wasn't THAT stupid. And of course Louis knew directly that Tony planned the jewel robbery. SMALL QUESTIONMARK.3.After the Gangsters behind Louis Grutter murder Mario Ferrati and his wife,Tony and his best friend Joe planned a revenge against Louis gang. At the same time they don't care for the security of Joe's wife and his five years old child. Of course Louis gang kidnapped the son. CHEAP and SIMPLE.4. The perfect heist Of course this is the best 30min. long scene in the whole Plot, without any word spoken in the whole time, but was this a perfect heist?? Comparing with other movies which handle with this theme i could only smile when for example Tony was taken a fire-extinguisher to banned the alarm. Also too SIMPLE.5. The Grutter gang went to the house of Mario, because they knew (however....) the jewels will be there. Then they murder Mario and his Wife. And then? They are not searching for it! NO. They ran directly out of the apartment. And more. They not observing the apartment after it so Tony can go after a while (which was the same day) inside to take the jewels. BIG QUESTIONMARK.Over all it's a good movie. Because of the brilliant 30min silent heist scene. Because of the very good cut (The end scene in the car through Paris is stunning) . Because of a very good actor called Jean Servais. Because of this Black/White fever you will get while watching it. Because of some other reasons too other user wrote about, but please don't tell me this is a stunning story. "},{"Title":"Film Noir Paris-Style","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" As far as I am concerned, this film noir had two totally different things going for it as opposed to the film noirs I am used to viewing 1 - the setting is Paris, France; 2 - there is 28-minute scene with no dialog.Both make this movie a bit unique, at least to English-speaking film noir fans. Actually, an American, Jules Dussain, shot the film, so it's not entirely a European film. Initially, I was disappointed in this after I had watched the first 40 minutes. It's an expensive DVD and I was bored. However, once that silent segment started - the actual heist (you already know what's it about), the film picked up considerably and just got better and better.In fact, I thought the best part of the story was what happened after the heist. The best aspect of the entire film was the cinematography. This is what makes the disc worth owning. It's excellent film noir photography and a real travelogue for those of us who have never seen Paris...and this is Paris in the mid 1950s. There are lots of bleak-but-interesting rain-soaked Paris streets and buildings I found fascinating to view. In fact, there were many more of those great shots than of London in the much better known film, The Third Man.The lead actor in here, Jean Servais, I think his name is, also is interesting to view. Someone described his face as a cross between Humphrey Bogart and Harry Dean Stanton, and that sums it up perfectly. A warning for those not expecting profanity or nudity in a classic film. This is France, not the United States, so there is a little bit of both in here. I appreciate the DVD offering the choice of subtitles or a dubbed version, too. "}{"Title":"The Daddy of All Heist Movies","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the toughest, most spellbinding and, finally, enervating film I have ever seen. The protagonist, Toni Le Stephanois, as played by Jean Servais is out for a big score - the safe - as his time as a mastermind and tough guy is running out. The meticulous planning and the flawless execution of the heist had me and I am sure most of the audience wanting the crims to get away with it. And notice that the thieves plan to use their cut to make life better for those they love or care for. Only the rootless Toni cannot give an answer to the question of what he will do with his share. Should the thieves have merely sought to live it up on their ill-gotten gains, we might have wanted them caught. As with all tragedies, we often want the doomed protagonists to somehow be spared. However, it cannot be.Once the real bad guys realize who has done the heist, things can only become more and more brutal. And all that is left is for Toni to repair some of the damage done.Toni's final drive through the streets of Paris as he bleeds to death from a gunshot wound leaves me drained. The subjective camera swirls and jump cuts and the soundtrack oscillates as Toni's visual and aural perceptions move in and out of focus as he struggles onward to redemption.The film is a masterpiece. See it at least once in your life and you will never forget it.Rififi - it certainly is rough and tumble. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Heist Movie","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nobody does noir like the French. They invented it, and although American and Japanese directors have made exceptional entries in the genre, the French still do it best. For evidence, I present exhibit A, Rififi, one of the greatest gangster/heist movies ever made. Aging gangster Tony, just out of prison, gathers his friends for one last job; cracking the safe at Paris's finest jeweler. It will be the most ambitious job of their careers, with an incredible payoff. And it doesn't end with the heist either. When rival gangster Pierre realizes what they've done and decides he wants in, everything they've accomplished is put in jeopardy.Rififi doesn't waste much time establishing the characters or the setup. Back-story isn't a major concern here. Each man has his own life and personality, but the important thing is that when it comes to business, Tony, Jo, Mario and Caesar are dead serious. They know the rules, and the stakes, and are the absolute best at what they do. Their preparations are complex and painstaking. Casing the joint, memorizing the opening times of the surrounding businesses, finding a way to defeat the alarm system, all are done with the utmost care.All of this leads up to one of the tensest scenes in all cinema; the heist itself. Over half an hour, with no music or dialogue, only the (very quiet) sounds of the men at work. And what work it is. Watching these four men chisel their way through the roof, disable the alarm, and crack the safe is like watching Michelangelo sculpt or Arnold Palmer play a round of golf. It is pure precision, with no margin for even the slightest error. And what creativity they bring to their trade! I have never seen such ingenious uses for a tube of caulk or an umbrella.Most films would have difficulty going this long without sound, but here the silence is an asset. The lack of sound underscores the fact that their work relies on near-total silence. Because there is no music or other background noise, we are keenly aware of every clink of the hammer, every rattle of loose concrete, and the fall of every footstep. The silence creates tension more effectively than any ominous music could. And all the while the clock is, quite literally, ticking. Time itself is their enemy. If Rififi ended with the successful conclusion of their daring burglary, it would be a very good movie. But it does not satisfy itself with a simple happy ending. As in so many of the best noirs, the second half tells how the best plans go awry, and everything begins to fall apart. A minor act of carelessness makes them targets of the most ruthless crime boss in Paris. The body count rises alarmingly, and the bad guys soon gain what is arguably the ultimate leverage.The last act is a masterwork or growing tension, sudden reversals, and hard decisions. And the final scene, which I will not give away, is probably the best of all. The pounding, ominous music, the rapid series of cuts, and the gravity of the situation contrast with the innocence of a young child in a way that is simply incredible. Rififi is fully equal- and perhaps superior to- Chinatown, The Big Heat, or Le Samourai. If you are a fan of classic noir, I highly urge to see this film. "},{"Title":"Heist!","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony Stephanois, just out of prison and angry at his girl Mado's infidelity, decides to join his pals Jo and Mario in an ambitious crime. With Italian safe expert Cesar, they meticulously plan the burglary of a large jewelry establishment.This film is probably best known for two things one, the half hour heist sequence that has absolutely no dialogue and no music, just the sounds of the men at work. Which is, by the way, wonderfully brilliant. And two, the fact the director was American but was working in France because he was targeted as part of the Hollywood blacklist.This is a great film. Obviously not the first film noir, not by a long shot, but clearly influential on future crime movies. Was Ocean's 11 inspired by this film? Maybe, maybe not, but it seems like the two could be brothers. "},{"Title":"Rough and Tumble","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. This classic French film is often referred to as the birth of the heist film. Former blacklisted US director Jules Dassin delivers a tense and unique film with terrific atmosphere, blending Film Noir with the French New Wave.One of the more unusual aspects of the film is that the actual heist is Act II, not Act III - which actually involves a kidnapping and a quest for vengeance. It's easy to view the two Ocean's Eleven films as remakes of this one, and its influence on Stanley Kubrick's The Killing, as well as Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs (the table scene), are fun to analyze.Almost 60 years later, most film classes still discuss the nearly 30 minute heist sequence that involves no dialogue or music (not counting an inadvertent piano key). The teamwork and stress of this sequence is enthralling and worth watching a few times. We somehow find ourselves pulling for these bad guys (criminals, thugs, gangsters, hoods, crooks). I call this the good-bad guy vs bad-bad guy approach.The good-bad guys are played by Jean Servais (Tony), Carl Michner (Jo), Robert Manuel (Mario), and the director Jules Dussin (Caeser, the Italian safecracker). The bad-bad guys (worthy of hissing) are led by Marcel Lupovici (Grutter) who is simply mean to everyone.Paris streets play a huge role, as does the jewelry store set and the simple sound effects that accompany the heist. Also enjoyable is the casing the place sequence as the crew plans their process. So many pieces come together to keep this one as a well-deserved entry to the classic film canon. "},{"Title":"Same as the robbery itself, almost perfect in its execution","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the classic examination of the Perfect Robbery by and starring Jules Dassin, influenced by The Asphalt Jungle and the French-type connection between The Lavender Hill Mob and Dassin's later own Topkapi, albeit a little more earthy. Dassin gets to glorify the gangsters a little, but the end moral remained the same.A rather craggy looking guy gets out of jail and is immediately embroiled in a new bank heist, as part of a gang of four well-oiled thugs and hoods and their molls, all of them all too human. The robbery is meticulously planned and executed in almost complete silence and is totally absorbing in its ballet-like intensity. Cesar made only one error but it sure let down Tony, Jo and Mario along with the real baddies in the long run, however he didn't let us the viewers down because it makes for another absorbing last half hour, if a little savage at times. 45 year old Jean Sevais who played Tony was the only true hard boiled individual in here, the rest were either soft boiled or punks &#x96; at one point Jo's wife goes moralistic speculating out that poverty stricken youths who stay honest were the real tough guys. There's some marvellous character acting by all of the main protagonists, amidst the gloomy atmospheric splendour of a rainy and damp Paris.It's as simple as it gets, and as beautiful &#x96; sure, it's certainly of its time as is everything but it's wearing very well and is still supreme entertainment. "},{"Title":"Blacklisted American director serves up distinctive noir on French soil","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The director of 'Rififi', Jules Dassin, was down on his luck at the time he was asked to get involved with this gritty film noir. Dassin was a successful American director of film noirs up until the end of the 1940s when he was suddenly blacklisted during the days of the Senator Joe McCarthy witch hunts and barred from working in the United States. Speaking during a 2000 interview featured as part of the Criterion Collection's DVD extras, Dassin remarked that he was paid very little to direct 'Rififi' as the cast and crew also worked under an extremely low budget.'Rififi' is a very atmospheric film noir, shot intentionally under low light conditions. The plot revolves around a gang of jewel thieves led by Tony le Stéphanois (played by Jean Servais, a successful French actor in the 30s, whose career was in in decline at the time, due to alcoholism). Tony, just out of prison on a five year bid for a prior jewel heist, is approached by former pal, Jo, who proposes that they accept mutual friend Mario's plan to steal some jewels from a window display case of a prominent Parisian jewelry store. The plan is initially rejected by Tony who is preoccupied with his former girlfriend, Mado, who has taken up with a tough guy nightclub owner, Pierre Grutter. In the first of a number of scenes, craftily infused with a palpable, violent edge, Tony beats Mado up for going with this other guy.With Mado now out of his life, Tony decides to accept Mario's plan but instead of a simply 'smash-and-grab' of the jeweler's store window, he proposes knocking off a safe in the apartment above the jewelry store. Mario's friend, the Italian-speaking Cesar (played by director Dassin himself) is brought in to complete the team. The gang goes through a rehearsal before committing the crime itself. This mainly involves de-arming the sophisticated alarm system. I'm not sure if we needed all the pre-heist rehearsals, particularly because much of it is repeated during the actual heist itself (I'm thinking particularly of the spraying of the fire retardant foam into the alarm box, which appears to be rather redundant and anti-climactic).Nonetheless the bulk of the heist scene is particularly noteworthy due to its having been shot without any dialogue. Also quite remarkable is the way in which an umbrella is utilized to prevent the alarm from going off, during the burglary. To my surprise, this was actually based on a crime involving a travel agency break-in, dating back to 1899!After the heist is committed, the plot takes a few other clever twists and turns. The gang is undone by the simple greed of Cesar, who pilfers a small diamond ring for his girlfriend. Grutter and company get wind of this, and end up murdering Mario and his girlfriend (another shocking scene of violence in the film), in an attempt to extort information from Jo, as to the whereabouts of the very expensive jewels, taken from the jewel company's safe. I wonder why, however, Grutter's gang failed to ransack Mario's apartment, before giving up on trying to find the jewels.After Tony finds a tied-up Cesar (captured by Grutter), he reluctantly murders him in revenge for violating the 'code of silence' between thieves. It's said that this represented Dassin's feelings toward colleagues who betrayed other colleagues during the blacklist era.The plot races toward its inevitable conclusion after Grutter kidnaps Jo's son and holds him as ransom for the jewels. Tony tells Jo to sit tight while he tracks down the kid. But Jo can't wait and meets Grutter with the cash they got from a fence for the jewels. Inevitably Grutter kills Jo and is about to make off with the jewels when Tony shows up (somehow Mado had heard that Grutter had swiped Jo's son and knew where he was). With information provided by Mado, Tony indeed tracks Grutter down and after being seriously wounded, shoots and kills Grutter (why Grutter doesn't make sure Tony is dead, before attempting to make his get away), seems a bit far-fetched. Despite his crimes, Tony performs the great sacrifice by driving Jo's son all the way back home, before he expires, with a suitcase stuffed with millions, in the backseat.'Rififi' has all the ingredients of an engaging, taut, film noir. Particularly notable is the great on-location cinematography, sure-fire editing, very believable performances by some lesser-known actors as well as director Dassin's determination not to tone down the violent scenes in order to mollify a few prurient filmgoers. 'Rififi' suffers from a few flat notes including the long-winded 'heist rehearsal' as well as a number of (aformentioned) questionable plot contrivances, that don't always add up.Overall, 'Rififi' is a pretty, solid noir. Jules Dassin was said to have regretted only the use of the song that bore the film's title. Dassin didn't want to use any music at all but was somehow talked into using the out of place song 'Rififi'. The title translates as 'rough and tumble'&#x97;a rather trite allusion to the overall atmosphere the film engenders. "},{"Title":"Great heist film","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony le Stéphanois gets out early after 5 years in prison. He has a plan to rob the jewelry store Mappin & Webb with his friends Jo and the Italian Mario Ferrati. He finds his old girlfriend Mado who abandoned him for the gangster Louis Grutter. He viciously beats her. For the job, he wants to hit the safe and gets Cesar the Milanese. The heist goes off perfectly but that's not the end of it.It's a French heist film with more realism. It is well done with good intense acting. The most interesting thing is how modern the movie is. The formula is well set now, but it was probably more groundbreaking back then. These are the modern anti-hero protagonists. "},{"Title":"Rough and Tumble Is For Sure","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" According to the title song of this movie, the lead character's nickname Rififi means rough and tumble. That is definitely a designation Jacques Besnard takes seriously as he slaps and punches and bullies his way through women, police and cohorts in blacklisted Hollywood director Jules Dassin's Parisian masterpiece du Rififi Chez Les Hommes. Dassin co-authored the script, as well as taking on the role of the happy-go- lucky Italian safecracker in the film. Rififi is about a recently released convict who is too deeply entrenched in the ways of crime to lead any other kind of life. He gets involved in, and eventually leads a troupe of felons through a well-scripted burglary that takes the group of thieves through the ceiling of a business to crack open a safe and steal jewels. The planning stage of the burglary is extremely precise and exacting, and the tension is felt by the viewer as well. By the time the burglary is happening, the movie has shifted into dead silence. For an interminable period, there is nothing but breathing, sweating, a hand drill boring a hole into a ceiling, a police officer's footsteps.....The intensity offered up by the actors, and enhanced by the cinematography and directing during this sequence with no dialogue is unparalleled in film making. Janine Darcey, Jacques David, and Alice Garan also co-star. The film was released in 1955 and is in French, with English subtitles. While subtitles can be difficult for some, I heartily recommend watching this film, and with the sequence without dialogue, you will be able to give your eyes a rest and enjoy a truly remarkable piece of film making. This film has influenced many other directors, including Stanley Kubrick and Quentin Tarantino. The movie 3000 Miles To Graceland was loosely based on this film, with the storyline of criminals gathering together for a heist, and the double-crosses that follow taking especially violent turns in a Kevin Costner/Kurt Russell shoot fest. Hang in past the title theme song, which is sung in a nightclub in a song and dance type of style. Unfortunately, the musical number does absolutely nothing to move the plot forward or to prepare the viewer for the intense movie that immediately follows. "},{"Title":"RIFIFI means trouble- But No trouble with script, screenplay or direction","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Directed by an black-listed American, served as an inspiration to movies like The Killing, Reservoir dogs, Score etc. The characterization was dealt perfectly for this Noir movie with splendid photography too. Many violent scenes are executed with no/minimum gore. Over 50 years since its release and IMO one of the best heist movies. A small issue could be the predictability in the story as many of the later movies had stolen this idea . Favorite scenes in the movie includes 1) the silent robbery scene that happens in the middle of the film which is a nail-bitter. 2) The climax scene. The bottom line is that the movie team had no trouble with script, screenplay or direction and watching this was such a treat. "},{"Title":"What an incredible movie!","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" As I slept, or tossed and turned, after submitting my initial version of a Rififi review, I remained haunted by this film, as faces, intense stares, chillingly intimate exchanges, and grainy, black-and-white locales wafted through my semi-consciousness. The heist movie doesn't get any better than this, but this is so much more than the quintessential caper flick. Made in France by Jules Dassin after he was blacklisted in his native US -- for not naming names -- the director has cast himself here as a master safe cracker -- but a cipher in terms of backbone. Led by Jean Servais as Tony -- Robert DeNiro's spiritual progenitor? -- the robbers hatch a plan that is perfect technically, but they are doomed from the start because they ignore the question of character.This film is both a joy and a horror to watch, with each of the characters like a rock, sparkly and compelling in his own way. What an unforgettable mug on that Pierre Grasset, as the gruesome Louis Grutter! And how 'bout the tragic denouement of fun-loving Claude Sylvain (Ida) and Robert Manuel (Mario)? Perhaps most intriguing of all is the character of Mado (Marie Sabouret). Who'd have figured this slapped-around moll for a heroine? The tension mounts inexorably as each of the bad- and even-worse guys meets his fate -- each dropping in his tracks to leave the world a much better place. In the end, a mother is reunited with her son and all is well again. This will likely be an indelible viewing experience -- and it's only the second film I've ever given a 10 on IMDb (Casablanca is the other). "}{"Title":"Le Grand Pere of Heist Movies","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is a slang term meaning something akin to trouble, only it's more like street trouble involving fisticuffs or some other form of violence and probably a little bit of sadness. That's a loose translation, of course. The movie Rififi is about that particular kind of trouble that follows criminals around.I first read about Rififi in Mental Floss (thanks Mental Floss!) in an article about how the director, Jules Dassin, was blackballed during the height of McCarthyism for his socialist leanings. Drummed out of Hollywood because he dared to think workers might be getting a raw deal, he bounced around a bit and ended up in France where things looked pretty rough for him. Not rififi tough. He got the chance to direct a crime film and on a shoe string budget and managed to create a classic that still vibrates with a sense of urgency, seedy despair, unspoken rules of the underground and shocking violence.The plot is simple &#x96; le Stephanois is a tough, street smart and aging criminal who gets out of jail after taking a fall for his fellow thugs. To make it up to him and give them all one more big pay day, they convince him to pull one more job knocking off a jewelry store. And they got it all planned out, of course, down to the very last detail. His pals for the caper include a strapping young tough with a lovely wife and kid, a hedonistic playboy type with his fun-loving moll and an imported safe cracker on the prowl for a good time.Plus there's a whole back story going on though that involves le Stephanois and his former lover, now associated with a crime boss. He's none too happy about her new pal and so beats her severely enough to leave a mark and send a warning.Pretty soon, the cops and the criminals are after the le boys and thins soon spiral out of control.The whole movie is razor sharp and layered with a sense of urgency and foreboding. The infamous heist scene, shot in near silence with no dialog, is almost unbearable This really is the grand daddy of all heist movies with a central character who is as tough, haunted, and blasted by rififi as anyone to slouch through a crime film. Check it out.-- www.cowboyandvampire.com -- "},{"Title":"French toast","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" When my dad recommends a film, he's usually right. Rififi was one he'd gone on about for years, so finally I bought it, first for him, then me to watch after him. It's fair to say the old man got it right again and when I say right, I mean dead right.This, quite simply, is one of the most compelling and exhilarating films I've ever seen, everything you could want in a gangster movie. I say gangster movie, but you could throw other epithets at it too, like revenge thriller, heist movie, film noir and more, it defies button-holing and is all the more remarkable when you consider when it was actually made. It's very adult in its themes and still seems remarkably up-to-date today with perhaps only its treatment of women dragging it back to its source decade.Otherwise it's violent, sexy and realistic with the ensemble acting as good as anything I've seen in a movie. Dominating proceedings is Jean Servais as Tony, the jailbird scheming supremo in a performance of sustained determination, his hangdog expression rarely changing as the movie progresses. His three confederates give able backing while the female actresses also shine, with Tony's ex-girl and girlfriend candidly shown in states of undress five years before Hitchcock shocked America when filming Janet Leigh in her brassiere.Filmed in a brooding black and white, often in the Parisian rain, it literally drips atmosphere and features many memorable shots (the death of Cesar at Tony's hand, the kidnapped child's mother running to the camera in her anguish and more), while the centrepiece is of course the celebrated 30 minute dialogue-free scene of the robbery itself, where you forget you're watching actors and instead feel like you're witnessing closed circuit TV before its time. The camera-work is fluid throughout, the pacing of the narrative just right and the downbeat conclusion wholly apt.I recommend admirers of crime movies to find a way to watch and get absorbed in this remarkable film. I certainly did. "},{"Title":"One has to live...","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" One has to live is the reason the aging criminal Tony le Stéphanois (Jean Servais) gives when he finally agrees to join his fellow gangsters to go ahead with a burglary. At the same time he ups the ante, determined to go for the real thing, that which makes him tick - the big coup. One has to live pretty much was also what filmmaker Jules Dassin had in mind when he accepted to do a low budgeted film in Paris where he didn't even understand the novel in the first place, as all the dialog was written in French argot. Dassin wasn't even French, but more an exile, ratted out for collaborating with communists, blacklisted in the US, stranded in Europe, broke and with little hope to get back to real business. Pretty much like the anti-hero Stéphanois. But Dassin's decision had its merits - it helped the rebirth of the original French invention that once got exported to the US, went through several changes there, and now returned home through the hands of a cast out American film noir.The screenplay Dassin wrote varies considerably from the source, first getting in depth into the authentic characters, then focusing especially on a beautifully choreographed, realistically played heist scene lasting nearly 30 minutes without any dialog or music, with the film's aftermath concluding in a spine-tingling denouement. The elimination of the music at the picture's climax in favor of sound effects carrying the suspense is a surprising highlight, even composer Georges Auric agreed to scrap the already written music himself after having seen a comparison. By the way In this impressive French-Amercian gangster mix is also Dassin himself as a member of the cast playing the safe-cracker Cesar, as the originally intended actor couldn't make it in time - and the viewer wouldn't regret it. Especially not when it comes to the juicy ratting out scene, an echo as well to Dassin's real life experience. To sum it up Quite a lot of coincidences were responsible to get a curiosity like Rififi on its feet. Glad it did, so that we can hear Stéphanois say that line, which bears so many connotations One has to live... "},{"Title":"Effective Crime Thriller.","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jules Dassin, kicked out of the industry in America for advocating the gentle treatment of pet animals or something, went to Europe and directed some genuine thrillers like this as well as one or two examples of overreach such as He Who Must Die. He did some successful comedies as well and died in Greece. James Joyce remarked that Ireland's greatest export was talent and, in some ways, the same could be said of Hollywood during the blacklisting period of the early 50s.A gang of professional thieves is assembled in Paris to pull off the difficult burglary of a jewelry shop. The gang is the usual diverse group with problems at home, jealousies and intrigues in their love lives, and so forth, more or less out of Asphalt Jungle, though without Huston's exquisite attention to personal details.The rather low-tech but very suspenseful robbery sequence takes about twenty minutes and was wordless, which was revolutionary at the time. The gang's leader is Jean Servais, who must have the most haggard face on the screen. He looks as if somebody had just taken his lollipop away. He's not a Big Hero. He smiles only once (I counted) and he beats the woman who deserted him for another gangster while Servais was in the slams.That other gangster, Robert Hossein, isn't in on the burglary but he finds out that Servais' band WAS involved when one of the group, played as an Italian womanizer by Dassin, hides a piece of the jewelry for his own use and gives it to a nightclub singer. Cherchez la femme. Hossein's gang finds out about the gift, recognizes it for the stolen loot it is, and beats a confession out of Dassin. Servais kills him for his betrayal. Shades of Goodfellas. Once Hossein is onto the Servais gang everything goes to pot. There's a big reward offered for the return of the stolen jewels but Hossein is motivated by a jealous rage over Servais' woman. Other murders follow, some pretty gruesome but not shown on camera.The climax has a dying Servais driving a convertible crazily through the city streets with an unwitting and happy child in the back seat. There's very little directorial razzle dazzle but Dassin's shots of the bare, stark overhead branches etched in black against a flat sky are almost surreal in their suggestiveness.Very nicely done job by all concerned. Dassin would outdo himself in silent burglaries with the color-drenched gigantism of Topkapi a few years later. Topkapi, though, was a thriller with an element of comedy. This story is simply tragic. "},{"Title":"Gripping film after a slow start with an amazing robbery","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This crime melodrama features one of the greatest robbery scenes in film history. It's what it's best remembered for. It's about a recently released ex-convict who meets up with some old friends who plan to rob a jewelry store. He decides to break into the safe and steal the whole cache. The robbery is meticulously planned, and when it happens, it's edge-of-your seat stuff. But even the best-laid plans can have unexpected repercussions, and that's exactly what happens here. There certainly is the message that crime doesn't pay and few films have done it more effectively. While the anti-crime message is clear, it's not done in a moralistic or heavy-handed way. Also, the film has a gritty visual style that's both realistic and expressionist, further enhancing the film noir atmosphere. The only faults with the film are that the build-up to the robbery is slow and talky and there are no characters to cheer on. All of the major characters are criminal lowlifes, though some are more repulsive than others. "},{"Title":"Jules Dassin Classic","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" On the street, rififi means likes it rough or plays rough. There is sure some playing rough in this brilliant Jules Dassin film, which went a long way toward taking him off the blacklist and breaking it all together.Rififi concerns a 240-million franc jewel robbery in Paris, meticulously planned and carried out by Tony le Stephanois, Jo le Suedois, Mario Farrati, and Cesar le Milanais (Jean Servais, Carl Mohner, Robert Manuel, Jules Dassin), le Stephanois being the master criminal. It's perfect, but there's a 10 million franc reward for info leading to the criminals. And because we're dealing with human beings, there's an inadvertent slip-up that gives a clue as to who they are.Filmed in black and white in Paris, Rififi is gritty, dark, violent, and very unglamorous. It is also filled with incredible tension, particularly at the end of the film, which is heart-stopping. The cinematography is dizzying, with some amazing shots.The most interesting part of this film is the spare dialogue and an entire, long sequence which shows every move of the robbery as it is carried out, with absolutely no speaking. Fantastic.The script, pace, and acting are fabulous. This is a no-miss. Jules Dassin was a master of noir, as this and Night and the City, The Naked City, etc. prove. A very powerful and influential film. "},{"Title":"Gangster with human feelings","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is just a name given for the title of this material, it does not have any importance in the plot of the film. However, this is another good cinema picture directed by Jules Dassin in France. One may value it as another mafia one. Yes, it is, but it has something different compared to others of this type. Personally Jean Servais (Le Stephanois presumably Sicilian) is a man pushed to be gangster but with a lot of human feelings. Somebody said that the conscious matter is a product of the environment where he or it develops, and it looks as if Le Stephanois did not have other choice in his life to become another gangster due to the conditions of the environment where he was born and raised. However, inside the person had human feelings who enable him to discriminate between bad and innocent people. Dassin used several plots which are not difficult to guess when you start looking the movie, but he was able to produce another impression with the behavior of Le Stephanois and all those associated with him. The morale of the film could be here Money is nothing when family and a child are at risk. It is again another Dassin 's low-budget material filmed in France probably the mother land of his predecessors. "},{"Title":"Stunning heist film is France's answer to The Asphalt Jungle...","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The highlight of RIFIFI is the meticulously planned heist scene where four Frenchmen manage to use power tools to perform a jewel heist in the middle of the night. The entire heist is photographed in silence as the men go about their work, each assigned to a special task. The suspense is riveting and leads to what happens after they almost get away with it.The post heist sequences are a film noir lesson in crime doesn't pay. Each of the individuals meet their untimely fate and it's morbidly fascinating to watch how the script dispenses with them.The acting is uniformly splendid, with director Jules Dassin himself appearing as one of the safe crackers. JEAN SERVAIS and CARL MOHNER are especially strong as leaders of the heist. Dassin's direction keeps the tale moving forward with the emphasis on vivid B&W photography and a pace that quickens once the crime has been committed.Undoubtedly one of the best heist films you'll ever see, comparable to John Huston's THE ASPHALT JUNGLE in the manner in which it hold the viewer in its grip. "},{"Title":"Memorably good French film noir","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" To satisfy the 10 lines minimum, the plot of the film is of an ex-convict who is recruited to participate in a jewel robbery. He revises the plan, and his team participate in an imaginative and daring heist. The robbery is, unfortunately, merely the precursor to the remainder of the film. In my opinion, the film qualifies as a film noir because of the plot twists after the robbery scene is portrayed. I'd never heard of any of the actors who played the major roles - which is a pity, as they all appeared to play well together. The film as a whole is a delight to watch, although knowing all the time that 'crime will not allowed to pay' (as in ?all? heist films prior to 'The Hot Rock'). 50s Paris was a definite bonus, as were the semi-flattened Citroens that everybody seemed to drive.9 out of 10. At least. "},{"Title":"Still the best heist film ever.","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film has held up remarkably well, much better than the countless heist films it inspired. It all works - the taut direction and editing, the performances, the gritty black-and-white photography, the music. The celebrated 30-minute wordless heist sequence is filled with suspense. The whole plot keeps moving along at great pace, but doesn't skimp on character development. The testosterone-loaded action is relieved by a handful of beautiful women and a very cool nightclub number. Jules Dassin must be singled out not only for his sure-handed direction, but also for a complex, charismatic performance as Cesar. Not a dull moment. Artfully entertaining. "}{"Title":"An excellent film, bar none","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In order to pull off a job like this caper in Rififi (e.g. The Score and its opines), one has to have nerves of steel. This one apparently demands and commands it. Jules Dassin is the master.I was on the edge of my seat throughout. It deserves to be better known, even though it was not at the time of its release in 1954, due, one supposes, to the director being blacklisted in the hypocritical Hollywood of its day.I would recommend this film to anyone who has not has the pleasure of seeing it.I cannot give it enough stars. "},{"Title":"You're not the only one that had an unhappy childhood, there are millions like you, and, in my eyes, *they* are the tough ones, not you!","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I heard they were going to remake this French classic in 2007, and I see it is in development for 2011. This will be a shame, as Hollywood kicked writer/director Jules Dassin out because of the infamous blacklist. They should not have the right to remake any of his films.I love caper films and film noir, and this combines the best of both.Tony (Jean Servais) gets out after doing a nickle, and after he beats up his old girlfriend (Marie Sabouret), he plans a big score with his friends Mario (Robert Manuel) and Jo (Carl Möhner), What makes this a great caper flick is the attention to detail in planning the robbery. You see that reflected in the George Clooney Vegas capers. Nothing is left to chance.The caper goes off great but Grutter (Marcel Lupovici) sends his sons, Robert Hossein and Pierre Grasset after Tony and the gang. After blowing it with Mario, they kidnap Jo's son. Lots of bullets fly before it is over.A great film by a great director. The standard by which other caper films are measured. "},{"Title":"Ranks with Kubrick's The Killing and Reservoir Dogs as the best heist picture ever made.","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" An authority no less than Francois Truffaut proclaimed this to be the best film-noir ever. I wouldn't go as far as that, but its easily in the top five. Almost everything about this much herald classic is top-notch, from the screenplay to the direction to the acting. Jules Dassin, who was blacklisted from Hollywood at the time, initially didn't want to make this project. Fortunately he turned this situation around and created the best film from an illustrious career. I prefer this to the other influential French heist film from the same period, Bob le flambeur. What makes Rififi better than that admittedly fine (if overrated) film is the character development. These are all multi-dimensional characters with flaws just like the rest of us. Dassin's screenplay combined with the fine ensemble acting creates a classic.As veteran thief Tony le Stéphanois, Jean Servais turns in a fantastic performance. Its a shame the man didn't become a bigger star afterwords. He is appropriately world weary yet an essentially likable individual. We end up hoping that he'll clear up his immense troubles by the end. The supporting cast is all also superb, with special mention going to Dassin in a scene-stealing performance as a safe cracker. The highlight (and most famous) part of the film is the heist sequence. Carried out in complete silence, it is one of the most suspenseful scenes in film history. It is one of the most perfect pieces of direction I've seen. The cinematography is also perfect and truly lends a film-noir atmosphere to the proceedings. This film was a huge influence on the French new wave which would erupt in a few years and later on Quentin Tarantino when making Reservoir Dogs. It ranks with Kubrick's The Killing and Reservoir Dogs as the best heist picture ever made. (9/10) "},{"Title":"blueprint","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The ultimate gritty heist film. Elements of Bogie, Welles & Sinatra will leave you  sweating & satisfied. In comparison, it really upsets the proverbial apple cart to  see recent films, such as Oceans Eleven (remake), reviewed in such high regard-especially in Europe. Films like Rififi must be shown, spoke about, and  kept alive to remind younger (pathetic) critics what true classic Noir is.Criterion  should be commended in their flawless and classy transfer. "},{"Title":"Still works...","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Many of the elements in Rififi have become familiar parts of the heist picture tradition, but it still plays damn well, for a few big reasons1) Noir, baby, noir! The mood is just great, with its dark, well-composed photography and tough, spare dialogue and performances.2) That silent half-hour heist sequence is legendary for a reason, capturing minute details and tensions through a visual style that is easy to follow and absolutely gripping.3) The ending, which shows the final death in a manner that is dizzying, dogged and powerful.This remains a terrific movie. "},{"Title":"This is a must-see.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Run, don't walk, to rent this movie. It is re-released on an excellent DVD version. It is primo acting/directing/cinematography in the world of suspense/film noir. Tribute this to the blacklisted American director Jules Dassin, who also plays the Italian safe-cracker. See it! "},{"Title":"Simply Great!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Fantastic movie! One of the best film noir movies ever made.  Bad guys, bad girls, a jewel heist, a twisted morality, a kidnapping, everything is here. Jean Servais has a face that would make Bogart proud and the rest of the cast is is full of character actors who seem to to know they're onto something good.  Get some popcorn and have a great time. "},{"Title":"a truly methodical, cool hybrid of old-school classy heist films with some extra element...","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi, directed by Jules Dassin, is in line with the Melville crime pictures (particularly Bob le Flameur and to a point Le Cercle Rouge) of being totally focused on story and character and making sure not a word is spoken that doesn't need, and was ahead of its time. Ionically, it still has a kind of professionalism among its characters, a kind of respect (if not for selves than for others, a kind of duty) that rings well in post-WW2 France. Its actors carry faces for these characters that say 'we know what these guys are about', and from there the story takes off. Maybe it's because I have a weak spot for heist pictures, particularly where we see just the nuts and bolts (err, actual physical side) of how a heist is pulled off.One of the problems with how the actual heist is filmed in today's movies is that it's all very fast (i.e. Snatch), or done in ways we've seen too many times before. Dassin, like Melville years later, decided to create practically a silent film of a heist, sound effects included. The tension that builds up in this scene may not top what Melville had in 'Rouge', but on its own level it achieves its own greatness and momentum, and just as crucial originality to what's been done before. There are some kept close-ups, for example, as the safe is being cracked, that mark some of the best I've seen from France at that time. An added plus for the film, aside from the larval-stage new-wave touch to the film, which in the end makes it a little more modern, is that the story works so well and differently. It becomes completely about character at points, and then keeps up the thrills. The last ten to fifteen minutes are down-right miraculous; like with another classic heist picture the Asphalt Jungle, it's not even the last stop that matters, but all about how much one will go past the call of duty, putting humanism over greed.You almost wonder in all the exhilaration of the camera flying by the trees at a high speed with the car that he might just make it. Dassin has here a very entertaining and intuitive film of its genre, with a nifty little musical number as well. "},{"Title":"the granddaddy of all heist movies","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hate heist movies - generally speaking, that is.  Character development often goes out the window in favor of lengthy scenes detailing how a gang of seedy crooks is going to break into a particular vault.  Excuse me while I stifle an enormous yawn.The beginning of Rififi doesn't promise much, since once again it is more preoccupied with the robbery itself than the people committing it.  The few character scenes that do appear early on are intense and well done, but they only serve to make our protagonists sleazier and less sympathetic; am I supposed to root for a guy who beats his old girlfriend with a belt?I started to get on board with the robbery itself, a wonderful piece of almost silent film-making (no music, no dialog).  Very tense, and it's easy to see that directors have been ripping it off for generations, generally in much weaker movies such as Mission Impossible and the godawful remake of Ocean's Eleven.  But even then, I wasn't convinced that Rififi deserves its classic reputation.Thankfully, the film takes a twist about 2/3 of the way through, and the final act is rich in both characterization and suspense.  And the last scene gives an urgent new meaning to that standard car-ride catchphrase, are we there yet?  Rififi just gets better as it goes along, so make sure you stick with it - even if heist movies aren't your bag.  "},{"Title":"A bad but wonderful dream","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's been about three years since I saw Rififi, on the big screen at a local art house that sometimes graciously brings back past greats for today's audience.  I haven't forgotten, and probably never will, that spellbinding almost totally silent heist scene.  What a marvel!  But equally impressive, and memorable, was the sweaty, disturbing psychological tone of the entire film--and particularly its nerve-wracking ending.  It was like a bad dream that you want to wake up from, and yet you want to see through to its end.  Grim, relentless, foreboding sorry, that's life.  That's Rififi.  A masterpiece in its own way. "}{"Title":"Completely flawless masterpiece","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Film-noir doesn't come any better than this brilliant film, easily the best of many big heist films. The famous 28 minute heist scene is probably the best and most intricately detailed (and planned) scene in the history of films (The film was banned upon release in France because it was seen as being helpful and insightful for criminal). The dialogue is memorable and provides a lot of humour to the film, with lines like Sit your moneymaker down said to a women in a nightclub, and many other brilliant conversations. Overall, it's pretty pointless to list the strengths of this film, as nearly every aspect is perfect. This is a must-see to any fan of film-noir or thrillers in general. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"After The Fact","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  We are confronted again with the question of whether a classic film can live up to its reputation after it has been endlessly copied over the years by flashier and more expensive ripoffs.  It begs the question, of course, to use the word classic at all.In this instance, as some of us have noted time and again, the historical context of the film is paramount.  (Please excuse the pun.) A classic film is a combination made up of disparate elements, like being the first of its kind or containing some unique and timeless characters or plot lines -- or even having the good fortune to outclass all its imitators over the years.  There are after all good antiques and bad antiques sold at Sotheby's, or original Shakespearean orations to be matched up against lame copies in modern dress.  But to try to compare Taming of the Shrew with Kiss Me Kate is to do a disservice to both.With the single exception of how Dassin develops a somewhat rapid and questionable unraveling of the perpetrators' plan, this precursor of the director's later Topkapi combines a Hitchcockian cast with other film noir elements to hold the viewer's attention from beginning to end.  It is in a word timeless, holding Paris in 1955 in the mind's eye together with superb cinematic devices and first-rate acting.       "},{"Title":"Great heist film","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This smart and gritty French film about a heist does not disappoint. Jean Servais plays a tough guy who has just gotten out of prison and gets an offer to knock off a high-end jewelry store. The opening scenes that establish the four thieves are memorable &#x96; Tony (Servais) running out of money while playing cards, Jo (Carl Möhner) and his young family, who will figure prominently in the film, Mario (Robert Manuel) getting bathed by his buxom wife (Claude Sylvain), and Cesar (director Jules Dassin), the expert safecracker who falls for Viviane (Magali Noel) as she sings the playful title song in a nightclub. The club is owned by Grutter, the leader of a gang, and rival for Tony's old girlfriend Mado (Marie Sabouret), and it's these two guys, Grutter and Tony, who will ultimately have to square off. I have to say the early scene in which Tony tracks Mado down and then forces her to completely strip before beating her with a belt (off-screen) is very disturbing, particularly as we're going to find ourselves rooting for him later in the film. It does establish him as a heavy though, loyal to the gang but if betrayed, merciless, which is consistent how he acts later. I can't recall Servais cracking a smile in the entire film, and he plays the role beautifully.The robbery itself is shown masterfully by Dassin. In the planning stages, only a couple of the ways in which the thieves will pull it off are shown, an example of which is figuring out how to use a fire extinguisher to muffle the then state-of-the-art alarm system. The execution of the crime is highly realistic, and I love how he used minimal dialog and music, so that the actions and facial expressions of the actors tell the story. If only there were more films today that took a lesson from him! We also see a flaw that will lead to problems for them, and the film is far from over after the crime &#x96; further drama and real tension await, but I won't spoil it.If you're looking for a caper film that among a few others set the blueprint for the genre, this is it. I found out later Dassin had been blacklisted by Hollywood, and was even happier for the triumph of his fantastic direction here. The script is taut, there are no wasted scenes, and on top of it all there are great shots outdoors in Paris. Don't be frightened by the subtitles or by the fact it's black and white and was made in 1955 &#x96; it all holds up very well, and is superior to most of the action films of today. "},{"Title":"Riffifi is a must see","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Excellent foreign film of a robbery and all that goes with it too. You are in the movie courtesy of the way it is filmed. No sound, or dialog is used during the heist giving one a sense of everyone knows what to do and when so why talk? Do what we are supposed to be doing here and then, let's get out as quickly as we can. That's where we join them. We get to the thrill of the caper first hand, imagine ourselves in the money, and it is a matter of time until we all get our shares. If it was that simple we can only hope. The wild card? Human nature and the unforeseen. Nicely filmed, paced and the movie manages to hook us using more than the heist or the money too. The characters pull you in and we hope for a good ending but then, the word good is subjective. Suspense, glued to the screen type movie watching, have some popcorn to diffuse the tension, definitely a tasty drink and at least two snacks. Good job all involved and thank you for this gem "},{"Title":"A Hold Up","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi holds up extremely well for over 50 years. I just need to get something off my chest. If Jules Dassin didn't acknowledge the influence of John Huston's Asphalt Jungle, shame on him. Many film viewers consider Rififi the mother of the heist film, but that's giving Mr. Dassin more credit than he deserves. He does of course deserve credit for a wonderfully made movie, and especially for detailing the plan and action of the caper, using about 30 minutes of film time. Hollywood film makers might not have allowed that, but as a French film audiences are more patient. See the wonderful films of Robert Bresson. I do think, however, that the Dassin picture is a landmark in humanizing the criminal enterprise. Whether that's good or bad is arguable. It certainly reached out to influence the broad tolerance that we have for projects like The Sopranos. It was also a powerful enough film to change public attitude about the unfair treatment given Mr. Dassin and others black listed by the Hollywood establishment. "},{"Title":"A-M-A-Z-I-N-G heist sequence!!!","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I won't be able to add anything that hasn't already been reviewed on this site about this fabulous French movie. It's simply one-of-a-kind genius. On the cutting-edge level of Citizen Kane, The Godfather, and Toy Story as those once-in-a-generation genre-changers that every movie following wants to copy but never realizes the magic of the first time. When a movie is BANNED in countries around the globe (not censored but actually blocked from import) not because of violence or nudity, but because it is being used as a blueprint for real crime... One word W-O-W.The movie was filmed in the mid-1950s as gangster noire so the setting is perfectly gritty and distinctly Parisian of the era. When we aren't seeing the setup for the heist or the heist itself, the story drags at times and has a touch of overacting. However, all of that is forgiven for the monumental originality in the hands of a master director. It's a shame he was blacklisted in America. What a waste of true talent. I'm thankful the French saw the genius behind the lens.This is one I've added to my collection on a recommendation from an article recently. I am soooo happy I bought it. It's also a movie I have loaned out since my first viewing simply because I want to show friends how a historically awesome film sequence can not only be seen and enjoyed, but marvel at the stunning visuals playing out before their eyes. This movie is a feast for the eyes, ears and soul. I loved this movie and cannot rank it higher than 10. Please watch the heist sequence. You've never seen anything like it and never will again. 11 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tough, direct, atmospheric and stylish","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched the 1950 film Night and the City and was so taken by it that I looked up more of the director Jules Dassin. Although I tend to watch quite a lot of films, I am not that well read in cinema and so had not seen several of his other films but it was clear that I was missing out. I decided to watch Du rififi chez les hommes (1955) simply on the basis that on IMDb it shows up first in his known for section. This turned out to be a good choice and what I found was a simple but very effective crime thriller with tough edges, Gallic coolness and stylish delivery.The plot is straightforward enough in terms of a group of criminals try to pull off a robbery from a jewelry store; but there are edges to all the characters and ultimately it works well by building this up in the first half before then delivering a stylish (and silent) robbery section and then raising the stakes in the final third. I found the tough noir- esque tone to be very satisfying and I liked that the film doesn't even have to pretend that Tony is someone that we should like or respect &#x96; he is driven by bitterness and anger and I liked this. This tough edge is complimented by a stylish mix of American noir standards, with sufficient French style to make it feel different but yet familiar. The film does this visually but also in the feel of everything &#x96; it has an effortless cool toughness that is consistent and never superficial.This is most memorable in the heist scene itself, which is part of a long sequence where not a word is spoken but yet tension is high and well maintained. This sounds like a very simple thing to do but it is pulled off very well and is impressive for how well it does this just from expressions and atmosphere. It will be no surprise to anyone familiar with heist films to say that ultimately things do not totally work out and this aspect is also done in a satisfying and engaging manner. I'll be checking out more from Dassin soon. "},{"Title":"A Caper Film About More Than The Job","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" According to the song Rififi that one character sings in the film, the title means rough and tumble. That is a good description of the underworld characters that inhabit this film. The action starts when Tony, who recently was released after five years in prison, re-establishes contact with family and friends, who quickly lure him into a jewel caper. These guys are pros and, with Tony's guidance, they meticulously plan the heist.The execution of their plan takes place without dialogue or background music, accentuating the silence so necessary for their plan.In most heist films, the job itself is the final, climactic part of the story. In Rififi, the real story takes place after the job. Without revealing too much, I will say that this is a film about human nature. It reminds us that individuals almost never change their natures.Furthermore, almost all the characters in this film have their vices or weaknesses. The film talks about the rules, the unwritten principles that guide the actions of gangsters and conmen alike (for example, not ratting on associates). Due to their weaknesses, many of the characters violate the rules and fall prey to others.One scene to look for is when Cesar visits the jewelry store to case the security. He asks to use the phone, leaving his cash splayed over the countertop--a strategy of distraction that also is a basic con (confidence game).This film is blessed with topflight direction, great photography, good acting and a lean, well-written script. "},{"Title":"The Real Reason Crime Doesn't Pay","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony le Stéphanois is a criminal released from prison, and he meets with several of his old friends to plan one last heist that will make them all wealthy. He also meets his former girlfriend who had abandoned him to become the lover of a gangster, Grutter, and he beats her on the back to deliberately leave scars so Grutter would see them. In order to perform the heist, Cesar is brought in from Italy to break into the safe. After very careful and thorough planning, the heist goes through successfully.But the already angered Grutter has found out what happened, and intends not only to get back at Stephanois, but to retrieve his ill-gotten gains. Then a denouement of kidnapping, torture, and killing starts.The moral of the movie, of course, is that being a tough guy isn't so wonderful after all, and crimes come back to bite with or without the law. "},{"Title":"Distinctive opening","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the most enduring images for me is the breaking through the ceiling. All done in complete silence. I saw this movie when it came out and that part was just superb and very daring for the time. It is still difficult for directors to have silence building up the tension.The movie is very 'French' and an influential work that will have given future directors some useful ideas. Of it's time, the violence and sex is not in-your-face, (blood being difficult to see in a B&W movie),and did not lessen the impact and viewer understanding of events.After 49 years, I still put this movie near the top of my own 'Top 10'.I would hope that it will be shown some time soon and I get the chance to see if I remember it.If possible, this should be in your DVD library, I have just ordered my copy from Amazon at a very low cost. "}{"Title":"you won't believe your eyes","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" After watching Jules Dassin's Du rififi chez les hommes (Rififi in English), all that I can say is that it blew my mind. I don't think that there's ever been a heist movie like this one. Following his blacklist in Hollywood, Dassin went on to direct one of the all-time masterpieces.Without a doubt the best scene is the heist itself. The protagonists carry out the heist without a word. Their silence and the sweat dripping off their faces creates a level of tension like you can't imagine. Of course it's what happens after the heist that provides a major part of the story.Basically, this movie is one of the best. The acting, directing, cinematography, and Magali Noël's belting out the theme song combine to make a perfect cinematic experience. On a scale of one to ten it's a twenty. Dassin later directed another great heist movie with Topkapi starring his wife Melina Mercouri. "},{"Title":"An unforgettable heist","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is often considered the landmark film that modernized heist movies, and it shines brilliantly as a suave, sexy crime noir (that happens to be French). There are flashes of expressionism throughout - the tantalizing 'Rififi' nightclub song sequence and the shadowy night shots, but the classic quick-slung dialogue and refined criminal setting really give the movie its stride.Of course, it would be impossible to review this movie without mentioning the heist - a complex suspense sequence that takes up a full 28 minutes of running time and has no audio other than the slightest tap of a hammer or patter of a footstep. You can hear your own heartbeat race as each new step of their setup is revealed, bringing a new fear that it won't work or they may be discovered. Even though they carry the stride of first-class cons (they break into the jewelry store wearing complete suits), the characters express both confidence and doubt in their maneuvers, making every second of the continuity exhilarating. When it is finally over, you breathe a sigh of relief for these guys.Even though the heist is the pinnacle of the film, it only takes place halfway through. The second half is a moralist plug that chronicles the downfall of the cons after their perfect crime. Though it has some great scenes and completes the circle of development of each of the characters, it feels like the movie blew off most of its steam by the end. Even though the tension has all but left, there is a strange sense of loss seeing all the characters you cheered for in the first half take their inevitable fall. It's a classic tale, but told with complexity and craft that was completely new for its time, and served as a basis for every other heist-crime movie, from Reservoir Dogs to Ocean's Eleven. "},{"Title":"Landmark Heist Movie","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi ranks alongside The Asphalt Jungle and The Red Circle as one of the greatest heist movies ever made. These are usually the three celebrated titles in this subgenre, and for my part Rififi is the best. Jean-Pierre Melville's is technically impressive but, like in all his movies, the narrative feels clumsy. And as much as I love John Huston's movie for its cool characters and witty dialogues, the proper heist sequence leaves me disappointed.But Jules Dassin manages to create combine a great story, complex characters and arguably the greatest heist sequence ever filmed in cinema history.Tony (Jean Servais) has just come out of jail. His friend Jo (Carl Möhner) immediately puts up him to a jewellery store robbery with fellow criminal Mario (Robert Manuel). It should be just stealing some jewels from the shop window in broad daylight, a quick but clumsy and risky job.But Tony has better plans they'll infiltrate the bank, study the alarm system, study the movement outside the shop at different hours of the day, learn all the routine involving their target, and get in and out without anyone watching them. This sequence is the best in the movie, not just because of its length but because it's wordless. Dassin really puts the viewer in the middle of a heist and revels in all the minute details of the plan. Because the safe is the main target, they get a fourth member, Cesar (comically played by Dassin himself), a master safe-cracker.The crime is technically perfect, but then the human factor gets in the way people start making mistakes, and the movie goes from mere exercise in criminal cleverness and becomes a complex study about human stupidity, loyalty, friendship and greed.Jean Servais, whom I had never seen in a movie prior to Rififi, plays one of the most fascinating criminals I've ever seen smart, patient, loyal, ruthless. He effortlessly exudes that badass aura that so many actors fail to capture in modern crime movies.The cinematography is beautiful. Philippe Agostini captures a mysterious Paris full of dark byways, narrow stairs and rainy, melancholy streets. His games of shadows and light put him on the level of masters like Gunnar Fischer.Smart, sexy, fast-paced but never superficial, this human tale of crime should become the criterion by which modern crime movies are judged; it should remain what they aspire to become. And must never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Diamond Geezers","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" For some reason this eluded me until now - I found the DVD in a Charity Shop - and it was more than worth the wait. It's right up there with Bob, Le Flambeur - ironically Bob, Le Flambeur was made by a Frenchman who wanted to be an American whilst Rififi was made by an American forced by the blacklist to become French. Both films involve heists, both were shot on the streets of Paris in black and white and only months apart and neither film boasted any 'name' actors. I kept looking for weak links but in vain, there aren't any. Auguste Le Breton who wrote the novel on which Dassin based his screenplay, did so in a patois that even French people outside Paris struggle to understand so Dassin took one small incident, a jewel robbery, and constructed his screenplay around that instead; when the two men met - Le Breton was hired to write dialog - the novelist asked Dassin in all seriousness 'where is my book?' Wherever it is Le Breton's loss is our gain for we are treated to a masterpiece of the genre with even the minor roles being played to perfection. One to savor. "},{"Title":"The proto-heist movie hundreds of imitators.","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A lousy title hides the prototype heist noir peopled by dames (though not many), bad guys and worse guys killing and kidnapping in pursuit of a fortune in jewels. Little known deceased actor Jean Servais plays the anti-hero who dying of tuberculosis after a five year prison stretch decides to get the gang back together for the jewelry haul of a lifetime. The movie is widely imitated in using a prolonged, intricate, robbery sequence which I find to be the dullest part of these types of films (e.g., the Mission Impossible or Ocean's Eleven series). I'm willing to spot the director the conclusion that the robberies are a miracle of planning without the do-it-yourself step by step instructions. Servais' gang winds up shooting it out with the Grutter gang with Untouchables-level brutality who prove to be the worse set of bad guys because of their willingness to kidnap the child of one of the gang. The double-crosses elevate the level of suspense and Servais' dour, nothing-to-lose demeanor makes for some very dark passages that never rise above the charcoal grays which dominate the cinematography. The movie is definitely foreign (the gang comes into the apartment of one of the plotters and watches him being bathed by his wife(?)) but gunplay translates easily in any language. If you are a fan of modern noir heist remakes like The Italian Job or The Thomas Crown Affair or their originals incarnations, this is the predecessor of them all. "},{"Title":"Breathless, gripping, influential, unforgettable...","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" As evidenced by the recent success of 'Ocean's 11 (2001)' and its sequels, 'The Italian Job (2003)' and 'Inside Man (2006),' the heist movie is still as popular as ever. For decades, audiences have flocked to the cinema to enjoy the latest crime caper, a veritable goldmine for intrigue, suspense, betrayal and adrenaline-charged action sequences. However, it's always beneficial to consider the origins of a film movement, and, though it may not be the first example, Jules Dassin's 'Rififi (1955)' would undoubtedly influence ever cinematic heist flick that followed it. Employing, and perhaps pioneering, the three-act narrative format that proves commonplace for films of its sort &#150; the preparation, the heist, the aftermath &#150; 'Rififi' slowly and thoughtfully allows its plot to unfold, striving for realism over embellishment, and delicately laying down the cards for a tense and volatile climax. Interestingly, the authorities perform almost no function in the story at all, and so the manner in which the thieves' scheme unravels concerns only themselves and other desirous criminals, cementing the typical film-noir belief that the darker side of humanity &#150; greed, lies, selfishness &#150; will prove its own undoing.By 1950, director Jules Dassin had already released a string of well-received American thrillers, before falling victim to the Hollywood blacklist. Considered un-backable by most European studios, Dassin languished in poverty for a period of five years, before he was offered the opportunity to direct a low-budget French thriller based on Auguste Le Breton's novel. 'Du rififi chez les hommes (1955)' which loosely translates to of brawling among men, a suitable description for the destructive male behaviour that devastates their well-laid plans proved Dassin's redemption of sorts, becoming an incredible critical and commercial success and winning Best Director at the 1955 Cannes Film Festival. Then-critic François Truffaut famously referred to Dassin's film as the the best film noir I have ever seen, a lofty word of praise if there ever was one. Though the film differs from classic film noir in that the story unfolds in Paris, it contains sufficient elements of the movement to easily qualify. Indeed, Jean Servais' character, Tony le Stéphanois, might conceivably have been played by Humphrey Bogart &#150; he may be a man past his prime, but he's proud, shrewd and decisive, and it'd be a mistake to get in his way.'Rififi' takes a few minutes to fully swing into motion, and, though our introduction to the fellow team members is quite interesting, I found little importance in Tony's relationship with former girlfriend Mado (Marie Sabouret). It was possibly included to further flesh out his character, and to define the role of women in this particularly story, but I felt that Mado simply distracted from the caper that we were all here to see. However, the undisputed centrepiece of the film is undoubtedly the breathless 33-minute heist sequence, which is entirely devoid of all music and dialogue. The crime unfolds in almost complete silence, the thieves' quiet movements barely audible in the hushed atmosphere of the empty jewellry store. Every unexpected sound leaps out at the audience like a dagger, the single resonating note of a piano acting as the men's mortal enemy. Their ingenious heist unfolds like a meticulously-staged ballet somewhat reminiscent of the extended pickpocketing sequence in Robert Bresson's 'Pickpocket (1959)', every man completely and silently aware of his role in the operation. Following the successful jewel theft, composer Georges Auric is finally allowed to spread his musical wings, and Dassin begins to toy sadistically with the fates of his characters. "},{"Title":"Great mood movie","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My husband picked up Rififi at the library last week.  I had never heard of it and wasn't interested.  But what a great movie!  That Jules Dassin is quite a guy...even playing the Italian!  What a talent.No set design could ever compete with those Parisian streets.  This is definately a mood movie, and the mood is wet, smoky, Fifties Paris.  Wonderful.  Everyone so stylish.  I really liked the modern-ness of the characters too.  Can you imagine an American movie from 1955 with such lusty and violent characters?  No way.The best scene was the heist.  Brilliant to leave out all music.  How I wish modern movies would do that more often. "},{"Title":"Nearing its fiftieth but still the best heist movie","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've just watched the DVD and find it recaptured my delight with seeing it in New York in 1956 (at a small art house in the 80's and on a double bill with Diabolique)The print is excellent, sound good and at a rewatching, the dubbing into English even reasonably good.Commentaries by Jules Dassin on both his life after blacklisting and making Rififi  are illuminating, but the French version remains the most remakable heist movie ever -- and many have been almost as good.I had not re-seen Rififi since the 60s on a dreadful print over late night TV interrupted by commercials and welcomed this opportunity but did not realize how great would be my delight at how beautifully this film would stand up to 21st century standards.This is Dassin's masterpiece, with a splendid cast dominated by the presence of Jean Servais as le Stefanois.For being able to rent this film, I pay tribute to Queen Video with only two branches in Toronto, but worth its weight in gold to cineastes both or its helpful, knowledgeable staff and reasonable borrowing rates.Ben Viccari "},{"Title":"Raw concentrated Noir","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The story, though perfectly fitted together, is archetypal rather than original; tough blokes commit perfect robbery, then it all goes pear shaped. Never mind; the way it's told is brilliant - great shots, great acting. The dialogue has a dry sort of humour to it that nicely complements the nasty little world of Le Stephanois and friends, while the rainswept Paris is incredibly atmospheric. Four and three quarters out of five, at least. See it. "},{"Title":"An ingenious film!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Bearing in mind the year this masterpiece came out, 1955, it must rank as one of the all time greats of cinema history. I was perpetually on the edge of my seat when first seeing this a decade ago. If it is ever re-released this film deserves to be viewed as first class entertainment. The film merits its place in the movie Hall of Fame for what was an innovation in film making back in the 1950s. During the most intense part of the story, the brilliantly conceived daring raid on the bank - not a word is spoken by any bank robber, or indeed any actor - for around twenty minutes. The action takes place in near silence. This is so gripping that it makes the unique method of conducting bank robbery last enduringly in one's memory, and is the key cinematic feature that made the film famous. "}{"Title":"One of the first caper films--and one of the best","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Four men plan a daring robbery in France.  Everything goes well until one of the robbers does something real stupid and things fall apart quickly and violently.  A film noir caper film shot on a shoe string budget in France. It's very well-done and acted and (for its time) extremely violent.  My only complaint is that it goes on too long (a little over 2 hours) and the plot seems so familar--but that's because many later, inferior films stole from this.  Nonetheless, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Tension-packed caper film","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This black-and-white film presents an interesting story of how an aging hood returns from prison and becomes involved in an intricate jewelry store heist.  It was directed by Jules Dassin, and it is noteworthy for its on location shots in the always-overcast streets of the Montmartre section of Paris in the 1950s and its constantly rising tension.  (Dassin used the same on location philosophy in Naked City, where the New York Streets became a supporting character.)  The movie falls into three sections (1) the lead-up to the burglary; (2) the burglary; and (3) the aftermath.  In the way that the movie shows how different personalities and temperaments respond to the tension following a crime, it reminded me of Reservoir Dogs.  While this is a very good movie, it is not a great movie.  It should be seen, however. "},{"Title":"A Political Plot Wrinkle","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The final sequence--A dying French guy in a big American Cadillac careening through the streets of Paris accompanied by an eight year old in a cowboy suit having the time of his young life. This couldn't be a metaphor for the post-war political situation in Europe, could it?Rififi is more than a classic, it's an archetype for every caper film that came after it. A fabulous movie!I really don't have more to say, but IMDb insists that I stretch this comment to 10 lines or more. Reminds me of why I like films noir. They usually don't run more than 100 minutes and there is no pressure to pad them out so viewers will think they are getting full value for their thrill ride money. "},{"Title":"Excellent film noir","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film to hold up by todays standards.  The robbery scene is exceptionally genius.  But I don't want to reveal anything.  Just see it if you like crime movies.  It's up there with the best crime films of all time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Absolute Must-see","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw a new 35mm print of this masterpiece.  Everything about it was superb--the planning stage, which had a tension of its own; the execution of the burglary, silent, tense beyond words; the aftermath with its own terror and suspense.  The B&W photography is superb.  The streets of Paris, perpetually wet, are almost another character.  The acting is generally excellent (some reservations about Carl Mohner as Jo), with Jean Servais outstanding.  If you can only get to see this on DVD or video, fine, you really must see this classic if you haven't already, but if you can get to see it in a theatre, run, don't walk.  "},{"Title":"Another second tier noir","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rififi is one of the three films which gave birth to the heist genre, and it's stark portrayal of violence and sexuality proved hugely influential in both French and American cinema.But the film itself is nothing special. A group of thieves get together and rob a jewellery store, they succeed but are then hunted down by a gang of thugs. There's the usual bitter romance thrown in and a couple minor scenes of violence, but it's all nothing you haven't seen before.The film does, however, have some moments of greatness. One early scene has Tony (an ex con) ordering his girlfriend to undress. He commands her to take off her clothes and then gazes at her naked body. All this happens off screen, of course, but it's raw and brutal nevertheless.These scenes of harsh sexuality are contrasted with scenes between another criminal and his wife. Director Jules Dassin shoots her playfully, insisting that her big breasted chest is always scantily clad. Dassin will contrast Tony's loneliness with the happiness of his fellow thieves throughout the picture.The second memorable scene is the heist itself. It's a wordless procedural and is justifiably famed. But 50 years have come and gone since it was filmed, and it now looks pretty tame. There's a lack of drama, a lack of excitement, a lack of challenges, and the audience never gets a sense of danger. We don't feel that anything is at stake.The film's final act consists of some moments of raw violence and of course the usual bleak noir ending. Characters die clumsily and realistically, but once again, times have changed. It's been over a half century since Rififi was released, and everything novel the film once had to offer has now been thoroughly absorbed and digested by countless other films. Some films are so great they manage to thoroughly conquer their future imitators, but Rififi merely equals them at best.In terms of dialogue, the film lacks wit. There are no memorable lines, no brilliant moments of dialogue. It's neither hardboiled nor naturalistic. Perhaps this is due to poor subtitle work.7/10- A confidently and well told picture, but it simply lacks that extra magic. Aside from some beautiful French architecture and some memorable shots of empty, early morning streets, this film failed to wow me. Still, for the film buff, it's essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Diamonds are a man's best friend (as well)","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This 1955 heist film follows Tony le Stephanois, recently released from prison for theft, as he undertakes the robbery of his life. He teams up with his old heist buddies and they bring in an expert safe-cracker, Cesar from Milan (played by Jules Dassin, who also directed. He only directed because he had been blacklisted as a communist in the U.S. and couldn't work in Hollywood.) The brilliance of this film is the 1/2 hour during the robbery. During all this time, there is no dialogue and no music, only the muted sounds of digging through the floor or drilling the safe. This increases the suspense and draws you in. They get away with several hundred million francs worth of jewels, but a jewel offered to a dancer by Cesar brings their haul to the attention of a trio of brutal brothers. They set out to get the stash for themselves and bring misfortune in their wake. Great heist/gangster movie, but I prefer J.-P. Melville's films in this genre.This movie is like some lemonade I had last night. I had gone to a Caribbean restaurant and the lemonade was made with sugar cane juice instead of sugar. It also had a lot of ice and was heavy on the lemons, leaving it fairly sour (which I like). The sugar cane juice imparted a subtle, slightly more mellow taste to it than actual sugar, and the ice made sure it was cold and refreshing as I sucked it down. 7.5/10 http//blog.myspace.com/locoformovies "},{"Title":"The heist itself is what matters","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Evan Williams (of The Australian), in a review written for the recent re-release, said that `Rififi' is less striking for its silent half-hour heist, which has been done in one form or another many times since and is now too much a part of the genre to command our attention in any one instance, than for&#133;I forget what he said was striking about `Rififi'; whatever it was, I probably also forget its very occurrence in the film at all. To tell the truth, I pretty much forget everything except for the wordless heist, and the careful planning that led up to it. (The planning stage is perfectly realised. The thieves don't seem unduly worried by the fact that they can't work out how to circumvent the state-of-the-art alarm system, nor are they unduly jubilant when they DO work it out; it was simply a problem which they knew they'd solve sooner or later.) So I'd have to say Williams is completely wrong. The heist itself &#150; its logic, its mechanics, its planning and execution &#150; THAT'S what's interesting, not the characters who perform it, not the story it gives rise to, not the world of which it's part. The latter parts of the movie may well be interesting, and they may even be just as perfectly done (in their way) as the scenes of plotting and robbing, but they can't possibly be at the heart of the film. Note that this is NOT merely a necessary truth of films of this kind. In Kubrick's `The Killing', the aftershocks of the robbery are as interesting as the robbery itself, more interesting than the planning of it; and the final scene is at least as memorable as any other. Here, everything following the theft is so much filling. It may very well be GOOD filling, and it's probably at least necessary filling; but as I say, I don't remember.I'm not usually so inattentive. I watched `Rififi' while suffering from a toothache so bad I could scarcely move any part of my body without suffering some fresh agony. And yet, I remember the mechanics of the robbery quite clearly, and I was able to enjoy the crime even as I watched it, despite the terrible pain. The fact that I don't remember the later backstabbing or the particular characterisations with which the thieves happened to be clothed, ought not count against them, and why I'm utterly unqualified to even hazard a guess as to what the film as a whole is about. But I will guess this much WHATEVER it's about, that aspect of it is of less importance than the clever jewel robbery. The extent to which the crime itself is seared on my mind surely says something. "},{"Title":"where was it shot?","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film in England on a tiny B/W TV in the mid sixties and loved it. Since then TV forgot about it , why? Recently I saw it on German TV and enjoyed it even more, but where was the film shot? Obviously outside the Opera, Paris and nearby but i would especially like to identify the closing shot where the dying driver crashes and the mother grabs her kid.I 'm in Paris now but cant think that Montmartre is the scene, I suspect Belleville or behind Buttes Chamont. Can anyone advise? "},{"Title":"The heist is supurb..the rest not as much","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The silent scenes of the crooks pulling off the heist are so great, the rest of the film can't help but seem less then thrilling in comparison. That's not to say this isn't a great noir film, cause it is (and directed by a commie, no less), just that without the aforementioned scenes, this movie would be a footnote in history at best.my Grade B- "}{"Title":"Rififi est so-so","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike my peers, I was not overly impressed with this film. I suppose it is because I have seen many modern day heist movies before seeing this one, and do not see much originality in Dassin's work. To tell you the truth, in the end, it's just a gangster movie. For it's time, it was almost certainly a one-of-a-kind flick, with a well-written plot and above-average performances from the actors. I also praise the originality in one particular extended silent scene, where the thieves must work in total silence to avoid detection, and it is shot with immeasurable intensity. If you want an old-school heist film, Rififi will probably meet your requirements, but I recommend not hurling it to the top of the Rent list. "},{"Title":"Great hold-up scene but not worth watching","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Let's be realistic this isn't as good as 'The maltese falcon' or 'Touch of Evil' (the films that meant an opening and an ending to the film noir genre according to critics, even though we all know film noirs started long before that and have never been abandoned). Rififi (slang word for a street fight) deals with a hold-up in the beginning but turns into a revenge story while approaching to its end. The 30 minutes silence sequence in which the robbery takes place is certainly a masterpiece, as a matter of fact I didn't even realise it was so long and not even that it was completely noiseless! (so absorbed was I). But it is the only really worth thing within the movie.Some of the actors are good, especially Jean Servais (who had become a top star in the 30's but was in his low days at the time Rififi was being made) and the director, Jules Dassin, who plays César, the Italian specialist in safes. This movie tries to poorly imitate her American contemporaries but then again, fails. It is sooo folkloric the club shown in the movie is called L'âge d'or (paying homage to Luis Buñuel), a woman sings a local song which gives the movie its title (this reminds me of Jean Vigo's 'L'atalante' which the producers released under the title 'La chaland qui passe', name of a very popular song at the time). It, to sum up, is plain french fries without the main course.The film has influenced popular culture so much that a lot of films released in Europe in the following years would be called Rififi whatever... Even the word riffraff is said to be originated from this term. It was the film that showed that Europe could do good film noirs too, only that I can't agree. Even Truffaut said about it the best film noir I've ever seen. Well, his words are never to be believed since he is sooo french he preferred the french dubbed version of 'Fahrenheit 451' rather than the original (no comment on that).The female character was one of the worst I ever saw in film history, being treated like an ornament, but the main problem is the pace, most french films have always been so slow it almost makes someone doze off on the chair; besides, the plot twist (which should be one of the pros and quickly becomes a con) turns the movie into a stupid vengeance thriller in which Servais struggles to change his character into some sort of tough cowboy in lust for revenge. Pathetic. Near the end, we see an abandoned place which reminds very much of the one shown in 'The french connection', only in the latter it wasn't so pathetic. A fight of egos takes place and everyone loses, above all the movie. So don't waste your time on this, if you wanna see a hold-up you should see Kubrick's 'The Killing'. Only if the hold-up scene could be taken away from the movie, it would get a 10 rating, otherwise the entire movie is an entire mess. "},{"Title":"The Project","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is historically interesting, but (except for the kid) not particularly good moviewatching.Its historical import is usually considered as an example &#151; probably the first &#151; of the heist genre the standard format is 1) the collection of the crew 2) the performance of the heist, usually as a matter of spectacular competence and 3) the unravelling, but only if it is a European heist movie.The genre is a particular type of folding, a meticulously planned project that we watch within a larger project (the film) that we watch. The perfection of the first is carried to the second, giving us the impression of deeper engagement. An effective trick.This happens to also be a good example of where that effect works well because this isn't a very good film, but it _seems_ expert because the centerpiece event was perfect. The only flaw was passion.As it happens, during this time there was a huge battle for the cinematic between French and Italian styles of storytelling. The French approach was (and still is) cerebral while the Italian is based on personal contact and engagement in spite of reason. Just like the characters here. Because this is a French film, the careful plan is unravelled by the impetuous Italian. Both types screw around, but the Frenchie has his woman situation managed.It is photographed well.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"The first really successful French film noir","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike most American film noir, this one had a big budget, which is used to advantage, especially in the wonderful Paris location shooting. It also had a Hollywood director, Jules Dassin, who was escaping the US red scare of the time. It may familiar, but mainly because so many later movies stole from it.  "},{"Title":"somewhat obsolete","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An ex-convict (stephanois) joins two old friends in planning an ambitious robbery of a jeweller. Made in a time where the subject matter may be novel, today's audience may become annoyed because of the predictability of the plot. Several details are funny when watched today, such as the lock expert opening up a volt with a driller, or people wearing suits and ties at home. I loved the way the violent scenes were covered up (all the beating or shootings were carefully concealed by walls, or piles of brick, or whatever came in the way). It was too long, but I had a good time watching it, mostly because its obsoleteness made it fun to watch. "}]