[{"Title":"A tale of anguish and vengeance...","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"41 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Some of the best Westerns of the fifties were those directed by Anthony Mann and John Ford, straightforward and unpretentious, but each with an interesting approach to the requirements of the genre... Mann's films were the more prestigious, usually featuring James Stewart who, with John Wayne, was the fifties' biggest box-office draw... The Man From Laramie best known because of the Frankie Laine theme strong which accompanied it, is notable for (among other things) Alex Nicol's extraordinary projection of sadism, an element which dominated the best of Mann's movies... The motion picture was to be the last of the Mann-Stewart Westerns...Stewart is cast as a wagon handler from Laramie, Wyoming, but is, really, an army officer out to avenge the death of his younger brother, a U.S. Cavalryman, massacred by the Apaches who were buying guns from unknown persons... It is these persons that Stewart is looking for..Soon Stewart gets involved in an area of New Mexico which is ruled by the iron hand of a cattle baron Donald Crisp, a strong authoritarian who can't live with a lie... Crisp's one weakness is his love and care for his spoiled son, Alex Nicol... Wild but feeble, yet vicious, Nicol - with extraordinary projection of sadism - accosts Stewart in several confrontations in which (among other outrages) Stewart is dragged through fire by horses, and has his hand held tight while Alex puts a bullet through it... Mann proceeds in this mood throughout the movie, growing even more sadistic...Arthur Kennedy, a hard-working heavy, plays the adopted son of Crisp... He is a son in disguise, jealous of Alex, pretending to be his brother's ally and protector...A lot of good supporting actors are cast including Cathy O'Donnell, the fragile beauty who has little to do but await patiently for an opportunity; Aline MacMahon, the fine 'ugly' woman who never leaves the old man, and Jack Elam who tries to knife James Stewart in the back... Anthony Mann adopted an altogether tougher approach to Western mythology than John Ford... His obsessive, neurotic characters and his emphasis on violence foretell the work of Peckinpah, Leone and Eastwood...Filmed in Technicolor, The Man From Laramie is a Western with new touches of brutality touching off the wide screen spectacle... "},{"Title":"A Spectacular Stereo Western Drama","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best western plots ever filmed. Unlike so many others in the genre, The Man From Laramie has a complex and interesting conflict as its center. Many have compared it to King Lear and the main story line does resemble the subplot of Gloucester and his two sons. Whether the Shakespeare connection is intentional or not, it works extremely well.Partly responsible for the film´s success are its stars James Stewart is good as usual, while Arthur Kennedy, Donald Crisp and Aline McMahon really stand out in their characterizations. Anthony Mann´s directing is tight and uncompromising. The picture never lags once and there are many strongly dramatic moments, some even a bit shocking for 1955. The film was photographed with artistry, and the DVD issue does it justice. Several scenes are beautifully balanced and dramatically expressive. There is a wonderful wide-screen, panoramic look that comes across quite well. The real surprise is the audio. This 1955 movie has a full-bodied stereo soundtrack! The musical score may not be one the all-time greats, but it is often very effective, and on this disc it fills the viewing space with excitement. Highly recommended, even to Western non-fans.  "},{"Title":"Mann-Stewart Combo Does It Again!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Director Anthony Mann and actor James Stewart combined to make several westerns and they were all very good. Make that excellent. This is one of them and it gets high marks for an involving story.It also features what I call realistic dialog, along with interesting characters and a film noir feel to it. That's no surprise since Mann directed a few film noirs. Along that noir theme, be warned this is not an upbeat story, a feel-good Jimmy Stewart film that most people remember him by. In here, he's a vengeful guy here (but, yeah, still a good man at heart). Donald Crisp also demonstrates an overt double-edged sword, so to speak, being a very gruff but fair land owner.Some of the best lines in the movie are delivered by Ailine MacMahon, an older woman friend who helps Stewart. Cathy O'Donnell plays the female romantic lead but is a bit on the bland side, frankly.Good story.....solid western.....deserves to be better known. Buy the DVD. It''s cheap. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"The only Mann-Stewart film in Cinemascope","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Each association of Mann and Stewart had excellent results, this being the last of the series that began with Winchester 73 in 1950. Here the scenery is also one of the most important factors, specially that it was filmed in Cinemascope. The french critic Andre Bazin was worried that the process could affect Mann's style. In my opinion the result is absolutely great and I am sure Bend of the River,The Naked Spur and The Far Country would have benefited from it. Nowadays with the LCD, Plasma and Widescreen TVs we can definitely agree that time proved that the widescreen was there to stay. Like the green colors were predominant in The Naked Spur in this film it is the different shades of browns of the landscape of New Mexico, the adobe houses and even the jackets of James Stewart, Arthur Kennedy and Alex Nicol. Stewart is the man that comes looking for the person responsible for the killing of his brother. His quest is going to bother many people and he is in for a lot of violence, very similar to The Violent Men made in the same year and also in Cinemascope. Mann wanted to make a western about King Lear (which he never did) but it was not this one, although you can feel he was toying with the idea. "},{"Title":"One of Truly Great Films","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Saw this film on its initial release, when I was just a kid. It has always stuck with me. I thought it was the scene (very controversial for its violence, at the time), where James Stewart is dragged through fire. Saw it a couple of years ago in full Cinemascope and realized why it had, literally, haunted me. This is a film that is driven (although it develops slowly) by themes from Oedipus Rex and King Lear. But, it isn't pretentious. Mann was just a genius at fusing these elements into what at first seems like an expertly made western. James Stewart proves here that he had an acting range that is staggering. As a revenge-obsessed good guy, he falls into the lives of a group of people enveloped by fates that are pure tragedy. Donald Meek is superb as a patriarch betrayed by his haywire son and trusted foreman (beautifully played by Arthur Kennedy). I just watched the video with some trepidation, fearing it would be really hurt by scan-and-pan. But the actors are all usually in camera range and the camera set-ups are unintrusive, but always right for the situation.This is a film for anyone who is a fan of great filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"Another great James Stewart western","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" James Stewart rides the vengeance trail as he comes to a dusty New Mexico town in search of a gun runner whose wares were used by raiding Indians that led to his brother's death. Stewart is grim and determined in this beautifully filmed western to square matters with his unknown quarry and meets with hostility and indifference at every turn. The film has touches of extreme violence which was unusual for its time. The story is packed with suspense and tension as Stewart's Will Lockhart seeks his personal retribution. Along the way, Lockhart is befriended by a pretty girl and a strong-willed female rancher who are sympathetic to Lockhart's quest. Another sub plot has a cattle baron, his neurotic son, and a ranch foreman riding rough-shod over other ranchers and townspeople. Arthur Kennedy and Donald Crisp head a great cast of veteran western character actors, and a nod goes to Aline MacMahon for her portrayal of the plucky ranch woman. "},{"Title":"The Mann from Laramie.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Another solid western by a man who gave some of the best works of the whole genre (the naked spur, cimarron,etc).This is the story of a double searchStewart is looking for the man who's responsible for his brother 's death.Crisp is afraid of a man who might possibly kill his sonhe has a recurrent dream which frightens him .Little by little the two stories converge and make one in one of the most brilliant western screenplays of the fifties.The dreamlike touch gives a movie another dimension,which only great directors can conjure Walsh,Ford ,Daves,or of course Mann.The characters are more complex than we thought at first sight,and the cliché of the old wealthy man with a son -black-sheep-of-the-family and an almost- adoptive- son-good-boy is avoided.Alex Nicol and Arthur Kennedy give strong nervous tortured portrayals which almost outshine star Stewart.Crisp is equally effective in the part of a man who tries not to face the truth -which may be the meaning of his premonitory dream-,and will finally see it when he is blind.The lead female part is the weakest link of the movie ,but Aline MacMahon's colorful Kate more than makes up for Cathy O'Donnell's blandness.I had seen this movie for the first time when I was 13.I saw it again yesterday.It has not aged a bit. "},{"Title":"You Scum!","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Will Lockhart (James Stewart) leaves his home in Laramie on a mission to find out who was responsible for selling repeating rifles to the Apaches who killed his brother. Landing in Coronado, New Mexico, he finds that most of the territory is owned and ruled by Alec Waggoman (Donald Crisp), a fierce patriarchal rancher with one loose cannon son, Dave (Alex Nicol) and another surrogate son, Vic Hansboro (Arthur Kennedy) running the Barb Ranch. As he digs deeper, Lockhart finds he is in the middle of two wars, one of which may eventually conclude his revenge fuelled mission.The Man From Laramie is the last of the five Westerns that director Anthony Mann made with leading man James Stewart. The only one filmed in CinemaScope, it is a visually stylish picture that is full of brooding psychological themes and boasts great acting and a tight script. It's no secret that Mann, before his sad death, was looking to make a Western King Lear, The Man From Laramie serves as a delicious starter to what would have been the main course. With its family dilemmas and oedipal overtones, Mann's Western is very Shakespearian in tone. That its characters are sumptuously framed amongst a harsh dangerous landscape further fuels the psychological fire; with the landscapes (terrificly photographed by Charles Lang) providing a link to the characters emotional states. So many scenes linger long and hard in the memory (none of which I would dare to spoil for would be new viewers), so much so they each reward more upon subsequent revisits to the film. There's some minor quibbles down the pecking order; for instance Cathy O'Donnell as Barbara Waggoman is poor and contributes little to proceedings, but really it remains a quality piece of psychological work that barely gives us reason to scratch the itch. Taut, tight and tragic is The Man From Laramie, brought to us courtesy from the dynamite partnership of Mann & Stewart. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Goes way beyond just being a western--sharply seen and acted","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The Man from Laramie (1955)You have a right to expect a movie starring James Stewart, directed by Anthony Mann, and photographed by Charles Lang to be spectacular. And it is. This is one of the first full wide screen Technicolor movies, and it's one drawback might be that it is trying to apply a new format to an old and slightly tired genre. The fact it rises above its familiarity is to Stewart's credit and Mann's. Lang (who photographed an extraordinary number of great black and white films) trades stately perfect color and design for pure drama and intensity, which are very different things, but it gives a full backdrop to the high drama here.This is a beautiful movie, for sure, in its restrained way. (The fact that it's restrained when the whole world is gaping for surging new big color movies is a small miracle in itself.) Mann did a number of westerns, for which he's most known, and a few other genre pics, but first made his name as a film minor film noir director. He seems to carry over enough of the edginess and cruelty of those noirs to make his Westerns exciting rather than epic, which is a good thing. He and Stewart worked together on five westerns, and they have taken on a life of their own, and a feeling of their own that's impressive once you click into it. One of the best noir elements to the story (which was not written by Mann) is the feeling of the lone man against the world, a great theme.The key woman lead is a cliché, the widow hanging on against the odds in town. In this case she is a charming but slightly miscast Cathy O'Donnell, a favorite of mine who takes demur and innocent to the heights. You see from the outset that this widow and Stewart's good, hard working character are destined for some kind of meeting of destinies. And there are inevitable clichés, too, that you might get used to--the stoic Indians, the older woman as tough as nails (and a gem of a role), a patriarch with a thoughtful wise look that shows counteracting wisdom, and fistfights in the dust. It's all great stuff, in the Western mold. (One fight is right in the middle of a mooing herd of cattle, and it's pretty fun.) You do wonder sometime at the possibility of a super nice guy sticking it out against all these obstacles, and I mean obstacles. The domineering (and sometimes evil) family led by Donald Crisp, with the always impressive Arthur Kennedy as the chief hand, seems like more than a man could handle. But the conflict is real, and the movie makes it pertinent beyond being just a western. And beautifully done. Even if you don't like westerns, this will grab you anyway. "},{"Title":"An awesome rugged Western  masterfully directed by Anthony Mann including his ordinary star , James Stewart","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" From Columbia Pictures , produced by William Goetz and screenplay by prestigious Philip Yordan , a Western plenty of emotion , action and shootouts ; being the last and the best of James Stewart's classic Western collaborations with Anthony Mann. From a story by Thomas Flynn for the Saturday Evening Post and its subsequent novel with the same title . A cowboy named Lockhart (James Stewart) defies the local cattle baron (Donald Crisp) and his sadistic son (Alex Nicol) by working for one of his oldest rivals (Aline MacMahon) . The obsessed cow-herder going through hell and high water to track down the stranger who sold Indians weapons which led to the death of his brother ; then excitement increases until a surprising final .This exciting Western contains tension-filled familial atmosphere , thrills , suspense and gun-play . Magnificent western from duo Anthony Mann/James Stewart and their final collaboration . Colour , music , scenarios , landscapes all marks well in this thrilling story about a cowboy who deals with a baron land who's going blind and worries which of his two sons he will leave the ranch to . The picture has been described as a western version of King Lear adding a tautly strung outdoor Wodunnit . It describes a family tragedy in which there are extreme characters combined with psychological observations and enriched by eventual ambiguity . By that time (1955) the picture was considered very strong , tough , surprisingly cruel and brutal ; today is deemed a classic film . And seems to be a great influence of wide range such as violence and scenarios , both of them influenced in Spaghetti Western as well as outdoors similar to Almeria landscapes . Filmed in Cinemascope with colorful cinematography by Charles Lang supported by assistant Henry Jaffa , Mann gets to take from nature the maximum impacts , as desert , river , mountains , being wonderfully photographed . Impressive background scenarios , dramatic close-up along with shading illuminations , all of them perfectly mingled with a tale full of violence , tension , intrigue and shoot'em up . The filming took place on location in New Mexico , there were built two ranch  Big Barb and Half Moon , next to Santa Fe . The technician and artist team was formed by numerous actors and 142 technicians . Producers hired 18 mules , 24 horses and 800 cows and building a great ranch of 32 miles length . Nedless to say , the main and secondary cast is first-class . Top-of-the-range acting by the great James Stewart as a lone avenger obsessed with hunting down the men who sold guns to the Indians that murdered his brother . There are top-notch acting from old-stagers as Donald Crisp playing an aging ranch baron and Aline MacMahon as an old spinster and special mention to Western usual secondary Jack Elam as a sinister gunslinger . Delicate Cathy O'Donnell (Ben Hur) was widely felt to be badly miscast as Barbara Waggoman and seems a little lost among the movie's many shots and brawls. Emotive as well as intriguing musical score by George Duning performed by Morris Stoloff , including a notorious theme tune .This top-drawer Western was stunningly realized by the master Anthony Mann , including his characteristic use of landscape which is visually memorable . Mann established his forte with magnificent Western almost always with James Stewart . In his beginnings he made ambitious but short-lived quality low-budget surroundings of Eagle-Lion production as ¨T-men¨ , ¨They walked by night¨ , ¨Raw deal¨ , ¨Railroaded¨ and ¨Desperate¨ . Later on , he made various Western , remarkably good , masterpieces such as ¨The furies¨ , ¨Devil's doorway¨ and ¨Man of the West¨ and several with his habitual star , James Stewart, as ¨Winchester 73¨ , ¨Bend the river¨ , ¨The far country¨ , ¨Man of the West ¨. They are characterized by roles whose determination to stick to their guns would take them to the limits of their endurance . Others in this throughly enjoyable series include ¨Tin star ¨ that is probably one of the best Western in the fifties and sixties . After the mid-50 , Mann's successes came less frequently , though directed another good Western with Victor Mature titled ¨The last frontier¨. And of course ¨The man from Laramie ¨ that turns out to be stylish , fast paced , solid , meticulous , with enjoyable look , and most powerful and well-considered . This well acted movie is gripping every step of the way . It results to be a splendid western and remains consistently agreeable . Rating  Above average . Well worth watching and it will appeal to James Stewart fans . "}{"Title":"a solid western","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  *possible spoiler* I still can`t decide if Jimmy Stewart is one of the best actors ever, or one of the worst. OK -he isn´t a bad actor but somehow he always seems to be too relaxed and too polite. He hasn´t got that bad attitude that could sometimes improve his performances. But altogether he made pretty good role here. The story is not your typical old obvious story which surprised me positively. Arthur Kennedy is great in his performance as the main villain. Hey the fact that he turns out to be the bad guy was absolutely genius! This isn`t the all time greatest western but it`s not that disappointing either. I give it a pretty good 7/10     "},{"Title":"Great Western","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" In the western genre, this movie is a 9. A good tale of the old west (Westerns seem to be better if they are plotted strongly, but not over-plotted). Many a western has been ruined by too much plot. Not this one.The cinematography of New Mexico is perfect, wide-screen and sweeping. It captures the bigness of the western landscape which is a plus in this film based on ranching. Other westerns (Eastwood's mining-based film Pale Rider for example) really don't need vast sweeping landscapes.The acting, direction, production values are all very good. The musical score is dated and not great, but at least it has a western theme.There is one oddity you might notice about the female characters. The contrast between how the Aline McMahon and the Cathy O'Donnell parts are developed is extreme. McMahon is fortunate to have a great role, but O'Donnell's role is under-developed and kind of empty. Not O'Donnell's fault but it's just how the role is written. I wonder how the same writer can create an interesting, well-written female role but leave the other one so bland? Action-packed but also the psychological aspects keep you really interested in the story. "},{"Title":"Excellent Stewart Performance!","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Jimmy Stewart and Director Anthony Mann made great movies together, including westerns like this. What was great was how we got to see the hard edge that Mann could apply to Stewart's performances.It was great to see how Stewart could expand his acting range like he did. With these Anthony Mann westerns, we got to see what an excellent actor Stewart was.In this film, we are introduced to a King Lear scenario. In Shakespeare's Lear, a king is late in his reign and divides his kingdom among his daughters. As in Shakespeare, tragedy follows. We do have elements of that here. With it, we have Stewart seeking vengeance for those who sold repeating rifles to Indians who killed Stewart's brother.The film is very well made, with an especially subtle score by George Duning, who scored many other westerns. The film has many good elements. But, it has the feel of having a script that was chipped together. There is a very good through line to the story, but we get a lot of Stewart refusing to leave town, but not telling anybody why. This gets repeated many times.But, when the film gets to focusing on the matters at hand, it works, and the conclusion is very satisfying.******* (7 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Tense do the right thing western.","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Versatile veteran actor James Stewart plays Will Lockhart, a tall riding cowboy delivering supplies in Apache country and finds himself forced into the middle of a family feud. Alec Waggoman(Donald Crisp)is an aging cattle baron that is going blind and having heavy thoughts of which of his two sons to leave his ranch to. Will has already received a harsh welcome from one of them and wants restitution for the damage done. Tensions rise when the tall stranger decides to stick around giving up on cow-herding to search for the men that sold guns to the Apaches that killed his brother.This rough and tumble...and a bit brutal western filmed, in New Mexico, has a supporting cast that features Arthur Kennedy, Alex Nicol, Wallace Ford, Cathy O'Connell and Jack Elam. "},{"Title":"James Stewart and Anthony Mann headline solid western","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Will Lockhart (James Stewart) drives a wagon train delivering supplies to reluctant store owner Barbara Waggoman (Cathy O'Donnell). Later he drop by at a salt flat to dig up some salt. He is confronted by vicious Dave Waggoman (Alex Nicol), the son of autocratic rancher Alec (Donald Crisp), who burns his wagon and shots his mules for trespassing. He is only saved by the arrival of ranch hand Vic Hansbro (Arthur Kennedy). Over the years, Alec had amassed a vast land holder. Meanwhile it's revealed that the local Apaches had massacred a group of soldiers, and somebody is about to sell them powerful repeating rifles.James Stewart is a solid good guy lead. Director Anthony Mann has created a fairly good looking western. This is a very solid western. It hints at something even more brutal and grittier story than what's on the screen. However the good guy persona of James Stewart and a few pulled punches from the bad guys held back something even more compelling. The bad guy should have tried to kill James Stewart after capturing him in the shoot out. There is just a sense that punches were held in a few points in the movie. "},{"Title":"Mann & Stewart Again.","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Jimmy Stewart re-teams with director Anthony Mann for this interesting western as he plays Will Lockhart, who is driving supplies to his employer Barbara Waggoman(played by Cathy O'Donnell) who is waylaid by ruthless and vicious Dave Waggoman(played by Alex Nicol) son of local cattle baron Alec Waggoman(played by Donald Crisp) who is apologetic to Will, and offers to reimburse him the full value of his loss. He accepts, but retains a grudge against Dave, and continues to work for Barbara, as he also pursues the person who is selling guns to the local Apaches. Arthur Kennedy costars as Alec's right hand man, who ends up helping Will.OK western is well acted and exciting, though the story has certain weaknesses in logic and motivation that weaken it. Still, worthwhile viewing despite these problems. "},{"Title":"Not a spectacular western, but satisfyingly straightforward with a violent undercurrent...","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The fifth of five western collaborations between actor James Stewart and director Anthony Mann is certainly one of their finest. Plot involves Army Captain from Laramie doing business in the small town of Coronado, but in reality seeking revenge for the killing of his brother by Apache Indians using rifles purchased from wealthy local ranchers. Adapted from a magazine serial by Thomas T. Flynn (later published in book-form), this no-nonsense outdoor adventure is surprisingly gripping, with no-holds-barred violent action and a solid supporting cast. Stewart gives yet another first-rate performance in a genre that was especially good for him, however Cathy O'Donnell was an odd choice for a (subtle) love-interest. Charles Lang's splendid cinematography needs to be seen in the widescreen format to capture its grandeur (this was one of the very first westerns shot in CinemaScope). An entertaining film, and capped with a nifty theme song. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Mann and Stewart- the team that never failed","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Will Lockhart- a mysterious man who delivers supplies to storekeeper Barbara Waggoman at Coronado.It's a town in Apache country.We learn that his brother has died, and he wants to revenge his death.He got killed in an Apache attack, and he wants to know who was selling rifles to them.He finds trouble with the Waggomans, not Barbara, though.The Waggomans is a ranching family.Vic Hansbro is the ranch foreman who's engaged to Barbara.Things turn out ugly pretty soon.When you put two greats together- Anthony Mann and James Stewart-you could never fail.They made many memorable westerns together, movies you can call classics today.The Man from Laramie (1955) is their fifth and last western collaboration.Jimmy gives most convincing performance as Will, as he always did.He has a very fine supporting cast as well.Arthur Kennedy plays Vic Hansbro.Donald Crisp is Alec Waggoman.Cathy O'Donnell portrays Barbara Waggoman.Alex Nicol is Dave Waggoman.Jack Elam plays Chris Boldt.In this movie there's a lot that's good.The way it depicts the relationship between Will and Barbara is something special.There's something sensitive, something beautiful.It's a rather haunting scene where Dave starts shooting Will's mules.In the Mann movies the landscape played a big part.It sure is a joy to the eye to watch the western view. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but too many plot inconsistencies","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is an very good Western. It may be a little underrated, because it is generally known as the worst of the three Mann/Stewart Westerns. I thought it was at least as good as Winchester '73 and Naked Spur.Here are a list of positives- The acting is very good. Stewart is his usual fabulous presence. Arthur Kennedy is solid. There are also some other fine supporting performances. The only exception is Alex Nicol playing the heavy. This was overdone, both the character and the acting.- The basic plot is pretty compelling, at least through the first half of the movie.- It looks like it was filmed almost entirely on location.- There was a very short, but excellent scene where a Mexican friar explains that the Pueblo Indians in the town of Coronado are traditionally peaceful cliff dwellers and fundamentally different in nature from the nomadic Apaches. Rare historically accurate and sophisticated insight from a Western of this era.Now here are the negativesThe movies suffers from numerous fundamental plot/feasibility issues.1) Lockhart is a U.S. Army calvary captain who has gone undercover posing as the leader of a supply wagon train (it's unsaid , but that's how they got through Apache country. They had an Army escort). However, he hardly acts like a spy, pretty much spilling his guts about his mission whenever given a chance. If he was smart enough to come up with the ruse of pretending to be a civilian, surely he could have been a little more clever in rooting out the bad guys. Like maybe pretend he wanted to buy some repeating rifles? Just sayin'. 2) More on Lockhart's preposterous ineptitude as a spy. When the town drunk (Jack Elam) offers to sell him any information he wants, Lockhart shoos him off. Real smart.3) Why was he loading up his wagons with salt? Didn't he come to stay?4) Some other user reviews felt that it was not explained in the movie why the drunk later tries to kill Lockhart. I thought it was made clear that the Indian paid the drunk to kill him, then the Indian killed the drunk in order to shut him up. The Indian was put up to this by either Vic and Dave or the Indian gun buyers themselves. Remember, Lockhart coughed up the reason for his secret mission to the Indian the minute he rode into town.5) After being hired by Kate Canady, Lockhart immediately rides onto the property of the Waggoman ranch in order to cut out stray Half Moon Ranch stock. This doesn't sound like such a critical task that Lockhart should be taking that kind of risk considering that Dave Waggoman wants to kill him. Good idea to go alone, too, huh? Why not leave your gun behind and paint a bullseye on your back while you're at it?6) It's difficult to understand the motivations of Vic and Dave in selling guns to the Indians. It's clearly not necessary, they already control most of the territory. We have to assume that this was crazy Dave's idea - an irrational attempt to emulate the former ruthlessness of his father. It's completely out of character for Vic to be complicit with Dave in this activity.7) Once the guns are revealed, Vic'c character is handled irrationally for the rest of the movie. The logic of the script says that his actions are tragic and sympathetic i.e. he clearly does not intend to kill Dave and hurts the old man by accident. To this point in the story, Vic is a Job figure, a decent guy whose life has been destroyed by accidental external forces. Yet for the rest of the movie he is cast as a legitimate villain, justifiably killed by the Indians (thereby indirectly avenging the death of Lockhart's brother) and remembered by the old man forever as the dirty snake who killed his faultless son. This inexplicable about face in the script is grossly unfair to Vic.8) And while we're on the subject, how can Lockhart be so darkly obsessed with avenging his brother's death and hold absolutely no malice toward the Apaches who actually killed him. It's ENTIRELY the fault of Vic, who was no doubt forced or coerced into selling the guns anyway by crazy Dave.9) There was no way that wagon load of guns falling off the cliff damaged the majority of the rifles. The Indians surely could have collected them at the bottom of the hill.10) The finale scene where Vic, Lockhart and the Indians all show up at the rifle scene at exactly the same time is a preposterous coincidence11) And one last thing, just how did Lockhart get down from that cliff at the end of the movie without the Indians noticing?In summary, Man From Laramie has good acting, good locations and a solid, interesting plot set up, but the conclusion is contrived. Plot elements and scenes are just slapped together to produce the climatic scenes Mann is looking for. The story has no integrity. The other parts of the movie aren't strong enough to compensate for the numerous glaring flaws. "},{"Title":"A raw and tough western, with some breathtaking scenery and a great Jimmy Stewart","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I like Jimmy Stewart a lot, and like a vast majority of his movies, and when I saw that this was going to be on television I told yes I must see it. After seeing The Man from Laramie, I thought it wasn't absolutely outstanding but it was very good all the same. The story, about a man who seeks vengeance on the man who sold the guns that killed his brother, has its unfocused spots and while Cathy O'Donell looked lovely her acting wasn't that great at times, I found her somewhat bland. That said though, The Man from Laramie is beautifully made, the cinematography is crisp and the scenery is breathtaking. And George Duning's score is excellent, and the dialogue has some bite. Also there are some very good performances, Jimmy Stewart is excellent in the lead of Will Lockhart and Donald Crisp is brilliant as Alec Waggoman, who along with his sons played respectively by Arthur Kennedy and Alex Nicol dominate the action. Antony Mann's direction is tougher than most of the other psychological westerns that he directed, and here it works. Then there are some effective scenes such as when Will gets shot in the hand and the final shoot-out on the cliffs. Overall, not flawless but very satisfying western, telling of anguish and vengeance. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The Mann for Jimmy Stewart","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The Man from Laramie James Stewart (as Will Lockhart) investigates the repeating rifle death of his little brother, which leads him to a nasty tribe of Apache Indians, and an even nastier Western family. The small town of Coronado holds clues to Mr. Stewart brother's death, but it's run by a King Lear-like patriarch Donald Crisp (a Alec Waggoman) who wants Stewart to vacate the premises. Losing his faculties to age, Mr. Crisp seems to be ceding power to psycho son Alex Nicol (as Dave Waggoman), leaving more stable surrogate son Arthur Kennedy (as Vic Hansbro) with the short end of the stick. Mr. Kennedy expects an equal share...Each of the men clash with Stewart, who takes a liking to family cousin Cathy O'Donnell (as Barbara Waggoman). Ms. O'Donnell, who describes herself as not even pretty, is engaged to Mr. Kennedy. There are great characterizations all around, with old-timers Aline MacMahon (as Kate Canady) and Wallace Ford (as Charley O'Leary) welcome additions to the mix. Crisp, who seems to have been in every other classic ever made, has one of his more distinctive later roles. Director Anthony Mann and Stewart are in great form, in their last great western collaboration. And, Charles Lang's sprawling landscape lens perfectly illustrates Mann's vision.******** The Man from Laramie (8/31/55) Anthony Mann ~ James Stewart, Arthur Kennedy, Donald Crisp, Alex Nicol "},{"Title":"Very solid Western.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Movie does hit the old Stewart/Mann clichés some-Stewart is out for revenge, Arthur Kennedy comes along as a semi-friendly baddie, there's a range-war/Indian war a-foot, and everyone kinda winds up dead towards the end.I only found a couple things to ding the movie for-one the whole Apache gun-running plot line was never fleshed out nor utilized for anything save a mcguffin to get Alex Nicol to fight w/ Kennedy, and two-you aren't told who hired Jack Elam or then killed him. Sure you Think it was the Indian--but still--that was a rather strangely unresolved plot-thread.Also the lead gal wasn't all that great.I enjoyed Crisp's Ben Cartwright type rancher, Kennedy as his cold-blooded ranch-foreman, young Jack Elam (in a suit?!), Wallace Ford and Alice MacMahon. The character acting was fine thru and thru.Ditto the scenery.Ditto the fights Ditto the direction.Some of the plotting as I said before looked like they kept changing their minds, but the main players and ingredients work just fine.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Mann's work","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I'm a big fan of the Anthony Mann-directed, James Stewart-starring Westerns from the early 1950's and have said before that this series of films represented a more than worthy successor to John Ford's legacy from the 30's and 40's. Indeed, for me, in many ways, Mann's films take the genre to an even higher level, not least his stunning use of colour cinematography and his use of the superb Stewart, a far more interesting and complex (never mind less wooden) performer than Ford's amanuensis John Wayne. Both these attributes are much to the fore in this particular movie but this time I felt slightly let down by some under-par support acting and a not wholly consistent narrative plot. Taking these points in turn, I wasn't engaged sufficiently for example by Alex Nicol in a key role as the head rancher's spoilt and sadistic son - for me this part should have been played with much more edge and brio, (I could visualise the sometimes maligned Victor Mature making much more of the part, for example) and also wasn't greatly moved by Cathy O'Donnell either as Stewart's slightly plain-looking belated love interest. She lacks depth and fails to create a believable chemistry with him throughout. Perhaps that's why he rides away at the end without her in tow which only serves to make the depiction of her awakening feelings seem all the more contrived. Which leads me to the weaknesses in the plotting and characterisation. The way the story develops it seems altogether inconsistent that Arthur Kennedy as Vic, the adopted son and right hand man of old man Waggoman (what kind of name is that?), who we see repeatedly in the first half acting as reasoning peacemaker between father and son and son and Stewart should later be shown to be too cowardly to admit to killing Nicol / Dave in self-defence, especially after the former has callously wounded a defence-less Stewart. By the end of the movie, he (Vic) seems to be taking the blame too for supplying the Apache guns which were used to kill Stewart's cavalry-officer brother (and hence the latter's reason for coming to town in the first place) as well as cold-heartedly running out on O'Donnell at the same time. There's also a not fully or satisfactorily explained murder of a local blackmailer (Jack Elam) and the periodic insertion of a taciturn Red Indian assistant at O'Donnell's store who seems to serve no material purpose at all. The Lear-type plot (old Waggoman even goes blind at the conclusion) is noble in intent but for me just too convoluted in execution to cover the various plot-holes. That said, Stewart is excellent in his part as the crusading, idealistic but still ornery Lockhart and he, as usual is worth watching on his own. I also liked Arthur Kennedy's expressive acting in a confusedly-written part. Mann's direction has some real high-spots, a forward-tracking shot of Stewart advancing forward to confront young Waggoman in town and some great night-time shots of Vic in pursuit of same (ghost riders in the sky indeed) but all told, while wonderful to behold, tighter scripting would have better served the final outcome here. "},{"Title":"The Man from Laramie","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" From Anthony Mann (The Naked Spur), probably the director the lead actor worked with the most (and both changing the very nature of the western), this is a pretty good western. Basically Will Lockhart (James Stewart) came from Laramie to Coronado, an isolated town in Apache country, to deliver a cart full of supplies for storekeeper Barbara Waggoman (Cathy O'Donnell). Soon though he gets tangled with Barbara's cousin Dave (Alex Nicol), vicious son of autocratic rancher Alec Waggoman (Donald Crisp). But Will sticks around town, especially when there is a missing cart full of rifles, he gets shot by Dave in the hand (like he unintentionally did to him) and finds out Dave had something to do with a friend's death. Also starring Arthur Kennedy as Vic Hansbro, Aline MacMahon as Kate Canady, Wallace Ford as Charley O'Leary, Jack Elam as Chris Boldt, James Millican as Tom Quigby and John War Eagle as Frank Darrah. I can agree the squabbles with Crisp, Nicol and Kennedy are frequent and dominating, but I can also agree Stewart shot in the hand and the final shoot-out on the cliffs are more memorable, as well as the opening theme song by Jimmy Young, which went to number one in the UK singles chart. James Stewart was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and he was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"I don't know you, but I knew you were coming.","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Every once in a while a film comes along that really stops you in your tracks and makes you examine what makes it so special. The Man From Laramie aroused some strong feelings of emotion in me involving the main heavy, Dave Waggoman (Alex Nicol). The first instance was the brutal burning of Will Lockhart's (James Stewart) wagons, followed by the shooting of his mules. Now in a Western, you expect men to get shot, but somehow the mule business felt like a real low blow. It made me wonder what kind of evil could possess another human being to take out his remorseless anger on a helpless animal. The same I suppose, that would rouse one's ire enough to shoot a man's hand in revenge for a failed ambush. Those two scenes will stay with me for a while.I watched this film back to back with The Violent Men, and was surprised to see how closely they resembled each other. With only minor changes in plot elements, they're virtually the same picture, though this one is the stronger of the two. There's a bit of a mystery element thrown in with Donald Crisp's character, rancher Alec Waggoman, when he throws out the line in my summary statement above. The element of dreams and prophecy was a pretty unique hook to keep the tension mounting until the film's resolution.What with all the violence and brutality, I got a kick out of the story's best exchange between Will and his temporary employer, Kate Canady (Aline MacMahon)Will - You're just a hard scheming old woman, aren't you?Kate's response - Ugly too! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and engaging","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  The most rewarding of all the Stewart/Mann films, which are all great films - this one pushes the boundaries a little further. Complex and engaging storyline, with a rich mixture of personalities that go beyond mere character types. Surprisingly brutal in places, even shocking for a 1955 Western, with Stewart's handling of it again proving his extensive acting range. We see the gentle, shy, home-loving Stewart drinking tea, and the intense, driven Stewart, brimming with anger, growling 'You scum!' at his enemy. Mann's usual fabulous scenery/photography and score adds to this brilliant film.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Character-Driven Western","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The Man from Laramie was the last of the five Westerns which James Stewart made with director Anthony Mann. There should have been a sixth, Night Passage, but Mann withdrew from the project, reportedly because he was unhappy with the script and with the casting of Audie Murphy as Stewart's co-star, and the two never worked together again. (According to some versions of the story, they never spoke to one another again). Here Stewart plays Will Lockhart, the titular Man from Laramie, who leads a wagon train to the small town of Coronado, New Mexico. Lockhart, however, is not in town purely for business reasons. He also wants revenge for the death of his brother, an Army cavalry trooper, killed by the Apaches. He is seeking revenge not on the Indians themselves but on the white men who sold them rifles used in the attack. While in Coronado, Lockhart tangles with the Waggomans, powerful local ranchers. The film, in fact, is as much about this family as it is about Lockhart, and it explores their relationships in some detail. Alec Waggoman, the patriarch and an elderly widower, is an outwardly autocratic figure, but inwardly is haunted by mysterious nightmares and by the fact that he is gradually losing his eyesight. He is also troubled by the mutual dislike between his son Dave and his foreman Vic Hansbro, whom Alec regards virtually as an adopted second son. Two added complications are that Lockhart and Vic are both in love with the same woman, Alec's niece Barbara, and that Lockhart goes to work for Kate Canady, once Alec's lover and now his business rival.Two common features of the Mann-Stewart Westerns are striking photography of the Western scenery and a greater blurring of the moral boundaries between good and evil than was common in Westerns of the fifties, although this second feature was often found in other genres of the period, notable film noir. Both these features are to be found in The Man from Laramie, which was one of the first Westerns to be filmed in CinemaScope to give a sense of the wide open New Mexico landscapes. Like all the Mann-Stewart collaborations except the first, Winchester 73, it was shot in colour, part of a growing trend away from black-and- white in this particular genre. Dave Waggoman is an obvious villain- arrogant, hot-tempered and sadistic. Our first sight of him comes when, acting on very little provocation, he kills twelve mules and burns three wagons belonging to Lockhart. The other major characters, however, are more difficult to characterise as heroes or villains. Lockhart is the film's protagonist, and generally has right on his side, but he can also be angry, bitter and vindictive. Alec has a moral sense which Dave lacks, but can also be authoritarian with his workers and over-indulgent to his worthless son. In the confrontations between Dave and Vic he sides with his biological son over his adopted one, even though he is under no illusions about Dave's true character. Vic at first appears to be a rough diamond, lacking in social graces but with a sense of decency which sets him apart from the villainous Dave. We sympathise with him when he is treated unfairly by his adoptive father and he seems genuine in his love for Barbara. As the film progresses, however, Vic reveals himself to be as much of a villain as Dave, if not more so. The reviewer who drew parallels with the Gloucester subplot in King Lear should have recalled that in that play only one of Gloucester's sons, the illegitimate Edmund, proves to be a villain; his legitimate son Edgar is noble and magnanimous. Despite the unhappy ending to their relationship, James Stewart gave some of his best performances in his work with Mann, and he gives another good one here as the conflicted Lockhart, showing us the rough edges of his character but always holding our sympathy and our interest. There are also good supporting contributions from Donald Crisp as Alec, Alex Nicol as Dave and especially from Arthur Kennedy as Vic. (Kennedy was one of those gifted actors who never quite seemed to make the transition from supporting actor to leading man in his cinema career, even though he played many leading roles on stage). The fifties were a time when psychological Westerns, character-driven rather than action- driven, were increasing in popularity, and The Man from Laramie is an excellent example of this trend. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This is the most unfriendly country I've ever been in.","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The last of the collaborations between James Stewart and director Anthony Mann, The Man From Laramie is the most ambitious even if it isn't always completely successful. On one level it's a standard revenge Western, with Stewart looking for the gunrunners who caused his brother's death, but his hunt takes in rancher Donald Crisp's powerful but dysfunctional dynasty and its divisions as well, and its through them that the film moves into almost mythically tragic territory. With foreman and almost adopted son Arthur Kennedy devotedly but thanklessly running the ranch for him and constantly trying to protect the old man from the feckless stupidity and sadism of his natural son Alex Nicol it soon becomes clear that not all the bad guys are that bad. Indeed, everything Kennedy does wrong is done out of the best motives that are constantly thwarted, turning what could easily have been a stereotypical villain into a genuinely tragic figure as he realises the man he regards as a second father sees him only as a mere employee (interestingly, James Gray used this same character arc for Joaquin Phoenix's character in The Yards). Even Crisp's autocrat is tormented by recurring dreams of a stranger riding in to destroy his family as he slowly goes blind, believing Stewart to be a virtual horseman of the apocalypse.Along with the tormented and frustrated characters it's also surprisingly violent for its day. While it wasn't unusual for Stewart's characters to carry their own stigmata in Mann's Westerns (in Bend of the River he even hides a scar on his neck from a botched lynching), here he really suffers as he's beaten up, dragged across salt flats and through a fire and then shot in the hand in one scene alone, all of which only serves to fuel his hatred more until the affable character we met at the film's beginning has become a distant memory. In many ways it reverses the usual journey Mann put Stewart through in their Westerns rather than going from bitterness to reluctant hero, here he starts out 'nice to everybody' (as the very out-of-keeping title song puts it) to end the film all but consumed by rage.As usual, there's admirable economy in the writing - there's a lot of plot and several key characters but it manages bring them all over and incorporate an almost mystical sense of tragic destiny without seeming rushed or contrived, offering a satisfying Western with some substance. . It's also the closest Mann ever got to his long cherished Western version of King Lear that he was finally preparing when he died during the shooting of A Dandy in Aspic. The only one of the Mann-Stewart films together to be shot in Scope, Mann uses it superbly, and not just in the mountain location shots. Check out the beautiful establishing shot of the town on Sunday evening, the Mexicans and Indians heading for church on one side of the frame while on the other the white townsfolk drink and gamble. Thankfully that's preserved in Columbia's widescreen DVD, though the only extra is a clumsily cropped trailer introduced by Stewart on the film's set. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Will Lockhart (Jimmy Stewart) travels from Laramie to Coronado only to find that it is practically run by a rich rancher (Donald Crisp) and his greedy son (Alex Nicol). As Will stays in town he tries to find out who was responsible for selling guns to the Apache Native Americans that killed his brother months before.This was Jimmy Stewart's 8th movie with Anthony Mann. He gives a very well-founded performance. Throughout the movie you can really see him project very realistic emotions. I would have to say this would be one of his better roles.The story for The Man From Laramie is based on a short story from the Saturday Evening Post by Thomas T. Flynn. The story, while it doesn't have any plot holes, isn't very believable at times. For instance, How did Will get to Coronado when he was told it was Apache country and very few people make it there alive? And he did it with two wagon loads of freight. The thing I found unbelievable was that How come the rich rancher (Donald Crisp) didn't really seem to care about his sons misbehaving. His son broke the law at one point and his father didn't seem to do anything to him.The camera work is very good. The angles have a bit of a Hitchcocky feel to them. (The askew camera being one of them.) You can tell the director choose them with care. The directing itself is also very good. Anthony Mann did a very good job directing.If you liked this movie I would also recommend Open Range, High Plaines Drifter, The Good the Bad and the Ugly. "},{"Title":"Thrilling western","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I have seen the Stewart film several times--twice when I was 8 yrs., and once later.I had the chance of watching it in a movie theater.What seemed shocking, brutal, violent for a 8 yrs. old looked the same for a young-man; and from all the points of view the film stood the test of the advancing age.Being thoroughly no-nonsense, Man &#133; only underlines in a positive way what a lot of other westerns lack &#133;.The excitement is unequaled; the film is bloody, straight, suspenseful, cruel. Was this Mann's best achievement? Maybe.It is the western that I have liked the most.It was ,it is a dramatic thriller, beautifully shot.Someone listed, on this site,several drawbacks of this film.This is silly;Mann's western is very fine as it is.Its many merits are those of an exquisite, wonderfully independent and tough action drama. Stewart has the look for the role. As a kid, I did not know that the lead is a star. I mention that I was already 17 yrs. when I have found out that Will Lockhart is played by Stewart. "}{"Title":"An Exceptional Jimmy Stewart Film","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I've never been a big fan of Jimmy Stewart. I guess it's the type of character he usually played, or maybe it's the drawl when he speaks.Yet this picture is different. It holds one's attention. Here Stewart is not a meek, overly sensitive, quiet hero. He's just and ordinary guy out to solve a mystery and see justice done. I like this Stewart very much.There are many strong, dramatic moments, and some sadism (without the gore) that is surprising for a movie made in 1950. The picture certainly held my interest through out. A gem of a find for my collection. It made me go and re-watch Winchester '73, another good Stewart film.The DVD transfer is very good for a picture as old as this one is. The sets are about right for the period, and the widescreen, panoramic views of both mountains and plains reminds me of the movie Shane. "},{"Title":"Not a Boring Western","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" One of the series of westerns Anthony Mann made with James Stewart, see also Winchester 73, Bend of The River, Naked Spur, etc. Its also - along with Naked Spur - a superbly shot widescreen movie. Stewart's career has large chunks in which he repeatedly worked with the same directors, and all of them - though radically different in style - brought out fine performances from him Frank Capra, Alfred Hitchcock, John Ford and Mann. Mann really extracted the ability of Stewart to be both vulnerable, yet also tough and uncompromising. In this movie our hero tries to find the men who killed his brother, though during his quest he also learns a great deal about himself, and the lengths he will go to to reach the truth. So its a Shakespearean tale of revenge - a classic western theme - set amidst the arid desert and the burning sun. As with all Mann films, the violence when it occurs is sudden and brutal. In this he was years ahead of Tarentino. "},{"Title":"Magnificent CinemaScope","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is an western that makes the connection between the old western, romantic, simple and quick in action, and the modern western, psychological and slower in action. And it is also the end of a great team that made eight classic western. I'm speaking about the director Anthony Mann and the beautiful actor James Stewart. In this movie, Stewart plays the role of Lockhart, a former captain of the USA army, searching for the men who sold guns to the Indians that slaughtered a cavalry column in which Lockhart's brother was in. It's interesting to see that Lockhart doesn't blame the Indians in the first place, but the white men that sold the guns to them. This is a typical view of modern western the pure Indians against the crooked white men. In that search, Lockhart goes to a town named Coronado, where he rapidly begins a fight with the Waggoman, the landlords of the city and rich ranchers. The characters of Alec Waggoman, his son Dave, and Vic Hansbro, a kind of adoptive son of Alec, are so much interesting, each one with his own motivations, some density and in the end, it's Vic, who we would think is more just and flexible, who reveals the worst. Nevertheless, all these characters behave in a manner that is determined by their interactions and not gratuitously, as in many movies. The weakest point of the film, in my opinion, is the irrelevance of the feminine characters, which are completely superfluous for the plot and the movie itself. Another negative point, but this time it's not the movie's fault I saw the movie on TV and could not benefit of the fantastic CinemaScope. This is one of the first western filmed in CinemaScope, and uses the widescreen technology to put to evidence the magnificence of the landscape and the power of this emotive drama, becoming an example of western seen as an epic art form of America. Finally, I would like to detach the work of James Stewart, Arthur Kennedy e Donald Crisp. "},{"Title":"A Classic Western","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Will Lockhart (James Stewart) come to Coronado, a town owned by the powerful Alec Waggoman (Donald Crisp), to deliver some supplies to the store Barbara Waggoman (Cathy O'Donnel) and investigate the murder of his brother, a soldier killed with his patrol by the Apaches, trying to find who is supplying rifles to the Apaches. He has a problem with Dave Waggoman (Alex Nicol) and Vic Hansbro (Arthur Kennedy), respectively the spoiled son and right arm of Alec, but is supported by Kate Canady (Aline Macmahon), the former fiancée of Alec and owner of the Half Moon Farm. The Man from Laramie is a great classic western with a tale of greed, revenge and justice. This highly recommended movie is excellent, with great performances and direction and wonderful landscapes. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) 'Um Certo Capitão Lockhart' ('A Certain Captain Lockhart') "},{"Title":"It's a bit like King Lear out west.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, about 10 years back, I was not much impressed and totally failed to notice the similarities to Shakespeare's King Lear. The fit isn't perfect, of course, but on a recent reviewing, the King Lear aspect rather leapt out at me. Like most of Shakespeare, King Lear is very cinematic in presentation, and the characters and situations might have fit well into a film noir of the 1940's and 1950's. Perhaps this western movie is not fully classifiable as film noir, but the characters are surely noirish, and director Mann shows a fondness for outdoor scenes near sunset, which lend a dark aspect when appropriate to the action. There are formula aspects to the western plot--a land grabbing range baron, gun running to the indians, revenge for a killing, etc.--but it is far from typical formula in the complex characters we meet. Alec Waggoman, the rancher, is as rough as they come, but he can show a sense of fair play at times, and has many self doubts and strange forebodings. Will Lockhart, former cavalry captain and seeming peaceful freight wagon operator, is driven by a fierce desire to revenge himself on the gun runner whose sale of repeating rifles to the Apaches made possible the massacre of a cavalry patrol his young brother was leading. Vic, ranch foreman and sort of foster son to Alec, is not quite the loyal and fair minded man he seems at first. Dave, Alec's near psychopathic son, is not quite the simple villain either. Oh, he is evil enough, but his upbringing was anything but normal--a simple minded doting mother and a ruthless driving father who played the foster son off against his actual son. Why? Presumably to make him tough. Like King Lear, Alec, who is going blind, speaks of handing his ranch over to his son and his foreman. Kate, a small ranch owner, seems like a dedicated enemy of Alec's, but she was once engaged to marry him. And simple, sweet Barbara longs desperately to get away from the rough west and return to civilisation, even as she plans to marry the Vic, the foreman. Man, wouldn't these characters, transported to the big city, fit right into your typical film noir? Director Mann handles the people and their situation deftly against a rugged New Mexico background and manages to weave a good bit of mystery and suspense, not to mention some possibly intentional loose ends into the fabric. True, at the end there is a departure from film noir tradition in that there is a kind of happy denouement, but even that promises problems. All of the cast turn in first rate performances, especially Arthur Kennedy as Vic, whose mobile face reflects his every emotion,so that you feel you can read his mind. It is good to see veteran actress Aline MacMahon as Kate, given her usual subtly underplayed reading of the part. In her younger days, Aline, not reckoned a beauty by Hollywood standards, could have made a fine Botticelli model. See her in ONE WAY PASSAGE and HEAT LIGHTNING to understand what I mean. "},{"Title":"King Lear?  More like King Ralph.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Jimmy Stewart! Check! Beautiful New Mexico scenery! Check! Thematic Western Music! Check! Dialogue and plot... mysteriously absent. Sadly, this movie stumbles and bumbles through its script like a town drunk that even Jimmy Stewart couldn't save from being stabbed in an alley.One cannot criticize Jimmy Stewart, though. As always, the man was an excellent actor and played his role with characteristic grit and charm. Even better, his dialogue made sense. The same, however, cannot be said for many of the other characters in the film. In several instances of the film supporting characters contradict their own statements, often doing so in the very next breath. Or through dialogue they show poor reasoning that leads one to believe that these people couldn't be listening to what is being said.Nor can some events in the story be adequately explained, such as the entire reason that brings Jimmy Stewart to the town the selling of guns to the Apaches. Why? Even the antagonists who are doing the selling argue about the wisdom of this. There are some holes in the plot of this film that a flaming wagon could be driven through.Despite my criticism, The Man from Laramie is still an entertaining film. It has the distinction of being one of the Westerns that revitalized the genre during the 50's. Watch it for Jimmy, for the scenery, and for the action. But do not over estimate the craftsmanship of this script. King Lear this film is not. "},{"Title":"Dark Shakespearean Western.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  One of my favorite Westerns.  The best of the James Stewart /  Anthony Mann collaborations.  Spooky and Freudian. "},{"Title":"Could have used a better script","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The Man From Laramie is the last completed western of the James Stewart- Anthony Mann combination. They started Night Passage together, but quarreled and James Neilson finished it. Stewart-Mann turned out some great westerns and three other films as well and all were good entertainment. The Man From Laramie is probably the weakest of the five westerns. It seems better than it is because of the quality of company of players Anthony Mann got for this film. The story has way too many improbabilities.Stewart plays an army captain on leave on a personal mission to find out who sold Apaches repeating rifles with which they massacred an army patrol led by Stewart's brother. He arrives at his destination and tangles with the spoiled and crazy son of the owner of the local Ponderosa.The owner is Donald Crisp, as always a strong character and his son is played by Alex Nicol. Nicol delivers a scenery chewing performance as a really rotten human being, the kind you go to the movies and love to hate. The point is that Nicol is so bad and so obviously lacking a whole suit in his deck of cards is that why would anyone get any kind of close to him to have private dealings. Yet that's what we're asked to believe.Arthur Kennedy is the foreman of Donald Crisp's ranch. His is the same role that Charlton Heston did in The Big Country, the orphan kid who gets taken in by the big landowner and raised by him. But Charles Bickford had a daughter there.Kennedy is courting Cathy O'Donnell who is Crisp's niece and Nicol's cousin. She owns the local mercantile and upon Stewart's arrival she starts reevaluating her personal life. She's playing an older version of the part she had in The Best Years of Our Lives as Harold Russell's fiancé. Another big plot hole is that the people dealing with the Apaches are doling out the weapons bit by bit afraid of starting a general Indian uprising. Leaving aside the question of why they're selling them at all, why don't the Apaches just follow them to where the supply is and take the weapons? The only other two roles of consequence are Wallace Ford as Stewart's sidekick and Aline McMahon as the owner of a rival spread to Crisp's. Both deliver in their usual good style.It's not a bad western, but the script and the character motivation from the script could have used some rethinking. "},{"Title":"Mann/Stewart Western.","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This tale of revenge and family dynamics in the Southwest is lifted above the routine by a couple of elements. The location shooting in New Mexico is nicely done. There are a couple of stand-out scenes. And most of the important performances are splendidly executed.Anthony Mann and Jimmy Stewart made a number of Westerns in the post-war period that were unusual in that they revealed a sort of neurotic rage in Jimmy Stewart, previously best known for being a simple nice guy on the screen. A startling intensity began showing through his performances beginning with It's A Wonderful Life (1946). Whether his experiences during the war had anything to do with it or whether he was making a career move to break out of stereotyped roles, we don't know. Maybe both.In any case Anthony Mann's direction seemed to provide a channel for Stewart's rage. This is a brutal movie. More than that, it was shocking at the time of its release. It was unnerving to see someone shoot a dozen mules on the screen, for instance, and Stewart's reaction to the slaughter underlines the horror. Later there is a prolonged and graphic fist fight between Stewart on the one hand and Alex Nicol and Arthur Kennedy on the other. And, most terrible of all, a scene in which Nicol deliberately and at close range shoots a hole through captive Stewart's outstretched palm. With each outrage, Stewart is as adept at registering pain as fury.I'm going to skip over the family dynamics because they're a little complicated, though accessible to adults, and a little overdrawn. There are some women involved but they're dispensable. Everyone gets what's more or less coming to him.Alex Nicol does a fine job as the spoiled, power-hungry, narcissistic son of Donald Crisp, the old rancher who owns this country. The problem with Nicol's role is that it's one dimensional. He has no redeeming qualities whatever, and we know from the moment he plugs Stewart's hand that he's dead meat, no matter what else happens.The same can't be said for Arthur Kennedy as the devoted surrogate son whose position as heir to the ranch is very fragile. But Kennedy's forte is projecting indignation -- as in Why are you DOING this to me?, and he does it superbly, better than anyone else active on the screen during this period. And he makes his filial loyalty, his love, for Old Man Crisp believable, even touching in its abjectness.This was the last film Anthony Mann and Jimmy Stewart made together. Stewart opted out partly because he felt he was moving from one stereotype (the nice guy) into another (the neurotic cowboy). He made another movie along similar lines, Night Passage (1957), but it seemed an imitation of what Mann and Stewart had been doing together earlier. "},{"Title":"Out West With The Waggomans","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This final Mann-Stewart western seemed to be a kind of pastiche of elements from their previous ones - including (just off the top of my head) the grizzled old sidekick (Wallace Ford instead of Walter Brennan or Millard Mitchell), the violent psycho (Alex Nicol instead of Dan Duryea), Stewart being physically abused, and Arthur Kennedy co-starring again (Bend Of the River).On the other hand, it's very different. Mann-Stewart westerns usually don't include the rich landowner type of storyline, and usually don't take place in town (or, not for long). The big ranch western and the town western are hardly ever as interesting to me as the ones that take you on an adventure across open country. Maybe because the former type tend to be dramas, rather than action-adventures.I think this is the only Mann-Stewart western where you'll see characters drinking their coffee out of china cups and saucers (or was I imagining that?). And, though there's the usual shocking violence, it somehow seems tacked on for effect, rather than organic.The cast and direction are really great - I guess I'm not as crazy about the situations or the setting. "}{"Title":"Great Jimmy Stewart Western.","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Top notch western. I have always felt Jimmy Stewart made the finest westerns, and this is one of his best. He is excellent, and the supporting cast is great as well, mainly Donald Crisp and Aline MacMahon. Great production values, well written, good color cinematography and better than average period detail. It rises above most westerns because it has more than just a basic plot, there are complexities to the story and the characters. More violent than most westerns from this period. Director Anthony Mann does a great job developing the story and characters. Cathy O'Donnell is surprisingly effective, I had a hard time visualizing her in a western role, but she does fine. "},{"Title":"My boyhood hero","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" When I was a young boy of 11 and 12, James Stewart played this same type of man on the radio in 1953 and 1954 as The Six Shooter, the Texas plainsman who left behind a trail of still remembered legends. Even now I think it was the best radio drama I ever heard. I loved radio's Gunsmoke and yet The Six Shooter was far better. I wanted to be just like him as I grew up, and I think it has affected me all my life. It only lasted one year because apparently James Stewart refused to advertise cigarettes.I don't know about director Mann but I do remember that my older brother Tom and I could not wait until the Man from Laramie came to the local screen, in 1957 as I recall. A far more heroic man than John Wayne, who never even served his country in the military. The character Brit Ponsett(sp?) was a wonderful role model for us kids that had life long inspiration. The character in The Man From Laramie was obviously also something heartfelt by James Stewart himself. "},{"Title":"Revenge western with a complex plot","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The last collaboration between director Mann and star Stewart resulted in this marvelous western classic. It's similar to their earlier efforts plot-wise but the violence portrayed is more sadistic than what was seen on the screen earlier.Stewart is very convincing in his part as a soldier seeking out his brother's murderer. There's also a subplot involving the crazed heir (Alex Nicol), the adopted son (Arthur Kennedy), of a big rancher (Donald Crisp) that lends very much tension to the movie. Crisp and Kennedy are magnificent in their parts,but I found Alex Nicol way over the top.The female love-interest is portrayed by Cathy O'Donnell who delivers a rather wooden performance. "},{"Title":"James Stewart investigates the mysteries behind the murder of his brother.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The fifth, and last, western that had James Stewart as the star and Anthony Mann as the director. Even though it is considered a classic and Stewart being dragged through a fire is one of the greatest and most memorable scenes in movie history, it is not my favorite. In fact, it has the lowest rating in my opinion out of all five Stewart-Mann westerns. Even though I do like it a lot, and I watch it often, it is just not as good or have such a greatness in plot and characters as the other four do. But it does have the usual themes of revenge, cowardice, love, pride, and violence like the other four do. The intriguing thing about these films is that in every one, it has the same themes, but, under Mann's direction, each theme was presented a different way in every film. Problems that I feel need to be solved are the dispute of who killed Chris Boldt? Was the Indian shopkeeper involved with the plot about selling rifles to the Apaches? Was he the leader of the Indians that, at the end, came to get the guns? First of all, the person who killed Chris Boldt was Vic. This is clearly stated in the scene when Lockhart, Canaday, and Ms. Waggoman are all waiting in the parlor for news on Alec after the accident that he had with the horse. The doctor comes out of the bedroom, and it is revealed that Alec is blind, he had no business to be on a horse, and Lockhart deduces that the person who pushed Alec off the horse was also the person who killed Dave and Chris Boldt. Vic killed Dave, and he pushed Alec off the horse, so that means, according to Lockhart, Vic killed Chris. If this seems untrue to you, go back to the scene where Lockhart is in town, he walks down the alley, Chris jumps off a roof, tackles Stewart, tries to kill him with a knife, and then runs away. Obviously, he was not able to overpower Stewart, so he got scared. Then, Lockhart goes into the church, talks to Ms. Waggoman and her friend, and Vic comes in LATE. This pulled up an immediate red flag for me the first time I watched this. It seems Chris ran down the other end of the alley, met Vic, told him of his failure in killing Stewart, and Vic killed him. Besides, Vic seemed suspicious to me not very long into his first scene. He just seemed too good to be true. As for John War Eagle being involved with the plot about the rifles, I don't think he was as much involved as Vic and Dave were, but I do think he at least supported it, and he did seem not too happy when Lockhart was curious about the rifle in the store. I do not think he was the leader of the Indians at the end of the movie that came to get their rifles. Anyways, back to my comments. Another thing is that every time, Stewart always plays a very similar character, but he has different troubles and trials. One thing that is always the same (except for this one and The Far Country) is that Stewart always gets the girl, but before he can do that, that girl's boyfriend gets killed, and she realizes that she has loved him all along. In this one, she likes him, he likes her, and her boyfriend is killed, but Stewart cannot stay with her, because he has to get back to his post. A coincidence between this one and Bend of the River is that in Bend of the River, her boyfriend is Arthur Kennedy, and in this, her boyfriend is also Arthur Kennedy. This coincidence just shows how a great actor like Kennedy could play two different roles, with the same star, but not have the two roles be copies of each other, but instead, be mostly contrasted. "},{"Title":"I'm not the man in your dream, Mr. Waggoman.","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The Man from Laramie was the final of eight pictures that James Stewart made with director Anthony Mann during the first half of the 1950s, and as a Western, this picture is absolutely superlative. The setting is Coronado, New Mexico. The man from Laramie is Will Lockhart (Stewart), a man with a clearly defined mission to locate & gun down the man responsible for selling repeating rifles to the Apaches who massacred a U.S. Cavalry patrol, one soldier of whom was Lockhart's brother.The cast of The Man from Laramie was well chosen. My favorite actor James Stewart is wonderful as the tough, vengeful, yet fairly likable Will Lockhart, fearlessly determined to find the culprit who ultimately caused his brother's demise. Arthur Kennedy is superb as Vic Hansbro, foreman of the Barb Ranch who, although he reveals some considerable character flaws, still maintains a strong sense of decency for a majority of the film. The elderly Donald Crisp is equally superb as Alec Waggoman, the proud landowner of not only the Barb Ranch but also virtually the entire town of Coronado. The beautiful Cathy O'Donnell is great as Alec's niece Barbara, owner of the Waggoman Mercantile who is just about as friendly and decent as can be. Alex Nicol was the perfect choice for the role of Alec's son Dave, a young man who tries to cover up his weakness with sheer wildness and arrogance, showing absolutely no trace of decency or compassion. Aline MacMahon is fine as the lovable & helpful Kate Canaday, owner of the Half Moon Ranch and a rival to the Barb. Not to mention the kind-faced Wallace Ford as Will Lockhart's friend Charley O'Leary, and Jack Elam (one of my favorite Western bad guys) as Chris Boldt.My favorite scenes in The Man from Laramie include the following. The two most brutal sequences in this fine Western are those of Lockhart being roped & dragged through a fire and, much later on, getting shot in the hand at an extremely close range! The fury on Lockhart's face is absolutely frightening during the lengthy shot of him walking towards Dave, intent on beating him up for shooting Lockhart's mules and burning his wagons. After Alec pays Lockhart for Dave's ineptitude, Alec and Vic have a minor confrontation, Alec being furious that Vic didn't stop Dave from his wild act, and Vic being furious that Alec has reneged his promise to pass his ownership of the Barb on to Vic. While Lockhart sits in jail for a crime he did not commit, Alec tells him of the harrowing dreams he has at night of someone with Lockhart's tall & lean physique who arrives at the Barb to kill Dave. Near the end, after Alec has become blind from being pushed off his horse and tumbling down a steep cliff, he quietly reveals to Lockhart the identity of the gunrunner he has been seeking all along.The Man from Laramie is simply a brilliant Western, and James Stewart portrays the type of flawed hero that is characteristic of his previous Westerns with director Anthony Mann. Will Lockhart is a seemingly friendly & easygoing gentleman, but once somebody gets on his wrong side, he becomes a frightening neurotic as he unleashes all of his fury, both physically and emotionally. The Man from Laramie was Mr. Stewart's favorite of his Westerns with Anthony Mann, and probably many authors & critics claim this film to be Stewart's & Mann's greatest collaboration. "},{"Title":"A special Mann/Stewart Western","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" In this part of New Mexico territory, Alec Waggoman (Donald Crisp) is the big landowner and cattleman, having struggled with Apaches and driven out intruders. Now, getting old and going blind, he looks to pass off responsibility to his son Dave (Alex Nicol). Sadistic Dave, not understanding the changing nature of the West, thinks the only way to win his father's approval is by being as cold and brutal as he saw his father while growing up. Vic Hansboro (Arthur Kennedy), Alec's foreman and adopted son, is charged with the responsibility of taking care of Dave, but he has his own plans; he intends to claim a share in the ranch whether Alec approves of him or not. Kate Canady (Aline MacMahon) is the Waggomans' major competitor who refuses to give up or be driven out. She is Alec's former lover and she still holds the torch for him. Into all of this rides the man from Laramie, Will Lockhart (James Stewart). To all appearances, he is there to deliver some wagons of supplies, but he has a hidden agenda. His young brother was part of a cavalry patrol that was wiped out by Apaches with repeating rifles. When he finds the man responsible for selling them to the Indians, he intends to extract his revenge. Barbara Waggoman (Cathy O'Donnell) is the pretty shopkeeper who invites Lockhart to stay for tea, a rare thing for man who spends most of his time out on the trail; it looks as if romance looms on the horizon. Well, that is the mix. How it all plays out is for you to see and enjoy. Considered brutal when it appeared in the 1950's, The Man from Laramie is quite tame by today's standards. It seems that audiences then were unaccustomed to seeing such things as a man being dragged through fire or being shot at point blank range through the hand. The latter is never actually shown on screen and it is a testament to Stewart's skill as an actor that he could convey it all through the look on his face and the agony in his voice. This was the final collaboration between the director Anthony Mann and his main leading man. Though perhaps not the best of the bunch (The Naked Spur and Winchester '73 are both superior in my opinion), it is good enough. Stewart himself claimed it as his personal favorite of all his Westerns. (I have a letter from his secretary telling me so.) It also has special significance for me, as it was the first time, at a young age, to meet up with the man who played the man from Laramie. From then on I never missed anything in which he appeared at our local theater. "},{"Title":"Strong performance driven Western with great set pieces.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" When I think of 'The Man From Laramie,' there are several set pieces which make this film a classic and a must-see for fans of the western genre. Anthony Mann was a director of considerable skill. Consider the following two sequences 1. Will (Jimmy Stewart) is hot for revenge after Dave (Alex Nicol) burns his wagons and kills all of his mules. Will is on the far side of the street and the camera locks on to his face -- Will sees that Dave has just ridden into town and is trying to lead his cattle into a corral. Never cutting away, we watch as Stewart slowly and purposefully crosses the street. His face slowly fills with intensity until he gets almost beside his prey. The camera never cuts away but slowly pans across as Stewart yells DAVE!, and begins a fist fight that John Wayne and Yakima Canutt would be proud of. Imagine the discipline and patience that Mann needed. How many directors, especially today's MTV version, would have been tempted to cut back and forth. We see Stewart, than Nicol, than Stewart -- he's getting closer, than Nicol ... It is a marvelous sequence highlighted by an excellent crescendo in a score that largely blends seamlessly into the background.2. The later gunfight between Will and Dave. Having ambushed Will, Dave actually gets the worst of it when Will shoots him through the hand. Dave gets his revenge through numbers. His men overwhelm Will and Dave forces Will to hold his hand out. Eye for an eye, hand for a hand ... Mann makes it very clear that Will is going to be shot in the hand at close range. We see the entire set up but the camera slowly pulls away to look at Jimmy Stewart's face. Extremely well done.The strength of 'The Man From Laramie' is two-fold direction and performances. Every single actor in this film puts in a top notch job. It should not be surprising to find that Stewart is very good. Alex Nicol turns in an inspired performance. Arthur Kennedy has a terrific part as the ranch foreman Vic -- perhaps among the best in his career.'The Man From Laramie' is only really hampered by a script littered with grand canyon sized plot holes. Examples 1. Will is delivering goods as a pretense for finding the man or men who are selling repeating rifles to the Apaches -- and are thereby connected to the murder of his brother. Despite this, Will is prepared to leave town quickly with a load of salt and stays only because of the attack by Dave and his men. Also, Chris (Jack Elam) tells him that he specializes in selling information. If Will were really interested in finding out who sold the guns, wouldn't he buy information from Chris rather than tell him to take a hike? On the subject of Chris, he tries to murder Will (perhaps for the earlier slight) but ends up being murdered himself. This is unconvincingly blamed on Vic later in the film.2. Vic begins the film trying to do right by everyone and play the role of peace keeper. By the end of the film he has murdered Dave, allegedly murdered Chris, attempted to murder his boss, engaged in fraud and is attempting to become an arms dealer. Keep in mind that he loves his boss like a father, is a big brother to the unstable Dave and passionately argues against Dave for selling the guns to the Apaches (makes a comment that as soon as they have the guns they'll attack and kill everyone in town). It could be argued that, as in many film-noirs, an unstoppable chain of events has begun which morally compromise and destroy the central character. Quite a shift though to voice concern about the potential massacre of the town and then later try to carry on with sale anyway -- AND after you murdered the first guy to stop him from selling the guns in the first place! There are more problems but these ones listed are the most grievous.In short then, 'The Men From Laramie' is a great example of a film with a potentially lame duck script that is saved by great sequences, excellent direction and very strong performances. Despite plot holes it is a very good film with a sharp edge. In 'The Man From Laramie' there are many grey hats but very few white or black ones. It is a gritty transitional film that borrows heavily from it's director's noir experience. Well worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"Man on a Mission","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" A fascinating flick with lots going on and lots of surprises. I thought I learned way back in Film 101 that a great movie never opens with its leading character. This is not a great movie and it does open with Stewart, reins in hand. Any film with Arthur Kennedy joining Stewart (Bend in the River) has got to be good. Another fine performance in a western by Stewart who represents what Wayne never could, The Duke is physically untouchable and I suppose never lost a fight on screen. Stewart gets tied up, dragged thru fire and shot. His fight with Kennedy reminds me somewhat of Steve McQueen & Martin Landau in Nevada Smith. Yet he retains his dignity, his purpose and even his fascination with the female lead. Kennedy's brother Crazy Dave is unlike any character I've seen on the Western screen in the 50-70's. I'm not literate enough to get into the comparisons with King Lear etc. I just know you'll enjoy all the business/family backstabbing by the Waggonman family. "},{"Title":"What westerns should be","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Despite a conflated plot line, MAN FROM LARAMIE is a great little western. What makes this work is the fine acting from James Stewart and the always interesting Arthur Kennedy (see PEYTON PLACE). Story of mystery, revenge and lots of plot twists keeps you on the edge of your seat. The splendid CinemaScope photography is a real plus, as is the music score. The Mann/Stewart films are some of the best westerns of the 50's, this probably the best, but all worth looking at. Stewart really developed a edge in these films almost like Clint Eastwood would portray years later. This is a real gem and should not be missed for anyone who likes adult westerns. Looking forward to NAKED SPUR on DVD. "},{"Title":"Great 1955 Classic Film","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This was a very enjoyable film from 1955 and this is not your average type of Western starring James Stewart,(Will Lockhart), who has several wagons of house goods driven by mules to delivery to a Alec Waggoman. Will delivers the merchandise to a Barbara Waggoman,(Cathy O'Donnell), who is not very happy about receiving this merchandise, as she wants to quit the business and move away from her father Alec Waggoman,(Donald Crisp) who is very rich and owns almost everything in town and the outskirts. Will decides to travel back to Laramie and takes some salt to transport back and winds up getting into all kinds of trouble with Arthur Kennedy,(Vic Hansbro) over this simple taking of table salt. Will Lockhart decides to stay around and solve some very dark past events which happened to his family in this town. Great Classic James Stewart Film. "}{"Title":"One of the great American westerns","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is one of the great American westerns. A must see for fans of the genre. Others should enjoy it as well. Of the four top notch westerns made by Anthony Mann with James Stewart in the lead role, The Man from Laramie is the best one. The story, based on one from the Saturday Evening Post, is somewhat of a variation on Shakespeare's King Lear. Alec Waggoman has a cattle empire with only a worthless son, Dave, to carry on the Waggonman tradition. He also has reared Vic Hansbro as a son but not by blood which is an important distinction for the old man. Enter a stranger, the man from Laramie, who is hunting down a gunrunner who sold repeating rifles to the Apaches which led to his kid brother's death from ambush. The trail leads to the Waggonman ranch following a confrontation between Dave and the man from Laramie, Will Lockhart. One member of the Waggonman family catches Will Lockhart's eye, pretty (beatiful as he calls her) Barbara Waggonman. About the only independent rancher in the area is Kate Canady, who once was intent on marrying Alec until Dave's mother entered the picture, hence one of the reasons Kate is determined to stand her ground against the Waggonman's. She takes Will in as one of her ranch hands. Alec has a recurring dream where he sees a tall stranger coming to town and killing his son. He believes the stranger in his dreams to be Will Lockhart. But is He? The viewer finds the answer as the movie unfolds.The acting is first rate with an outstanding performance by a virtual unknown actor named Alex Nicol. Why his talents were never recognized by Hollywood is a mystery. Nicol's plays the hot headed near-psycho son, Dave, to perfection, doing some of the best acting you're ever likely to see on the big screen. Donald Crisp as the old man is ideally cast. Stewart is as good as ever, no longer the squeaky-clean Mr. Smith. In the Anthony Mann westerns he was able to show what a truly versatile actor he could be with the right director.Another strength this Anthony Mann/James Stewart western has over the previous three is the wide-screen format. Cinemascope adds much to the on-location shooting in New Mexico. Be sure and see this one letter-boxed. You'll be missing a lot otherwise.One major weakness is the wasting of Jack Elam in a bit part. Another is the introduction in the beginning of the film of a native American who apparently works for Barbara Waggonman and slips around at first spying on Will Lockhart to the point of witnessing the fight between Will and Chris Boldt (Jack Elam) after Boldt jumps Will with a knife. The native American denies that he saw it to the sheriff which leads the viewer to suspect that he murdered Boldt. The inference is that the native American is working for Dave Waggonman but the role is dropped at this point. This part of the movie is a bit jagged and confusing. It was refreshing, however, to see cowboy veteran actor Eddy Waller in one scene.Another weakness is the music. Too bad someone such as Tex Ritter, a cowboy folklorist from Texas, wasn't used. He had done such a magnificent job with High Noon just a few years before. Instead we get the likes of Lester Lee.There are a few upsetting scenes for youngsters, such as the shooting of the mules and the shooting of Will Lockhart's hand. But for adults this is one to watch. "},{"Title":"A western version of bad day at black rock","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Let's admit that this film was done before than bad day at black rock (1956), but its plot is very similar. Lockhart arrives in a village supposedly to leave some merchandises when in fact he was investigating the massacre of some soldiers by the Apaches and the trade of weapons by the wealthy people of the village with Apaches, while in bad day at black rock you have an agent also covered trying to investigate the ways a Nipon- American was killed in a small village. That's why I am saying of the similarities of both films. James Stewart gave the necessary color to this western, something that I cannot say about Arthur Kennedy. It is an acceptable western but personally I believe that there are others much better than the present one.          "},{"Title":"Great Western","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" And I don't mean the NY state champagne with the same name. The Man From Laramie is vastly entertaining and one of the best of a normally clichéd genre. It lends added substance when the characters have motivation instead of just fighting and shooting, and Director Mann always makes sure his characters have that extra dimension.This is one of James Stewart's best westerns, which contains the right mix of action and drama. He has come to avenge his younger brother's death and can marshal very little help from the area's inhabitants, especially from the family that owns most everything in sight. The family is run by patriarch Alec Waggoman, played by Donald Crisp. His irresponsible son is played by Alex Nicol, and his foreman is played by Arthur Kennedy, one of Hollywood's best character actors. He lacked matinée idol looks but elevated every picture he was in with his superior acting skills. He doesn't disappoint here.Hard to find a flaw in this movie. Thought I saw it when I was 13, but I guess I missed one. Several reviewers mention inconsistencies and contrivances in the narrative and maybe they're right, but, c'mon folks. It's a western and the idea is to just go with it. James Stewart, Anthony Mann, a terrific support cast, lots of action and a good story - why spoil things with logic? "},{"Title":"Solid James Stewart western","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" As this film opens protagonist Will Lockhart is on his way to the town of Coronado to deliver supplies to Waggoman's Store; on the way he stops briefly at the site of a battle where a cavalry unit had clearly been massacred. Once he has delivered the goods he asks store owner Barbara Waggoman if there is anything he can take back to Laramie so he isn't just taking wagons; she says that there is plenty of salt that he could take from the local salt pan so long as he keeps his eyes open for Apaches. It turns out it isn't the Apaches he needed to worry about; he is attacked by Barbara's cousin Dave; a hothead who doesn't want anybody on their land even if they are just taking salt. He destroys Lockhart's wagons and kills several of his mules. Paying off his men Lockhart stays in Coronado... he doesn't just want restitution for the wagons and mules; he has a far more personal reason to be there; his brother was one of the cavalry men killed and he is intent on finding out just who sold repeating rifles to the Apaches. Before he can find out who is responsible he will get caught in a long running feud between the Waggomans and rival rancher Kate Canady and have more than one further run in with Dave.This is a great western; largely due to the central performance from James Stewart as Lockhart; while his character is softly spoken and always polite there is always the sense that if pushed he will fight back hard. Other notable performances come from Arthur Kennedy who played Waggoman's foreman Vic Hansbro; Barbara's fiancé and the man Alec Waggoman trusts to keep his wayward son under control and Donald Crisp who plays Alec; a severe man who knows that his son isn't fit to inherit the business but loves him despite his faults. There isn't a huge amount of action but what there is is tense and in some cases quite shocking. There is a nice twist towards the end but I won't spoil it by giving any details. Filmed on location in New Mexico the scenery looked great and made a nice change from the Southern California scenery that seems to double for anywhere in America in some westerns! "},{"Title":"It's  one of the most complete film by A.Mann.","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lockhart, the hero played by James Stewart is polite and calm, but a matter of revenge. From Laramie to Coronado, New Mexico, conducts three freight wagons pulled by mules, and pauses to look charred corpses, the remains of an Apache ambush a detachment of cavalry. In Coronado begins to investigate who supplied repeating rifles to the Apaches. The region is dominated by a severe landowner and widower, old, with a spoiled child and a competent overseer who apparently is like family.In the wonderful architecture of this film is assembled with the western parts of Cinema Noir, crime and corruption laid bare behind the facade of a decent society, and epic narrative components, provided by the great landscape treatment. Mann did without the filming of the studies, SIGNED entire film on location. It also highlights the music, scored for reinforcement of the magnitude Consistently, the dialogues are accurate, direct, and very effective. It is the epic of the constitution, in the Indian territories of the large estates, fighting each other for dominance, and to add size to the argument, one of its principal axes is a premonitory dream, a nightmare repeated the landlord, in the a stranger appears in their domains with a nefarious plan.The style developed by Mann westerns relies on the camera down a bit to cover more sky. Thus, the fabulous scenarios, leaving nature to express its power in imposing panoramic skies include complex, where glitter clouds mixed. Amid a general trend of heavy exertion, scalable characters on horseback incredibly steep areas. In turn, the interiors are as thorough and Flemish paintings, clothing, furniture, curtains and wood are harmonized in the ranges of red and ocher earth and the plains.All this amount of incentives make The Man from Laramie one of the most complete and mature movies of Mann, which is the culmination of his collaboration with James Stewart in full. "},{"Title":"Danger was this man's specialty; so they never bossed nor double-crossed the man from Laramie","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" James Stewart came back from his time in the Air Force (during World War 2) and found he couldn't play the same roles he had been playing pre-war. Stewart was being introduced to a new audience. Anthony Mann helped him do that with a string of successful westerns, starting with Winchester '73 in 1950. This new persona stuck and Stewart generally acted in edgier roles going forward.The Man from Laramie is about a mysterious cowboy who rides in from Laramie with three wagons full of supplies for the local general store. We're eventually introduced to the real reason Will Lockhart, the man from Laramie, is here. He wants justice, maybe just revenge, for his late brother.Stewart and Arthur Kennedy headline an above average cast here. The acting is strong throughout and there are few true villains in this one. Each character is two dimensional with their own positives and negatives as we all are. "},{"Title":"Man from Laramie-Go East Western Movie Lovers **","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" In fact, this film heads southward after an impressive start. There are inconsistencies here such as Arthur Kennedy killing a man for doing what he does later on.Aline MacMahon attempts to portray a feisty woman, but let's face it, Aline, who attended my alma mater, Erasmus Hall High School, in Brooklyn is anything but the feisty type. You need someone of the caliber of Marjorie Main in the role.As for Donald Crisp in the role of the patriarch, he is not exactly Mr. Morgan, the prize role that got him an Oscar 14 years before in the memorable How Green Was My Valley.William Wyler's sister-in-law, the always frail looking Kathy O'Donnell, is far too dainty in her part as the young lass who came out west with her father and instead found herself amidst quite a family. O'Donnell, who never looked better in a film, acts as if she came out of a finishing school. The part was beneath her, for she gave outstanding performances as Wilma, Harold Russell's self-sacrificing girlfriend in The Best Years of Our Lives, and Tierza, the leprosy victim, sister of Charlton Heston, in Ben-Hur.James Stewart in the lead of the film again comes off as the aw-shucks guy. Arthur Kennedy, as always, steals the film in a complex role of a dedicated foreman to Crisp resorting to violence when things don't go his way. "},{"Title":"an excellent Western where the good guys are not so good and the bad guys are not so bad","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The Man from Laramie, like another fantastic James Stewart-Anthony Mann collaboration The Naked Spur is a classic in the Western genre. Like the said 1953 film, it brilliantly takes a plot formula that is familiar to us and inventively twists it to make it stand out above many of its contemporaries and imitators and kin. It also stands out because Mann again reuses his excellent trait of portraying the characters as three-dimensional human beings with personality and faults; in essence, the good guys (even Jimmy Stewart) are not so good and the bad guys are not so bad.James Stewart stars as a former soldier who finds himself pitted against a cattle empire led by a rough Westerner (Donald Crisp) when the old man's reckless son burns his supply wagons and kills his pack animals. Stewart starts befriending local rivals of the cattle empire, all the while seeking more than just compensation for his burned wagons, although he will not reveal the other sort of revenge that he's after.It was always fascinating to watch James Stewart play a character that's a little opposite of his usual cinema facet. Here, he doesn't play a character that's really innocent or noble. He's got a darker side to him. But he's three-dimensional; there's a softer, more audience-friendly side as well. His relationship to the Cathy O'Donnell character is well-written and fascinating and their relationship does not spill over into the tired old romantic subplot. In addition, it's refreshing to see a Western where the big rough cattle baron is actually a sympathetic person despite his greed and lust for dominance over the land. The most sympathetic (and most tragic) character in the film is the cattle baron's foreman wonderfully played by veteran actor Arthur Kennedy. In regards to the other performances, Jack Elam shines in another villainous role, Alex Nicol is vicious as the cattle baron's temperamental son, and Aline MacMahon is utterly great as the tough-as-nails cattle baroness who enlists Stewart's help in the range war.It's the character study, not the plot, that drives this terrific Anthony Mann Western. He proved it before with the even better The Naked Spur and proves it again here. This was the last time Mann and Stewart collaborated for a Western, but it was a more than suitable way to wrap it up. "},{"Title":"Deserves more attention","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Hard to believe I missed this jewel before. Just an outstanding collaboration by Stewart/Mann. I really don't see the brutality here that so many people are quick to scream these days, and who gives a flying f#@k about King Lear? This is just a great Western in the classic sense. Jimmy Stewart was always his best in the I'm gonna get you sucka' role and he is terrific here. The story outweighs some casting issues but you won't care. Cathy O'Donnell is exactly like Stewart describes her...beautiful, a fragile genuine treasure. The DVD transfer is nothing but spectacular. I've never seen colors like this anywhere and there's plenty of scenery to wow at. Amazing actually but that's an Anthony Mann trademark. Just jumped into my top five all time list. 9 mules. "},{"Title":"Too talky, without presence a bore","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" James Stewart is the saving grace here, but it's not enough. The story has a few characters, which ought to make it interesting, but it's just blah, blah, blah. James Stewart's fellow actors in this film are pretty wooden, one opponent being out of control, the other being a tough guy like Stewart. Neither have any subtlety or any nuance to their acting. They talk a lot, while little was worth saying. The female interest offers a waste of space, while an older woman gets a few good lines before petering out into yet another without any character. The plot moves along pointlessly, like a sort of Western soap. This film is after some realism, but real people can be interesting too! Here none are other than Stewart. Even he seems to be repeating the expression Mann wanted from him, discovered in their previous collaborations the fear and anguish. Here it looks like repetition rather than what was needed for this particular film. Mann has quite some reputation but here it's as exaggerated as this film is underdone. "}{"Title":"Very good but not perfect","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" In the course of trying to find the people who traded guns to the Apache (who used them to kill his kid brother), Will Lockhart falls foul of psycho Dave Waggoman and, by proxy, Dave's rich rancher father and kind of adoptive quasi-brother Vic.I somehow managed to never see this classic western until now. It features James Stewart in one of his iconic roles, and it looks great, with glorious widescreen colour locations. The story, which draws on King Lear, is relatively straightforward, albeit there are some threads which are never fully explored (Will and Barbara), some which are so obvious they might usefully have been avoided, and some - especially Dave's storyline - which get what, in my view, were lamer payoffs than they merited.I feel awful for criticising a classic western, but its strengths vastly outweigh its weaknesses, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Anthony Mann/James Stewart Western #5of5","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Rising Above the Landscape of the Incredible Proliferation of 1950's Westerns are the Films of Anthony Mann. Along with Budd Boetticher They Managed to Break Away from the Herd and Deliver Different, Adult, Complex Movies with Brutal Violence and Interesting Flesh and Blood Characters Roaming Around in the Western Environment.This is the Final of Five Westerns that Director Mann did with Jimmy Stewart and Interested People can Agree or Disagree about which One is the Best, but it Really Doesn't Matter. They are All Way Above Average and have Now Made Their Mark as Artistic and Essential Entertainment.This Film may have an Overbaked Plot with Many Motivational Intrigues that don't Quite Come Together. There is a Hot Headed, Spoiled Brat of a Central Villain that is Way Overacted and the Women are Country Corn. The Landowner Heavy is Drawn to be Very Nasty and Sympathetic at the Same Time and it Barely Works as Engaging.While the Script May have some Inconsistencies and Plods with some Confusion as to Purpose, the Cinemascope Scenery is Vintage Anthony Mann and is Used to Effect as More than just Pretty Pictures, and there is a Stereo Score. But the Highlights are the New Wave of Up Close and Personal Violence, and the Usual Spot On Portrayal of the Conflicted Hero by Stewart. "},{"Title":"Entertaining western","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This western is well-remembered by those who saw it in their youth in the 1950s for it's shocking violence. James Stewart is dragged through fire and later is held by two toughs while he gets a bullet shot through his hand at close range - very ungentlemanly stuff for the period! Today, the scenes showing the vandalising of his waggons and the shooting of his mules feel somehow more unpalatable, possibly because these are shown more directly on camera. With little chance of shocking a modern audience, this film is still entertaining to watch, but otherwise not really worthy of close analysis. The story - like the men - is unsophisticated and the dialogue is pretty lame, generally working best when it's slightly humorous. James Stewart is the lead, but Arthur Kennedy delivers the best acting, providing a convincing performance in a role that is written little more than wafer thin. For my money, one of the best scenes is where Aline Macmahon correctly identifies Stewart as a bachelor. As he's almost drooling over her at this point it must have been very hard to play for both of them without laughing. "},{"Title":"Not the most exciting western but it has a decent story.","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" In essence, all western are of course more or less the same. They feature the same type of characters and story lines and formulaic shootouts. This is also a western, like oh so many got made of during the '50's. It's nothing special really but it also ain't exactly bad or anything. It's very watchable all, though it will over the genre fans little originality or stand out moments.It's not the most exciting movie in terms of its action but it also really ain't a boring one. It's pretty entertaining to watch and light-hearted, as were basically all of these genre movies, made during the same era. It was from the time that westerns were not as gritty and didn't featured any blood, not even after a person got shot.It's a pretty well written story, that has some depth but doesn't got all the way with it all. It keeps the movie entertaining but at the same time doesn't always make it very interesting, or the story compelling enough to care about what is happening on the screen and to the characters.James Stewart never really have been a likely choice for a western but he was always good in it nevertheless. It was the third and last western he made with director Anthony Mann and it also definitely is the least of the bunch. It just isn't as fun and adventurous to watch as the other two movies they did together; Winchester '73 and The Naked Spur, that besides had more originality in it as well with its story and approach.An enjoyable and good western that just isn't anything too special however.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Hi, Plains Drifter","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This, the last of five Westerns that Anthony Mann made with James Stewart (they also made three non-Westerns together) comes across some fifty years later as a trifle on the bland side with few thrills and a distinct lack of chemistry between Steart and Cathy O'Donnell, the nearest thing to a 'love interest' the screenplay offers. In something of a throwback to the first Mann-Stewart western, Winchester 73, Stewart is after vengeance, this time around he's looking for the man who sold repeating rifles to the Apaches as a consequence of which, Stewart's brother was one of a group of US Cavalrymen who died in a massacre. With Stewart as star, of course, it wasn't really necessary to spend money on co-stars and Arthur Kennedy, an equally fine actor, was largely wasted as the real villain - the screenplay likes to blow smoke in our eyes by portraying Alex Nicol in this role, but whilst he is a bona fide sadist and coward it is Kennedy who is ultimately revealed as a cut-rate Iago to Donald Crisp's Othello. Another fine actress, Aline McMahon is also largely wasted; watchable, certainly, but not memorable. "},{"Title":"Convoluted And Pretty Weak","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" James Stewart does his pretty routine stuff as a basically decent bloke pushed beyond his temper.The story wobbles about with very little focus and almost no climax at all. A series of events take place. He gets his wagons burned and mules killed; he gets into a fight; he's thrown into jail; he gets released and is employed by a competitor to the land-grabbing patriarch upon whose property he apparently trespassed at the outset. It was that initial transgression that got his wagons burned. Low and behold, without so much as a by-your-leave he's trespassing again - this time to reclaim some of his new employer's strayed cattle. There's an inconclusive gunfight. The land-grabbing patriarch's son is psychotic (shades of The Big Country). There's a romantic by-line. The romance is on, then it isn't. Or is it? Someone's flogging guns to the Indians. The wagon containing them is pushed off a cliff. Its not a big drop - a couple of hundred feet. The guns are in crates and most would probably have survived despite a small powder-explosion. But nobody goes to check.Stewart's character had a mission to avenge the death of his brother, killed by Apaches in an ambush. He succeeds and goes back to Laramie. That's about it.As I say; apart from the revenge bit, everything else just wobbles along to no particular conclusion at all. Is the girl going to follow her new love interest back to Laramie? Does she know that he's killed her former lover? Who knows? The location work in America's big, wide, wild west is absolutely splendid. It's definitely the star of the show. Jimmy Stewart does his thing as well as he usually does. The rest is a bit of a busted flush. "},{"Title":"THERE'S BETTER","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  The Mann/Stewart collaborations are rightly commended for painting a darker picture of the Wild West, and highlighting the greater depth to Stewart's acting. However, check out 'The Naked Spur' for a better insight into stewart playing a troubled anti-hero. "},{"Title":"one of a string of very good 50s westerns from Jimmy Stewart","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This film is pretty typical of a string of Westerns Jimmy Stewart made in the 1950s. All of them were very good--especially for Westerns, as they rose above a very glutted and mediocre genre. In other words, most Westerns of the time were really predictable and forgettable. Stewart's films, while not exactly great art, were something more--perhaps due to the acting or perhaps due to the excellent production values, as these films weren't just made in a sound stage or in the Hollywood Hills.This particular film has an advantage over some of Stewart's other Westerns because it once again pairs him with Arthur Kennedy, though in this film he isn't nearly as slimy. The film concerns Jimmy looking to investigate the illegal sale of repeating rifles to the Apache as well as exact revenge for his brother's death as a result of this sale. Along the way, he meets up with the local bully, Dave Waggoman, who is both a coward and a complete jerk. Well, I don't want to spoil the suspense--let's just say that the story takes a few twists and turns along the way so that the movie is both involving and interesting. The film isn't quite as good as it could be because the story is a little weaker than some Stewart Westerns. The whole business involving Donald Crisp just seems to work itself out too well in the end. But, still this is a film well worth a look. "},{"Title":"The Broad Based Actor","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  After the success of 'Rear Window', Stewart continued his alliance with Anthony Mann. When Hitchcock had failed to advance Stewart's career with 'Rope', Anthony Mann stepped in to fulfil the job. Now that Anthony Mann's westerns alone were not advancing Stewart's career, Hitchcock stepped in with the 'Best Picture' of 1954. Stewart was now associated with two leading filmmakers, Cecil B. DeMille and Alfred Hitchcock, as well as two 'Best Pictures' (The Greatest Show on Earth and Rear Window) of 1952 and 1954 respectively. He could now stand on his own two feet without the aid of Anthony Mann, and would still be a prized item in Hollywood. This was demonstrated in the film 'The Man from Laramie'. Stewart plays a man that delivers three wagons of cargo whilst in search of the man who murdered his brother. He accidently stumbles across the man whilst in a fight with an immature son of a wealthy landowner. However, Stewart does not discover this until the end of the film as the sub-plot begins to take us through act 2 of the story where Stewart seeks compensation for the damage that the immature son has done to his wagons. It is not until act 3 when the murderer of Stewart's brother attempts to murder the father of the immature son, as well as murdering the immature son, that Stewart realises who he is. He then takes action against him, and achieves his goal that he set out for at the beginning of the film. Straight forward script, poor cast, but no longer a vehicle for the successful James Stewart. "},{"Title":"Weak link in Stewart Mann teaming","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Compared to the brilliant The Far Country and the very good Winchester 73 and Naked Spur, The Man from Laramie is probably the weakest of the Stewart-Mann pairings of the 50's.The seven films director Anthony Mann made in the 1950's starring James Stewart (most of them westerns) created one of the most famous director-star teams in cinema history. As an actor, Stewart came across better in these films than with Hitchcock, possibly because he had a lot of creative independence as the star of the Mann films.Mann's major shortcoming was that while he was a great craftsman, he couldn't get decent performances from ordinary actors. In Laramie, he cast Stewart, Arthur Kennedy and Donald Crisp and all three (especially Kennedy) give decent performances. But the leading lady playing Kate is just unbelievably wooden and there's a contrived subplot involving her and Stewart/Kennedy which is quite unconvincing. For me, that detracted greatly from the film. I think Mann gave a lot of independence to his actors and where they were good - like Stewart - they shone. Where they were bad, he wasn't able to do much to improve their performance. Not what you'd call an actors director! Thats probably why Kirk Douglas was so eager to replace Kubrick with him for his pet project Spartacus.The cinematography while not in the league of Far Country is still very good as one would expect from a master craftsman like Mann. This is the last picture Mann and Stewart worked on before having a falling out. In fact, the next film planned for Mann and Stewart - Man of the West - eventually starred Gary Cooper. I feel it would have been their best collaboration, if Stewart were the star. Gary Cooper never really settled into the role. "}]