[{"Title":"It took him 40 years or so to get the hang of it.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sergeant Martin Maher is in to see President Eisenhower who he knew back in the day when Ike was a West Point Cadet. The army wants to mandatorily retire him. So as Marty pleads his case before the country's most famous West Point Graduate, we're flashed back to the day as a fresh Irish immigrant he arrives at West Point to work as a waiter in their mess.And the rest of the film is taken up with the telling of Martin Maher's remarkable story which he wrote in a book entitled Bringing Up the Brass on which this film is based. The subject is a can't miss project for John Ford with two of his dearest loves involved, Irish and military tradition.Tyrone Power who had played in lots of costume pictures as the dashing hero at his home studio of 20th Century Fox, got a chance to do a real character part here. His skill as a player makes us completely believe that he ages during the film from his twenties to his seventies. Of course makeup helped, but I doubt if certain actors could have brought it off.Maureen O'Hara matches Power equally as Mary O'Donnell the fresh and fiery colleen who marries him. Her relationship with John Ford as she tells in her recent memoirs had its ups and downs, but she respected his talent and gives one of her best acted roles. And O'Hara adored Tyrone Power, she says of him he was a tease at times, loved to play practical jokes, but a fine man and a thorough professional at his job.The supporting cast is the usual familiar faces in a John Ford production. I would have to single out Ward Bond as the head of West Point's Athletic Department who Power goes to work for as the best of the group. Also note Donald Crisp as Power's father, one of Crisp's best screen parts.Tyrone Power was very proud of this film, it was a personal favorite and he and John Ford wanted to work together again. They did, but only with Power's voice providing the narration for an anthology film of three Irish stories in The Rising of the Moon in 1957. Tyrone Power's sudden and tragic death in 1958 put an end to what might have been a great actor/director collaboration.At the beginning of the flashback, Power tells the actor playing Ike that it took him forty years or so to get the hang of the army. At the end he says that now everything he's ever known and loved is in that institution known as West Point. As Power says it, I defy anyone to remain dry eyed. "},{"Title":"One of Ford's Finest!!!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like Irish character studies you'll love this movie.  This movie follows in flash back 50 years in the true-life story of Irish immigrant Martin Maher. Tyrone Power plays Martin wonderfully. When Martin arrives in America he takes a civilian waiter job at the US Military Academy at West Point. Docked for breakage, he joins the Army and works at several different jobs at the Point.  The last job being assistant to the Master of the Sword played by the very versatile Ford stock company player (Ward Bond).   At West Point, Martin meets and marries the love of his life Mary O'Donnell marvelously brought to life by Maureen O'Hara.  Martin and Mary setup housekeeping and are able to bring Martin's father Old Martin (Donald Crisp) and brother Dinny to America.  When Old Martin first meets Mary he is impressed when he asks if she still `Has the Irish' and she is able to speak in Gaelic.As the movie unfolds you will really care about Martin, Mary, old Martin and the cadets Martin helps through the Academy.  Due to talent of the director John Ford and cast, the characters appear to be real people--not just a bunch of actors who made a movie.  You'll be fascinated by the class The Stars Fell On  (graduating class of Generals Eisenhower, Bradley, etc.) This movie will stir up patriotic feelings, but also shows the high cost of war.  You will smile and just might shed a tear before this one is over. You will not regret the time spent with Martin Maher--and may find yourself thinking about this movie for a long time after you see it.  This is indeed, one of Pappy Ford's finest.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, but I'm biased","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, I must admit I am biased. My mom went to college with Marty Maher's niece, Maggie. However, as another reviewer pointed out, this is John Ford at his best, with Tyrone Power playing the part of John Wayne.Although I do like Wayne, this part called for a better actor, and Ford cast Power brilliantly. I also can usually smell bad Irish accents from miles off (don't get me started on all of those awful 'irish spring' commercials), but Power sounds like Frank McCourt was coaching him.The main points of the story are fact based, but some of the events at the end were rearranged to flow better in the movie.Overall, for John Ford fans, this one is a 'don't miss'! "},{"Title":"forgotten classic","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How did I ever miss this movie either on video or t.v. John Ford has his stock character actors and I was surprised that John Wayne did not have the starring role,which was well handled by Tyrone Power.A small masterpiece ably handled by all mixing the typical Ford traits of humor and serious modes. Loosely based on a true story,it is American propaganda at its finest and a nice tribute to the West Point Academy.One of Tyrone Powers' final films,and one of his best performances showing he could handle comedy,drama and a nice attempt at an Irish accent. The finale did become a bit soppy but does not detract from the overall movie. Sadly this film has been forgotten by the majority of film audiences and those in power who show supposed classics on the oldies channels.If it ever turns up on t.v. take a look and be pleasantly surprised.Maybe even todays so called writers,directors and actors might like to see how the master did it.      "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise!!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've been humbled! I thought of myself as a movie buff. This one slipped past me. I'm a fan of Ford and everyone in this movie. I must admit I had never heard of this movie. Terrific story telling! The music brought back a lot of memories. The old saying they don't make 'em like that anymore certainly applies to this one. Telling a good story and characters you care about is more important than spending $100 million. Some of our current film makers could learn from this movie. You can entertain people sitting around a camp fire telling stories. Just tell a good one and make them care. I'll be adding this film to my library!  "},{"Title":"Irish heartbeats","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although the film has a running time of two hours+ ,for it tells the story of a man's entire life ,from his enlistment (and even before) to his old age,there is never a dull moment .John Ford was one of the most wonderful storytellers that ever was.The first part of the film is made of trivia,but everything is endearing ,moving .Take the dad's and the brother's arrivalno syrupy violins and choirs needed the Irish are doing Mary's cooking justice and they are not in a hurry to hug Marty.The same goes for Marty/Mary when they fall in lovewhat could be more down to earth than this kitchen ?And however something vibrates ,as the love they all feel for the country they left behind.The second part deals with wars and if the tone has changed ,the spirit remains intactwhat could be more prosaic than burning Mary's toilet to celebrate the end of WW?Although the hero experiments tragedy ,Ford always avoids pathos and melodrama the child's death during the celebration is given a sober treatment.Mary's passing is perhaps the most beautiful scene in the whole movie,being Fordesque to the core (remember the death of the mother in three godfathers) and her fleeting reappearance at the very end of the movie is not irrelevant.A life is made of small joys and big griefs. "},{"Title":"All Ford and all heart","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You could call The Long Grey Line an affectionate tribute by one American institution to another John Ford to West Point. All the Fordian elements, unashamed sentimentality, boisterious comedy, stark tragedy, are all here, and Ford and his actors convey them all beautifully.And what actors! Tyrone Power finally proved that he could act in his moving portrayal of Martin Maher, a real-life West Point legend who started out as a fresh-off-the-boat waiter and wound up as the Academy's much-venerated Master of the Sword. Maher died in 1961 at age eighty-four, just as an era he represented was dying, too. Maureen O'Hara gives her usual strong portrayal as his devoted wife, likewise Donald Crisp as his father. Two of the most beloved members of the Ford stock company are here, too. Ward Bond playes Captain Koehler, the previous Master of the Sword who takes young Martin under his wing. And Harry Carey, Jr. has a good spot as the young Dwight Eisenhower, who was going bald even then and trying to stop it with hair-restorer.A military Goodbye, Mr. Chips this may be, but as a heartfelt, human tribute to the Point and the men who made it, as well as good, overlooked Ford, this film is a hidden treasure. "},{"Title":"The Long Gray Wonderful Line","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the best pictures ever starring Tyrone Power and Maureen O'Hara.Marty Maher comes to West Point and the years just pile on. We see Marty learn the ropes and become a leader among men.He marries his Mary O'Donnell who acts mute at first. O'Hara is just a joy to watch on the screen.Their life at the Point is difficult but ever so fulfilling. There is sadness when their child dies at birth and when war comes, Marty's best friend is killed, leaving a widow (Betsy Palmer) and young son. Of course, the son will go to the Point.Tyrone Power is just fabulous here with a superb Irish accent and emotional appeal as Marty. O'Hara, in an excellent performance, succumbs years later to heart disease, leaving her beloved Marty allalone.The supporting cast is fine. Veteran Oscar winner Donald Crisp is wonderful as the father and Palmer is memorable in the scene where her son says to her It has been a wonderful day for Marty. Her reply, It has been a wonderful life for Marty! How poignant.A great movie pulling out all the stops. Well worth the handkerchiefs that the viewer will need. Rest in peace Betsy Palmer Yours was a wonderful career. "},{"Title":"History and Entertainment Meet","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a third year (Cow) cadet at West Point, and everything in this movie inspired me to start my West Point career.  Witnessing the writer's and director's portrayal of the bonding and life of Cadets and Officers was quite moving for me.  I Recommend this movie to any patriot or full blooded American who is proud of their heritage.  This movie will return anyone to their American Roots.  Too often we lose the correlation and connection between the nation and its military.  "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very underrated movie from John Ford and a lot of Ford fans don't think much of it. It's not considered one of his best movies and this came out the same year as Mister Roberts. The movie starts out with Tyrone Power coming to America from Ireland and winds up washing dishes at West Point. Power hates washing dishes at gets a better job at West Point as an assistant to Ward Bond, who is head of the athletic department. The movie starts in the year 1911 and has a brief overview of his life at West Point until the 1950's. Power winds up getting married to Maureen O'Hara, who is a maid to Bond, and Power wants to go back to Ireland because of his family. It's a great movie and doesn't even seem that long at over two hours long. "}{"Title":"Makes my top ten list!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of John Ford's best.  I have seen this movie many times, and it only improves with age.  A truly heart warming story of a man who came from Ireland and found a new home at West Point, home of our oldest Military Academy.  If you like tradition and biographies, this movie is one that you can't help but to love.  The only bad thing about the movie is that it is not shown enough and doesn't get the credit it deserves. "},{"Title":"Minor Gem","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on TV in the early to mid 60's and then recently caught it again. It is a bit corny and a bit dated and it does play a little loose with the facts of the real Marty Maher's life BUT I did enjoy it immensely. I think it is one of Tyrone Power's best performances and it makes me wonder what kind of a career he might have had if he did not die so young. Having known a number of real Irishmen, I thought his accent was pretty good. He did appear a bit old for the character in the early going. Power was not aging well. He looked even worse in The Sun Also Rises and Witness for the Prosecution. I suppose that might be due to the health problems that resulted in his death at age 44. "},{"Title":"138 Minutes of Blarney and Sentimentality","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Could be Ford's worst. It is a biopic of some Irish guy named Marty Maher, but after 138 minutes I still couldn't figure out what made him special enough to be the subject of a feature film. In real life, Mr. Maher may well have been a fine man with many attainments, but in this movie, aside from giving kindly advice to cadets on a couple of occasions, his one real achievement is that of being Irish. This may explain why Ford dwells so insistently on Marty's Irishness.I can't even figure out what exactly Marty did at West Point for fifty years. It had something to do with athletics, but that's as much as we know. The reason he merits being saluted by a parade of cadets at the end, playing (of course) Irish tunes in march time, appears to be that he was a nice guy with a colorful accent and everybody liked him.Not exactly the stuff of drama! Ford's involvement in all things Irish is much in evidence. Marty's wife is the stereotypical colleen, with flaming red hair, a flaring temper, flashing eyes, and a thick brogue. We are all asked to share in Ford's delight with this. As for Marty's father, how the devil did he manage to get in good with the brass at West Point and become something of a fixture there himself? And why does he persist in dressing like a leprechaun? We are treated to multiple scenes of cadets drilling, being drilled, and marching on parade, with perhaps more military songs being played than ever were heard in a single movie. In the end, there is a prolonged sequence with hundreds of cadets marching in honor of Marty while he stands there saluting. Enough to make you squirm with embarrassment.A really bad movie. "},{"Title":"corny military propaganda","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" None of John Ford's films are exactly poorly made, and this one is competent enough as it goes. Basically it's the story of Marty Maher (Tyrone Power), a fresh immigrant off the boat from Ireland who finds a home in America's West Point military academy. Starting off in the kitchens and working his way up to an instructor in football and swimming, Maher finds love with a saucy Irish woman (Maureen O'Hara) and finds himself continuously renewing his enlistment although often against his better judgment. He sees some of the boys he trained go off to die in the war and he has to deal with the emotions of those consequences as well as his duty to the academy. When a favorite student dies in WWI (William Leslie), Maher and his barren wife take in his wife (Betsy Palmer) and help raise his son (Robert Francis).Power's performance is excellent and he manages to carry the film. The process of his aging through the film is admirably handled. But I found the film in general to be somewhat corny and heavy-handed. The message of the film seems to be to reinforce a certain brand of military patriotism that I personally find distasteful. That's not to say that the film is a bad film, but it is what it is. It's very much concerned with propagating the idea of noble sacrifice, and Power's character barely questions the wisdom of training these young men just to send them off to die. It's as if he brings up the idea that it might not be worth it, just so that Ford and his writers can put that idea to rest as soundly as they can.I like the film for its depiction of the main character as a humble man who often lashes out at others in anger but learns to temper his passions with growing wisdom. But I just can't get into the film -- let's just say that if you're not a huge fan of Irish jigs and military marching bands (or the combination of the two), then you will get just as sick of this movie by the end as I did. There's practically no subtext to the film that I can detect, and in the final analysis it's no more subtle than Ford's wartime pro-Army films. I can't make myself feel happy that the son is going to go off to war and risk death just like his father did, or that there's this great honor and nobility in it all. I won't cheer with Power's character as he rudely dismisses the idea of West Point modernizing its approach to military training. The whole film is basically telling us to resist change and to cherish tradition, and that's an aspect of Ford's personality that I just don't appreciate. But I do appreciate the amount of skill and care that went into Power's performance in particular. "},{"Title":"A Little Too Much Fordian Irish Humour","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As much as I admire John Ford, I found this film a little overly sentimental and with far too much Fordian Irish humour in the first half of the film.The film tells the story of Martin Marty Maher, an enlisted man who spent over 50 years at the West Point Military Academy as an instructor. It covers the period from his arrival at West Point as a newly landed immigrant to his meeting with President Eisenhauer some fifty years later.Tyrone Power does a excellent job as Maher aging as he does from a young man in his 20s to his 70s. His makeup is quite convincing and realistic for the time. The ever beautiful Maureen O'Hara plays Mary O'Donnell, Maher's wife. The film follows their relationship from their first meeting to their last.Ford's affection for the military is quite evident. He gives us seemingly endless march pasts featuring long gray lines of cadets along with their marching band. The film is beautifully photographed with plenty of green grass in evidence. There are a couple of beautiful framed shots, one of the wedding of the William Leslie and Betsy Palmer characters and another at a tragic moment in Maher's life.The John Ford stock company is well represented in this picture. Included in the large cast are Ward Bond as Maher's first commanding officer, Donald Crisp as his father, Sean McClory as his brother, Harry Carey Jr. as Dwight Eisenhauer and a very young Patrick Wayne in his first film as the cadet Cherub Overton. Willis Boucher and Jack Pennick also have smaller parts.Also in the cast are Robert Francis, who died tragically shortly after completing this film, Phil Carey, Martin Milner, Peter Graves and Milburn Stone.Be sure and have some Kleenex handy for the finale. "},{"Title":"John Ford reaches for the heart","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You don't even need to read the credits to recognize the work of John Ford and his band of merry men. The style of story telling, color and camera angles are vintage Ford. Tyrone Power is a small but terrific diversion off the usual casting, but I suppose John Wayne wasn't up to the Irish accent (It has been said that Ford wanted Wayne in the role and the producers said No.). This is vintage Ford, from the first image to the last, patriotism on his sleeve and a cast uniformly strong and highly recognizable. Being a Ford production means that there are other requirements including not only his usual band of actors but his brand of sentimentality as well. Younger viewers may not get this kind of story telling with its episodic and sentimental nature, but no one ever did it better than Ford and his company of technicians and players. Do yourself a favor and invest the 2 and a quarter hours in a fine film that also shows off West Point.Oh, and you get Maureen O'Hara at her loveliest. "},{"Title":"a john ford gem","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Long Gray Line is not of John Ford's great films,such as the Seachers, How Green Was My Valley or She Wore A Yellow Ribbon, but its one that makes one feel with the heart. i happen to be a fan of Ford's minor gems, Three Godfathers, Donovan's Reef and Judge Priest, and The Long Gray Line is fine one. Some modern movie critics dismiss this film and others as corn or dated, but what is dated about love, duty and honor. Ford's films about these dated are still shineing examples of American film making. I would rather watch this wonderful moive, over and over, then that bleak film of last year-American Beauty. I happy admit that I cry at the end of this film. "},{"Title":"who stole the Oscar from Tyrone power","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" i had never seen this film before. and I'm a die hard Tyrone power fan even though some say he was just a pretty face. well this pretty face could act and renders all emotions perfectly. had he lived longer he would have been one of the greatest actors who ever lived.....same par as Lawrence Olivier or Orson Welles. to think this role of Marty nearly went to John W Wayne...i would not have watched it. Maureen O'Hara is true to herself classy and a good actress. the story is heart wrenching although it makes us feel good all over. wonder who won the academy award that year for best actor.....well frankly my dear i don't give a dam. one last thing is it just me or a bit of the theme song sounded like LOVE ME TENDER. "},{"Title":"Great role for Tyrone Power","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Ford often veered toward the sentimental, and he gives himself over to it completely in The Long Gray Line, a 1955 film starring Tyrone Power and Maureen O'Hara. The script is based on the book by Marty Maher, Bringing up the Brass, where Irish immigrant Maher writes about his many years as a noncommissioned officer at West Point.Ford intended John Wayne to play Marty, but when he didn't, he called Power, who was in New York, and offered him the role. Power accepted it before Ford could finish his sentence, saying, if you have a part for me, I'll play it.Maureen O'Hara plays Marty's wife Mary, and the cast includes Betsy Palmer, Robert Francis, Peter Graves, Donald Crisp, Philip Carey, Patrick Wayne, Ward Bone, and Harry Carey Jr.The Long Gray Line is a real tearjerker, and if you thought Tyrone Power couldn't act, rethink it - he does a beautiful job and really makes you cry as Marty. Have a box of tissues nearby. It's a wonderful performance.I never understand people who think Tyrone Power couldn't act - all it tells me is they haven't seen enough of his films to realize how versatile he was and what dreck Zanuck gave him. He was too handsome for the critics to ever take him seriously. I don't think Zanuck did either.Power and O'Hara made a great team in The Black Swan, and they make a great one here. The beautiful O'Hara gives a lovely performance.Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Irish Ford/Power/O'Hara in US Military Academy Story","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Ford was Irish to the core and brought all his talents and emotion to the beautiful Columbia Pictures film starring Tyrone Power and Maureen O Hara-likely two of the most beautiful people ever to appear on the silver screen. As an Army Veteran and one who has visited West Point many times, I find a special feeling for this film. John Ford pulls the story together and is given fine technical support by the Columbia studio. Mr. Power stars and and is superb. Long passed away, Tyrone Power's work deserves review; Power was a true Movie Star and a fine actor. Maureen O Hara gorgeous to the camera and also a veteran of the Ford films is superb in support. The ending is very moving.We should as Americans value West Point and those who have passed thru those hallowed halls, and this film does the great Academy credit. "}{"Title":"One of  the best!","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was 11 years old when my father took what was then our complete family to downtown Detroit to see this movie. It became a family favorite, and after VCRs came out, I was able to give my brothers and sisters the ultimate Christmas gift...their very own copy of The Long Gray Line.The acting in the movie was superb. Tyrone Power and Maureen O'Hara became their characters. We laughed, cried, and talked about it and could always see new aspects to it.It will always remain my favorite movie ever, and one that brings back family memories to me. In fact, I think I will go watch it now. It's refreshing to see a time when being a United States citizen would mean so much. And The Star Spangled Banner brought tears to your eyes, and the American Flag was treated with reverence and respect. God Bless America! Marilone "},{"Title":"My new favorite movie.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I caught the end of this movie on one of those late night movie channels. Immediately the search began for this movie ... I had to own it. This movie tops my all-time favorites list just edging out Its a Wonderful Life and that is only because it is based on the real life story of Martin Maher. This movie should be shown in every high school/college ethics class in America. The humbling integrity of the West Point Cadets to the dedication and devotion that Marty shared with each and everyone of them over his 50 years of service in the US Army truly depicts humankind at it's best. It will make you laugh, smile, and cry all at the same time while making you feel good about the world. I know that you will come away from this movie with a new outlook on life. It's a shame that this 50 year old movie is hidden on late night movie channels ... it should be played during the holidays right along with Its a Wonderful Life. Enjoy it with friends and family. "},{"Title":"All time favorite","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I was a child in the 1950's, my mother used to take my brother and I to the movies every Saturday and Sunday afternoon.  Of all the movies I remember watching, the two that stand out the most were this one, The Long Gray Line, and The Last Time I Saw Paris (with Van Johnson and Elizabeth Taylor) -- I think partially because both movies made me cry!  Watching the two movies again after almost 50 years, I realize that the Long Gray Line has withstood the test of time -- it is STILL an outstanding movie.  And as another reviewer mentioned, the music is a large part of the charm of the movie...and yes, the movie still had the same effect on me. After watching probably thousands of movies over my lifetime, this one ranks right up there with the best ever.   "},{"Title":"Pappy at his best.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Ford at his classic best with powerful scenes that resonate the heart strings, interspersed with joyous humor, all wrapped together with superb military music (absolutely must be listened to in stereo). First saw this screen gem about 1976, and it only gets better with each time viewed - especially shines into the heart at Christmas-New Year. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching...but not what you expect...excellent Tyrone Power film and performance","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's interesting to read the other reviews here of this movie. About half with strong praise, the other half with disdain. Perhaps part of that is how you look at the military. I honor the sacrifices of our soldiers and the many necessary military campaigns that our country has undertaken, and my father was military, but I'm not quite the fan that John Ford obviously was. But on the other hand, a few years ago I took a tour of West Point, and I was very impressed, so it was a pleasure seeing this film, much of which was filmed at West Point. It lent a sense of realism to the film.However, if you're expecting a great war story here, you're going to be disappointed. That's not what this is about...although with John Ford as director, what you get is rather surprising -- a rather sentimental tale of a handful of people around which West Point functioned. They weren't the heroes, so this is not about that. This is a simple story which is more about immigrants fitting into a new culture...and a rather odd culture, at that.Perhaps the biggest criticism of this film is that Tyrone Power was about 20 years too old for the role...and it shows. That being said, it's a fine performance, and all the better that it's so atypical of what we expect of Tyrone Power. He clearly did some of his own stunts here, which made me think of his fatal heart attack just 3 years later.The other actors here do what's expected of them. Maureen O'Hara is bright and bossy as ever...if anything, perhaps slightly overplayed. Donald Crisp plays Tyrone Power's father (you'll enjoy seeing him do the jig), Ward Bond plays a Captain, and the rarely seen Betsy Palmer has a small role. John Wayne's son Patrick also has a small role, interesting because his dad was who director John Ford wanted for the lead role here. However, it would have been a very different film had Wayne played the role. The ill-fated Robert Francis (memorable from The Caine Mutiny) has a decent role here; gone too soon.John Ford does an excellent job here of portraying love of country and love of culture, although before you're halfway through the film, you're liable to be just a tad bit tired of the emphasis on the Irish. Yet, that's the way it was back then. And, my respect for Ford has grown as a result of watching this film. It's not a western, nor a war flick (even though it was about a military academy), and you can't help but get choked up several times during the film.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Great 1955 Classic","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Ford sure directed a great classic film about West Point and Tyrone Power, (Marty Maher) played the role of an Irish immigrant who is hired to work at West Point as kitchen help. Marty broke so many dishes in the kitchen that he quite that job and enlisted in the Army at West Point and he married a sweet pretty Irish girl named Mary O'Donnell, (Maureen O'Hare). Marty and Mary enjoyed their life at West Point and they both met and made good friends of the cadets and some of them they treated like their own sons. Donald Crisp, (Old Martin) played the role as Marty's father who came from Ireland and Ward Bond, (Capt. Herman J. Kohler) gave a great supporting role to this film. Robert Francis, (Red Sundstrom Jr.) gave an outstanding performance and it is sad to say he was killed in real life in a plane crash right after making this film, he also starred in the Caine Mutiny along with Humphrey Bogart. Truly a great Classic film which you will enjoy from the beginning to the very end. "},{"Title":"A Most Deserving and Underrated John Ford Classic!","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 1955 Marty won the Academy Award for Best Picture. Other nominees listed were 1Love Is A Many Slendored Thing, 2 Mister Roberts, 3 Picnic and 4 The Rose Tattoo. I could never understand how this truly great John Ford Classic failed to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture that year. In my opinion, it was a much more deserving candidate than the other films mentioned. Ford's classic is the true story of Marty Maher (Tyrone Power), an undisciplined lad who becomes the assistant to the Master of the Sword/Atheletic Director, played by Ward Bond. Young Maher's experiences a character change after meeting Mary O'Donnell (Maureen O'Hara) as he begins to embrace the creed of Westpoint...Duty...Honor...Country. This touching story based on Marty Maher's autobiography Bringing Up The Brass provides a heart warming nostalgic rendition of a man who helped trained generals as well as a president through the passage of time. To my way of thinking, this film is somewhat of a cinematic bridge between films like Goodbye Mr. Chips and The Quiet Man. The touching tribute to Marty Maher at the conclusion of the film as he is honored by the ghosts of his beloved past brought tears of joy to my eyes. I recommend this film to everyone who has an interest in what life at Westpoint might be like or to anyone who likes a great movie! "},{"Title":"Still Love it!","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just watched this movie (again) last night and still love it after more than 50 years! Having read all 27 comments posted here up to this point, there's little to add, but this might be of some interest to Patrick Wayne fans. I thought Wayne looked a bit young to be a West Point cadet, so checked his biography on this site, which said he was born in 1939. That makes him only 15 during the making of this film (assuming it was made in 1954, as it was released in 1955.) Nevertheless, he pulled the part off well, as lots of college-age students look younger than they are.I noted in other comments that Ford had initially wanted John Wayne for the part of Marty, which I can't imagine. Tyrone Power was perfect for the role. "},{"Title":"A movie worth seeing more than once and worth a spot in my home video library.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw The Long Gray Line with Maureen O'Hara and Tyrone Power.  I thought I'd seen all of Ms. O'Hara's movies (numerous times) and was so pleased to find one I hadn't viewed.  There are few actresses that have had the screen presence of Maureen O'Hara.  She becomes the character she's portraying in all of her movies.  That's what I look for in actors.  Tyrone Power's Irish accent was so believable! Even after character Mary (O'Donnell) Maher dies, one can't let go of her memory through the rest of the movie.  A well-written movie it is, and 'tis indeed one I'll buy for my video library.  "},{"Title":"Sentimental yuck","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Absolutely John Ford's worst movie, this story of an Irish immigrant who became an institution as a coach at West Point is an embarrassing mish-mash of saccharine sentimentality, Irish ethnic stereotypes, shallow patriotic cliché, cardboard characterizations, and buffoonish low humor. It embodies all of Ford's faults and none of his strengths even the visual framing of the scenes, something Ford is usually an instinctive master of, seems pedestrian. Why some critics have praised the acting is beyond me the actors give the sort of performances which look like they're primarily motivated by an anxiety to let you know that they're really acting. To be fair, this film is a sentimental favorite and has many fans, but I myself could hardly keep a straight face watching it some of its more poignant scenes rise to Oscar Wilde's criticism of a famous passage from Dickens, that it takes a heart of stone to read the death of Little Nell without laughing. I can recommend this film only to Ford fans who want to see all of his work. "}{"Title":"Beautiful, Offbeat Story!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This beautiful, offbeat story offered Tyrone Power a chance to show new facets of his acting ability -- especially in comedy -- to his audience He is funny, very warm and tender, a masterful but understanding leader, and a man so embedded in family traditions that fitting into West Point -- which reeks with tradition -- is a natural for him. He and Maureen O'Hara play off each other as if they'd been doing it for years. O'Hara also, by the way, gets a rare chance at this point in her career to show her comedic talents, and her brilliant performance makes obvious the reason why John Ford adopted her as a favorite and a member of his stock company. The supporting cast -- for the most part -- measures up to the very high standards set by the leads, especially Donald Crisp, Ward Bond, O'Hara's brother Charles Fitzsimons, and the huge cast of excellent young actors who play so many cadets, well known and otherwise. The only fly in the ointment is the completely wooden but very pretty Robert Francis, whose film career was extremely short and totally undistinguished by any acting at all. The Long Gray Line is a film worth seeing again and again!!! "},{"Title":"Usual USA syrup, but a great cast pulls it off","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I grew up watching movies like this on Friday or Saturday night on my folk's black and white TV.  Some of my favourite actors are in this one Ward Bond, Tyrone Power and Maureen O'Hara.  Life was so much simpler then.  There were bad guys and good guys and you could always tell them apart. "},{"Title":"Starts off poorly but then becomes a typically sentimental John Ford flick","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film is supposed to be a real-life account of a soldier who was on staff at Westpoint for about 50 years--so long that he became a bit of an institution through the first part of the 20th century.The first 20 minutes or so of the movie didn't particularly impress me. Unlike the rest of the film, this was all played for laughs and Tyrone Power played this portion very broadly. Some might like this, but I thought the dumb newbie routine wore thin very, very quickly. We get to see Tyrone drop some plates, get in a fight by mistake and be one of the biggest screw ups in army history. Frankly, he was so obnoxious and stupid that I really wondered if this even remotely had any similarity to anyone--let alone the real character. In many ways, these aspects of the film reminded me of the funny moments from WINGS OF EAGLES and PATHS OF GLORY. Many like this stuff, but I think the different moods of the film don't work out all that well--as if the movie can't decide whether it's a drama or a comedy (would this make it a dramady?).Fortunately, after a very inauspicious start, the film slowed down and dropped the pratfalls and became an excellent film--full of the usual John Ford sentiment and style. I was surprised that Tyrone Power did such a good job with the role--and his Irish accent was also pretty good. He was ably assisted by some of the usual Ford actors--Ward Bond, Donald Crisp and Maureen O'Hara. The overall effect is very inspiring and will nearly bring a tear to your eye--it was exceptional film making after a somewhat rocky start. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie. It took me a little while to get into it but it was overall enjoyable. I esp. liked Maureen O'Hara's performance. She is wonderful in just about anything. Tyrone Power was very good too. It was interesting hearing him with that accent. I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Even making propaganda, Ford was a master","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That is a propaganda movie (about the historic military academy of West Point), but even making propaganda Ford, with her caracteristic way of understanding the Army, the life and dead, and his unfergottable sense  of humour, was just a master. And he was capable of doing moving to the spectators. Much better that you was thinking before see the film. There where hear goods actors too, even the handsome fellow Tyrone Power. Maureen O'Hara always was fine under the John Ford orders and hear too. The film is superior to others propagandistic ones made by this time. And may be one of the best.     "},{"Title":"Can you say sentimental?","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Ford keeps safely to the right during the late  McCarthy era with this mawkish tale of West Point as seenthrough the eyes of an Irish immigrant. I remember reallyliking this movie when I saw it as a kid, but as I grewolder, I saw how manipulated and manipulating the film is. It might as well be called THE LEPRECHAUN WHO RAN WEST  POINT. Ford could always please the crowd, and that's what he did here, evidently paying compliments to everyone he  knew during World War II by making West Point a Holy Landof military heros. If you like tear-jerking schmaltz, this is one to see. If you want realism, fohgetaboutit! "},{"Title":"It's a Long, Long, Long, Long, Long Green Line","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Long biography of a West Point veteran who instructs in swimming and such, despite displaying mediocre athletic skills. Tyrone Power stars - and, he plays the part like an Irish Charlie Chaplin. He isn't awful, but the story and direction (John Ford) fail both he and some other competent performers. Naturally, Maureen O'Hara is introduced, like an Irish Lillian Gish. Can it be a coincidence that Donald Crisp is in this movie? Could this film have been an attempt to fool the Russians into thinking our West Point was vulnerable? My choice for the peak of dramatic sentimental idiocy is the portion where Mr. Power and Ms. O'Hara pray for a son - imagine the long gray faces if they had been blessed with a girl! I would have expected then to pray for a healthy baby; if you watch, you will see Divine revenge. On the plus side, The Long Gray Line is presented by filmmakers in possession of obvious money, and skill. If you're in the mood for a long, green line from John Ford and company, it's not unpleasant. ***** The Long Gray Line (1/22/55) John Ford ~ Tyrone Power, Maureen O'Hara, Robert Francis "},{"Title":"Not one of Ford's better films","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had to look twice at the date - 1955 - as, in almost every sense, The Long Grey Line seems to belong to an earlier period - a decade before, I would have said.  But then this is a John Ford film and by 1955 he had already been around for quite a while.  It is a sentimental biopic of the Goodbye Mr Chips variety, based on a true story, we are told at the outset, of a West Point veteran looking back with affection on a lifetime's devotion to that venerable institution.  The central character is played by Tryone Power sporting a fruity Irish accent that seems modelled on Orson Welles's in The Lady from Shanghai.  His father is played by Donald Crisp who, in John Ford's hands seems equally at home whether playing a Welsh or Irish parent and, for good measure, there is Maureen O'Hara to supply the romantic interest, doing her The Quiet Man stuff once again but not nearly as effectively.  Add to this Hollywood's '30's and '40's obsession with the good dying young, particularly babies after difficult births and young men going off to war and you have the classic ingredients of the cinema's Victorian age, bearing in mind that as a comparatively young art it had a lot of catching up to do.  Apart from some doses of blarney early on there is little to suggest that this is a Ford film.  It could just as well have been made by one of those stylistically anonymous chaps like Mervyn LeRoy or Michael Curtiz.  There is not even much drinking;  most of the knockabout stuff takes place in a swimming pool.  Strangely enough it is some of the more Fordian scenes early on that are the most tiresome, particularly those involving broken crockery and Maureen O'Hara doing a silence act.  It gets rather better when it arrives at the more serious stuff of the loss of loved ones, which does not say very much for one of Ford's weaker efforts.  On one point however it scores a small place in movie history.  It is one of the only films of the '50's to use the Cinemascope format intelligently.  Ford obviously knew that to make the system work requires a sense of horizontal flow and what better than endless shots of men marching on parade.  Never mind the ennui! "},{"Title":"Typical Ford Irish blarney, only longer","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too Irish, too sentimental, not accurate, too reverent by half toward  the Point.  Power miscast, O'Hara only slightly less annoying than usual.  The Ford Stock Co. fares well; Ward Bond, Harry Carey Jr, Donald Crisp, Phil Carey, Pat Wayne, Betsy Palmer.  When I saw it first run at the SF St. Francis on 2-20-55 I had fewer objections, but at 15 I liked everything.  Except KISS ME DEADLY.  Yipe.  "},{"Title":"This actually happened?","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Can't believe this tale is based on fact. No way would this mouthy, ignorant, Gomer Pyle clone be accepted in West Point. Very unrealistic was his meteoric rise in rank for the first 3 or 4 years, then to gain a new stripe every 20 years. The writer seemed to have a problem keeping his dates in order to, the same men seemed to be going to school far longer than necessary. And many of these men looked far too old to be cadets in West Point. The one scene that would give the viewer a look at how war hurts on the homefront too was offset by a couple of pro-military, glory and the flag speeches by the crusty but lovable sarge. What rot. I suppose the true story of Marty was considerably different; Hollywood simply turned it into this mess. It did have a few good moments, but for the most part it was just a corny piece of fluff that was just plain silly and poorly performed.  "}]