[{"Title":"So...?  What's not to like?","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"74 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Forget today's sex symbols...Marilyn is IT.If Kate Moss moved into the flat above mine while my wife was out of town with the kids, I'd have no trouble resisting temptation; but, Marilyn Monroe is a force of nature. She's a fertility goddess. She is pure hourglass with a dynamite smile. In short, she is pure concentrated femininity.This movie is a comedy, and a good one at that. The timing of Monroe and Ewell is flawless. The scene where he jumps Marilyn on the piano bench in a brief moment of passion causing them both to fall to the floor gives this brief exchange...I'm sorry, Ewell says, This has never happened to me beforeMarilyn answers, while standing up and adjust her clothes, That's funny. It happens to me all the time...Priceless...The exchange between Ewell and a psychiatrist is equally well-done. The movie is a classic. It is Jack Lemmon's The Apartment, done with an attractive woman and a man who, although not in full possession of his marbles, certainly is better adjusted than Lemmon's character.This is a must see... "},{"Title":"A Fabulously Funny, Fast-Paced Sex Farce From The Fifties...It's Just Elegant!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"45 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The 1955 comedy, The Seven Year Itch, directed by Billy Wilder, is one of the most amusing sex farces ever filmed. Starring Tom Ewell and Marilyn Monroe, and based on George Axelrod's play, the film takes a humorous look at the problems of a typical middle-aged married man. Tom Ewell, and unassuming leading man with a flair and talent for comedy, is perfectly cast in this movie. Ewell plays the part of Richard Sherman, an average middled-aged man of the 50's...office worker, city inhabitant, with a loving wife and one son. He is left alone in the city for the entire summer while his family vacations in Maine. All is well until Mr. Sherman meets the beautiful blonde who rents the apartment above his for the summer. They soon get to know each other and become friends over champagne, potato chips, and a Rachmaninoff record. Their friendship causes Mr. Sherman to worry that his wife will find out about his relationship with the blonde bombshell. With his overactive imagination, Mr. Sherman dreams up numerous situations concerning this young woman, as well as his wife. Although his imagination causes Mr. Sherman much worry, it provides many of the film's most memorable and enjoyable scenes. Of course, the film is famous for the scene of Monroe standing over the subway grate, which has always been a classic movie scene. Monroe, although unnamed in the film, gives one of her best screen performances, which is just elegant, as she says throughout the movie. She displays a talent for comedy as well as beauty, which should not be overlooked. Ewell's portrayal of Richard Sherman is delightful, hilarious, and perfect. His facial expressions and comedic timing contribute to the film's enjoyability. Along with these stars, the supporting cast is excellent as well. It includes such character actors as Robert Strauss (Mr. Kruhulik, the janitor), and Donald MacBride (Mr. Brady, Richard Sherman's boss). The Seven Year Itch is one of the ultimate 50's pop culture films. And since it was filmed in Cinemascope, it would be perfect to see on the big screen. Any fan of Monroe, Wilder, old movies, or 50's culture would enjoy this movie; I strongly recommend it. The comedy, timing, acting, and direction are flawless...and they all help to make The Seven Year Itch just elegant! "},{"Title":"Marilyn at her most innocent","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"44 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Some Like it Hot, Marilyn was the hottest she ever was. In Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, she's the Woman of all Women. But in The Seven Year Itch, Marilyn is the prize of all treasures. She is timeless in every frame of the film. Coming across as this unique, cute, and innocent little woman, Marilyn makes your mind race, your heart thump, and your youth return.No one else but Marilyn Monroe could play The Girl in the movie. She is just that, a girl, but much much more. Most of the physical comedy in the film is executed by Monroe herself. A lot of us don't realize this as we expect most of the comedy to come from the comedian in the film, Tom Ewell. A must see if you are a fan of America's first Dream Girl, the amazing Marilyn Monroe. "},{"Title":"sparkling but a bit confusing!","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"50 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film succeeds mainly because of Marilyn Monroe's obvious charisma and appeal - she really shines in this as the dizzy, curvy blonde upstairs.  Tom Ewell has been married seven years and has seen his wife and son away for the summer - he determines not to smoke, not to drink, and not to chase women.  The moment Monroe wiggles up those stairs all that goes out of the window and he starts fantasising about the new arrival.There are a lot of funny situations and you're never quite sure what it in Ewell's head and what is real (well, I wasn't anyway).  I love the scene where they are playing Chopsticks and of course, that old chestnut the 2nd Rach concerto rears its head!  Victor Moore plays a doddery plumber and Oscar Homolka a shrink who advises Ewell not to consider anything as drastic as murder until he can get simple problems sorted out, while Evelyn Keyes makes the most of her few appearances as Ewell's wife (or is she his conscience?!).The film is fun, the famous skirt and grid scene is now legendary (but quite unlike the often-seen poster shot), and there is much in this bouncy production after nearly fifty years to entertain pretty much anyone. "},{"Title":"One of my new favorite romantic comedies","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lately, I have been really been getting into the classics, not to mention some new favorite actors. I always had wondered what the Marilyn Monroe movies were like. Because I always did love her in Some Like it Hot. She's not like today's actresses, she's not a stick, she looks so cute and like she has fun on screen. Not to mention she was a very beautiful actress.The Seven Year Itch is a great romantic comedy where a man has sent his wife and son into the country while he works on his business over the summer. But after 7 years of marriage, he meets the new house sitter, played by Marilyn, and falls completely for her, causing a 7 year itch. He has also a wild imagination and just let's it go with him thinking he'll get caught, what if his wife is cheating on him, or what his life would be like if he was with Marilyn instead of his wife.This is a very charming and lovable romantic comedy and will remain with that timeless image of Marilyn's white dress blowing up in the air. She's so adorable and anyone can easily become a fan of her's when they see this movie. It's a fun movie to watch and I highly recommend it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Marilyn in another Classic Comedy? I think that's just elegant!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a decent comedy and I enjoyed it on the whole. I'll be honest and say and the only real reason and I took an interested in the film and watched it is Marilyn Monroe. I've been trying to watch as many as her films as possible lately, ever since a study of Photography at college found me researching the icon of the silver screen. The good news is for me is that there was plenty of Marilyn to enjoy in this classic comedy. I was pleased to find that she is supported by a good cast and a very funny script, and the film on the whole is a real winner. There were several laugh out loud moments for me, and considering my young age and the fact this is a film from the 1950's I would say that's something pretty impressive. For me, though, the reason the film was great has to be Ms. Monroe. She is just simply stunning and elegant in this movie (A word her character very much likes to use!). She really captures the audiences heart as The Girl and it's not hard to see why Tom Ewell's character fell for her obvious charms - she is just a sheer delight in the film.A sequence which I found totally hilarious was that in which Ewell's character imagines a variety of heated liaisons with various women in his life - all of them supposedly throwing themselves at him. The way in which he and the women deliver the lines - in a classic dead-pan fashion had me almost crying with laughter. Really hilarious stuff. And that's not even mentioning the glorious skirt-over-subway scene. This is a film to watch and fall in love with. You'll really enjoy it if you like Marilyn, you want to laugh, you're looking for a warm movie to just relax to and you're interested in cinema history and classic Hollywood. A great film for so many people - rent it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Naive and Innocent in the Present Days, Tested the Limit of Censorship in the 50's","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In summertime in Manhattan, the plain and average Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell) sends his wife and son for vacation in the country. Sherman is the key man of a publishing firm, Brady & Company, which publishes cheap pocket books. The faithful Sherman has a routine life with his family and dreams on being successful with women. When a beautiful and sexy blonde lodges the upstairs apartment of his small building, Sherman first opens the front door for her and then he invites her to have a drink with him after the fall of her tomato vase on his chair on the backyard. Along the days, he spends some time with the girl and feels tempted by her, but later he misses his family and travels to meet them.The Seven Year Itch is a naive and innocent romantic comedy in accordance with the contemporary moral standards, but actually this feature tested the limits of censorship in a time when Hollywood was ruled by a rigid moral code. The story is based on a George Axelrod popular 1952 Broadway play about a man that has an affair with his upstairs neighbor. Unfortunately in the 50's, the American cinema did not have the same artistic freedom as theater. The screenplays and movies were submitted to the scrutiny of the powerful Hayes office, the censorship of Hollywood. There was a Production Code in Hollywood that stated that adultery should not be the subject of comedy or laughs, and this story violated the Code. Billy Wilder was fascinated by this story and purchased the rights of George Axelrod. However, to make the movie was a challenge for this great director, since many scenes and lines were ripped away by the censorship and by the National Legion of Decency, mutilating the plot.Marilyn Monroe was selected to the cast, but Billy Wilder wanted a plain, average and non-handsome actor for the role of Sherman. His first choice was Walter Matthaus, but Fox direction did not want to take the risk of an unknown lead actor, therefore they selected Tom Ewell. The most famous scene of Marilyn Monroe, with her dress being lifted by the air of the subway, was first an exterior scene, but later Billy Wilder needed to shot again in the set because the noise and whistles of the viewers spoiled the original footage. This external scene also provoked the end of the marriage of Marilyn with Joe Dimaggio, who felt humiliated with the manifestation of the public.One dialog that I particularly like is when Sherman and the blonde leave the movie theater and she says that the creature needed to be loved, in an analogy between Sherman and the creature of the black lagoon. The restored DVD is fantastic and this is the most sexually suggested role of Marilyn Monroe to date. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Pecado Mora ao Lado (The Sin Lives on the Next Door) "},{"Title":"Magic on the screen Monroe fights the New York heat and gives pleasure to Ewell&#133;","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the 'fifties Hollywood created its biggest, best-loved and most powerful sex symbol of all&#151;Marilyn Monroe&#133; Marilyn's appeal was, perhaps, in her weakness, in that revealing look of innocence and confidence, in her intense desire to be loved&#133; The 'seven year itch' points out the instinctive desire to be disloyal after seven years of matrimony, with a longing to satisfy one's sexual needs&#133; This amusing film was adapted from a Broadway play of the same name by George Axelrod, with Tom Ewell reprising his Broadway role, walking, worrying, and sweating&#133; Tom and Evelyn Kayes have been married for seven years&#133; While he remains in Manhattan on business, Evelyn and their son Ricky (Butch Bernard) go off to Maine to escape the sweltering summer&#133; The apartment upstairs has been rented to a television blonde model (Marilyn Monroe). When she forgot her front door key, she had to ring Ewell's bell to let her into the building&#133; When Marilyn accidentally knocks a tomato plant onto Tom's terrace, the happily man invites the luscious young beauty downstairs for a drink, indulging in fantasies about taking her in his arms and kissing her 'very quickly and very hard'&#133; Marilyn comes in, explaining that she feels safe with married men... He makes a clumsy pass while they are at the piano but both fall off the seat&#133; He stammers an apology, but she pretends it is nothing&#133;When Marilyn returns to her apartment, Tom envisions his wife having an affair in Maine with their big neighbor, Tom McKenzie (Sonny Tufts)&#133; Then he sees himself lost between foolish fantasies of seduction, and terrible ideas of his wife capturing him in action&#133; Finally he decides to put an end to his visions and asks Marilyn out to a movie... On their way home, they stop on a subway&#133; As the trains go by underneath, Marilyn's skirts billow up&#133; It is so hot in the city she presumably loves the rush of air on her thighs&#133; Marilyn plays the scene in innocent delight&#133; And Billy Wilder's shot shows a strapping blonde with a white skirt blown out like a spinnaker above her waist&#133; For this famous shot alone, the movie is a must see&#133; "},{"Title":"A legendary scene, but little else to remember...","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Recap Richard Sherman has just sent his wife and kid away to the countryside, to let them escape an especially bad New York City heat wave. Sherman is left behind during the summer, having to work. But something else starts to occupy his mind, his new upstairs neighbor. It isn't just anyone, but a spectacularly beautiful young woman. A model to boot. Sherman starts flirting with her, but his guilty conscience is having the best of him. Should he or should he not act on the romance with the girl upstairs.Comments A rather unusual story where most of the story is played out in either Sherman's apartment or Sherman's imagination, as he obsesses if he should or shouldn't act on his impulses. But unusual and original as it is, it is not that funny that one could hope for. Legendary screenwriter and director Billy Wilder spearheads this movie and that promises a lot, and it doesn't live up to the expectations. There were a few outright laughs, it mostly made me smile a little. With Sherman's obsessing it almost gets a little brooding instead.It does bear watching though, if nothing else for one famous scene where Marilyn Monroe steps out on the grating above the subway, and her dress blows up around her legs. It's fun to have seen the original seen that has been copied and parodied countless times since.But at almost two hours running, it is not really good enough to really carry itself. Some small moments of good jokes but otherwise it was just rather long. If you want to watch a really funny Marilyn Monroe movie I recommend Some like it hot. Also directed by Wilder it is much better.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Dated Sophisticated Comedy","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Contains SpoilersHollywood's moral code in the fifties meant that sex comedies, in the sense that we would understand the term today, did not exist. `Sophisticated' comedies about divorce and adultery, with all the action taking place strictly offstage, were about as close as anyone ever got. This film is a typical example of that style of filmmaking. It is set in Manhattan during a summer heatwave. The leading male character, Richard Sherman, has sent his wife and son to escape to the cooler mountains of New England, but he himself has to remain in town, as July is a busy time at the publishing firm for which he works. The flat above his has been rented by an attractive young model, whose name we never actually learn. When Sherman meets her he spends most of his time in attempts to seduce her, interspersed with panic attacks at the thought of his wife finding out.With its small cast of characters and action largely confined to a single flat, it clearly betrays its origins as a stage play. I have never seen the play on which it is based, but I was interested to learn that the play is actually more explicit in that the two main characters do have a sexual relationship. The theatre of this period was clearly more liberal about sexual matters than the cinema, in America at least. (In Britain the Lord Chamberlain's Office, which governed theatrical censorship, was quite as puritanical as its cinematic equivalent, the British Board of Film Censors). Despite this change of emphasis, the filmed version works well in its own right. Sherman becomes less a middle-aged lecher than a middle-aged fantasist. He fantasises about women, not because he wants to sleep with them (his fantasies generally end with him fighting the woman off amid protestations that he is a happily married man) but because his ego gets a boost from the thought that he is handsome, charming and irresistible. He pursues Marilyn Monroe's character not because he has any cause for dissatisfaction with his wife or any serious thoughts about divorce but because, approaching his fortieth birthday, he needs reassurance that he is still attractive to women.Although Tom Ewell is witty and amusing as Sherman, it is Marilyn Monroe who steals the film (as she normally did). Now, this may seem like heresy to many, but Marilyn was not the most beautiful woman ever. She was not even the most beautiful actress of the fifties; several others such as Audrey Hepburn, Grace Kelly, Elizabeth Taylor or Brigitte Bardot had more classically perfect features. What Monroe could do like no other actress of her time (and like very few who have come since) was to combine sex appeal with wide-eyed innocence. Her character in this movie is a fine example of this. Sherman falls for her precisely because she is not only pretty but also young and naïve; the sort of girl her can exercise his charms on without creating any real threat to his marriage. This is a film about flirtation, not about serious, long-term relationships, so it does not matter that the girl is the typical Hollywood `dumb blonde'. Monroe was perfect for the role; if virtually any other actress had been cast in it (including any of those mentioned above) the result would have been a very different film. There are also some amusing cameo roles from Oskar Homolka, as a Germanic psychiatrist, from Robert Strauss as the loud, pushy janitor and from Donald MacBride as Sherman's cynical boss.Although the film must originally have seemed sophisticated and daring, fifty years later it is somewhat dated and now seems tame and lightweight. Even the famous scene where Marilyn Monroe stands above the subway grating is much less revealing than popular legend or the film's reputation might have you believe. When I say that a film is `dated', I do not necessarily mean that one cannot today watch it with pleasure, but rather that it is an example of an older style of filmmaking that it would not be possible to recreate today. (Indeed, a film of this type would probably have been impossible at any period after the mid-sixties).  There is still much in `The Seven Year Itch' that is worth watching, but it no longer seems as fresh or as funny as it probably did when it was first released. It has not lasted as well as Monroe's other famous collaboration with Billy Wilder, `Some Like It Hot'. 6/10.  "}{"Title":"Great Marilyn Doesn't Quite Save Off-Center Screwball Comedy","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've heard about this movie all my life, but actually just watched it for the first time on New Years Day 2003.  I must say that I was quite disappointed.  Billy WIlder is my all-time favorite director, and he does a great job bringing out MM's best.  There are also five or six wildly funny scenes, but the silly, and sometimes ridiculous, Walter-Mitty-esque blurs of reality suffered by Tom Ewell's character throw this comedy completely off-balance.  Ewell has the manic energy the plot calls for, and Donald McBride and Robert Strauss give great supporting turns.  But Sonny Tufts is awful, and ultimately, even a sparkling gem of a performance by MM is weighed down by too much silliness. "},{"Title":"Seven was the lucky number for everyone involved in this movie!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell) is having to stay home and continue going to work while his wife and son go on vacation. He then notices the young woman (Marilyn Monroe) living in the apartment above him. He realizes that he's probably been bitten by the seven year itch, where he gets interested in other women after seven years of marriage.Obviously, everyone remembers the subway-grating scene. But there's much more to The Seven Year Itch than just that. It shows how, through his acquaintanceship with this young woman, Richard rediscovers a sense of strength in himself. Among other things, it goes to show (or rather, reaffirm) what a great director Billy Wilder was. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy by the great Billy Wilder with  funny scenes , clever acting and amusement","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legendary comedy masterpiece from filmmaker Billy Wilder and screenwriter George Axelrod that won various Golden Globe nominations . It packs a top-drawer duo protagonist , Marylyn Monroe and Tom Ewell , and a splendid secondary cast formed by a variety of notorious actors who make sympathetic interpretations . When his family , wife (Evelyn Keyes) and son , goes away for the summer, a so far faithful husband (Tom Ewell) is tempted by a beautiful neighbor (Marilyn Monroe) , a blonde model who moves upstairs . Understandably he gets itchy . Soon , the known but abortive relationship with his blond neighbor and his wolfish dreams coming to nothing in the face of her ingeniousness and his own ineptitude . Rightly enjoyable and fun-filled , milestone comedy which neatly combines humor , mirth , entertaining situations and amusement . This noisy comedy is intelligently and pleasingly written to gives us lots of fun , laughters and smiles . This is the funniest comedy since laughter began , it is mordantly funny and todays considered a real classic movie . Billy Wilder kept the studio Twentieth Century Fox happy , the picture consistently made money and was hit at box office . Flawless comedy with a duo of sensational protagonists , including an unforgettable Marilyn who parades sexily at her best and more relaxed and enticing than ever , she tickles and tantalizes . Adding , of course , the funniest sequences of all being those in which Monroe's blown skirt and those in which Tom Ewell dreams as the great lover .Despite being one of the most iconic images in pop culture history, as well as one of the most recognizable photographs of Marilyn Monroe, the famous full-length image of Monroe standing with her dress being blown up never actually appears in the film ; the shot used in the film is only of her legs, cut with reaction shots, and never shown full-length. The hit of the show is undoubtedly for the fetching Marilyn Monroe who gives one of the best screen acting . Magnificent performance from Tom Ewell as an angst-ridden forty-years-old husband left alone while his spouse go off on holiday . Tom Ewell won the 1953 Tony Award for Actor in a Drama for The Seven Year Itch in the role of Richard Sherman, which he reprised in this film . Furthermore , an attractive support cast giving appealing interpretations such as Robert Strauss , Oscar Homolka , Carolyn Jones , Sonny Tuffs and Evelyn Keyes . This sexy motion picture was very well directed by Billy Wilder who includes several punchlines . Billy was one of the best directors of history . In 1939 started the partnership with Charles Bracket on such movies as ¨Ninotchka¨ , ¨Ball of fire¨ , making their film debut as such with ¨Major and the minor¨ . ¨Sunset Boulevard¨ was their last picture together before they split up . Later on , Billy collaborated with another excellent screenwriter IAL Diamond . Both of them won an Academy Award for ¨Stalag 17¨ dealing with a POW camp starred by William Holden . After that , they wrote/produced/directed such classics as ¨Ace in the hole¨ , the touching romantic comedy ¨Sabrina¨ , the Hickcoktian courtroom puzzle game ¨Witness for the prosecution¨ and two movies with the great star Marilyn Monroe , the warmth ¨Seven year itch¨ and this ¨Some like hot¨. All of them include screenplays that sizzle with wit . But their biggest success and highpoint resulted to be the sour and fun ¨¨The apartment¨. Subsequently in the 60s and 70s , the duo fell headlong into the pit , they realized nice though unsuccessful movies as ¨Buddy buddy¨ ,¨Fedora¨ , ¨Front page¨ and ¨Secret life of Sherlock Holmes¨, though the agreeable ¨Avanti¨ slowed the decline . The team had almost disappeared beneath a wave of bad reviews and failures . ¨The seven year itch¨ rating  Above average , essential and indispensable watching ; extremely funny and riveting film and completely entertaining . It justly deserves its place among the best comedy ever made . One of the very funniest films of all time and to see and see again . It's the kind of movie where you know what's coming but , because the treatment , enjoy it all the same . "},{"Title":"Magnificent comedy classic from the hands of good-old Billy Wilder","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a pity they haven't made comedies like this in decades. The Seven Year Itch is a breathtaking movie - truly a timeless comedy masterpiece that has enraptured several generations after its release. Script is superb and very enjoyable - like it always is in legendary Billy Wilder's films. And what's the most famous and well-known image of Marilyn Monroe you can possibly think of? No doubt the most common answer would be the scene where Marilyn is standing over the air-condition grating and breeze lifts up her skirt. That classic moment comes from this classic movie. Monroe is just brilliant in The Seven Year Itch - this might just be her best performance ever. She's so charming, lovely and absolutely beautiful blond I was swept off my feet by her splendor. Her innocent simplicity makes her soooo cute. One of my favorite lines is the one she states that she has no imagination, but she has lots of other things. I have to admit that Tom Ewell is quite marvelous too - his chemistry between Marilyn is something highly entertaining to follow. Watch fabulous The Seven Year Itch to realize two facts Marilyn Monroe is definitely one of the greatest if not the greatest actress ever and legendary Billy Wilder is most likely the finest comedy director of the Hollywood's golden days. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A classic American comedy film","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The 7 Year Itch is about Richard Sherman, a normal, middle-class American family man who has to live several months alone in his New York apartment while his wife and little son are on vacation. The real story starts when Sherman meets a beautiful young woman who works as an actor in the Dazzledent TV commercials.Despite his vow not to get involved with other women, Sherman starts flirting with the young woman, and starts to feel so guilty about it he wraps himself up in a world of his own imagination. Sooner or later he has trouble separating the truth from his own imagination.This movie of course received attention because it stars Marilyn Monroe as the beautiful young woman (who remains nameless for the entire duration of the movie), but the story was so well written and acted it could have done without her. There are hints of Franz Kafka's books in the way that Sherman's world becomes a blur of fact and fiction. The scenes of his imagination are well played without overstating the point.I recommend this movie to everyone. It is an example of how comedy films should be made, and proof that American comedy does not have to mean farting animals which Hollywood has sadly recently forgot.  "},{"Title":"Legendary Marilyn","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The seven year itch is an unforgettable legendary masterpiece. It's humorous, witty and extremely sophisticated, also very much delightful. Monroe gives a great Aurora of sex appeal. The amazing and powerful Director 'Billy Wilder' did a great job creating a film so full of life and realness. The innocence, and flirting are very casual and the film is just magical, it's beautiful and has to be seen. It's also a film that has never been copied in that same way, this is because it couldn't be, there's only one seven year itch, and there always will be to me.The film has a message 'not to be unfaithful' and to resist temptation, and to mainly be yourself. What a great, memorable and powerful name for a film too, it describes it if you think about the film after watching it, it's your own personal perspective which i like. It's not the type of film that everyone can necessarily have the same types of views.It was adapted from a Broadway play of the same name by George Axelrod, with Tom Ewell. I think it did a lot of good that Tom was educated and aware of the story as he was in the play and that's what made him so brilliant in the film, he was perfect as well and the wonderful and unforgettable Marilyn. The film is remembered for the radiant performance of Monroe, with the two personalities, the little girl and heart and the beautiful and secretly intelligent woman. I didn't like how she was portrayed as again a blonde bombshell, but you know she was fabulous at it and she know what she was doing, she also knew that that wasn't the real her and she wanted other's to know too, accept some didn't take any notice and wanted to know her as that. I also hated that she was know as 'the girl' this is very important and sexist, but it worked.A voice-over narration introduces the film this is where we see Richard Sherman (Ewell) send of his wife and young son 'Ricky' for the summer at a crowded train station. In the next scene a number of businessmen follow a shapely female. This is where the story begins. Mr Sherman has a very creative imagination. When he first see's Monroe walking up the stairs to her friends apartment (Ewells) face tells all.Of course everyone all knows the famous legendary scene even if they haven't seen the film. Monroe in her white dress, which blows up from the vents in the street, and Mr Sherman's line 'Cools the ankles doesn't it', while looking.The seven year itch is very important in Cinema history and any Monroe or Ewell fan must see it, or someone who loves a great film. "},{"Title":"Funny Monroe but unfunny Ewell...Jack Lemmon would have been better...","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whatever fun and spontaneity THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH has as a movie is due entirely to the lines and situations given to MARILYN MONROE. Only when she is on the screen, does the story go into full spin with double-entendre remarks and visual gags. Monroe is at her peachiest as the girl who's seemingly unaware of the raging hormones going on right under her nose by her neurotic neighbor.As the neighbor, TOM EWELL is given entirely too much footage and becomes downright obnoxious and annoying with his monologues long before the finale. It's obvious that he lacked the chemistry for the part (a role he originated on stage), and someone like JACK LEMMON would have been a much better choice as the man downstairs.For Monroe's fans, this is one of her best performances coming at a time when she was doing some great work at The Actor's Studio in NYC.SONNY TUFTS and EVELYN KEYES have roles that don't amount to much and drift in and out of the story with very little effect. Billy Wilder's direction is hampered by his casting choice of Ewell to repeat his stage role with less than satisfying results. "},{"Title":"A so-so comedy that's just not for me.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Something that irritates me about the IMBD is that if you criticise a movie that was made before 1980, a truckload of idiots send you messages telling you how much you hate old movies.  Let me say right away, I don't.  I like films from pretty much every era of cinema that I've had the chance to see, but, having had common sense recently installed, I've come to realise that age doesn't automatically make a movie great, just as modernity doesn't automatically make a movie bad.So bearing in mind that I'm talking about this one movie, and not every movie made in the 1950s, The Seven Year Itch is as average as they come.  The minimal plot sees Tom Ewell's `summer bachelor' trying to resist the charms of neighbour Marilyn Monroe while his wife and son are shipped off for the season.  Very obviously adapted from a play, there are few characters, few sets, and even fewer laughs.  That it succeeds at all is due to the charm of the leads and the occasional good joke that sneaks its way into the script.The film's main problem comes in how it tells its story.  First, it depends on Ewell constantly talking to himself, babbling on endlessly about what he's doing, what he might do, what he's never done, and what other people will think he's doing, done and about to do.  Secondly, he is constantly daydreaming, the film constantly dissolving into one of his fantasies that are unfortunately no funnier than reality.  If you find this storytelling approach irritating, as I did, the film's potential is lost immediately.You'll no doubt be shocked to learn that in this film Marilyn Monroe is cast as a dumb blonde.  Most people in the world seem to immediately pitch a trouser tent at the thought of Norma Jean, but I can't say I count myself among them.  The problem with a dumb blonde is that she's dumb, so to find her attractive, you have to be attracted to stupidity.  I'm not, so it doesn't matter how much she pouts, or how often we're treated to shots of her hourglass figure; she's as thick as a lobotomised footballer and therefore unattractive.  She's basically got the personality and intelligence of a six year old, and, not being Gary Glitter, I can't say that appeals to me.A comedy with few laughs, a sex symbol who doesn't float my boat, and a classic that just doesn't do it for me.  I guess there's another bunch of snide messages coming my way. "},{"Title":"Billy Wilder has done much better, but I don't care","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie responsible for the photo of Marilyn Monroe with her dress being lifted up by the blast from an air vent.  I think this is a production photo - at any event I didn't see famous image anywhere in the air vent scene of the movie.  But the photo sums things up pretty well.  This film is about Marilyn Monroe being sexy.  Actually, it's about Tom Ewell being tortured to the brink of insanity by Marilyn Monroe being sexy, but such a detail need not concern us here.  I wasn't really looking at Tom Ewell.The comedy is weak and the plot is weak.  Tom Ewell's character is certainly weak (in both senses weak-willed and weakly delineated).  Billy Wilder's sharp and witty treatment is there, but - well - weak.  Ah, who cares. The situation has all of the tension Wilder thinks it has, and the film still has its charm.  This is so even if one is immune to the charms of Marilyn Monroe - which is to say, not a heterosexual male. "},{"Title":"One iconic image, otherwise Billy Wilder's weakest film","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Director Billy Wilder gets a great, comic book-styled performance out of Marilyn Monroe she's guilelessly sexy and playful, and has no idea she's enchanting the married man who lives downstairs in her building. Unfortunately, hers are the only moments of inspiration in an otherwise dim-bulb comedy which must rank as Wilder's most disappointing venture. Beginning with the animated credits sequence (where colored boxes open to reveal teeny-tiny print), Wilder's handling is flat, his timing is off, and the central situation--a husband rationalizing having an extra-marital fling--has no heart. As the man whose wife and child are away on vacation, Tom Ewell gives a flaccid performance, overplaying every emotion and generally making this picture unbearable. Ewell fantasizes different scenarios and constantly jabbers to himself, but he's only in the way (and Billy Wilder does everybody a disservice by staging one overlong sequence in Ewell's shower--with Ewell in it!). Worthwhile for Monroe's fans who won't mind slogging through the inept, timeworn gags and groaning dialogue, just to see the platinum blonde's skirt get that famous blast of air over the subway grating. Too bad the rest of The Seven Year Itch wasn't as imaginative. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Clever And Usual Script,","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch is a fantastic movie with a very clever story line and an extremely talented cast.Marilyn Monroe is fantastic in this movie,her performance is brilliant,and,like always she is beautiful.If anyone ever wondered where the famous picture of her dress blowing in the air comes from,this is the movie.The script to the movie is very unusual,I was expecting it to be a simple fifties movie,but it wasn't,a lot of dialogue between the characters is strange,and Richard should probably be put into a mental hospital.Fans of Marilyn Monroe and classic movies from this era of film will definitely enjoy The Seven Year Itch.Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell) makes an effort to dedicate his life to his business while his wife is away for the summer with their son,but an attractive new neighbor distracts him from doing what he promised. "},{"Title":"Marilyn The Magnficent","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe was a force of nature so great that Betty Grable her predecessor as Queen of the 20th Century Fox Lot claimed that MM saved the movie industry in the 50's when fans were switching to TV. I am not sure all about that but I do know that MM was incomparable as a comedienne. This is Ms. Monroe's first of two films with Billy Wilder and the great Director in an interview with Cameron Crowe noted that Wilder wanted Walter Matthau then a new Broadway star to co star with Double M but 20th insisted on Tom Ewell. One can only imagine Marilyn Monroe and Walter Matthau together! This is a great movie made greater by two greats Marilyn Mornoe and Billy Wilder.Davud Barra "},{"Title":"Marylin, feh, IT'S EWELL'S MOVIE!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All the comments about Marylin Monroe for this film miss the point--the whole film is about Tom Ewell's character's wild imaginations and absurd twists colored by his constant immersion in his job in the field of dime pulp novels.  If this movie moves at all, it's because of Ewell's performance as the husband who has been completely domesticated except for his uncontrollable imagination.  Monroe's 'characteristics' drive some of the plot, but Ewell's fantasies are getting out of control before she even enters the film.  It's a wonderful peek into that largely unspoken-of psyche of the American family man. "},{"Title":"The Marilyn-scene","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Probably the best known scene with Marilyn Monroe is part of this movie. The white dress lifted by the wind from a metro-tunnel and hold down by Marilyn is reason enough to see this movie. Monroe is not a great actress but seeing just has to make you smile. She is charming and pretty funny as well. Tom Ewell is great as well as the guy with the seven year itch (a desire for other women after seven years of marriage) and the way he does the scenes with Monroe is just great. 'The Seven Year Itch' is directed by great director Billy Wilder so you know you will not waste your time. A nice little classic that will give you a good time. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable, if static, film.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie definitely hasn't managed to escape its stage origins the few characters, the limited sets and the talky nature of the script result in a rather static comedy. The story is slim, too, and can barely sustain the film's 103 minutes. However, the lively performances, the often witty dialogue (the gimmick of having the main character talk constantly to himself is annoying at first but then you adjust to it) and, of course, Monroe's stunning beauty somehow make you overlook the film's flaws. Good-natured, glossy and highly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"When something itches, my dear sir, the natural tendency is to scratch","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After sixteen wonderful pictures, I didn't think that Billy Wilder could do wrong. However, after lulling me into a false sense of security, the director then delivered a right hook to my jaw, leaving me dazed, confused and with a splitting headache. As melodramatic as that sounds, I really did spend last night with a niggling feeling of discomfort in my brain, as though I'd been unexpectedly betrayed by an old friend. 'The Seven Year Itch (1955)' has the best of intentions, and it showcases sex-icon Marilyn Monroe in one of her most alluring roles, but overall it just doesn't work; by the end of the film, I found myself more than a little exasperated. The screenplay was adapted from George Axelrod's popular 1952 three-act play of the same name, which Wilder apparently liked to such that he prophetically included an allusion to it in his 'Sabrina (1954).' Whether or not film censorship played a role in diluting the director's true vision, all I can say is that I am decidedly disappointed.A stairway to nowhere! I think that's just elegant. So says The Girl (Marilyn Monroe) when she notices the low-budget fashion in which a former-duplex has been converted into two separate apartments. This is exactly how I feel about this film it's a stairway to nowhere. The story starts off with definite promise, as a middle-aged husband (Tom Ewell) says farewell to his beloved family for the summer, and must fight the urge to misbehave in their absence (oh, no, not me!); that means no drinking, no smoking and no women. Oh, what glorious temptations Wilder could have flung in this man's path! Unfortunately, this is where the story's foundations in theatre come into play. Just as the story promises to get interesting, it stumbles into an inescapable rut, and everything suddenly stagnates, the running time prolonged through frustratingly-pointless monologues and imagined conversations. Ewell's neurotic overreacting, funny at first, becomes grating, and I couldn't wait until he rid himself of that so-called Seven Year Itch.That there are shafts of light beaming into this dark tunnel is a welcome reassurance to this keen Wilder fan. The casting of Marilyn Monroe is perfect, bringing a sex appeal that was unrivalled by even the finest beauties of her time. Young, lively and naive, The Girl accepts Richard Sherman's awkward advances as just another daily occurrence, frequently mistaking his obvious lust for simple neighbourly kindness. That imaginative money shot above the New York subway is justly iconic, and probably most fully defines Monroe's screen persona, even though Wilder would utilise her to even greater effect in 'Some Like It Hot (1959)' four years later. Despite my general dissatisfaction with the screenplay, there are, nonetheless, a few great lines of dialogue, many delivered by Oskar Homolka as the straight-shooting psychiatrist Dr. Brubaker (At fifty dollars an hour, all my cases are interesting!). Remarkably, 'The Seven Year Itch' was a considerable box-office success, something I can't quite understand, considering the failure of some of his most impressive pictures. Sorry, Billy &#150; I guess nobody's perfect, after all. "},{"Title":"The movie responsible for one of Marilyn's most famous pictures","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ''The Seven Year Itch''is one of the classics with Marilyn Monroe, when we have the famous scene of Marilyn's dress blowing up around her legs as she stands over a subway grating.(and also the scene that made Marilyn's and Joe's wedding to end!)In Manhattan,Richard Sherman( as many other husbands from the Island) sends his wife Helen and his son Ricky to travel to their summer's house during the horrible summer in Manhattan,while he needs to work, since it is high season. Richard tries to behave himself, without drinking alcohol,smoking and meeting new women while his wife is distant from him,but when he meets his beautiful and sexy neighbor (played by Marilyn Monroe) many things scape from his control.The lead character is very neurotic, what makes me feel angry and wishing to punch him sometimes, but the story is kind of original, specially for the time it was written.(lots of censorship)aka O Pecado Mora Ao Lado - Brazil "},{"Title":"massively over-rated","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Plodding, occasionally amusing, massively over-rated piece of nonsense from the pens of Billy Wilder and George Axelrod, both of whom did much better work elsewhere - in the case of Wilder, we're talking of a man who created a number of bona-fide masterpieces, so goodness knows what was going on here.The performances are OK, although to be honest Monroe's eternal breathiness grates on me after a while, no matter how worthwhile her other talents.The piece stands somewhere between The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (1947) and Play It Again Sam (1972). As far as I can see, that's the most interesting thing about it. "},{"Title":"Ewell be sorry","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a movie, like The Great Dictator or Birth of a Nation, that more people _know_ than have _watched_. Everyone is familiar with the scene in which Marilyn Monroe stands over the subway grate, but how many people have actually seen this film? Well, for all those people, the answer is don't bother. The problem with this film isn't Monroe, who turns in one of her best performances this side of Some Like it Hot, but rather with Tom Ewell. He is annoying, irritating, and an absolute vacuum at the dead center of this film. Unfortunately, Ewell is on screen about twice as long as Monroe, and he spends most of the time talking to himself, which is just cruel. His is a role that, in the hands of someone like Jack Lemmon, could have been terrific. Ewell, however, supplies an obtrusive, boring narration to a leaden, plodding performance. In the end, I didn't want Ewell's wife to catch him in his tentative indiscretions, I wanted a meteorite to hit him. "},{"Title":"Anemic sex farce","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This trying bit of corn is a real artifact. Single-for-the-summer Tom Ewell soliloquies his way through this stagy, underpopulated sex farce. Unnamed neighbor Marilyn Monroe is his witless quarry. Do viewers really need to be notified that the era of lecherous males drooling over female cheesecake to generate the lowest form of broad comedy (the whole show here) is over? Monroe cooperates in this embarrassment via her portrayal of the dimmest of dim bulbs (enthralled by 'chopsticks' on the piano). How much do you have to dislike yourself to play a woman like this? The movie's version of the female sex is grotesque.This is a very dull, unfunny movie. All of the era's lascivious 'gender politics' comedies geared for male audiences are simply embarrassing now. There's 'A Guide for the Married Man,' 'Irma Le Douce,' 'What's New Pussycat?' 'Sweet Charity,' etc. ...in all of which, women are uncomplicated, compliant, one-dimensional, unworldly prey. If you enjoy impotent losers making faces over puerile double-entendres about breasts, this may be your flavor. The culture is now revisiting this tiresome era ...in the tiresome one-note hit 'Mad Men.' "}{"Title":"Tame, Tepid, and Time-Stamped...But Prime Marilyn","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Smack dab in the middle of the Decade of presumed innocence there were cracks in the facade and this is an example. Occasionally there were Artistic displays that penetrated, or at least tried to penetrate, the layer of Virginity that coated this most hypocritical of times.Billy Wilder was one of those Visionaries that always seemed to be on the edge of things and here he attempted to say more than the Censors would allow and as a result this was as revealing as a revelatory recital on Sexuality and Mores could be in 1955.Couched in Neurosis and suppressed urges (itches) this broad Sex/Comedy is a dated, ditsy, delight, and is iconic and irresistible for those seeking its less than lewd portrayal of Male Fantasies from the age of agonizing conformity. Marilyn's doe-eyed display of a naive natural beauty and some amusing situations give this a Charming experience that is devoid of the cringe inducing Comedy that passes by today. "},{"Title":"An ordinary film elevated by the extraordinary Marilyn","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch is a reasonably decent film which would have been mostly forgotten by now but for one thing...the performance of the incomparable Marilyn Monroe. She livens up every scene she's in and when she's not on the screen you miss her terribly. The role she plays could not fit her any more perfectly and Monroe takes that role and runs with it, making this movie her own. Co-star Tom Ewell plays off her wonderfully, but when Marilyn's not around you get the sense Ewell misses her just as much as the audience does. There are times when Ewell is left to his own devices where the movie does tend to drag. But eventually Monroe will pop up and inject some much-needed life back into the film. All in all, the movie is an enjoyable ride and a worthy showcase for one of the biggest stars Hollywood has ever produced.A sex farce produced in a time when you couldn't really make a sex farce, The Seven Year Itch pushed the boundaries of its time. By today's standards the film may seem quaint, sweet and innocent...a sex farce without the sex. But for 1955 the film was almost revolutionary. The plot's very basic. Ewell plays Richard Sherman, a Manhattanite whose wife and young son have gone away on vacation for the summer. Sherman is left at home for what should be an uneventful few months but then temptation in the form of Monroe moves into the apartment upstairs. We only ever know Monroe's character as The Girl but this is no ordinary girl. Before long poor Richard's libido and very active imagination get the better of him and he spends every waking moment fantasizing about The Girl. We'd seen earlier in the film that, at least in his own mind, Richard is quite the lady-killer, with women constantly throwing themselves at him while he, the happily married man, resists. Now it is he who is on the prowl. Well, at least as much on the prowl as a married man could be in a film made in 1955. His pursuit of The Girl leads to some rather awkward, amusing situations and Ewell and Monroe have great chemistry and wonderful comic timing. It's a shame Ewell is left alone so much in the film because things are not nearly as interesting when he's talking to himself, trying to either talk himself into or out of having this affair. When Ewell and Monroe are together...that's when this movie shines. And there are enough of those moments to make the whole enterprise work. In truth, there's not much of a plot, some of the jokes fall flat and the film does drag at times. But this movie has something truly special which allows it to rise above its flaws. That something special can be summed up in two words...Marilyn Monroe. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch is one of the funniest and entertaining movies.It stars Marilyn Monroe from How To Marry A Millionaire(her acting is good in this movie) & Tom Ewell (he played the same character in the Broadway play).It also stars Evelyn Keyes(Gone With The Wind).Glossy, humorous and imaginative(definitely in Cinemascope), The Seven Year Itch will not disappoint you.Richard Sherman(Ewell), a New Yorker sends his wife Helen(Keyes) and son away for the summer.He vows that he will not chase girls, drink or smoke.But when a beautiful girl(Monroe) moves upstairs, Sherman cannot resist temptation.In many countries it is rated 12+ because it contains some sensual scenes.The Seven Year Itch should be at the most rated PG. "},{"Title":"A good comedy from Billy Wilder","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a fun movie from the 50's with Marilyn Monroe at the peak of her career in Billy Wilder's adaptation of the George Axelrod play The Seven Year Itch with Marilyn in the role of the girl with no name as the neighbor upstairs referred to only as The Girl. This is also mid way through the 50's when Director Wilder was turning out some of his best loved films including Sunset Boulevard, Stalag 17, and Some Like it Hot. Tom Ewel in the lead role as Richard Sherman reprises his Tony Award winning role from the long running Broadway play of the same name. Ewell shot this film concurrently with his stage production which starred Vanessa Powel in the Marilyn Monroe role. Veteran Cinematographer Milton Krasner who made many romantic comedies in the 30's through the 60's photographed this film. Ewel and Monroe are supported by a fine cast here in Robert Strauss, Oskar Homolka, Carolyn Jones and Evelyn Keyes. Clever, funny dialog in this film but it stays pretty close to the play and Ewel is the principal character and there's not as much Monroe as in Bus Stop or Some Like it Hot which may make Monroe fans want to see more of her in this but it's a good movie and I've seen it many times on TV over the years and would give it an 8.0 out 10. "},{"Title":"Psychology Lite","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very amusing movie about a man whose fear of getting the seven year itch goes from paranoia to psychosis.Richard Sherman is going to continue working in the book-publishing firm for which he works as his wife and son go vacationing.  After they leave, Richard notices all the other husbands skirt-chasing, drinking, smoking and staying up all night.  At the same time, Richard has to review a book that covers the seven year itch and a sexy young woman rents the apartment above his.  Richard, in trying to be neighborly, invites The Girl down for a drink and the two become friends.This movie is fascinating because it probes Richard's mind.  He fears he'll get the seven year itch, but he doesn't.  He and the girl are friends; nothing more.  But in his mind, he's like The Creature from the Black Lagoon.  But this movie doesn't ponder the subjects it raises to the fullest extend possible; instead, its main purpose is to be funny.  And there are some very funny moments indeed.For a mixture of laughs, psychology, and commentary, I'd recommend this to anyone willing to give this old movie a try. "},{"Title":"The best comedy for a hot night of summer.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   The Seven Year Itchis a minor comedy from Billy Wilder.However,it has  an enduring magic that made special.Is the story of a husband whose wife and son are in vacation.He's alone and full of temptations with the new neighbour(Marilyn Monroe).Wilder has a great script with his usual elementsacid vision of the typical american  and his problems,very good dialogues and magic.The only failure of the movie could be it's too much theatrical(is based on a play)but it's great anyway.I see this movie every summer and is special.Few movies capturing the essence of the summer(a summer in the 50's New York in this case).Also,the movie contains the most famous shot of Marilyn Monroe,when she is outing of the cinema.She was a great comical actress and this is very clear in this movie.  In short,a great comedy to see the life of the 50's and the best way to spend a hot night of summer. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully hysterical 9/10","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Near perfect comedy that doesn't have a dull minute in the entire running time.  Charming classic Billy Wilder material here -- including the ever so famous skirt scene with Marilyn Monroe.  Tom Ewell has perfect comedic timing, although he does talk to himself a little TOO much.  Only flaw? It's weak empty ending. "},{"Title":"Study in Sexual Tension","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     Very good example of 50s sexual tension onscreen. The struggle between wanting to ravish a sexy, seeming open woman or to be the 50s Ward-Cleaver-husband-good-guy. You feel for Tom Ewell's character in his struggle to restrain himself, but you also respect that this struggle is there in him. The movie opens by showing men shipping wife and kids off for the summer and then almost immediately becoming  wolves. Tom Ewell's character distances himself from these shenanigans untill a hard-to-resist situation is foisted upon him. Its a good example of Billy Wilder's skill and also a tribute to Marilyn Monroe's beauty and talent as an actor. This role stands as Marilyn's parody of her public image. The blown-up skirt scene is here, but it is not the wide-angle shot you have seen elsewhere. It's a classic for a reason. "},{"Title":"A Light, Enjoyable Film That Shows Why Marilyn Monroe is an Icon","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The romantic comedy The Seven Year Itch is directed by Billy Wilder and stars Tom Ewell and Marilyn Monroe. The film takes place in New York City.The film starts off with Richard Sherman's (Ewell) family going north to main for the summer because it is extremely hot in New York City. Sherman is always disgusted by the fact that the second other married men's wives leave for the summer they always start drinking, getting tattoos, and chasing other women. Richard works at a publishing company and promises himself he won't be like those other husbands and just focus on his work and not do anything that could later be frowned upon. But then the beautiful blonde girl (Monroe) moves in upstairs and Richard must resists his temptations...The screenplay for this film by Billy Wilder and George Axelrod based off of George Axelrod's play was decent. The dialogue was very witty and the character of Richard Sherman was very well developed, but it just bothered me how much Sherman talked to himself. It is just so unnatural for a person to talk to themselves giving away so much information about what he is thinking. I felt all his dialogue could have been displayed just with actions and it would just be like a silent film.Wilder's direction was fine, but not the reason he is known as the legendary director he is today. Since there was only really the set of his apartment and work place the film was not really that pleasing to look at, plus he never really used any complex shots that were memorable. He got good performances from the limited cast, but this is certainly not The Apartment.The editing in this film was very strong. The film flowed smoothly throughout and never made me actually think about the editing, which is what an editor's goal should be. I did like how during the beginning of the film Sherman's wife and later the goal were layered over the film, I thought that was done very well, especially for the time period.The acting in this film was overall very good. Tom Ewell I thought gave a great performance as Richard Sherman. He was witty and made me really feel like I knew his character. Even though I disliked all the monologue he had he performed it very well. One part where he was absolutely hilarious was when he was hallucinating himself talking to the girl, I just loved the voice he was using when talking to her. Monroe did fine in her role, all she basically had to do was act cute and look pretty so it was not that hard for her. I do feel though that this movie really displayed how iconic she is very well with all the subway shots and air-conditioning shot where her dress is blown up.Overall I give this film a 6/10 because it is enjoyable, but not very memorable. I would recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of romantic comedies or Marilyn Monroe. "},{"Title":"An elegant comedy","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Today this seems a harmless, tame, sexy comedy. It's easy to look back on the era of the Production Code (which forbade anything remotely touchy such as even mentioning alcoholism) in a gilded sort of way, because it egged film makers on to do their best; but it also took a real toll. In the case of Marilyn Monroe, it cost her her first marriage (to Joe DiMaggio) at a time when she was already mentally struggling, because Joe just couldn't handle the stigma.The movie is all about the Hays Code, and the makers really grappled with it. At one point it was even suggested to writer George Axelrod to co-write the script with a Monsignore, just to be on the safe side. If he and director Billy Wilder would have messed up, had they created a movie that would have lost its bite through censorship, and consequently have flopped at the box office, it could have ended their careers and lost them their livelihood.Luckily for us, they persevered. The Seven Year Itch is a great Billy Wilder comedy and a showcase for Marilyn Monroe as sex symbol but also as a great actress.Like I said, today it seems tame, but at the time it was anything but. It's a work of love from the age of the cholera. "}{"Title":"A Great 1950s Entertainment","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch is a refreshing, funny, fast-paced entertainment that encapsulates its era, spoofing the perceptions in the 1950s of marriage and extramarital affairs, cigarette smoking, beautiful blondes, vacation, seduction, the dream girl, and other such things. Its hilarious opening bit blasts it off for me. I laughed out loud at the white-American-male- neanderthal comportment with which all the Native Americans in the tribe sneak into the young girl's tipi after seeing their wives sail away from their island shore.Tom Ewell, an entertaining lesser-known actor plays a prototypical 1955 New York City husband who, after sending his wife and son to Maine to escape the blistering summer, meets a model played by Marilyn Monroe, whose dream girl characterization is remarked by the fact that we never learn her name. She has rented the apartment upstairs. Despite paranoia about becoming unfaithful, Ewell invites the airy, sumptuous blonde downstairs for a drink. However, his overactive imagination works overtime. He is torn between fantasies of seduction, complete with Rachmaninoff's Second Piano Concerto, alternating with horrible thoughts of his wife catching him.The Seven Year Itch is one of Wilder's satisfying easy listening comedy pieces. As is his technique, he never intrudes and thus we take in the film in a more magical sense, as it maintains its delicate tone. For instance, in a later scene involving Ewell's confrontation with the hunky neighbor incidentally accompanying his wife in Maine, the tone could so easily have lost its balance, but Wilder has a maternal effect on his audience. You're not to worry. He's your director and he's there for you. "},{"Title":"Decent but way overrated","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Tom Ewell plays a dull guy whose wife and son are away for the summer. During their absence, his male ego begins acting up and he wrestles with a need to feel viral as well as be a decent man. Throughout all these struggles, he talks about his inner thoughts to the audience. This extensive use of the monologue shows that this was originally a play and the film takes place almost exclusively in Ewell's apartment. However, later in the film, his sexy new neighbor (Marilyn Monroe) appears in his life and seems to offer him the ultimate temptation. How all this plays out is rather cute and is reminiscent of later films such as GUIDE FOR THE MARRIED MAN--but it is a tad better and more enjoyable.Had this film not co-starred Marilyn Monroe and had the whole floating dress scene not been included, then I doubt if anyone would have paid much attention to this small film. Now this isn't to say it's a bad film--it's rather likable. However, given that 80% of the film is a monologue by Tom Ewell, it's highly unlikely the film would have received much publicity at all nor would it have been given such a large budget.Worth seeing? Yes, but certainly not up to all the massive publicity heaped on the film in 1955 (the publicity campaign even included HUGE multi-story cutouts of Marilyn in the dress scene). "},{"Title":"Boop-boop-be-doo...","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Delightful comedy, and one of Marilyn's best (though not quite as good as Some like it Hot). Tom Ewell turns out a great performance in this movie as the happily married man who, after seven years of marriage, starts having fantasies about the sexy blonde who's just moved in upstairs. The film also shows how much comedy can be squeezed from a one-location scenario, and is definitely one that budding filmmakers should take note of. Marilyn oozes charm (in a typical role for her) as a sweet but sexy, quirky young woman. The script is still fresh, and complements the light breezy tone of the movie. All in all, definitely a film for a rainy Sunday afternoon.P.S. This celluloid gem also contains the infamous &#145;subway grating' scene. "},{"Title":"More than just the subway scene","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most people associate The Seven Year Itch with the famous scene of Marilyn Monroe standing over a subway grate and allowing her white dress to be flipped up by the breeze from a passing train. To me, it's an afterthought in the movie. Heck, you can barely see her ankles (Remember, folks, this was the 1950s). The best thing about this film is the comedic interplay between Tom Ewell, Marilyn (The Girl) and capable supporting characters such as Oskar Homolka and Donald McBride. There are some great comic touches (i.e. Tom Ewell and Marilyn dipping potato chips in champagne, Ewell trying to seduce Marilyn with Rachmaninoff and ending up playing chopsticks; the waitress in a health food restaurant offering to use Tom's tip for her nudist camp, etc, etc.) Not only that, but Marilyn is perhaps at her zenith in terms of beauty, elegance, raw sexuality and comedic skill. There is none of the cheap, platinum sleaziness she projects in later films. In my opinion, it's her best film. Tom Ewell is perfect as Richard Sherman and the film is a delightful time capsule of 1950s New York. "},{"Title":"TOM EWELL...not forgotten","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One thing that always surprises, and saddens, me, is how a 'huge' star can lose his place in the all-time hierarchy of Hollywood Stars and our memories.  Tom Ewell is such a one.  A giant in his day, I don't think he is given his due for great performances in the past.  7 YEAR ITCH is basically a monologue; are there any scenes without him??? (NOT MANY!)How can you help someone overcome that 'itch'?  Well, throwing a nubile, naive Marilyn Monroe into a married man's (single for the summer) duplex apartment is more torture than help.  Ewell fights his demons, nearly surrenders to them (in a Walter Mitty kind of way), and fights some more.  All in all, very entertaining and very sexy (for it's day).  It's most note-able for the Marilyn Monroe over the subway grate scene, but Tom Ewell is the star of the movie and won't be forgotten for an excellent performance... "},{"Title":"Monroe is a characters of every man's dream-in 1955","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The time this film was made was 1955. For those old enough to talk a girl to a movie to see this film, it is a great comedy and satire. To the younger generations, with different moral codes, many of the scenes probably don't make sense. For example, who knows about the magazine called U.S. Camera? It was one of the few magazines that showed completely nude women. This got by the censures because it was considered art, and was before Playboy. You could buy girlie mags, but they were not considered proper in a married middle class home. The other other decent magazine that had naturally nude women was when the Geographic was doing a piece on the South Seas, or life in Africa.Middle class married men were not any different than those today, except the trysts were usually more circumspect. And that is what makes this flick funnier to we grey hairs. Traveling salesman jokes were so popular at the time because they had respectable jobs, and had more opportunities to play around and not get caught by their wives. Married men with routine jobs had to be more inventive.Comedy that plays on universal subjects such as human nature and sex. Some films become dated because you must be alive to understand the subtle references. Unles you have a degree in some period of time.This film will be a classic forever, despite some of humor lost on younger generations. There is enough timeless comedy to keep this film alive for generations. If someone can not see something special in Marilyn Monroe, they must not be a normal male, of any generation.Tom Ewell is perfect in his roll. Like most men, he is not very handsome or sexy, but sees himself attractive to ALL females, even a Marilyn Monroe. The seven year itch is a reference to that time that comes in every marriage when romance gives way to routine. A man wants to return to his youth. (Which explains why so many older men are married to trophy wives-if they can afford them).I have not discussed how women might view this. Knowing what women think becomes more difficult as one grows older. I suspect that they may found humor in how men see themselves as young and viral, and begin to delude themselves. This phenomenon is similar to the non-combatants in any war, who begin to think and tell others of their heroic deeds of their youth.The first scenes, showing the original inhabitants of Manhatten are intended to show that as far a sex is concerned, nothing has changed. "},{"Title":"Advice for married men Watch those flicking thumbs.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Munroe bursts onto the screen and glows throughout this enjoyable farce. Based on the play of fifty years ago it still maintains a theatrical format in which Tom Ewell as Richard Sherman actually speaks his thoughts gushing out from an over active imaginative brain. He invites this beautiful blonde to his apartment for a neighbourly drink and Richard imagines what the evening might lead to. In conversation the girl tells him how she put her toe in a dripping tap while having a bath and how she had to call the plumber to release her. . Moments later while opening a bottle of champagne Richard gets his finger caught in the neck of the bottle.When there is a knock at the door the blonde curls up hidden in an armchair. It's the janitor who has come to collect a rug for dry cleaning. He sees her protruding naked leg and gives Richard a knowing look. When Richard discovers later that the blonde is involved in TV ads his imagination goes into over drive. If she blabs about the incident it could be broadcast widely over the TV network or so he thinks . Richard's wife and son are taking a short holiday so when she telephones, Richard lies about how he is spending his time in her absence just in case she misinterprets his intentions. The fact that the blonde moves in for several nights so that she can enjoy the air-conditioning would be hard to explain.Much of the humour derives from the naiveté of the blond and the reckless possibilities from Richard's imagination. The fact that Richard is engaged in the publishing business makes it difficult for him to divorce reality from the fiction of the plots he is constantly evaluating.To add to his constant bewilderment, he begins to imagine his wife may be having an affair with a family friend. This makes for a very funny scene when he accuses his friend of having sex with his wife on a hayride. His friend is flabbergasted when Richard starts talking about divorce proceedings. It all makes for good fun.Billy Wilder was the producer and director and wrote the screen play. He did a great job and I for one spent a very enjoyable evening watching the result of his work. "},{"Title":"masterpiece of fun and intelligence","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The amount of intelligence employed by Billy Wilder to make The Seven Year Itch would have been enough to send the man on the Moon. Probably this is what mainly strikes the audience the unbelievable firework of bright ideas in the plot, in the script, in the direction. Pure genius. Are ten views sufficient to appreciate all the wit, all the gags, all the subtleties? I'm not sure. In any case, any repeated view of the movie is a joy. Is this the funniest film ever made? No, but just because there are other equal Wilder's masterpieces.The whole cast is superb, including the great supporting actors. Tom Ewell, perhaps an under-used talent during his career, gains with this movie a deserved place in the history of cinema. Marilyn is just the legend of the legends. Ask to anyone on the Earth, man or woman, from Greenland to Patagonia, to quickly name an actress, and the answer will be Marilyn Monroe. Yes, she also has an outstanding talent for acting, but this is not a parameter to judge her. It would be like saying that Diana was good with bow and arrows OK, but the main thing is that she was a Goddess.In the movie there is plenty of easy, funny, light-hearted erotism, expressed with an ironic innuendo never going beyond the border of good taste. As a matter of fact, I think that in The Seven Year Itch the sexy aura is more exciting than in movies such as Nine 1/2 Weeks, Basic Instinct, Fatal Attraction and all that. Bless the censorship, which forced the movie-makers to use brain instead of vulgarity to create erotism.The Seven Year Itch is so justly celebrated that by no means it needs promotion. The present comment is a thank and a homage to the wonderful people who enriched mankind with this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time-Tom Ewell is superb.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie was a perfect vehicle for Marilyn Monroe, Tom Ewell steals this movie and it is his best acting role of all time.   He never went on to any other roles worth mentioning, but his comic portrayal of the husband tortured by the beautiful girl who spends the summer in his building while wife is away, is classic.   One of the best acting jobs I have ever seen.  Marilyn Monroe also at her most beautiful. "},{"Title":"An Itch, He Won't Scratch","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know I'm going to be in a minority on this film, but The Seven Year Itch doesn't work for me in the same way that apparently it does for most people. Of course what's not to like with the provocative Marilyn Monroe heading the cast.Call me a rat if you will, but if Marilyn is giving Tom Ewell such an itch why not seek out the best upscale working girl that he can find so that he can be assured of being disease free and go for it while Evelyn Keyes and the kid are out of town. If that's what Billy Wilder was trying to say in this film, he didn't communicate too well with me. And I'm a big fan of his work for the most part.Instead we get almost two hours of this poor doofus Tom Ewell brooding long over masturbatory fantasies about Marilyn. That is when he's not worried about wolfish Sonny Tufts putting the moves on Evelyn while on vacation. For me it gets a bit much.Still The Seven Year Itch was a big success on Broadway and on film, so who am I to argue about whether it's good or not. It just didn't work that well for me.The Seven Year Itch marked the farewell film appearance of Victor Moore who played the plumber and whose career dated all the way back to the previous century on Broadway and vaudeville. He was a funny and whimsical performer who won audience's hearts for over 50 years.Personally I think Tom Ewell should have taken the advice of that eminent 20th century philosopher Dean Martin who said that for Ewell's situation God put chorus girls on the Earth. "}{"Title":"Much More Than The Lifted Skirt","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is symbolized by the image of Marilyn Monroe having her skirt blown up by a draft from a sidewalk grate, but the actual film does not show that (censorship reasons presumably). But the actual story is a farce where the sensuality is mostly implied.Richard Sherman is a man living in New York City who, like many other husbands there in the 1950's, sends his wife and son out into the countryside for the summer while he has to stay behind and continue working in the stifling heat. Other men, such as the apartment janitor and Sherman's boss, go out and live the bachelor's life in their families' absence, but Sherman has stayed faithful for seven years, and even tries to give up smoking, alcohol, and unhealthy eating.But trouble comes when he meets a ditsy female temporary neighbor who works at making television commercials. She visits him because his apartment has air conditioning and hers doesn't, and Sherman imagines the possibilities. Will he be tempted to have an affair? What will happen if people, including his wife, find out about them? And is Sherman's wife unfaithful? Temptations and doubts plague Sherman throughout the movie, all in a comical way. Joyful farcical fun. "},{"Title":"You know what? We can do this all summer.","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie probably holds the record for at least two categories I can think of. First, it's got the greatest amount of on screen dialog by a character talking to himself. And secondly, the story references more movie titles than any other picture I can think of. I came up with the following - Riot in Cell Block 11 (1954); From Here to Eternity (1953); The Picture of Dorian Gray (1945); and Creature From the Black Lagoon (1954). All but Dorian Gray were relative contemporaries of this one, made within a couple years of The Seven Year Itch.So I guess the time and place for a picture like this was the 1950's. Along with Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (1953) and Some Like it Hot (1959), both of which also star Marilyn Monroe, the story telling consisted of libido saturated men salivating over ditzy women and the complications that arise during the chase. Time and tastes would eventually put these kind of pictures out of favor and I guess that's why they have a dated feel to them today. One could make the case that they're chauvinistic to a fault and you wouldn't get much push back from me on that score.But just like the racial references one finds in pictures of the Thirties and Forties when blacks were called 'boy' and Chinese were 'Chinks', it's interesting to see the evolution of society and the movies that reflect those attitudes in each ensuing decade on the big screen. The Seven Year Itch is like a movie version of a TV sit-com one might have caught during the era, but with a subject matter a bit too intimidating for family fare.I've never been a big fan of Marilyn Monroe and her film comedies generally leave me feeling ambivalent regarding her talent. The one picture in which she does leave a significant impression is 1961's The Misfits where she uses her eyes expressively to reveal the pain of her character. Had her life not been cut short we might have seen more influential work from this actress who's legacy primarily rests on scenes like the one in this picture, skirt billowing in an updraft to reveal the hint of sexuality for which the blonde actress was primarily known.Tom Ewell, with his hilarious facials and discombobulated lack of self confidence is the perfect foil for 'The Girl in this story. Unable to pull the trigger on his infatuation for the girl upstairs, Richard Sherman (Ewell) represents the Everyman who considers himself a Casanova, but underneath it all, is firmly anchored to the idea of one man, one woman, at least as the institution of marriage existed in the Fifties. An insight into his cluelessness was confirmed when he needed the entire Manhattan phone book to look up the number of his upstairs neighbor. "},{"Title":"cinematic icon","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mahattan husbands have always sent their family away from the sweltering summer heat while they indulge in a certain type of hunting. Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell) is a 25 cent book publisher. He sends his family away and vows not to be distracted. Diversions, mostly imaginary, are everywhere. The newest is a model (Marilyn Monroe) who has moved in upstairs.This is not necessarily a great movie. Billy Wilder was hamstrung by the censorship of the day. He tries but the comedy isn't all there. Tom Ewell is ostensibly the lead but it is all Marilyn Monroe. When she's on the screen, the movie is electric. Without her, the movie is in neutral. As for the iconic scenes, it may outlive theatrical movies themselves. "},{"Title":"A Billy Wilder classic","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A Billy Wilder classic. It's holiday time. Due to work commitments, a man, Tom Ewell, ends up home alone while his wife and kids go on vacation. Then he meets his beautiful neighbour (played by Marilyn Monroe) and things get complicated...Clever plot, funny dialogue and two great performances make this a comedic masterpiece. Also a study in fidelity...Tom Ewell is very funny as Richard Sherman but it is Marilyn Monroe who steals the show. She sizzles as the inadvertent femme fatale, and is the perfect straight foil for Ewell's antics.Some solid supporting performances too, especially from Robert Strauss as Kruhulik. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Heat of the Summer!","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has to rate highly just for giving us an historical record of Marilyn Monroe. She gives a riveting portrait of herself. Billy Wilder's script and directing make it interesting and amusing to say the least. Tom Ewell is magnificent as the free for the summer husband who is constantly trying to check and contain his passions and desires for smoking, drinking and womanizing. With Marilyn Monroe as the temptress who could remain loyal and true? Oscar Homolka as the psychoanalyst is exciting and hilarious. Miss Morris the secretary is also fun. His wife plays a ghostly portrait in the background as the ever present wife. The reference to Dorian Gray adds spice to the humour. This film is great from top to bottom and I highly recommend it. A fun movie with great humour. Marilyn Monroe portrays herself and is really quite good. Watch it in the heat of the summer. The movie will tell you why. The famous subway scene of Marilyn's dress flying high and exposing her legs is worth the wait as they foray from the air conditioned theatre after a viewing of The Creature from the Black Lagoon. Marilyn's titillating performance engages the audience as does Tom Ewell's efforts to resist temptation. "},{"Title":"Billy Wilder Genius","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What an ace of a movie,,,here's my thoughts. I think Marilyn was used brilliantly in this movie because it seems at 1st she is used as just a dizzy blonde and a bit type-casted but I reckon she's just a figment of his imagination and she's seen as the perfect fantasy. As with many Wilder movies he blows really close to the censor wind without any implications but this could have easily been an 18 certificate if some of the dialogue was altered. 50 years old and still as fresh as a daisy. why do they not make movies like this any more? I wish I was alive in the 50's and seen this on it's release.Not too sure about Monroes acting credentials yet and probably never will be but she sits in this as a perfect fantasy quite nice. Has a backdrop of insanity and gives an insight into what we would do if we lost our wives for a little while. Reminded me for some reason of How To murder Your wife scene where he asks the jury would they press the imaginary button to erase the wife.Great character and direction. Gave it a 7 cos I thought it sounded clever!! "},{"Title":"A good comedy film","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Sherman Oh no. Not today.The story to The Seven Year Itch is about a New Yorker Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell) ships his wife, Helen (Evelyn Keyes), and their son off to Maine for vacation. Left alone to work back in Manhattan, Richard encounters a gorgeous blonde model (Marilyn Monroe) who has moved into the apartment upstairs, and becomes immediately infatuated. While pondering infidelity, Richard dreams of his beautiful new neighbor - - but will his fantasies about her become a reality?I couple of days ago it just came to me that I haven't seen any movies starring the icon herself Marilyn Monroe. I mean wow how can I go through life without seeing the most ionic actress of all time on the screen showing her brilliance in front of my eyes, but I rather waste my time watching garbage Hollywood movies release today and I know I can skip them and already skipped some movies that I had zone interest in, but for the bad movies from this year will be in my worst movies of 2015 list which is coming out at the end of December, because if your going to make the best list of the year you got to have the worse as well. But anywhere I'm only seeing these classic one by one, because it's all about perfect timing to watch them if I'm in the kind of mood to watching them, but after noticing that I haven't seen any Marilyn Monroe films so I quickly went to watch one of her films and I picked this movie and it was a good pick.Tom Ewell who plays the love himself thinking he can get any women he likes kind of guy and he was a funny character. Tom really played he's character really well as he made his character likability and understandable. He had great line delivers and in a way he's a bit like some men out there that can't get a date and think that every women wants them, and I think a lot of people can relate to that by the character and Tom Ewell great performance.Now let's talk about the great beauty herself, Marilyn Monroe and by the first sentence of Hi, I already liked her. This is my first movie that I've seen starring Monroe and this is a performance worth waiting for because she was so adorable and just unforgettable and as I said before her first ever sentence won me over just like that. Marilyn Monroe gave a brilliant performance that I'm going to check out her other movies pretty soon. Nicely done Marilyn.The chemistry between Monroe and Ewell was spot on perfect. Both of them had great scenes together that made them look like the perfect couple that some people wish for. I think it's something to do with the writing and the actors themselves as they the ones one pulled it off and made it worked, so I give the actors credit for that. The comedy was good, the directing was great and extremely well done, the character's & actors made the chemistry funny and watchable.Now for problems This movie was release in the 50's and yeah I know the 50's can have it's goofy judging by the movie that was release at that time and I'm mostly given for that, but this movie takes it up the walls, I mean these a scene where Tom Ewell character has day dreams of women falling for him and that scene alone took me out a little bit as it was like the movie was trying to push the message into me face saying Look he loves himself and he's kind of lonely, isn't that just sad, or just look at that. I already got the message that this guy is lonely as he talks to himself maybe to the fact that he's been alone for a while, but beside that nick pick I still enjoyed the movie.Overall The Seven Year Itch in my opinion is a good comedy as the acting and character's made the movie want it is. "},{"Title":"Very funny classic comedy that holds up well.","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A man tries to resist the charms of his beautiful neighbour while his wife is away. I had never had the faintest desire to watch The Seven Year Itch and so watched it with pretty low expectations. Thankfully it turned out to be far better than I expected. It has a sharp script and is beautifully observed. There are plenty of very funny moments throughout as the hapless Tom Ewell falls quickly under the spell of the gorgeous Marilyn Monroe. Tom Ewell is brilliant as the every man and Marilyn Monroe proves just why she remains such an iconic figure even today, with a mesmerizing performance. This is a charming film and remains as relevant today as it was back in 1955. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Features One of 20th Century's Most Iconic Images!","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Notable for featuring one of 20th century's most iconic images, Billy Wilder's The Seven Year Itch is forever etched in the annals of cinema for that sequence alone rather than the film itself. And though by no means does it mean that it's not a good film because it's another fine comedy from Wilder that teases with the idea of infidelity but is still no match to his most acclaimed works.The story of The Seven Year Itch concerns a faithful & overly imaginative middle-aged man who after sending his family off during summer holidays tries to live a bachelor's life but finds himself tempted by a beautiful neighbour. The title refers to the declining interest in monogamous relationship after 7 years of marriage or so they say.Directed by Billy Wilder, the film has all the ingredients of a quality story but feels like it needed a push that never came. The imaginary sequences start off nicely but only become less interesting as the story progresses, camera-work is fluid, editing could've trimmed a few more moments and the performances by its cast is excellent as it benefits from Tom Ewell's impressive act & Marylin Monroe's unmatched screen presence.On an overall scale, The Seven Year Itch feels incomplete as there was a lot that could & should have been done with the story but it never comes to that moment. Also, the shot of Marylin Monroe standing on a subway grate as a white dress is blown by a passing train isn't exactly shown in the manner it has become a part of our pop culture. So there's a little disappointment in that as well. Yet, the screenplay packs enough energy & Wilder's direction is brilliant enough to keep the viewers interested for the majority of its runtime. "},{"Title":"Cute Flick","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A very cute romantic comedy that any one should watch married or in a long term relationship. Even singles should watch this film just in case they ever find themselves in a committed relationship. The movie does bring up possibilities and questions when meeting someone that you find eye-catching while you are in a committed relationship. Should I cheat? What happens if I get caught cheating? Is my other half cheating on me? Will I regret cheating? Will I be happier with someone else? Would my significant other be happier with someone other than me? - more questions come to my mind as well.A very cute flick for a Sunday matinée.7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Imaginative and very funny!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Sherman is looking forward to time away from his family as they are on vacation.He embraces a temporary life of freedom from the stresses of everyday family life.It just so happens that a pretty young blonde is moving in upstairs while his family is away,and his imagination,already overly active,begins to really run wild.He's obviously attracted to her,but his ties to his family and his love for them limit his potential actions to that wild imagination.The results play out in a series of moments ranging from mildly amusing to downright hysterical.I thoroughly enjoyed this film and will no doubt do so again in the future. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but unfinished","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy Wilder delivers, with The Seven Year Itch, one of his typical rom com, where, as usual, the writing is refined with exhilarating dialogues and the mise-en-scène perfect.The movie relies on situational comedy and repetitions that are often funny, but the plot is little inspired and gradually runs out of steam, the conclusion of the script is particularly abrupt. One can also regret a relatively heavy narration due to the voice over of the main character who consistently speaks to himself.However, the quality of the dialogues and mise-en-scène manage to compensate for an unfinished script, and even though The Seven Year Itch is probably not the best Billy Wilder comedy, the movie still remains very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Its still fun... and holds up...,","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't agree that Ewell was a mistake as Richard Sherman, the nerdy, awkward man who is alone in NYC for the summer.Monroe is beautiful as always, and seems much more innocent than her 33 years (her age at the time this film was made).Yes, there are the classic scenes with the subway, and her date with Ewell as she sees Creature From the Black Lagoon. Some amusing dialog as she tells Ewell she sympathizes with the creature, one can imagine the unlikely pairing of Ewell with Marilyn Monroe. Too funny.I found Evelyn Keyes to be stilted and cardboard, one-dimensional; but then again this was 1955 and she was the resident housewife with one child. There are also some amusing scenes with Sonny Tufts and the maintenance man.Overall a fun comedy, not to be taken seriously, and Monroe excels as usual. Highly recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Undeserved Bad Reputation","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So many people see trailers or pictures from this movie and think, Oh, Marilyn Monroe with her skirt flying up. Has to be the only good part of the film (which is obviously sexist). Really, it's so far from the truth.This movie is hilarious! It has to be one of the funniest films I've ever seen. Tom Ewell makes the film all it is. He plays his part of the husband suffering from the seven year itch magnificently. The whole plot revolves around a summer spent away from his wife and son, while a beautiful neighbor with no name (Marilyn Monroe) moves in upstairs, tempting him.I love Ewell's fantasies sequences - they are the most hilarious part of the whole movie. They reference a lot of classic movies - From Here to Eternity being the most famous (3 guesses what that scene looks like - and the first two don't count).A lot of people think that Marilyn's skirt flying up is the highlight of the movie. I'll admit that scene is good, but really, it's no where near the best of the movie.The best for me is Marilyn sitting in the bathtub with her toe - well, you really have to see it to appreciate it.Anyway, it's a refreshing, lighthearted comedy that I've enjoyed watching over and over. Definitely would be in my top 10 favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Breezy comedy","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This Billy Wilder classic,though somewhat dated in attitudes, is still very watchable fifty years later.Richard Sherman(the underrated Tom Ewell) lives an ordinary urban life of the post WWII married manworks a busy job,loves his wife(who puts up with him aplenty)and has a spunky,energetic young son. He lives comfortably in the city and has no high expectations of life. He's getting older,so his health is now an issue,giving up smoking and drinking and trying to eat healthier. Into his ordered,unexciting life falls a tomato plant,and the tomato taking care of it(MArilyn Monroe),who has moved to the city from Denver and takes care of the upstairs apartment for the actual tenants who are vacationing for the summer.Monroe's character,who strangely and perhaps not unintentionally has no name,is a breezy,sexy,bubbly lass who is somewhat oblivious of her own appeal and the kind of stress that she's putting her downstairs neighbor Mr.Sherman under. Even though Miss Monroe is the very obvious star of this movie,Mr.Ewell's character is what greases the rails of this train,as his imagination,mugging and pratfalls are the actual energy of the story. He is flattered and tormented by his own longings almost simultaneously,and Miss Monroe's sexy availability does not make matters any easier.I'd actually love to see this film as a stage play. Being a little bit of a stage aficionado myself,and knowing that this movie was an adaptation of a popular play(in which Ewell starred in as well),I feel like this would be an EXCELLENT stage show. "},{"Title":"marilyn rocks!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  marilyn plays the blonde again in the seven year itch, as the blonde that lives above a man who is having a hard time living in the city while his family is up north vacationing for the summer.  the seven year itch (**SPOILER**) is basically that when the wifes go away for the summer, the men get some kind of crazy idea that they gander at the other women.  the comedy plays out to that effect, since marilyn is one of the most beautiful in the acting biz, and probably is 110% capable of landing any man in any town.  so that part is totally buyable.  comedy is here, however, and i couldnt describe all of the comedic points of the flick, since that could take up a couple of pages, so i will end the comment just by saying that this is a great movie from the fifties and will have you rolling with laughter if you are into the old fifties style of humor.  (A A-) "},{"Title":"Simple format, but effective","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One man is left alone by his wife and son who are spending the holidays away from home. At the same time the apartment above is occupied by this unknow beautiful woman... It's just it that Billy Wilder needs to make an excellent film. Merely based on the attraction the man feels by the girl, his moral debates with his conscience, and his meetings with the girl, Wilder builds up a very amusing, relaxing but somehow not empty comedy. One of Monroe's best (along with the other Wilder's film she made) she is very believable as the seductive breathtaking naive girl. Not only for her physical beauty which is enormous but mainly because there is some kind of attractive aura around her (there have been along the years many beautiful actresses, but she has got something special, definetly...) The fertile imagination of the man is also object of very amusing scenes, and the constant use of rachmaninov's 2nd concerto gives unity and power to the film. Based on almost one scenario which is the man's apartment (there are others but the whole action is almost all made in the apartment) Monroe and Ewell build a delicious light romantic environment, adding the fact that they always look like the primitive couple about to take a bite of the apple... A must see for who wants a classic film with a not so explore formula (I hate this concept of formula but you know what I mean.) ) "},{"Title":"Rusalka's ninth film review Sexual ambiguity at its very best...Billy Wilder style","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy Wilder's classic comedy The Seven Year Itch is a total sex farce, however there is no sex in it whatsoever.  The Seven Year Itch blew the lid off of 1950's stodgy conservatism, shocked audiences with its irrereverant view of marital infidelity and showcased the late, great Marilyn Monroe in her most sexually suggestive role to date (at the time the film was released).Of course, the premise of the story is simple (without giving too much away).  A married man is alone for the summer while his wife and son are off on vacation and is tempted (for lack of a better word) by his voluptuous upstairs neighbor.  Hijinks and hilarity ensue when Richard Sherman discovers that he, himself is the victim of none other than the infamous Seven Year Itch! I think that the greatest thing that this film has going for it is the interplay between its stars, Marilyn Monroe and Tommy Ewell.  Of course, Marilyn is her normal self in this one and gives yet another trademark performance, but this one however transcends the boundaries of just a normal role and shoots her star into the celluloid heavens where it remains to this day.  If Gentlemen Prefer Blondes made her a star then the Seven Year Itch just confirmed it and allowed her star to shine even brighter than ever before.  In this film, Marilyn plays the role of the Girl, someone who is never named but who plays the role of the innocent girl next door to the hilt, but has a touch of tempstress within her still.What's so funny about this film is the mannerisms in which it gets played.  They're always a tad to the extreme but seem never to get taken over the top too much.  As always with a Billy Wilder script, the dialog crackles with certain one-liners (Rachmaninov makes me goose-pimply all over) and an impeccable writing style that only Wilder was able to pull off.In closing, this was THE film with the now-famous/trademark subway grate scene which was the impetus for Marilyn and Joe DiMaggio's divorce.  Some people have said it was inevitable, but as Marily herself had said once they're not in love with Norma Jean, they're in love with her(Marilyn Monroe).  And we as an audience still are...over fifty years later!It's true what they say...some things DO improve with age.My rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Sexual ambiguity at its very best...Billy Wilder style","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy Wilder's classic comedy The Seven Year Itch is a sex farce, however there is no sex in it whatsoever.  The Seven Year Itch blew the lid off 1950's conservatism, shocked audiences with its irreverant view of marital infidelity and showcased the late, great Marilyn Monroe in her most sexually suggestive role to date.  I think the greatest thing that this film has going for it is the interplay between its stars, Marilyn Monroe and Tommy Ewell.  Of course, Marilyn is her normal self in this one and gives another trademark performance, but this one however transcends the boundaries of just a normal role and shoots her star into the celluloid heavens where it remains to this day.  If Gentleman Prefer Blondes made her a star, than The Seven Year Itch just confirmed it and allowed her to shine even brighter then ever before.  Marilyn plays the role of the Girl, someone who is never named but who plays the role of the innocent girl next door to the hilt, but has a touch of tempstress within her still.What is so funny about this film is the mannerisms in which it gets played.  They're always a tad to the extreme but seem never to get taken over the top too much.  As always with a Billy Wilder script, the dialog crackles with certain one-liners and an impeccable writing style that only Wilder himself was able to pull off.In closing, yes this was THE film with the famous skirt-blowing scene that was the cause for Marilyn and Joe DiMaggio's marriage to hit the skids and break up, but as Marilyn herself once said they're not in love with Norma Jean, they're in love with her (Marilyn Monroe).  And we as an audience are still in love with her as well, over fifty years later.It's true what they say...some things DO improve with age.My rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Addendum","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In an earlier comment, while praising this film, I described it as weak.  I wouldn't do so now.  Never again will I comment on anything without seeing the full screen version ... the reason this suffers so much on a television screen is because of the panning in a cinema, one can FEEL the rectangular boundaries of the screen as Wilder's camera pans horizontally outside of them to show us Tom Ewell's fantasies. Not only is this visually appealing, it makes the comedy more graceful.  You never know what's been lost when you watch a shrunken image.It goes without saying that Marilyn Monroe is sexier on a big screen.  Tom Ewell is more likable, and the minor characters are more themselves.  Charming film. "}{"Title":"The picture quakes me","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I finally got around to seeing Monroe in a film, this is my first! I really enjoyed this picture, it has a special warm feeling to it.At the heart of this comedy is a strong message - Do all men yearn for something exciting after your marriage becomes routine? Hmmm, I think a lot of men do yearn for something else when the wife's away on holiday.The film is a lot of fun, plenty of humour and some terrific screenwriting.The performance by Tom Ewell is excellent, it seems near-perfect! Monroe is stunning, she may not be versatile, but boy, you can't keep your eyes off her.The direction is excellent, Wilder makes full use of the wide-screen frame.The photography is excellent, lighting Monroe with a stunning white glow.Overall, an excellent picture, enjoy! Remember to see it in wide-screen!  "},{"Title":"surprisingly good film","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not big fan of farces nor do I like Marilyn Monroe that much because of her lack of variability, but I must say I enjoyed this film.Billy Wilder's direction is superb, especially when you consider that most of the film takes place only in the married man's (I forget his name) apartment.  Ewell does a wonderful job of straight-playing a man who lets his fantasies get the best of him. Monroe, as usual, plays a ditz but also plays her role straight, showing she puts more effort into her character here than in other movies.  Even the supporting actors, who are for the most part scenery fillers, get passionate in their roles and can say something either witty or dumb without giving the impression they are trying to be funny.Rent it if you enjoy farce, or catch it on cable some night. "},{"Title":"TOM EWELL...not forgotten","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One thing that always surprises, and saddens, me, is how a 'huge' star can lose his place in the all-time hierarchy of Hollywood Stars and our memories.  Tom Ewell is such a one.  A giant in his day, I don't think he is given his due for great performances in the past.  7 YEAR ITCH is basically a monologue; are there any scenes without him??? (NOT MANY!)How can you help someone overcome that 'itch'?  Well, throwing a nubile, naive Marilyn Monroe into a married man's (single for the summer) duplex apartment is more torture than help.  Ewell fights his demons, nearly surrenders to them (in a Walter Mitty kind of way), and fights some more.  All in all, very entertaining and very sexy (for it's day).  It's most note-able for the Marilyn Monroe over the subway grate scene, but Tom Ewell is the star of the movie and won't be forgotten for an excellent performance... "},{"Title":"Marilyn at her iconic best","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only Marilyn Monroe as The Girl brings life and effervescence to this movie; Tom Ewell, playing a summer vacation bachelor is dead weight. I agree with another reviewer that the part of Richard Sherman would have been a great vehicle for someone with the talent of Jack Lemmon. Lemmon would have provided the perfect foil for Monroe's brand of little girl naiveté, and disingenuous sexuality; the type of casting that made his pairing with Judy Holliday so successful. Ewell has absolutely no screen charisma. His characterization lacks the required wit, and whimsical nuance. He infuses no verve into his meanders as fantasizer engaging in monologues, which spout the trials and tribulation defining the battle of the sexes, as culturally accepted in 1950s America. When his character's frustrations morph into physical animation, he's a charmless bumbler and you find your eyes wandering to the set decor&#x97;the furniture, a lamp, even a flowerpot. The movie is all Marilyn. The viewer gets her screen persona in full bloom and with a fun, over-the-top bang. The movie is worth watching for her performance alone. Monroe at her iconic peak is the main attraction. "},{"Title":"Really well played situational comedy able to combine its low-culture premise and content into something top-end.","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch is a classic case of what people often refer to as life imitating art, an irony inherent at the centre of the film whereby what it is the lead character is used to doing (and doing quite well) returns amongst the throngs of real life to hit him where it hurts. The case in point here lies with Tom Ewell's Richard Sherman, a man whose occupation is likely down on paper as publisher, although what he really does is merely spruce up the fronts of books so as to hook people in on the cover alone. By day, he makes it his business to make a meal of things; to screw or tamper with the authenticity of what the true nature of the beast is so as to make it seem more interesting. By night, he is a married man with a young daughter living in a small New York City apartment building wherein the apartments themselves are rather nice. He is, however, out of his professional element here; not in control, and often comes second to his wife. What happens, and therefore propels the film into what it is, is his family go away on holiday during these sweltering summer months thus allowing for our Richard to strike up a relationship with an attractive new neighbour. We watch their burgeoning friendship develop, the lies; misconceptions and general inauthenticity of the nature of what's going on play out where home and office were once in binary opposition, they are suddenly inseparable.The opening credits warm us for the exercise in manoeuvring our eyes around the screen, capturing glances; facial expressions and body language central to how people act, react and feel about what circumstances they're in. Here, we observe a nifty series of graphics made up to look like a jigsaw puzzle slide away from the bigger shape revealing a credit. Very soon, we're plunged into Sherman's world, or the world dominated by men Sherman's age and in positions in life not too dissimilar to his own. This is a very male dominated film, women exist as these strange creatures making up the rest of the space either too attractive for their own good thus epitomising temptation or too familiarised and droll to be anything interesting anymore, thus epitomising a kind of emotion of boredom these male characters possess. There is very little middle ground, emphasising the black-or-white strand of feelings Sherman in particular feels and the will I, won't I/should I, shouldn't I emotions acting as a core principal to the piece.Now is the time of year whereby wives and children troop off for holidays away with one another as, for whatever reason, husbands and fathers stay at home. Anticipating the migration, most men gear up for their time away from the predominant 'shackles' of life by leering at the younger, single women with whom they might be able to strike up a cord once the cats are away and the mice are permitted to play. Richard is established as different; in so much he quite evidently resists thinking of infidelity, while the film desperately tries to hammer home the fact he's a little nicer, or a little more upstanding than the other guys, by having him eat a healthy meal at a diner en route to going home. Things pinch, however, when he actually arrives home and begins to enjoy the liberation of not having to listen to his wife's same old welcome home routine as well as the little things such as being chastised for not using a bottle opener when he goes to drink a beer. Where Richard is the boss of his office, he is controlled at home by his wife; questioned, challenged, even.Fate strikes a cruel blow when, on top of everything, arguably the most attractive women working in the film industry at the time, in Marilyn Monroe, breezes into the apartment upstairs to hazy orchestral music accentuating attractiveness. She is the new tenant and immediately strikes up a friendship with Sherman. It is from these simple beginnings an often funny film unravels, but it is a comedy fishing more for laughs built on imbalances in the domestic situation; a film gunning for laughs based on a set of dynamics that govern a man's life and his attitudes towards woman as elements stack up against him. Nearby in the building, a sleazy male neighbour on the lookout for action of his own is waiting to pounce on Monroe's character should Richard stick to his guns, while phone conversations with his wife reveal his other half to be getting along very nicely with a male friend they've all known for years, and one of whom Richard doesn't particularly like. The film is quite the blast, a film whose comedy is built on a desire for love and liberation but doesn't ever have you feel as if you need to fall back on the word resort to describe its humour. Unlike many-a comedy in the modern age wherein a film maker has their own liberation from censorship, profanity and, it often seems, subtlety and common sense, this comedy tackles the subject matter; delivers the laughs and not once comes off as misguided or crude. "},{"Title":"Despite Its Censorship Issues, Seven Year Itch Scratches Up Comedy","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'The Seven Year Itch ranks as a hilarious, occasionally claustrophobic comedy about a middle-aged husband who has a close encounter with an anonymous drop-dead gorgeous dame. Tom Ewell plays hyper-imaginative husband Richard Sherman who toils daily as an editor for a 25 cent novel publishing firm. Sherman has to spice up reprints of classic novels with lurid book covers. Wilder adapted George Axlerod's three-act play with some alterations. The Production Code prompted one of the biggest changes. In the play, Sherman beds the babe. However, the PCA refused to relent on this point. The Code took a dim view of justifying adultery and didn't budge. Consequently, our protagonist doesn't sleep with the dame. Meantime, Wilder confines the loquacious action to a number of sets. The story takes place in New York City either at Sherman's office or in Sherman's urban residence. Richard has equipped his apartment with air conditioners, while the upstairs apartment that the dame rents lacks air. This amusing opus opens with a bogus prologue about the Manhattan Indians packing their wives and children off during a suffocating summer off to a cooler environment. The narrator acknowledges that this anecdote has nothing to do with the contemporary story that unfolded later as a publishing executive who packs his wife and son off to Maine during the sweaty summer. Richard packs his wife Helen and obnoxious son Ricky up to Maine while he suffers in the city. Not only has He sworn off cigarettes, but he also struggles to curb his urge for alcohol. As it turns out, the dame is living upstairs. Richard and she meet after she drops a devastating tomato plant onto him. As portrayed by Monroe, this dame is pretty dizzy. For example, she claims she can recognize classical music because there are no vocals. Richard invites the dame downstairs after his close encounter. They have a drink and chat. At one point, Richard gets his finger stuck in a liquor bottle and the dame has to extract it.Marilyn Monroe looks radiant with blonde coiffure, her red lipstick and fingernails. The character that she plays stars in commercials for a toothpaste called Dazzledent. The melodrama that grows out of this predicament is that Richard dreams up some fanciful encounters with women that his wife-in-the-story know are a product of his imagination. The scene in the vegetarian restaurant where Sherman tries to tip the waitress is funny. The dour-faced waitress informs Sherman that she is not allows to accept tips but that she will contribute it to the fund for Nudist camps. The scene at the piano when Ewell with a bogus accent tells Marilyn that he will take her and kiss her hard is superb. Later, Ewell and Monroe performs Chopsticks on the piano. Despite the confined settings, The Seven Year Itch is very funny. Although he isn't allowed to sleep with Monroe, he leaves her with his blessing to stay in his apartment while he takes with little Ricky's paddle to Maine. "},{"Title":"Unfulfilling, but quite frankly above its time","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy Wilder is of course one of the greatest directors of all times. His dramas and comedies have been cheered on as one of the greatest in their genres. He is also a dear director for me, because he has influenced me quite a lot with my taste in films. To this day, 'Double Idemnity', 'Sunset Blvd.' and his masterpiece 'Some Like it Hot', is treasured in my DVD collection. But for some reason, I tried to miss 'The Seven Year Itch'. I don't know why. It just seemed weak than the other ones. Oh sure, I knew that the iconic Marilyn Monroe image was in the film. But I just never felt like it. However, I have finally watched the film. And yes, I was a bit disappointed.The film just seemed like there was no climax, no beginning, not even a middle. It just wen straight on. There was no sense of fulfillment in any part of the film. This is not what I see in Wilder, considering that his films boomed with moments that would engrave themselves in the minds of others.With that said, I think that's the only flaw of the film. Sure it's a big one, but the rest of the film is just so good. Tom Ewell's paranoid husband and Marilyn Monroe's iconic blonde beauty performances shine through. They use it for so many hilarious moments, mainly two scenes like the piano bench scene, and of course the crazy imaginations.Also, what I admire in Wilder is that his humor is quite above his time. Usually in these days, the humor would be too corny for the taste of the modern world. I don't mind, but I can still see that it my annoy some people. 'The Seven Year Itch', is almost self-aware. It knows what kind of film it is that it's almost too smart for words. There is a scene where the Tom Ewell character is at it again with his paranoia in front a man who he thinks is having an affair with his wife. He then points out that there is a blonde in the kitchen, and then he loudly acclaims, Maybe it's 'Marilyn Monroe'. For me, pop-culture references started with Wilder in cinema. He was one of the first directors to do it. I still find certain moments, especially the moment I just depicted, as some of the blooming of the pop-culture humor.The film is on the whole,decent and well-made. No, it cannot be a masterpiece because there isn't really a perfectioning feeling or fulfillment. It's simply what it is, an entertainment piece. that's all there is too it. "},{"Title":"Silly and delightful comedy!","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Sherman, an executive at a paperback publishing house in New York, sends his wife and son away for the summer in Maine while he stays behind for work purposes. Before they separate, his wife makes him promise that he will look after himself and not go wild over the summer. But when a beautiful and sexy blonde moves into the apartment above him as a house sitter, he finds himself failing at that promise. Meanwhile, he lets his imagination get the best of him, as he imagines what his wife is doing in Maine.This film has entered the realms of popular culture for the scene where Marilyn Monroe stands over the subway grating as the hot air causes her skirt to flare up. This charming movie is so much more than that. Billy Wilder and his co-screen writer George Axelrod (who adapted his successful Broadway play for the screen) found themselves battling with the infamous censorship board the Hays Office, who prohibited them from showing adultery on the screen. Yet, somehow, the film manages to be ahead of its time. This is due to the casting of Tom Ewell and Marilyn Monroe in the leading roles. Pairing the world's most popular superstar (Marilyn) against this average John Doe (Ewell) made the material racy without ever being dirty (Sherman returns to his wife in the end). With this film, Marilyn proves why she is still one of the most popular movie stars in the history of cinema. She conveys sexiness while retaining a childlike innocence. Ewell is especially fine, recreating his stage performance. He makes his character the average Joe without ever being over-dramatic. Also impressive is the use of the widescreen CinemaScope format. Cinematographer Milton Krasner and director Wilder manage to make the apartment set spacious, while maintaining the cramped sensibility of an apartment. Wilder always finds things for his actors to do in the set. A bouncy musical score and Saul Bass credit sequence add to the proceedings. Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Sexy Stuff from Marilyn and Crazy Stuff from Ewell Make This a Hoot","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" At last I see glimpses of the Marilyn I had visualized after reading her biography; she is a hoot in The Seven Year Itch, naive, ditsy, vivacious and lovely, instead of the interminably irritating Elsie in Bus Stop. I read in her bio that she began training under Lee Strasberg, the known method acting teacher, after completing this film and perhaps that's why she seems out of element in The Prince and the Showgirl and especially Bus Stop. I can empathize with her personal dissatisfaction with her performances that didn't use the method and thus made her pretend, but oh boy, she lights up the screen without all the thinking involved. She is elegant, natural, funny and imperfect as the wide-eyed blonde nameless girl who brings the seven years' itch in Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell).The protagonist is played with a fine Jekyll and Hide persona by Tom Ewell, who's Richard Sherman, has to spend the entire summer without his wife and space cadet kid and the man resolves not to lose his morals like all the other dirty men. Things get tricky with the appearance of the girl, who is invited by Sherman for 'drinks' and 'mature talk'. The girl, with her innocuous and sometimes dizzy behavior is irresistible and Sherman's seven year itch, a condition happening after seven years of loyal marriage, soon develops and he begins worrying and doubting everyone's motives and intentions.Tom Ewell is synonymous with his role since he has played it on stage, and he executes the zaniness and comical worry of his character very well. Most of the time he talks to the camera, something that may seem incongruous for the screen but is handled well here. Ewell's movements are restricted to certain funny twitches and gestures in his body and his introspective nature is executed well and you feel as if his conflicting mind is continually speaking to you. Of course, his character does not touch you because it only shows its comic side, but it sure does entertain. Monroe, as mentioned above, turns the heat on though she could have fleshed out her girl more towards the end. The minor characters include Evelyn Keyes as Helen Sherman, a performance where she mostly plays the role in Richard's imagination, who will make you snicker with her clever remarks; Sonny Tufts plays Tom Mackenzie with humor but ruins the paddle joke at the end, Robert Strauss plays the snoopy, uncouth Mr.Kruhulik, Oskar Homolka the eccentric Dr.Brubaker and the others include Richard's boss, assistant, son and a plumber and some old people. Everyone has their moments and play their characters with as much quirkiness as possible.The Seven Year Itch has a fruity script that relies on slapstick punches and situations; some pretty naughty innuendos are present that are unfortunately tamer that the play's humor. I do mention here that even though we have a successful adaptation from a play here, I did find that the pacing required was still a tad slow for the film, but I forgive that. It is mostly because we see Richard and Marilyn doing a number of things to bring humor, and the film's flow remains somewhat static. That doesn't mean it gets boring, in fact Ewell and Monroe do handle the film whenever it gets shaky.Watch the Seven Year's Itch for its humor and the ensemble performance; Marilyn may favor serious performances over dumb blonde trifling roles, but I understand now why audiences love her so much &#x96; she plays a great dumb blonde! MY RATING  7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Marilyn goes Wilder","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'd actually never seen this Billy Wilder classic and yet of course there's a familiarity about it, so iconic are the images of Marilyn Monroe right down to the present day. Well, she is sensational in it, luminous in Technicolour, oozing her unique brand of sex-appeal and vulnerability that Wilder was able to bring out better than any other director. She's everyone's dream girl and here Tom Ewell gets the best job in films, not only playing opposite her but moulding her into his fantasies too.There's much more to the film of course than being a sex comedy - it's also a sly comment on attitudes to sex in the repressed 50's and the staid family values of the times. The jokes and comic set-pieces are plentiful and funny, the comic timing of both leads immaculate. It's easy to forget Ewell as Munroe's foil, but he gets more screen time and carries off his frustrated lech part excellently, though I wouldn't mind having some of his daydreams.But it's Marilyn's film all the way. Although often set up by Wilder in potentially prurient situations, be it naked on the balcony, in suds in her bath (great plumber gag, by the way) or in the famous floating white dress over the subway vents, she's captivating and absolutely adorable every time she's on the screen, like a simpler, more innocent Holly Golightly years before Breakfast at Tiffany's. I've watched and reviewed other films of hers on this site where she's obviously just cast as eye candy but here she shows flair and charm in addition to her physical presence.As for director Wilder, he's absolutely on top of his game, so fluid is his work that I clean forgot it was an adaptation of a stage play. The only thing I didn't get was the insertion of a mention of the real Marilyn Monroe, being just too knowing a device which actually only confuses. Director and star were to reunite a few years later in Some Like It Hot, another cinema classic and the perfect double-feature film for this equally funny comedy to pair up with. "}{"Title":"A well written and entertaining comedy","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch is famous for it's iconic pose of Marliyn Monroe on a New York City street, wearing a white dress, with the air from a subway grating blowing up her skirt. This was very well captured in still photographs and became a very popular poster of the time. Directed and partly written by the legendary Billy Wilder, the writing shows some insight and imagination about temptation and male-female relationships and does so in a humorous way.Marilyn Monroe portrays a character known only as The Girl, who temporarily moves into an apartment building and meets a man who's wife and child have left for the summer. Naturally, temptation, desire and conscious come into play. My favorite scene is where the man has an imaginary conversation with his wife (actually gone on vacation for the summer) and they talk about his supposed powers over women.It's a significant film, but only for Marilyn Monroe fans, partly because it features the very famous, iconic white dress pose. BillyWilder would later go on to the better, Some Like it Hot, 1959. This is where Marilyn Monroe would peak as a comedic film actress and the film would present one of Billy Wilder's best screenplays. "},{"Title":"Billy Wilder and Marilyn Monroe together for the first time","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a sweltering summer.Richard Sherman has sent his wife and son to Maine.While they're gone he meets a blonde model who's renting the apartment upstairs.He swears not to be unfaithful to his wife and keep his fingers off this blonde.Easier said than done.Billy Wilder is the director of The Seven Year Itch(1955).It's based on a three-act play by George Axelrod.The couple Billy Wilder and Marilyn Monroe work together for the first time.Later they met in Some Like It Hot (1959).It's hard to picture anybody else than Marilyn to play the girl.She's awfully sweet in her part.No wonder a married man falls for her.Tom Ewell, who played the part on stage as well, is fantastic as Richard Sherman.Walter Matthau also screen-tested for the leading part and he could have also been great, that's for sure.Evelyn Keyes plays Richard's wife Helen.Sonny Tufts is Tom MacKenzie.Robert Strauss plays Mr. Kruhulik, the janitor.The movie is hilarious in many parts.Take Ewell and Monroe playing Chopsticks, for instance.It's a classic comedy that takes many viewings. "},{"Title":"Marilyn's great, but...","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was a HUGE hit in its day. It has not aged well. The Kinsey Report generation was titillated by Tom Ewell and his midlife fantasies about The Girl upstairs (Monroe, given no name--well she was essentially playing the public idealization of herself.) But today the movie is excruciating; boring ALMOST beyond redemption. Salvation arrives in the voluptuous and glimmery form of Miss M. She is adorable and gives a paper-thin role a lot of humor and even some poignancy.But she is not on screen enough, and when she's off..oy vey! Here's my suggestion if you want to appreciate Monroe here. Find when it's going to run again. Record only MM's scenes, and please, find a full screen version. Cinemascope was not a good idea, except for epics. You'll find a delightful comedienne, even before her immersion in Method acting.Billy Wilder gave Monroe a far better (if still not terribly big) role in a much better film, Some Like It Hot. But even Hot is looking a bit tired. If you want tip-top Monroe in a tip-top entertaining-from start-to-finish film, try Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. That one still holds up. And so does Bus Stop despite the un-PC hero who manhandles Monroe. (But that was the movie--he was an idiot from a farm and she was a dim bulb from the Ozarks.)Anyway, Itch has some of Monroe's most charming moments. My favorite? After the famous piano bench scene, when Ewell fumbles a pass--he tells her to take her potato chips and go! She does, but before she leaves, as she's opening the door, she pauses, looks over her shoulder--oh, the line of her back!--and says, sweetly, I think you're very nice. Millions of American men, sitting in darkened 1955 movie palaces, sighed deeply.And women? Well, MM was too sweet to be a threatening femme fatale. They just worried she'd catch cold, standing over the subway grate. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable movie (spoilers)","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch was based on the sex comedy play by George Axelrod it had been running successfully for two years before it was picked up by 20th Century Fox, Billy Wilder and George Axelrod wrote the screenplay for it, they had to turn down some of the raunchier jokes (back then they were) which is a same, it was a great vehicle for the comedic genius Marilyn Monroe and the talented middle age man who is having trouble with fidelity played by the wonderful Tom Ewell (who also was in the play).Tom Ewell's character keeps having day dreams about him being staying loyal like women coming on to him and rejecting them etc. and one day dream has him being shot when his wife find out (played by Evelyn Keyes) it is a very funny movie and Monroe is at her funniest and her most alluring.This movie also contains the scene when Monroe's skirt blows up this was hard to get around the censor but with some clever cutting and it was fine.However in the end he remains loyal never touch Monroe's character who never gets named, and returns to his wife (she has been away on holidays) A wonderful film a must see! "},{"Title":"Hot summer in New York","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Sherman. The editor of cheap books in New York. An honest husband and a caring father. During summer in a flat in Manhattan he is left by himself against the temptation of Marylin Monroe's beauty and shapes.The film has been following the moral code of the 50's. And so it reduces that romance-or-so to the play of a male imagination. It exposes the plot on the the attractive neighbor. The director and co-writer of the film, Billy Wilder, was perfectly clear about one thing. How big can Marylin Monroe be as an asset to this film.And truly the story itself is funny and well told, with a good performance of Tom Ewell (Golden Globe Award) and hilarious quotes from other films (i.e. the parody of the beach love scene from 'From Here to Eternity'). But it would have been forgotten nowadays. It would have, if it was without Marylin Monroe. There is a scene that has gone well into the pop-culture. It is that scene in which the actress stands on top of the subway vent. And the blow of air lifts up her white, almost transparent skirt to the level of her arms. The episode was shot in front of the Trans-Lux Theatre in Manhattan. Even though it was 2 AM, few thousands of people gathered to clap at the star after every shot was taken. The present husband of the actress was noticed in the crowd. It was a former baseball player - Joe Di Maggio. The gossip wouldn't even be worth mentioning if it wasn't for the fact that Monroe divorced him even before the end of filming. And the crisis in her private life was synchronized with the attempt to change the course of her carrier. After the divorce Monroe, who was usually confused, not remembering the dialogs, guided by the director step by step; came back on stage calm and focused. She surprised the crew with perfect co-operation. "},{"Title":"The Seven Year Itch","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I mainly wanted to see this because it starred the gorgeous and flirtatious blonde star of Some Like It Hot, but the fact that it was from the director of that film, Billy Wilder was even more interesting. Basically Richard Sherman (Golden Globe winning Tommy Ewell) has been left on his own by his wife and has hardly anything to do, or does he. He talks to us during his lonesome life, which adds interest, and then he meets The Girl (Marilyn Monroe). They become really good friends, but what he really wants is probably to get it on with her, but he always reminds himself that he is married, and he has a fag to forget it, even though he swore to give up. Monroe has got great legs and the most curvaceous body, she is actually pretty funny as well, she is always remembered in this film for the image of her dress blowing under the subway grating. By the way, Richard explains what the seven year itch is in the film, something to do with a longing for sex. Monroe is lovable as the not very intelligent model actress living upstairs, and Ewell creates many laughs with his paranoia about the girl, his wife and himself. Marilyn Monroe was number 39 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, she was number 6 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, she was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols (she could have been number 1), and she was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 14 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments, and it was number 51 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"Two underrated actresses","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There has been so much hoopla over Marilyn Monroe in this film(personally, I detest the deification of actors, singers, etc.), that itis too easy to overlook the performances of two supporting actressesEvelyn Keyes (Helen Sherman) and Marguerite Chapman (Miss Morris, thesecretary). Both are such masters of deadpan humor, that they virtuallysteal the picture from Monroe. Billy Wilder himself disliked the film; the censorship of the timeprevented Richard Sherman and the girl upstairs from having an affair,as Wilder believed they would. If the movie were remade today, I'm surethere would be graphic nudity and sex which would definately NOT enhancet "},{"Title":"greatest Hollywood tease movie of the 50s","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How can any guy dislike this superb exploitation Hollywood movie created in 1955 starring the heavenly goddess of the silver screen, miss Monroe. For about two hours, she is doing her stuff, showing no skins, just curves and the now legendary subway scene. An amazing work of cinema, Seven Year Itch is one of the best Monroe movie ever made.masterpiece **** out of **** "},{"Title":"a hilarious sex comedy that's ages ahead of its time","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is, pure and simple, quintessentially hilarious. The interaction between Tom Ewell and Marilyn Monroe is hilarious. Most of the action of the movie just takes place between the two stars, and IT WORKS. WELL.Not that the supporting characters don't add a certain charm to the movie. In fact, there is very little wrong with this movie. I can't think of any complaints I have (except maybe for a more revealing shot in that subway scene - I'm sorry, I'm a guy). This is definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Absolute top ten list.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe this movie's not getting better reviews.  This has to be one of my favorite movies of all time.  Marilyn Monroe and Tom Ewell are the best of acting chemistry.  Amazing performances by both of them.  Rent this movie.  Get the DVD! "}{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While his family is away for the summer,Tom Ewell dreams about the lovely blonde upstairs.Funny,well crafted comedy features Marilyn in one of her best roles.Ewell does a fine job re-creating his role from Broadway.Features the famous skirt billowing scene.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Seven Year Itch is one of my favorite movies of all time for several reasons1. The impeccable Marilyn Monroe as simply The Girl. It just seems kind of odd to assign a character whose name exudes anonymity to such a culturally significant icon. Her performance was great, and added just enough classiness to the ditziness to make the role memorable. As a woman myself, I find great pleasure in noting that despite the movie revolving around the man (what was his name anyway?), Ms. Monroe stole every scene.2. The idea behind the film, a man flirting on the edge of betraying his wife, was highlighted by the fantasy sequences. Considering the conservative time in which this movie was made, I'd say it was quite interesting. The skirt scene was particularly risque.3. It actually had a decent ending. I won't say it, because you have to see it yourself (or read a spoiler somewhere else), but it was great and true to the form of the 50s.4. It was, and still is, funny. 'Nuff said.Well, anyway, that's it. "},{"Title":"fabulous in so many ways...","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Seven Year Itch is my favorite Marilyn Monroe movie.  It is a comedy with a lot of in-jokes, and clever spins on sexuality in American culture, and the male ego.  My beef with this movie is the showing of The Girl's photo in the magazine to the audience.  That should have been kept away from the camera as the visual imagery of the photo is more erotic.  Regardless, a great movie to watch on a hot, summer evening without air-conditioning. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy Wilder's stylish direction, a simply adorable performance from Marilyn, plus a flow of witty gags make The Seven Year Itch an irresistible comedy. It has its weaknesses; there is a bit too much talk and the end is wrapped up quickly. Luckily those aren't enough to spoil the whole thing. The fantasy sequences are particularly amusing and a splendid supporting cast helps to make the film even more delightful. "},{"Title":"Charming and funny!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ms. Monroe was absolutely at her peak when she made this film. It's colorful, fun, and even a little risque. Tom Ewell's portrayal of her infatuated, flustered neighbor is priceless. Anyone who loves old movies should check this out! "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe stands over the subway grate in this 50's guy dream of a film.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You can't watch this flick now without studying Marilyn in all her platinum elegance.  Billy Wilder conjured up everyman's dream living just upstairs during a hot New York summer--while the wife and family are away--and you can guess the rest.  This is the 50's now!.  One can only imagine what would go on if they remade this film today.  For soundtrack fans, add Rachmaninoff's second to your collection of makeout music.  "},{"Title":"You know what I do when it's hot like this, I keep my undies in the icebox","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. As a long time fan of Marilyn's, I enjoy all of her movies and this one is one of the best next to Some Like It Hot and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Tom Ewell is funny as the tortured husband, and Marilyn delights as always as The Girl. A wonderful light comedy! "},{"Title":"It shakes me! It quakes me! It makes me feel goose-pimply all over!","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a really great movie. I like Some Like it Hot (1959) better, as far as Marilyn goes, but this definitely comes in second for me. Monroe is just adorable, and Ewell's imagination is, well, crazy! Also, there's nothing like Marilyn and Tom punching out Chopsticks on the piano. A legendary comedy, and greatly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Good, Sexy 1950s Comedy","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Sherman (Tom Ewell) comes face to face with the seven-year itch, the tendency for a man to stray from his wife in the seventh year of their marriage. This is aided by the presence of Marilyn Monroe as the tomato, a daft but attractive young neighbor.The film features incredible split-screens, fades and dissolves, the best I have seen up to this point in cinema history.The film has a sexual undertone that was also not common in films to this point, at least to my knowledge. Sherman's daydreams about his secretary and the night nurse may seem tame, but are still very sexual in their own way, especially since a man is telling this to his wife. And then there's the From Here to Eternity parody...I am unclear about the ages. Did people age differently in the 1950s? Helen is 31, but looks 45. But then, the man says he looks the same as he did when he was 28, but looks at least 40. Monroe's appeal never made sense to me. Her voice is obnoxious, her looks are average, she doesn't know how to smoke right, and she claims to be 22 but like everyone else looks at least 30.The references to The Picture of Dorian Gray and Creature From the Black Lagoon were appreciated.Does the film glamorize infidelity? It is hard to say. While the man clearly has regrets for his thoughts and actions, the audience may be of a different mindset the film sure sets up Marilyn Monroe as worthy of straying for. The doctor, a voice of authority, clearly says the way to cure an itch is to scratch. "},{"Title":"Well written and entertaining","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not Billy Wilder's best film by a long shot, but I did enjoy it very much. It is overlong and some parts may have dated slightly. That said, the film looks very nice with the cinematography homely and the scenery and costumes simple and glamorous. The music is a nice touch too, and I loved the story. It had a nice idea to start with, and the film is beautifully constructed overall. Other things to like are the clever direction and the funny and smart script, not to mention the iconic sequence with Marilyn Monroe's dress. Monroe herself is a sheer delight to watch as always. Beautiful and charming, she brings her character to breezy life, and while the supporting cast are good for me Monroe steals the show. Overall, while not Wilder's or Marilyn's best, it entertained me and that's good enough for me. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"If The Seven Year Itch Isn't a Ten, Then Nothing Is","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Truly, this flick was about as good as movies get. If you turned your head away for a second, you missed something worth seeing. It was that good. Tom Ewell was very funny as the angst-ridden middle-aged man with the lively imagination who was about to live the sexual fantasy of his life. Further, he was ably supported by an amusing cast of characters, most notably the psychiatrist/author, the building's super, Mr. Krahulik, and Ewell's boss, Mr. Brady. As for Marilyn Monroe, attractively attired in several slinky white dresses, she was indeed a living doll as the blonde subletting the upstairs apartment for the summer. Those who said she couldn't act or wasn't too bright were proved dead wrong by her wonderfully crafted performance. How many takes she took or how many times she showed up late for work, in the final analysis, made little difference because this was arguably her best role among several standout performances in a brilliant career. The only other actress who could give her a run for the money back in the mid-fifties was Brigitte Bardot, but the sex kitten was still a newcomer then and not very well known outside of France. Marilyn, on the other hand, was at the peak of her career. People often point to the leggy scene with her standing over the subway grate, but the fact is, her varied expressions and poses all through this flick were extremely captivating. When she told Ewell that she wasn't impressed by the sort of man who swaggers into a room, thinking, I'm so handsome you can't resist me, preferring instead the nervous and worried guy who would treat her with tenderness and understanding, she gave hope to us all (if only until the credits roll). Marilyn actually made it seem plausible. My only real complaint is the way Ewell suddenly turned his back on the promise of a summer of physical and emotional bliss in order to join his wife and son on their vacation in Maine. If he didn't regret THAT peculiar move for the rest of his life, then I must've missed something. "},{"Title":"This movie is good, compared to today's comedy films","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy Wilder's comedy The Seven Year Itch is enjoyable. I know that Cinecanal Classics (Hispanic-American premium classic-movie network) aired this flick recently. This film is not too bad, and the performance by Marilyn Monroe (at least for the famous blowing skirt scene) is great. In this day when outrageous, gross-out comedies like Wedding Crashers are at the top of the box office, it is refreshing to see a classic movie like The Seven Year Itch that has nothing vulgar or raunchy, and is morally acceptable for me.Billy Wilder, the man who directed this movie and the extraordinary 1959 film Some Like It Hot (also starring Monroe) said about her She was an absolute genius as a comedic actress, with an extraordinary sense for comedic dialog. It was a God-given gift. Believe me, in the last fifteen years there were ten projects that came to me, and I'd start working on them and I'd think, 'It's not going to work, it needs Marilyn Monroe.' Nobody else is in that orbit; everyone else is earthbound by comparison. GOD BLESS BILLY WILDER AND MARILYN MONROE! "},{"Title":"Marilyn in the subway","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy Wilder did wonders with the funny George Axelrod play, in which The Seven Year Itch is based. Mr. Wilder was after all a man who knew movies, as he shows with his adaptation of the original material. In addition, Mr. Wilder had a talent for directing actors and getting the best out of them.This is a film that although most people haven't seen, they will always remember the picture of Marilyn Monroe standing above a subway vent with her skirt flying around her because of the sudden rush of a train below! Ms. Monroe was shown in all her beauty to a camera that obviously adored her. This film and Some Like it Hot, also directed by the great Billy Wilder, gave Marilyn Monroe's admirers a glorious view of the actress at her best.Tom Ewell, is equally excellent as the summer bachelor, Richard Sherman, left alone in Manhattan to fend for himself. Mr. Ewell's opening scenes are amazing in playing out his fantasies. His interplay with the gorgeous Marilyn Monroe shows a timing hard to match by many comedians. Mr. Ewell gives a delightful performance.This is a delightful comedy. All the right elements are well balanced to produce the intended results. Best of all is the incomparable Marilyn Monroe in one of her best screen appearances guided by Billy Wilder. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Time Capsule From The 1950s","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Seven Year Itch is a wonderful time capsule of 1950s manners and morals. Marilyn Monroe as 'The Girl' gives a wonderful comic performance which shows her 'dumb blonde' persona to perfection.  Tom Ewell as 'Richard Sherman' gives an equally terrific performance as the husband torn between duty and desire.  Set almost entirely in a New York apartment building, the Seven Year Itch manages to convey far more about life and attitudes in the '50s than many other films of the era.  I gave it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wilder's Only Misfire in 1950s","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" With his family away for the summer, a man lusts after his curvaceous neighbor. Starting with Sunset Blvd. in 1950 and ending with The Apartment in 1960, Wilder made a remarkable string of classics, a decade of excellence that no other director has matched. The sole stinker among the ten films is this lame comedy. It has some amusing moments, but not enough to sustain it. Based on a play where many of the lines are delivered via a monologue, the film retains the format, although it's silly to have Ewell talking to himself. The film is mainly remembered for the iconic picture of Monroe with her skirt blowing up, but ironically the full shot does not appear in the film. "},{"Title":"A SCENE THAT MADE FILM HISTORY WAS BORN!","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A marvelous movie! It's funny, witty and suitable for all age groups. Marilyn Monroe plays another typical dumb blonde role as the girl once again. But I suppose it was movies like this and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes that gave her the sex-symbol trademark.The controversial skirt-flying scene on the street subway grate alone makes this movie worth seeing. Marilyn's husband, baseball star Joe DiMaggio, divorced her over this famous scene, because he wanted her all to himslef and couldn't accept that she wanted a career. He was jealous that other men were looking at his wife's legs, and fancying her. You don't really have to be a Monroe fan to like this movie.This movie has made film history what it is today. It's very famous, and every single minute of it is very enjoyable and extreamly entertaining. There's not much change of setting throughout the movie, and the same problem flows the whole way through, but despite this I rate it a big, fat, juicy 9.5/10.If you haven't seen it already - please, for crying out loud - GO RENT IT! "},{"Title":"She keeps her underwear in the ice box !","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just don't understand the mass affection for this film, it's a tidy watered down sex comedy that fails to achieve anything other than mild humour. Made famous for being the film that contains THAT money shot of Marilyn Monroe on the subway grating having her skirt blown up around her waist, the film actually suffers from bad casting and Billy Wilder not being able to realise his vision for the adaptation.Adapted along with Wilder by George Axlerod from his own Broadway play, the film version is far removed from the racy, farce laden stage version, and it really does shine thru that we are missing out on a fully fleshed out comedy. The first thing wrong that stands out to me is the performance of Tom Ewell, he overacts here, and at times when the humour should be impacting on the viewer he simply achieves the opposite by being annoying. Put in Ewell's place Walter Matthau in the role Wilder's choice for the role but he was overruled, and you can imagine just how much better the comedy would have been delivered. Marilyn Monroe does just fine, it's a perfect vehicle for her, look gorgeous, play it with dopey innocence, and deliver the lines on time, she does all these well, and it's with much credit to Wilder for getting a decent performance from her as off the screen her marriage to Joe DiMaggio was crumbling apart.Censorship and snips mean that we have never seen the film that Billy Wilder envisaged, the censors even refused him having a somewhat tame ending to wrap the picture up, so what we are left with is a little laugh here and there, some Monroe texture, but ultimately the film just doesn't add up to being close to a real good sex comedy, 5/10. "},{"Title":"It's A Bitch-Of-An-Itch That You Just Can't Scratch!","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have always liked Marilyn Monroe, but, with that said, I honestly think that Hollywood totally wasted her by squeezing her into a stereotypical straitjacket where they tried to repeatedly capitalize on that clichéd persona by starring her in such mediocre movie-nonsense as this here Comedy that was so funny I forgot to laugh.As usual, Monroe looked very hot in this flick (in fact, she was simply sensational to behold), but, since she was clearly being presented here as a sex-object and being defined within the rigid restrictions of a fantasy, dream woman for every man, any opportunity for Monroe to really shine was flatly denied her.And, so, Monroe (whose character wasn't even allowed a name, but was given some of the dumbest and most contrived dialog to speak) simply remained just some flighty, little figment of one man's lecherous imagination throughout the entire course of this so-so picture.What definitely brought this faltering film's appeal-level down several major notches was the gross miscasting of Tom Ewell as the Richard Sherman character, a family man who just so happened to be the publisher of lewd and lurid dime-novels.Put plain and simple, Ewell, to me, was sickening. Not only was his character an annoying idiot with an inflated ego about the size of NYC, but, his overall appearance was utterly creepy, and his attitude so downright lecherous, that he made my skin crawl, big time.I mean, this guy struck me as one of those totally ugly, self-loving, middle-aged farts who have really foul body odor and the most ghastly, bad breath imaginable. (He also struck me as a potential rapist and, yes, perhaps, even a possible child-molester, as well) And, believe me, when Ewell actually kissed Monroe smack-dab on the lips, I could easily imagine director Billy Wilder having to immediately cut the scene at that point so that Marilyn could go and throw up in the nearest sink/toilet/whatever and then furiously brush her teeth with Dazzledent toothpaste in order to get rid of Ewell's hideous reek.Hey! Please don't get me wrong here - I didn't hate The Seven Year Itch, but, with that said, I'm sorry, f-f-f-folks, but, this film just didn't work its intended magic on me.Yes, of course, I do realize that this over-rated sex-farce was clearly a product of its time (the 1950s) - And, I'm more than sure that it totally titillated its adult audience, immensely, back then - But, now, 60 years later, this decidedly weak-scripted tale of a male-menopause fantasy-overload only flew at half-mast.Oh, well - So much for the hitch of The Seven Year Itch! Yep. It's a real b-i-t-c-h! "},{"Title":"Amusing and Reassuring.","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There isn't much to object to in this story of Tom Ewell, whose family is off for the summer, leaving him to work on manuscripts in his hot New York apartment. His doctor has given him the inevitable advice stop smoking, drink less, avoid stress. (He missed lose weight and undertake a regular exercise regimen.) Ewell is proud of his determination to spend a celibate and healthy summer. He fantasizes chats with his wife, whose phantom sits knitting in a chair on the balcony.Then, cherchez la femme. The platinum blond, amply bosomed Marilyn Monroe moves into the vacant upstairs apartment for the summer and almost kills him by dropping a tomato plant on his balcony. He forgives her immediately and invites her down to his air-conditioned flat for a drink. The encounter is preceded and accompanied by several of Ewell's strictly middle-class fantasies. Remember, this is the early 1950s when even the words seduction and adultery were banned from the screen. It would be another five years before Doris Day would find it necessary to preserve her virginity in the face of Rock Hudson's blandishments. This is safe stuff, not raunchy.There are some very funny fantasies. In some ways the best is when Ewell imagines Monroe in a glittering evening dress and himself in a smoking jacket. They sit together at the piano while he rolls through the opening bars of Rachmaninoff's romantic piano concerto. Then he stops playing, turns to her and says in a snooty voice, I'm now going to kiss you -- very quickly and very hard.) Later, in real life, he manages to lure her to the piano with Chopsticks and when he tries to enact his fantasy they fall on the floor. He apologizes abjectly. This never happened to me before. Monroe brushes herself off, straightens her dress, and says, Really? It happens to me all the time. I should mention, in case the kids don't get it, that U. S. Camera was a popular magazine at the time and one of the few respectable ones where you might catch a glimpse of an artistically arranged nude body.The movie is appropriate to the times alright, as I recall all too well. Actually I saw this on Broadway with Ewell and, I think, Vanessa Brown. In the early 50s it was exceedingly difficult to bring the alligator and the pear together, as Groucho Marx once metaphorized.So, yes, it's George Axelrod's work. It was directed by Billy Wilder but you'd never know it. His specialty was finding humor in cynicism and finding tragedy in betrayal. Billy (Double Indemnity) Wilder filmed the play accurately enough but couldn't very well add much to it without ruining its fragile charm. "},{"Title":"I would like to scratch that itch","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have had the pleasure of catching this film 2 times in the last week on HDNet. For those of you who have never seen this film it is a gem from start to finish. It did not receive any Oscars but was recognized by the Golden Globes for best actor Tom Ewell, who believe it or not steals the show in this film. Richard, played by Tom Ewell, sends his family away from Manhattan for the summer to their place in Maine, like many other tenants in his building. One tenant that remained was the girl, played by Marilyn Monroe, who lived upstairs from him, and after the girls tomato plant falls onto Richards deck, Richard kindly offers her a drink and the comedy begins. Richard convinces himself through his own neurosis that his wife Helen is going to find out that he had a lovely blonde in their home.Richard, although he has done nothing wrong, feels guilty but has continuing interactions with the girl throughout the summer, constantly battling with his own conscience. The never ending diatribe Richard goes through is the meat of the film as his imagination takes over. Tom Ewell and Marilyn Monroe have incredible chemistry and were part of one of the most memorable scenes in a film, when Marilyn Monroe steps over the grates of the subway and is warmed from the heat below. This scene has been forever etched in the history of film and is Marilyn's most remembered scene from any film that she has been in.Miss Monroe was excellent playing the sweet, sometimes ditzy blonde that she does so well. Her interactions with Well are incredibly organic and their dialogue is well written and well delivered. For any Marilyn Monroe fan this is a must see. "}{"Title":"A quick breakdown","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you're reading these reviews trying to determine whether or not to watch this movie, I'll do my best to break down - quickly - why this movie is considered a classic and why it is worth watching.The Seven Year Itch is a throwback comedy that was very incendiary during it's day. I'm writing this review a few months after 'The Hangover Part 2' came out, so by today's standards there is hardly anything controversial at all. This is part of the beauty of these older movies though, they are subtle in their shock-and-awe. There was a board in Hollywood that did nothing else except for censor movies, and so getting a movie like 'The Seven Year Itch' out was a real coup. There is an amazing short documentary on the DVD about this process, and they mention there was actually a priest on set watching and critiquing on the entire production! What a weird history America has ... Anyways, so the story moves along at a quick pace, the humor is subtle and brilliant, Marilyn Monroe proves she can act, Tom Ewell is perfect in his comedic timing, and it moves a lot faster than it's just under 2 hour run time. This is one of those intro-to-classic-film movies that you need to see if you're interested in giving older movies a chance. Rating 34/40 "},{"Title":"The Seven Year Itch","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How come such a thoroughly paper-thin story could attain the monumental success as not only a classic comedy but also Marilyn Monroe's career apex?The prestigious Billy Wilder did conquer many obstacles in order to stimulate the placid mundane life with some enjoyable ripples, such as the daring boldness to persist the employment of the obscure Tom Ewell from the original play instead of some Hollywood red- hot marquees, Gary Cooper for example.Marilyn Monroe's embodiment as a naively appealing neighbor is beyond any heterosexual man's pipe dream, the too good to be true empathy sustains as a main motif all along the way. Piercingly ludicrous as the opponent of the average-Joe Tom, the whole film could be interpreted as a placebo to the ordinary mass who are more than willing to watch their fantasies come true on the celluloid.Adapted from a play with the same title, theatrically speaking Tom Ewell is virtually the ace in the hole in both his monodrama and the two-hander with Monroe. His initial physical contour did arouse me with some doubt about his capacity being the male protagonist, thankfully his full-fledged devotedness and the magic chemistry between him and Monroe have rescued the film from being one of the insignificant cheesy chick-flicks. And for Ms. Monroe, it is no big deal of her acting skill, her natural temperament, arresting sexual attraction plus violet voice is a treasure itself, and thanks to Billy Wilder, which has been exploited at its most! Being a film based upon a comedic play, the low cost of the setting (90% of the screen-time takes place within Tom's flat) inescapably could bring about a tad weariness, that's why the one prominent exception, which now is notoriously well-known when Monroe standing on the air vent of the sewer system, is so invaluable. "},{"Title":"To imagine in cinemascope","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For an actress who has achieved immortality in the public consciousness, Marilyn Monroe has not been well remembered for her acting ability. Is that because, as an actress, she had very little ability? Or was it that her iconic status as a sex symbol has obscured what other talents she might have had? The fact that she was time and again cast as a mere object of infatuation in productions that were in all other respects technical masterpieces has certainly confused the issue.As star vehicles go, they don't come much plusher than The Seven Year Itch. This is the first really classic comedy to be penned by Billy Wilder (although admittedly most of it is from the George Axelrod play), and in my opinion it is actually slightly funnier even than Some Like It Hot, even if it lacks that picture's madcap pacing. It's particularly neat the way so many jokes are seemingly inconsequential things that are funny only in the context of the whole thing - for example Ewell and Monroe going to see The Creature from the Black Lagoon, when it has already been referenced in one of Ewell's daydreams as a description of his own lecherous self. Ewell's almost constant commentary on his own life functions a lot like the voice-over narrative used in earlier Wilder pictures like Double Indemnity and Sunset Boulevard, and make the whole thing smooth and simple to follow.Wilder's direction is on top form too. This was his first picture in the 'scope aspect ratio, and he makes the most of it. One of his favourite tricks was squeezing in little details in the frame for audiences to pick up on. More screen space means more room for detail, and a particular recurring one here is Ricky's paddle, which hoves into view at every awkward moment like Ewell's guilty conscience. A particularly innovative use of the widescreen format is as a signifier that a daydream sequence is about to begin. Whereas in the olden days (and still a fair bit in the newen days) we made do with the corniness of a slow dolly in, Wilder prefaces the Miss Morris seduction flashback by having the right-hand half of the screen empty next to Tom Ewell, with a dim glow like a spotlight about to be stepped into. Incidentally this is more akin to how it is done on the stage, where you can't of course cut to another scene, but you can shift an audience's attention horizontally.And supporting Miss Monroe is a superb, if not immediately obvious cast. Apparently among the original choices for the male lead was Gary Cooper(!) However Tom Ewell, despite not being a familiar face on the screen, originated the role on stage and it's hard to imagine anyone else playing the part. He really gets this slightly skewed, subtle kind of humour, and much of the impact of the jokes is in his timing, his deadpan delivery, and his general demeanour. Honourable mentions also go to Robert Strauss, far more effective here than in the role he was Oscar-nominated for in Stalag 17, and Victor Moore, who appears for all of ten seconds, but is memorable because, well he's Victor Moore.And what about Marilyn herself? Is she simply the icing on the cake, a blonde bimbo sitting prettily while all the real work goes on around her? The answer is simple - if Monroe couldn't act, why would people like Wilder have wasted their time on her? After all, there were actresses like Jane Russell who occupied similar sexual territory to Monroe but never got further than being ogled at in trashy B-movies. Monroe often acted the dumb blonde because she was required to, but it's something she put considerable thought, personality and even a believable humanity into. Yes, Monroe is the pretty girl in the middle of The Seven Year Itch, but without a strong centre even the finest picture would have collapsed like a house of cards. "},{"Title":"If The Girl is Fantasy !","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ..Then this is the most memorable movie ever made about masturbation! I don't want to be gratuitously nasty here, but with a very imaginative middle-aged man who used to suppress his sexual feelings, like any peaceful bourgeois, + the perfect, real perfect, presence of that fantastic girl in his life, so easily by the way (being originally a photo he saw once accidentally) + ending every sequence between both with a magical smile and a suspicious fade out can say a lot about a sexual dream comes after that we just can't be allowed to watch + the obvious nervous move of his finger especially while sleeping&#x85; All of that OH MY GOD made it one hell of a psycho-drama that could be superbly entertaining on one hand, and the earliest &#x96; most famous &#x96; Hollywood movie ever made about such a sexual activity on the other hand !Hence, aside from harmless traditional symbols (like the kid's wheel that keeps forcing the lead to fall down as a reminder of his marriage and fatherhood), the skiing board that (Tom Ewell)'s character carries all over the city could symbolize a strange erection he feels out of getting free of the wife and the kids. And it is a thing he wants desperately to deliver to the wife as she, or he, forgot it. I know, Freud's stuff can be so amusing, but I felt it's used here so wickedly, since the American cinema was coerced to be polite back then; therefore with metaphoric games like these, the trick was so smart on the censorship and worth the try.Actually, it's a comedy about fear. So when the lead got to declare his fear and challenge it through the one he thinks his opponent (the bold hansom image he misses), the conflict just ended and he found himself finally deserving his wife, needing no girl or grand sexual fantasy to dally with his inner weakness, take him away his boredom, or falsely assure beating his fears.(Marilyn Monroe) was playing herself; the greatest sexual fantasy. Therefore she was truly natural. I hated just the kisses to (Ewell). Not because that he's lucky to have them, and I'm not! But because dramatically the girl can't bless this neighbor with these many kisses like this. However, who said anything about a real girl ?! That was part of the hot dream that (Ewell)'s character was having and creatively making up!(Ewell) was super. He mastered his role so much. I bet selecting any of the big stars of the era would've smashed the credibility of the story. And (Ewell) was so right physically before being so right as an actor. He maybe didn't make it to be a star afterwards, but undoubtedly he is the star in this role. It's such a bright time. Everyone along with everything was so fine. I refused only one thing which's deleting the scene in which the air blows (Marilyn)'s skirt. Despite that the scene became highly a classic while it's unseen (through the hundreds of photos for it!), I still must veto as the censorship this time executed the hottest sexual dream of the movie, and us!Sometimes I feel that making mainstream movies like this nowadays became like a fantasy. And with a star as Marilyn.. it is a fantasy ! "},{"Title":"Marilyn always looks better in color!","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For a director like Billy Wilder, who has written and directed some of the finest films in Hollywood history, such as Double Indemnity and Sunset Blvd., to make a film like The Seven Year Itch is merely to cash in and have some fun doing it. Indeed, after seeing this film, one can tell that Wilder probably did have fun, and who wouldn't? Who would object to standing behind a camera watching Marilyn Monroe strut around in gorgeous white dresses, especially in color. As a film, some of the scenes don't work and the whole character of Richard Sherman, played wonderfully by Tom Ewell, comes off as extremely annoying. But one shouldn't expect too much since this was basically just a vehicle to showcase Monroe's gorgeous looks and acting ability. While I believe she acted better in Some Like it Hot, she still holds her own here and certainly isn't bad to look at. Overall, this is not one of Wilder's better films, but it is better than most trash Hollywood makes today. So, see it if you are a Wilder or Monroe fan, but once is probably enough. "},{"Title":"Not a top-shelf work of Wilder's, despite an iconic image and good dialog","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy Wilder, as a Hollywood director, has done better than the Seven Year Itch, though I could think of worse ways to spend a Saturday afternoon with this film on TV. Perhaps one goes into the film with a misconception that it will be squarely a Marilyn Monroe film. But aside from a couple of small, enlightened appearances early on, this is really the Tom Ewell show as the star of the film. It's an extremely tongue-in-cheek, widescreen 50's comedy about a middle aged man who maybe has, much as he reads over a few times, the repressive urge in the middle aged man. Despite having a usual wife and plucky kid, who are off on vacation, his urges perhaps get the better of him with new neighbor Monroe living in the same apartment building. Aside from that iconic image that almost everyone familiar with Monroe knows- the shot of Monroe walking on the sidewalk and getting her dress blown up from the smoke below (a sexual image that hasn't dated TOO much)- this is more of a sexual comedy that has less laughs then it thinks. The problem is that unlike some of Wilder's other films, the script here just isn't as sharp as it might like to be. It's a little too 'audience-friendly' in some respects, and despite some really funny bits as Ewell's character has his out-loud dialog going on by himself (with his images of himself as a would-be ladies man), it isn't as successful as it might have been back in Hollywood-code era 1955. This is the kind of role that would've been perfect for an actor like Jack Lemmon, not totally fulfilled as it is. Still, it's a good example of the appeal of Monroe, and some of the likability of Ewell. Just don't go into it expecting a masterpiece of 50's Hollywood, rather a sturdy, amusing piece of memorabilia as it might be. "},{"Title":"The seven year countdown and the seven year DVD trip (dvd)","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 1955-1962 Seven years between this iconic movie for Marilyn and her last one.2005-2012 Seven years of writing movies reviews between the first DVD I bought (X-men that i tested on the drive while buying my first PC) and this last one.Honestly, this itch (badly translated in french as thinking) is a surprising funny and pleasant movie. Contrary to SLIH that offers a black and white movie with colored stills, this one is a Technicolor movie with black and white stills. But at first, i was anxious because it's a play adaptation and most of the time, those movies are boring (closer, frankie & johnny) the action is generally limited to one room, the cast talks a lot and the locations scenes are just to get air. However, here, there's no place for boredom I suppose the explanation lies that's the story is a comedy and not a drama a married man getting alone with a sexy neighbor. This idea is full of laughs and everyone can relate to it Personally, I lived this situation in Luxembourg and like the man, i got also a bit crazy. We faced anxiety attacks, had wild imagination to tame. The good thing is that the movie medium is well used the dreams add an original touch and the casting is excellent Marilyn is a good choice because she's innocence alive and Ewell catches me because he's a look alike of an old Mark Hammil (Luke Skywalker). For a movie that the censorship wanted bondaged, it failed miserably Sure, the scene of the dress isn't in the edited movie but it has become the most iconic moment of all movies. It's a great testimony of the fabulous fifties when everything and everyone were shining. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie. Even Allison Hayes would be terrific than Marilyn Monroe","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a wonderful movie I have ever seen in my entire life. Even I thought Allison Hayes would wear that same dress Marilyn Monroe wore in the movie and see her legs. I think this is so terrific, it should have a remake with new different versions. I think Kirsten Dunst or Carmen Electra would be terrific for the Seven Year Itch remake. Or I think Jessica Simpson sounds terrific. Why not use Uma Thurman or Anna Faris for the movie? But I think Charlize Theron would be a terrific choice and not Paris Hilton. I think even Natalie Portman or Scarlett Johansson sounds like a good idea. Or how about that Beverly Hills bad girl Shannen Doherty? "},{"Title":"Amazingly, this bowdlerized film version of George Axelrod's Broadway farce remains delightfully effective, even with it's key element removed.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's amazing how Billy Wilder's film of George Axelrod's marital sex farce about adultery manages to work without the adultery.  It's all so surreal when you look at it now; particularly since Marilyn was the girl upstairs, a sex force so powerful that any average mid-century fellow would be surely forgiven for succumbing to such illicit temptation.  Superb, sophisticated work by all involved.  Alfred Newman's sly work on the music score is a noteworthy delight.  Still charming after all these years.  "},{"Title":"Starting From Scratch","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a Wilder buff of long standing I have just added this DVD to the Wilder section of my collection - having seen all the movies in the cinema/TV and owning them all on video - and whilst it may seem a tad dated now the Wilder touch is still evident in every frame. As someone who has never quite understood what all the fuss is about regarding Marilyn Monroe (or Brigitte Bardot for that matter) I have to say that she is effective in a role that might have been (though it wasn't; when the play opened on Broadway in 1952 MM had yet to make her breakthrough impact and the play was about the MAN, Richard Sherman, with the 'Girl' more of a supporting role) written for her. Tom Ewell scores heavily in what should have been the leading role but then, he had played it on Broadway. Evelyn Keyes has virtually nothing to do as the wife and Sonny Tufts has just one scene but it's nice to see old timers like Victor Moore still working. "}{"Title":"An itch you HAVE to scratch!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As I watched the beginning of the movie I found myself waiting for Marilyn to appear on the screen, as the scenes without her were so horribly dull and uneventful. The beginning of the movie started out in an interesting way, but when Tom Ewell graced the screen I felt like drinking bleach.Throughout this entire movie Tom Ewell drove me CRAZY! His long and painful monologues were sooo annoying! He keeps mentioning how gorgeous he is and how hot and admirable her was when I was ready to kill him. This movie would be TONS better if Marilyn had more screen time and Tom Ewell just died or something.Also, it has bothered me for a while now that everyone knows Marilyn for her white dress blowing up above the subway grate, when most of these people haven't even SEEN her in her dress. But anyway.What happened to the end of the movie? It just stopped... why? He decides to go back to his wife and leave Marilyn in his apartment? Don't you think your wife would notice her there when she got home? And maybe even notice that he knocked out that guy she sent to get the paddle? He's guilty and should probably be put into a mental hospital and imagines his wife killing him in the end. But he's bringing it upon himself! Marilyn is hard to resist, but don't annoy your audience for the majority of the movie because you're feeling guilty about something you can easily change.Overall this movie was pretty funny, but pretty much only when Marilyn was there. Tom Ewell is annoying and needs acting lessons, but his character was pretty well developed. The story wasn't that bad also. I liked it for the most part. Cheers! "},{"Title":"Took me seven years to dislike it","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked it many years ago, but upon repeated viewing I find the mockery of middle age heavy-handed. Too many movies mock older people and flatter the young - as if old and young were not the same people. This is another one-gag movie Take a dumpy, middle-aged husband and put him in the same room with the most gorgeous woman on earth, and see what happens. Surprise, surprise, he is VERY, VERY nervous and clumsy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The interesting thing though, is that he is more interesting than Miss Cream-puff. The dumb blonde routine is so overworked, that the dumb overtakes the blonde. This one is more watchable than Some like it Hot, but not much more. One wonders If Monroe is too good for Ewell, who deserves to get her? Prince Charming? A far more interesting plot would have been a middle aged woman lusting after a young man. But in our society that would be shocking, because men are allowed things women aren't.  "},{"Title":"doesn't work anymore","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason to see this movie is to watch Marilyn Monroe who, as usual, is extremely watchable and who steals every scene she's in.  The problem is, she's not in enough scenes.  Seven Year Itch was originally a stage play and this movie is filmed almost like a stage play.  The long monologues of Tom Ewell as the older man who daydreams of infidelity are really boring, at least they were to me.  Maybe they'd be funnier if you heard them being given in front of a live audience and there was some people laughing along.  But I thought virtually every one of Ewell's monologues were stultifyingly boring.  He just isn't a very good actor.  That being said, I did find the scene where he imagines his wife trying to shoot him while he pleads for his life to be pretty funny---obviously his wife is never going to believe that he spent the night wrapping a kayak paddle when Marilyn is in his bedroom.If you're not a Marilyn Monroe historian, I think you'll find this movie a waste of time.  Marilyn is good, but she's a lot better in Some Like it Hot and Niagara. "},{"Title":"Not yet a woman, not a girl anymore, either...","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although this film focuses on a gentleman who's family left Manhattan for the hot summer, it's the young and captivating lady who's house-sitting upstairs that steals the show. Ewell portrays this role as a neurotic who tries to convince himself that what he feels about Monroe is all right and that, since his family (especially his wife) is gone, it's more like, When the cat's away... and that sort of thing.I guess the only thing I have in question about this show is Was she for real? Marilyn Monroe was a sex goddess of her time, I'll grant anyone that, but her acting was never her strong point. But, in this film, I think it was, because she pulled it off. And the way she acted and felt had a sort of innocence about her (the way she would deal with the heat, for instance). Overall, I think I found the film almost funny, so anything like that deserves at least half, so I gave it 5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Seven Year Itch title combined with the cover photo of Marylin Monroe with her hands pushing down on her crotch suggested to me that this was a film about venereal disease. A cheesy film about venereal would have been better than the shameful trash that I saw. The film opens with a humiliating portrayal of American Indians then proceeds to disappoint again and again. The concept, the story line, the acting, the timing is all shameful. Just when you think a film can't get any lower this one breaks into free fall. A gust of wind as a tool to show off Monroe's chubby legs is not enough to justify a film. If this is considered an American Classic, then let us bow our heads in shame. It's rubbish. "}]