[{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"116 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think of this is a great rainy afternoon movie. You're flipping through the channels on one of those great lazy Saturdays...it's summer but it's raining outdoors and you're stuck inside. You come across a classic movie channel (AMC, TCM--take your pick) and pause. What's this? Ernest Borgnine? You always like him, why not stop for a moment and watch. It looks like it's just beginning. Marty? Yeah, you've heard of it, vaguely. Won the Oscar or something, but it's been kind of forgotten. So you start watching and before long you're totally enchanted, completely charmed, by the simple story and realistic characters. Who can't sympathize with Borgnine's sensitive butcher, hanging out with his Italian friends and their goofy conversations about Mickey Spillane, all the while pining away with his heart of gold for a girl that his buddies call a dog? The conversations have the kind of natural humor and warmth that remind you of the old days hanging out with your pals. As you watch the movie, you find yourself enthralled and you never change the channel, watching it till the end, realizing that you've seen this plot riffed on and spoofed on various TV shows, films, and cartoons over the years. When the movie's done, you're really excited--this is one of those films you discovered on your own and nothing can beat that thrill. Now, this isn't the way I saw Marty--I rented it and now own it on DVD--but it's the spirit I get from it. I love the conversation between Marty and his best friend, its street poetry that's entertaining without being false, in the diner as their Friday night lays out ahead of them. I love Marty and Clara's walk, their honesty and his enthusiasm; you worry is he going to far, being too gregarious for the shy Clara? Will it work? I love the preparations for Sunday Mass, the fight between the married couple, and Marty agonizing over standing up his girl while his friends have an amusingly banal and silly conversation in which they keep repeating themselves. It's really just a charming and wonderful film, joyful even in its sad moments. If you don't enjoy it, what can I say, but my recommendation comes completely honest and from the heart. This is one of those personal favorites that also happens to be an underrated classic--but just underrated enough so that the joy of discovering it on a rainy Saturday afternoon remains undiluted. "},{"Title":"Simple, Beautiful and Touching Love Story With Magnificent Performance of the Cast and Sensitive Direction","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"88 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marty Piletti (Ernest Borgnine) is a lonely, insecure and honest thirty-four years old good man, living with his Italian mother, Mrs. Theresa Piletti (Esther Minciotti), and working as a butcher. Angie (Joe Mantell) is his best friend, a very shallow person, and his company to the bars and ballrooms in the evenings, since the ugly and fat Marty is rejected by the girls. His Italian family and friends put pressure on him to get married, but Marty has no girlfriend and lots of difficulties to get close to women. One Saturday night, Marty meets Clara Snyder (Betsy Blair), a twenty-nine single, ugly (obs `dog', in accordance with the description of Marty's friends in the story, but indeed Betsy Blair was a charming woman, having beautiful eyes and lovely smile and voice) and rejected woman, in a ballroom. Betsy is a teacher in Brooklyn with college degree, and like Marty, is very insecure and has the feeling of rejection by men. They feel attracted by each other and spend a wonderful night together. On the next day, before and after the Sunday Mass, Marty's relatives and friends make jokes with the lack of beauty in Clara. The marvelous open end of the story, uncommon in American movies, is one of the best I have ever seen. This movie is a simple, beautiful and touching love story with magnificent performances of the cast and a sensitive direction. The story and slangs (dog, tomatoes etc.) are dated in 2004, but does not jeopardize the beauty of this delightful romance. `Marty' is the only Best Picture winner (awarded in Picture, Director, Actor and Screenplay and nominated for Supporting Actor, Supporting Actress, Art-Direction and Cinematography) to also win at the Cannes Film Festival. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) `Marty'  "},{"Title":"Proof That a Picture Doesn't Need SPFX - It needs great Actors","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"52 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I'm in the Business.  I don't believe this movie could get made today except as an art house film.  Its beauty lies in its simplicity. Starting with a terrific script by Chayefskey (arguably one of the five best playrights of the 20th century), this movie eschews every that's big about motion pictures for a story about Everman who didn't have a date on Saturday night. Rod Steiger first performed the role on television. It won a number of Emmys. Opened up for the silver screen, it retains the intimacy of its characters. Ernest Borgnine has probably been in 100 movies, but this was his shining moment. He breathes live into the hapless Bronx Butcher whose soul longs for love. When he gives his I'm gonna get down on my knees... speech, the tears begin to flow.  Why? Because in our heart of hearts, each of us feels the need for love and self validation. Marty doesn't need special effects or action sequences. Marty is in a class by itself. Had it never been made we would have all missed an opportunity to look inside ourselves.  Maybe in this day and age, with all our CGI and Virtual Reality, we need another Marty, to remind us who we really are.10/10 "},{"Title":"Lovable, joyous movie","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rarely does a scene come along in a movie that's so powerful, affective, and ultimately satisfying as the scene at the end of `Marty' when the title character stands up to his shallow friends.  Ernest Borgnine plays Marty, in a performance that's so heartwarming, kind and earnest it would take a very cold man not to love him.  Marty is an honest butcher, who, at thirty-four years old, has been turned very insecure by the years of being turned away by women because of his looks and nervous manner.The film spans over two days in Marty's life, starting in the morning of the first day and ending at night in the second.  Marty lives timidly but happily as a single butcher, with shallow, sex crazy friends and a mother at home who acts as peacemaker in family battles.  The mother (Esther Minciotti) also nags Marty to find a gal and get married, but Marty argues, `Whatever it is woman want, I don't got.'Eventually she persuades (or forces) Marty to go to a dance ball and find a woman.  Marty goes with his friend Angie (Joe Mantell), Angie gets a dance, Marty doesn't.  Eventually Marty is confronted with an offer by a slimy man on the dance floor the man will pay Marty five dollars to take home his date, Clara (Betsy Blair), because he wants to dance with a more attractive woman.  Marty refuses, but another man accepts, and it ends with Clara running off crying.  With both bravery and sympathy, Marty walks up to Clara and introduces himself.That starts what's one of the most affective and touching love stories in movie history.  Both are insecure because of their appearances &#150; Marty because of his weight and Clara because of her gawkiness (which is admirable, any other movie would have Ernest Borgnine romancing someone like Grace Kelly).  They are awkward at first, Clara is quiet and Marty rambles, but they soon grow comfortable with each other.  They spend a wonderful night together that's fuelled not by lust or sex, but by sympathy, kindness and a deep understanding of each other.By the end of the night, once Marty drops Clara off at home, he waltzes happily through the street.  This scene is joyous and wonderful and powerful, when he hits a stop sign in delight, it's like a ballet.But things aren't so well the next day.  Marty's mother says she doesn't like Clara and is not approving, but we know because of a subplot that she is really just afraid of being alone.  Marty's friends are perplexed as to why Marty would want to date a woman so plain and badger him about it.  Marty is insecure so he spends the day passively nodding as everyone around him berates his choice for a woman.  We saw their time together so we know what a mistake he can make if he doesn't call her like he promised, which makes the ending all the more glorious.This movie is lovable on all accounts writing, characters, music, direction, setting and especially the performances.  Borgnine, who spent his time before this film playing sadistic killers in B movies, is so irresistible in this film it's hard to imagine him as a mean guy (which makes him a good actor, I guess).  His performance is so realized; he's got the character down flat as he effortlessly moves through each scene.  He won the only Oscar of his career for his role here, and it was an Oscar well deserved.The supporting cast is small, but it rounds out fine, with Blair embodying sweetness as Clara and Minciotti perfectly portraying the Italian mother.  The others are fine, but in small roles, I find it most perplexing that Mantell received an Oscar nom for his work in this.  I was surprised that Jack Lemmon won an Oscar that year for `Mister Roberts', but I guess if this was his competition&#133;`Marty' is a terrific, original chick flick that achieves cinematic grandness in a few scenes.  A must-see for everyone, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Out on its own .................","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have known, loved and seen this film many times in the past fifteen years and finally bought it recently on DVD in the UK. The story is timeless and I am very surprised that no-one has yet attempted a plausible re-make of it. Stangely made in black and white ( for economic reasons I suppose, as color was widespread enough in 1954 ), the film depicts the horrors of trying to find a soul-mate with family pressures on hand to boot. No doubt italo-Americans will appreciate even more. I found Betsy Blair extremely attractive although she is supposed to be portraying someone ugly - the subject is fascinating and endlessly complex as beauty is in the eye of the beholder. The general impression given was one of a depiction of a real-life situation, which is of course to the credit of the film !! I remained hungry at the end and would have liked the film to continue just a little more to show the genesis of their amorous relationship !! But some would argue that at the end of a film you should be left wanting for more .......... I also loved the theme music which is actually sung at the end over the credits where they show the name of the actor plus a view of the actor from the film - this is a technique used all too little nowadays - and this absence is most regrettable as it enabled you to put a face to a name !! I was both surprised and amused that in the 1950's, ugly people were referred to as dogs - sounds so funny now - but I think the word squares or cornballs was also used disparagingly !! Definitely a most original film and which (exceptionally) seems to have attracted a unanimity of positive reviews on IMDb !! "},{"Title":"Nicely-Crafted, With a Worthwhile Story","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"43 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite having only the most basic of story-lines, this is a nicely-crafted movie with a worthwhile story.  Ernest Borgnine deserves the praise he has received for his performance as Marty, and he seems very natural in the part, for all that it seems so different from most of his other roles.  The other characters are also rendered believably, and events develop naturally.  While the two main characters may think of themselves as failures, viewers can see that they are just ordinary persons trying to be honest and sensitive, and this makes it easy to identify with them.The story efficiently introduces Marty and the other characters, showing how he interacts with them.  Since the others are all so absorbed in their own concerns, they view Marty solely in terms of how he fits in with their own plans and desires, again making it easy for the viewer to relate to him.  Joe Mantell, Esther Minciotti, Augusta Ciolli, and Jerry Paris make Marty's family and friends thoroughly believable, and they work well in their interactions with Borgnine.  By the time that Marty meets Clara (Betsy Blair), everything is set up so as to get the most out of the possibilities.Praise also goes to Delbert Mann and Paddy Chayefsky for being willing to make a movie out of such low-key material.  It may not impress those who have become benumbed by the ostentation of present-day film-makers, since its quality is of a subtler, more unaffected kind.  But it's a worthwhile achievement in its own right, a story about ordinary persons and everyday concerns, of the kind that takes skill and understanding to make well. "},{"Title":"Great, Touching and Timeless","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love movies of the 1950's and this is a prime example of the quality today's movies seem to lack.Being Italian myself I can relate to Marty's situation. Marty's mother and aunt are aging widows and Italian families are extremely close. Sadly, Marty's mother any aunt are feeling old and useless and in many ways try to sabotage their son's happiness. This is sad but true speaking as a bachelor myself. At one point your mother asks you, when are you ever going to get married and when they are older they want to live with you because they too are lonely. I found myself deeply moved by the decency of Marty and the young teacher he meets at a singles dance. These are truly special people that life has passed by, but not for long. They discover each other and Marty calls the girl in spite of the reservations of his mother and friends.Beauty is in the eye of the beholder and Marty and his young lady are the truly beautiful people in this poignant love story.I would rate this movie 50 stars if I could.Wonderful, funny at times and unforgettable.A must see and a must have in any movie collection.  "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before six pack abs, fake breasts, the inter-net and Aids, there was Marty. I feel sorry for the younger generation who will either not see this film or if they do will not appreciate its simplicity. Marty is a decent, hard working, lonely man who is hounded by his mother for not being married. He spends his free time with his equally lonely friends. He meets Clara. They both feel unattractive and rejected. Their first kiss is one of the most tender on film. If you watch closely, Marty pulls back before kissing Clara, showing his vulnerability. His Mother and best friend are jealous and selfishly try to talk Marty out of the relationship. In the end, he goes after the companionship he so desires. Ernest Borgnine deserved the Oscar he won. Watch it and enjoy!!  "},{"Title":"the most honest characters I've ever seen....","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Marty' is a movie that can be summed up simply in three words.  It's very honest.  Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair play the two main characters, Marty and Clara.  The bulk of the movie takes place over one night, the night Marty and Clara meet.  Everything is really that simple.  The thing that is great is that neither of the characters is anything but human.  They are flawed, they are insecure, and they are awkward around each other and don't know how to act in certain situations.  The chemistry between Blair and Borgnine is absolutely beautiful.  They give us a relationship that is real.  There are moments in the movie, that I won't give away, that are almost hard to watch and its hard not to feel sympathy.  At the same time, its hard not to relate to the characters on some level.  They are human, they are flawed, and its beautiful to watch, yet sad at the same time.  I was surprised by the charm of the movie and I recommend it to anyone.  8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"MARTY is of continuing relevance...","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As an under-30 viewer of Marty I wanted to take the time to say that I believe the value in a film such as this lies in the fact that it deals with themes that continue to be of relevance to contemporary viewers.In particular, Marty has to deal with a widow mother whom attempts to thwart his chance at love in order to preserve her own central position in his life. The situation is not dissimilar to one that my boyfriend has to deal with- his mother is a widow and she is worried that if her son marries she will be displaced and have no social worth.Ernest Borgnine's performance was superb, especially the scene in which he yells at his mother to lay-off trying to make him go out and find a girl at the Stardust Ballroom when he knows that all the night has in store for him is more heart-ache. "}{"Title":"And What Are You Doing Tonight?","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Among other things Marty will be known for is being the best film Burt Lancaster ever produced without Burt Lancaster the actor. Hard to disagree with four Academy Awards credited to the film.Originally a made for television drama that starred Rod Steiger in the title role, Marty piqued the interest of both Burt Lancaster and his producer partner Harold Hill. Rod Steiger had gotten very good reviews for his interpretation of the part of the thirty something Bronx butcher. However upon getting the film rights, Lancaster himself did not want to cast Steiger again because he felt no one would see the film again after seeing Steiger on free television. Lancaster also personally cast Ernest Borgnine in the lead after having worked with him on From Here to Eternity.In 1955 Marty on television and the big screen struck a resonant cord with the American public. Something about the tale of the Bronx butcher longing anxiously for a life soul mate made it a universal theme about fear of loneliness. The plot such as it is has Marty going to the Stardust Ballroom and meeting plain jane school teacher Betsy Blair. Marty has a lot going against the relationship. His erstwhile friends, as big a pack of losers ever created for the screen, don't want to lose one of their number. His mother, after listening to her sister, changes from pushing him out the door to meet new people, to strongly urging him to forget Betsy Blair. The conversation between the two women, Esther Minciotti as Borgnine's mother and Agusta Ciolli as his Aunt Katherine is a classic.One of Marty's biggest boosters was columnist Walter Winchell. He plugged the film a lot in his column and was very instrumental in beating the publicity drums for Marty. Ironic since two years later, Burt Lancaster delivered a cinema indictment against Winchell in playing Winchell clone, J.J. Hunsecker in Sweet Smell of Success.No doubt Winchell helped because Marty scored with four Oscars. Best Picture of 1955, Best Actor Ernest Borgnine, Best Director Delbert Mann and Best Adapted Screenplay Paddy Chayefsky. There were also nominations for Best Supporting Actress for Betsy Blair and Best Supporting Actor for Joe Mantell as Marty's 'friend' Angie.Though its mores are definitely ground in the Fifties, Marty is a timeless tale that could easily be rewritten for the 21st centuries. There are still butchers in the Bronx and 30 something school teachers looking for love. It's what makes it universal. "},{"Title":"Sweet little movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every one in awhile, a small movie cleans up at the Oscars.  It seems to happen about once a decade.  This might be the first, though.Ernest Borgnine is the title character.  He is a butcher who is unmarried, Catholic, Italian and lives in New York where it would never occur to anyone to mind their own business.  Everyone who buys a pork chop gives him grief over his bachlerhood, and that extends to his Mother, too.  He is a sweet guy - loans money to his friends, is polite to strangers and considerate to his family.  He is a little lonely and frustrated and doesn't have much to do. One night in a dance hall a stranger offers him $5 to take a girl home, since the guy doesn't want to have anything to do with this particular girl. Marty is amazed at the rudeness so to not humiliate the girl any more than she has to be, and since he's alone anyway..they meet and dance and have a very nice night.  He is very nervous and has a lot to say and sometimes rambles on a little.  Not the worse crime in the world.There is a small subplot over Marty's Aunt moving in with Marty and his Mom since she does not get along with her daughter-in-law.  I suppose this is to show that even if you are married, life still hands out problems.  And if you get to live long enough to be considered 'old', that sometimes you are uprooted and unwanted and a bit of a burden to your family. Borgnine is terrific and won Best Actor over pretty tough competition.  Joe Mandell as Angie, Marty's best friend, and Betsy Blair as Clara, who is the girl he meets, were also nominated.  This material was originally a television 'play' starring Rod Steiger as Marty and Nancy Marchand as Clara.  I bet it was good.  8/10.  "},{"Title":"Moving and a must see.","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a kid I came to know Ernest Borgnine through McHales Navy. Then I grew up and quickly forgot everything I ever knew about him. Then along came a movie called Quiz Show, about the game show scandals of the 50's, where one of the plot points revolved around a game show question pertaining to this movie winning Best Picture and Ernest Borgnine winning Best Actor. And I thought to myself, is this made up? What could the guy from McHales Navy possibly do to win an Oscar for Best Actor? It seemed ridiculous. A fluke. Possibly made up for the movie Quiz Show. After passing up numerous opportunities to see this film over the last 40 plus years I finally saw it on TCM and I am schooled. Everyone in their lives, no matter how beautiful they are, or think they are, has felt like these characters at some point. It is the universal feeling of loneliness and alienation and it is explored thoughtfully and sympathetically here. It also explores the casualties of love. A daughter gets married, equals a Mother loses her son. A guy falls in love with a girl, equals his best friend loses companionship. Falling in love shifts everything around it and not always gently. Love is messy even at its borders. So here we have Ernest Borgnine and Esther Minciotti, son and Mother in the film, giving truly once in a lifetime performances in this tiny little movie. Their kindness towards each other, far beyond the script they're working from, is touching. Jerry Paris, pre Dick Van Dyke show, is remarkable as another son with his own set of relationship problems. The sarge from Gomer Pyle is in this too. It's a proverbial cavalcade of upcoming '60's television. But at it's heart it is a touching movie that everyone should see. I wish I hadn't waited so long. Ernest Borgnine was given the chance of a lifetime to play Marty. Though terrific in everything he ever did, nothing before or after Marty gave him the opportunity to show what a truly gifted actor he is. Thank God someone was smart enough to cast him. "},{"Title":"Rough Around The Edges!!!","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is an absolutely fabulous movie which takes on a formidable approach to social realism, this is a feat which was not depicted all too frequently back in 1955!! The film, Marty won the academy award for best picture in 1955, and, with the plethora of talent this movie possessed, it is no wonder!! Ernest Borgnine is spectacular as the hard luck simpleton, his reputation in Hollywood speaks for itself! Betsy Blair (She was compelling in A Delicate Balance) is a method actress who carries off her agitated emotions with a very subtle disposition! Jerry Paris (Jerry on The Dick Van Dyke Show) is a wealth of talent who was incredibly believable in this film! Many of the other actors and actresses with smaller roles in this movie were powerfully cogent as well! Paddy Chayefsky, (Most famous for Network) who writes the screenplay, has an amazing amount of talent regarding his ability to evoke heartfelt emotions which are esoteric in their comprehension!! The whole movie puts Ernest Borgnine on the spot to change the course of his floundering environment which was categorized by the negative associations to his cultural stereotype! To say that these two characters (Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair) were introverted, would be a masterpiece of understatement!! The ill-timed fiascoes of being loquacious one moment, and taciturn the next, became a volatile characteristic that obliterated the ground rules to casual dating!! The conversations with Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair, always encompassed the visceral components of perseverance!! Trapped in a situation of a lower middle class environment of an emerging ethnicity, the urge for Marty to necessitate a metamorphosis in his prevailing situation became an insurmountable obstacle course!! Ernest Borgnine's portliness was a good tool to convey his plight as the disgruntled curmudgeon who was perennially despondent! The uplifting insight to Marty meeting a girl, for whom he liked and had a lot in common with, became a necessary camaraderie that overcame circumstantial doubts and insecurities! Throughout this entire movie, Paddy Chayefsky's writing effort itemizes reality, and allows Marty to conquer adversity in a way that is thoroughly plausible! I liken this film to Rocky as both of these movies illustrate a boorish Italian-American environment to be the single biggest form of societal intimidation! The unassuming demeanor to the genre of Marty became the most stellar characteristic to the picture's success! I was pleasantly surprised at how wonderful the film Marty was, and, I think anyone who has a curiosity about academy award winning films, should definitely consider seeing this movie!! "},{"Title":"Like being in 1954 New York for about 29 hours","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent movie! It starts out on a Saturday afternoon and goes into Sunday evening, in that brief time bringing us into the lives of these people in very deep and moving ways. It is very touching to see what can happen when people have a selfish heart or a caring heart. Have seen this picture 5 times now and it stays with me for days each time. Great way to see how we have choices, whether we realize them or not. We see how we all have our own things going on in our lives, our own agendas. We all impact others, and are impacted by others. Maybe we don't want to or think we do, but see how we do. These situations and characters are very easy to relate to. Shows how we could hurt or do anything we want to if we really want it and if our heart is in the wrong or the right place. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Movies","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How wonderful to see that this movie was made on site in New York City, not on some back lot in a studio. In this movie, you can feel the sense of the City, it is part of the movie itself.I am so happy that this movie was not made in color, the black and white greyness of the story lends itself to the mood.Ernest Borgnine shines as the lonely 30ish man, living with his widowed Italian mother, going to his day job as a butcher. Hanging out with his other lonely bachelor friends. What do you want to do Marty? I don't know, what do you want to do? Betsy Blair as Clara gives a believable performance as a lonely 30ish school teacher who is still living with her parents. She goes on a blind date to a dance with a cad who dumps her, and she stands there on the sidelines as a wallflower, which she is.Marty asks her to dance, they strike up a conversation, he takes her to his home where she meets his mother, he takes her home by bus, he realizes how much he cares for her! He says he will call, but he does not.Then the middle of the story with his mother being threatened by the fact that Marty might just marry some day and desert her, as her sister has been put out by her son and daughter in law. So much family angst here, but love triumphs! The part I love the most is when Marty calls Clara at the end of the movie. Clara's face just lights up like a Christmas tree when Marty calls her. Such fabulous acting! I was rooting for them. I hope they had a happy and long marriage, had kids whom Marty's mother embraced and made her happy in the last years of her life. One can only hope.I would give this 100 stars if I could. "},{"Title":"A Puzzling Film","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two things were puzzling to me about this film 1 - Why Blair's looks were constantly insulted in this film; 2 - How it won Best Picture Of the Year.Blair was a good actress and very appealing. The fact she is described as a dog in this movie is ridiculous. The truth is, she was a very pretty (yes, in a plain way), wholesomely attractive woman. Hey, a lot of men, including me, would love to have a dog like that next to us.Outside of that unfair description, the movie is filled with believable characters in a story that makes you reflect. Ernest Borgnine does very well in his touching role. His looks fit the part in here perfectly.Was it worthy of the Academy's Picture Of the Year? Well, that's very debatable, but it's a pleasant enough film and the kind, frankly, I wish I would see more often. "},{"Title":"Outstandingly different","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A classic, one of its kind. It touches an issue, which I don't think any other movie, if any, has ever touched this well How world treats you if you do not get married in time. The movie shows how important a life partner is for a human being (male or female), how such people start loosing interest in life & faith in themselves. For them every fault in them, becomes a reason for not finding a companion. But the movie also shows that it is just one person you need, to peek at the good heart you carry. That's when the world goes upside down for Marty. How his own mother and his friends react to his newfound love is fun to watch. It is a short movie but shows both scenarios, before and after Marty finds love, well. The movie captures another social issue of life of widows after their kids get married; the movie looks at it from both the sides, the kids and the parents. The best scene of the movie however is when Marty, his mother and his newfound love are in one frame. An excellent screenplay, filled with funny stuff periodically. "},{"Title":"A Modest Slice-of-Life Look at a Lonely Butcher's Life-Changing Weekend","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having just seen Jeff Garlin's charmingly lightweight I Want Someone to Eat Cheese With, I was curious to see its inspiration since there is constant reference to it throughout, including a scene where Gina Gershon and teen idol Aaron Carter are hilariously miscast in the leads of a stage version. Running only ninety minutes, the 1955 movie holds the distinction of being the shortest film to win the Best Picture Oscar, and its scale is indeed very small &#150; it covers a weekend in the life of a lonely, overweight Bronx butcher named Marty Piletti. The eldest of six children, the youngest of whom just got married, Marty lives a routine life living with his widowed mother and hanging out with best pal Angie (the source of a classically circular piece of dialogue - What do you feel like doing tonight? I don't know, Ange. What do you feel like doing?). Pushed by his mother to go to the Stardust Ballroom where there are a lot of tomatoes, he inadvertently meets Clara, an equally lonely spinster schoolteacher from Brooklyn. It's intriguing to see how cultural mores have changed since both characters are considered over-the-hill for marriage even though he is only 34 and she 29. As they grapple toward intimacy, they face not only their own doubts but those of the people closest to Marty since they become aware how dependent they are on his constant availability.Directed by Delbert Mann in his first time out at the helm, the production seems accurate in capturing the atmosphere of the mid-1950's lower middle class, and the dramatically effective setting allows Marty's story to take on a well-earned poignancy. This has primarily to do with the honest, unsentimental dialogue by Paddy Chavefsky (several years before The Hospital and Network). The observant performances complement the treatment with Ernest Borgnine giving his career-best performance in the title role. Even though he is sometimes too robust to be completely convincing as a socially defeated man, he brings surprising force to scenes when his self-awareness no longer can be hide his pain. Looking very much like Julie Harris at the time, Betsy Blair has a tougher role as Clara since her character is so withdrawn as to fade when Marty dominates the conversation. Even with her intentionally lank presence, Blair is too attractive to be considered mercilessly as a dog. The rest of the cast takes more predictable turns &#150; Esther Minciotti as Marty's clinging Italian mother, Joe Mantell as codependent Angie, Jerry Paris (a few years before his days as neighbor Jerry Helper on The Dick Van Dyke Show) and Karen Steele constantly bickering as Marty's cousin and his wife. It's a solidly modest film with no pretensions. Other than the theatrical trailer featuring producer Burt Lancaster's glowing praises, the DVD has no significant extras. "},{"Title":"A Dog's Life","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ernest Borgnine is terrific as Marty. A self-admitted fat, ugly thirty-something man who lives with his mother. The film is lovely in that it stars an admittedly unattractive person, and deals with his feelings of loneliness and insecurity. Mr. Borgnine doesn't just stumble into this performance; he is given the part of his lifetime, and gives it everything he's got, creating a marvelous simple, but complicated, character.Now, I agree this is an excellent film, and I know, for the time, being single and middle-aged must have been devastating - but there is a very distracting flaw in this movie - Betsy Blair is no dog of a woman. I don't think, during any time, men would think of her as ugly. Ms. Blair is just not homely, and it does detract from an otherwise excellent script. Blair also has a job/profession; I would consider her a prime catch for most of the men in this movie. Blair does her best, though... you'll just have to imagine her as someone you'd have to give a man $5.00 to take home. ******** Marty (4/11/55) Delbert Mann ~ Ernest Borgnine, Betsy Blair, Esther Minciotti "}{"Title":"But she's not Italian!.","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty Piletti and Clara Snyder both have similar lives, both are heading into middle age devoid of love and with a real threat of being left on the shelf. Then one night at a dance they meet each other and the sense of worthlessness is lifted from them both, but Marty, in spite of his feelings for Clara, starts to listen to his mother and friends, both who are roundly against Clara being in Marty's life.Marty is based on a television play written by Paddy Chayefsky screenplay duties here as well, Chayefsky, who would come to be known as a leading light in what was termed kitchen sink dramas, has written a quite beautiful and tender piece of work. Marty would bag Oscars for best picture, best actor Ernest Borgnine, best director Delbert Mann and best screenplay, the sweet simplicity of story in this picture appealed big time to the movie watching public in the mid fifties. Perhaps that is the key here?, that the picture gave the movie world something outside of epics and costume dazzlers, sometimes simple can go a long way. Not that Marty is shallow or anything like that, because it isn't, it's themes of repelling peer pressure and embracing eye of the beholder beauty is something most humane people should deeply adhere too.Cast wise, Ernest Borgnine leads the way as Marty, a break from his usual heavy booted characters, it's a wonderful performance with depth and a sincerity few up till then thought he was capable of. The rest of the cast fall some way short of this standard, Betsy Blair as Clara is honest and emotive enough and Joe Mantell is great support as Angie, Marty's supposedly best Buddie. Esther Minciotti plays Marty's mother, Theresa, a character that personally had me wanting to strangle her at one point, it's safe and makes the point but a touch more devilment with the portrayal wouldn't have gone amiss, but it's not a complaint worth delving too long on.The studio wasn't sure about the movie and almost pulled it from release, the rest as they say, is history. 8/10 "},{"Title":"An enthusiastic two thumbs up for this film!","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this DVD sitting in the bargain bin at Borders not long ago. So I pick up the case and begin reading. The movie won the Oscar for best picture of 1955, so I figure it's worth a spin for that alone- I buy it.MAN was I surprised! I had only seen Ernest Borgnine in later films or TV shows where he played lovable but goofy characters. I had never seen him in a serious role like this. I LOVED it! The man can ACT! I'm a big fan of classic films, and this one was right on the money. Borgnine plays the part of Marty Piletti, a lonely Italian butcher in his mid-thirties, who's tired of being burned in the game of love. He's henpecked by his friends, family, and acquaintances about when he's ever going to get married. He'd like to, but he's convinced that at this point that he's going to be a bachelor for the rest of his life.But then through a strange twist of fate, he meets Clara, an equally lonely school teacher who's considered a dog by most men, but not by Marty. Similar life experiences draw them together, and sparks fly! But can Marty overcome the prejudice of his friends, and the meddling of his family, to finally attain love? Well, you'll have to watch the movie.The only problem I have with this film is that I wish it had run longer, and expanded on Marty's struggle to overcome the prejudice of his friends, and his own self-doubt about his feelings for Clara. That's the only reason I didn't give this film a 10 out of 10.However, it's a great movie, and I highly recommend it for any fan of classic reels. "},{"Title":"Deeply human. This is what I love about the movies. One of the Academy's finest Best Picture choices.","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty, Marty, Marty. You know, the only time I've heard of Marty is in Robert Redford's Quiz Show when it becomes an integral part of the plot. John Turturro is made to say that On The Waterfront won Best Picture in 1955 instead of Marty and everyone, including Turturro, speaks about Marty with such fondness. Nowadays it's hardly mentioned, but it remains one of the Academy's most inspired choices for Best Picture, Director and Actor. It had my heart by the first scene and played with it the rest of the time. It's deliciously simple, set within a day or two and its scale is as small as you can make a gratifying movie. It's all about the characters, the warm, sensitive, deeply human characters. They may toss around typical lingo but they speak the truth in every word.Ernest Borgnine's performance is wonderful, delicately nuanced, utterly sympathetic and easily identifiable. He's an insecure and broken man stuck in a subversive tough guy shell. A gentle man that you support in every endeavour instantly and constantly chant Marty when he has to make a choice. The film is built entirely around organic conversations that are intimate in a way that you can't find in other mainstream films of its time. Paddy Chayefsky's mind-reading script is sharply economic and often says the things you think but other films wouldn't touch. The film is a very thoughtful and poignant meditation on love and relationships. It examines the pressures we get from society, the stigmas and the fulfillment we get from love. Although subplots feel extraneous at first and though they may be inconsequential, they add a lot to its themes and depict the pros and cons from the future of the relationships that we revolve our lives round.But above all, the point that's the most important is how the film is about the motivational inspirations you get from the people you bond with and how they ultimately fuel your life. It's contagious to watch. The only downside to the film is that it's fundamentally built on exposition and it does favour developing Marty over his elating love interest Clara a little too much. The experience is still slickly cinematic thanks to a lovable cast, jazzy music and stellar cinematography. It grabs you in its simplest moments and is wholly satisfying and refreshing, even if the stakes are inherently low. If I ever had to adapt a film into a play, I'd jump to this as my first choice. Marty is a complete package in a delightfully inspiring, emotionally engaging and thoroughly profound way. It's all that I love about movies and stories. Best film I've seen all year, easily.9/10 "},{"Title":"A timeless classic deserving of every award it won","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" On the surface, 'Marty' appears to be a simple love story about a butcher and a school-teacher, but there are many more layers to this film, which manages to be simultaneously funny & deeply moving without ever getting corny.There's so much about this film that stands the test of time half a century later. It's no wonder it won so many awards that year (including 4 Oscars.) In her autobiography, Betsy Blair mentions that 'Marty' was the high point of her career; it made her a movie star overnight and she was never again in anything as important (though I thought her performance in 'A Delicate Balance' with Katherine Hepburn years later was even better.) She won the BAFTA for her role here, as did Ernest Borgnine, who deservedly swept every award that year for his role as Marty, including the Oscar and the Golden Globe. Borgnine is flawless in his performance & lovable from the very first scene. Esther Monciotti as his mother also delivers a standout performance. Some of the funniest and most memorable lines in the film belong to her and her on-screen sister. The rest of the supporting cast are also great to watch. The frank dialogue and the humanity of the characters make this a film you want to watch more than once. "},{"Title":"Obligatory viewing for everybody","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I could organize life according to my wishes, movies like books would be discussed at schools and Marty surely be the obligatory viewing. It is the only known picture which shows that affection can happen between people who are neither conventionally attractive, nor compatible educationally. The movie based on the idea of possible marriage between overweight butcher and mousy college educated teacher is a miracle by Hollywood standards which always followed wishes of audience. And typical viewers, actually all people reject such possibility that love can exist between elderly, disabled, less attractive etc... It seems very illogical taking into account that most of us are precisely like our heroes. It looks like we need to be fed candy and can't stand the truth because it would tell us something about ourselves which could be very uncomfortable. But as the movie shows, this kind of delusion may actually be dangerous. Our hero played so brilliantly by wonderful Ernest Borgnine almost missed his chance to get involved with an intelligent and charming woman under advice of his stupid friends. But he listened to his own intuition and to our delight had the guts to make the phone call to the lady - the critical moment for which we all waited. And this is a good happy ending - non saccharine, with music at the background but a shabby bar, realistic and gutsy - the only type which I can bear without cringing. The love story for intelligent people. Watch it and don't be ashamed to use a Kleenex. "},{"Title":"It ended too soon!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason I gave this movie nine stars instead of ten is that it ended too soon!It is hard to find a single thing wrong with this film. Stretching the imagination, one could call some of the attitudes dated. (For example, the mothers think college girls are one step from the street, during an era in which wives were still expected to be stay-at-home moms.) But still, this remains almost the perfect film for the group of viewers who appreciate heart- warming stories. (It will probably leave the Rambo crowd cold.)I usually judge the success of a film by the squirm factor; if I am sorry to see the film end, I know I've watched a good film. By this standard, Marty is a superb film in every way. We really do care what happens after the credits roll.See this film! "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful and charming.","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Paddy Chayefsky's simple yet beautiful tale about life and love in the 1950s New York era is certainly lovely to watch and one of the more lovable classics of the Golden Era. Ernest Borgnine is perfect as Marty, a thirty-four year old butcher living with his mother, but he's not unemployed or in the basement living on his laptop. He is a hard-working man determined to make a good life for himself and his mother. The unfortunate thing is that he is still single and the feeling that he will always be single bothers him as well as his mother.Then, he goes to a dance on Saturday night and meets someone who is in a very similar situation Clara, a lonely, twenty-nine year old schoolteacher who lives with her father and feels as if she will never get hitched. This chance encounter blossoms into a lovely relationship in only a few hours. And as the film progresses, we get to know these characters more and start to hope that they will end up together as we know they are perfect for each other.In the film's final act, it appears that everybody around Marty seems to take a dislike toward Clara. His mother feels he getting married will throw her out of the house as it did with her sister. His friends all see her as a 'dog,' and convince Marty for awhile to shun her and move on. Only in the very end do we see our hero rise up and realize that he had one of the best nights of his life with this dog and he intends to do so again. In the final scene, he turns the table on his friend by beginning to ask him when he's going to get married. The films ends on a bit ambiguous note but we are satisfied enough to know that these two people will meet again.All in all, this is a wonderful and charming slice of life that does not become dated despite what people may say. The themes are universal and timeless and this story summarizes the feelings and desires that rise up in all of us as human beings determined to live a long and happy life. "},{"Title":"Love unexpected","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is the story of a lonely butcher, Marty, who is continually told he needs to get married. He meets an also lonely teacher, Clara, and their relationship develops.Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair are convincing as two trepid lovers that slowly become excited about their relationship after long thinking that they were destined to be lonely. There are a number of interesting characters and subplots developed around the main relationship.The relationship between Marty and Clara always seemed genuine and never contrived. The film developed a number of interesting themes like the social pressures to get married, the problems of low self-esteem, the dependence of mothers on their children for social support and the efforts of some people to marginalize what they deem an improper relationship with petty insults. Marty proves to be a touching and sincere film about love found when not expected. "},{"Title":"a magnificent film about real people","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, like Days of Wine and Roses, was originally a made for TV movie. This original starred Rod Steiger and was an amazing film. The Hollywood remake starred Ernest Borgnine (who received the Oscar for Best Actor) and was a little better than the original, as Borgnine played the role of Marty a little more subtly and was a bit more believable.The movie concerns a nice but not particularly handsome middle-aged bachelor who works in a butcher shop. He's lonely and has just about given up on ever finding a wife. Despite this, his mother tells him he is handsome and will find a girl. Marty, though, is much more realistic and their scenes together are heart rending and well done.Later, he meets a nice but not particularly attractive lady but his best friend doesn't particularly like her and he tells Marty he can certainly do better. This occurs about mid-way through the movie. What happens from here in this Paddy Chayefski movie I will leave to you to discover. "},{"Title":"Honest drama that pits love against family and friends","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty, starring Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair, is a touching story from the 1950's about two people who fall in love and want to be together. However, they come up against the gossip, social pressure, and expectations of family and friends that hold them back from their natural instinct to marry and love one another. Both are older by the standards of the time but that does not stop them from wanting someone special. They are both excited about the prospect of spending their lives together and then, there is a pause as the elation runs up against reality. Borgnine and Blair are excellent in the role of a young couple who desire to break away from the bonds of friends and family to form their own home life. How will it turn out? This movie is a departure from the glossy Hollywood movies of the 1950's that used colour and celebrity talent and lacked the realism and honesty of this classic. Marty was a more mature movie, with a more effective treatment of social divisions and complicated relationships. Paddy Chayefsky wrote the script and Burt Lancaster was the producer. Both were creative forces in the film world of the 1950's. Delbert Mann directed; he also directed other fine movies such as Separate Tables and Middle of the Night. This is a precious film with a place in the history of American cinema. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Love Story About Two Dogs","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two lonely people (Ernest Borgnine and Mabel Blair) have almost resigned themselves to never being truly loved.In 1955, this was among the greatest films to see. Not only did it get nominated for a slew of awards, but it actually won four of the top honors Best Actor (Ernest Borgnine), Best Director (Delbert Mann), Best Screenplay and Best Picture. Wow.Judging a 1955 best picture by 2013 standards is hard to do. Some films stand up to time, and some do not. The classic example is how Citizen Kane (considered possibly the greatest film of all time) lost to How Green Was My Valley, a movie that no one has probably seen or heard of in 50 years. Now Marty probably deserves the honors -- the only real contender besides this one was Mister Roberts. Now-classic films like East of Eden and Rebel Without a Cause were not even nominated...But this is classic film-making at its finest low budget, a story with heart and some lovable characters. Borgnine is (or was) a vastly underrated actor. This should have launched his career. Perhaps it did, but not nearly to the heights he deserved. "},{"Title":"Distilled family drama set in 1950s New York City...great stuff","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty (1955)This is straight cinema from the theater. It's acted, filmed, and edited with extraordinary precision and intensity. You can only marvel at how natural and sympathetic a character the leading actor, Ernest Borgnine, pulls off. He's a wonder, but he's supported by a cast of equally terrific, underplayed types.You might be surprised how much a pleasure such a simple story is. I mean, compared to films at the same time, it's linear and short and utterly uncomplicated. I don't mean it's shallow, because it's certainly deep in feeling, but the whole string of small events, one after another leading to a stunning and bang up fast ending, is unusually concise. It makes you realize the depth that film was capable of--and still is--without affectation or complication. I'm aiming not at contemporary films, which certainly are a product of a different aesthetic, to put it mildly, but at films of the period, masterworks like Night of the Hunter or East of Eden. All are great films, but Marty has a whole different sensibility.People have compared this Marty to television dramas, and that's really accurate. And to be sure, this is a remake of the 1953 television version starring Rod Steiger, which is available on DVD and is also amazing. The director, Delbert Mann, made dozens of such black and white, compact dramas during that so-called golden age of early television (before it got poisoned, the logic goes, but commercialism) just prior to this movie. The carry-over is clear. And yet, compared not to television but to Hollywood, this movie clearly stands on its own. It did, after all, win Best Picture from the Hollywood establishment.Borgnine dabbled in early t.v. dramas but he was well established as a new Hollywood secondary actor, appearing in three or four truly great films (from Johnny Guitar to From Here to Eternity). That he comes off so believable and lovable is something you just have to see to believe. His mother, played by Esther Minciotti, is necessarily terrific, too, because she plays a complicated role between her son, her son's new girl (another sympathetic type), and her own bitter sister. Minciotti had a short career, notable now for her part in Hitchcock's The Wrong Man shortly after Marty.What's to say? If you like great storytelling, realistic stuff in glowing black and white, acted to perfection, you have to see this movie. It doesn't look good in the posters or sound so terrific on paper, maybe, but it's worth every bit of its fast 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"A Bronx tale","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty, a thirty-four year butcher from the Bronx, is not exactly a handsome guy. He is stocky, awkward with women, shows no social graces like some of the pals he hangs around with. Saturday nights are really hard for Marty to endure. He is tired of going along with his friends to pick up places that serve as meeting ground for singles to mix.When we first meet Marty, he is trying to connect with a woman he met at the movies, but who obviously does not want to see him again. Marty who lives alone with his mother at the family home, is not a happy man, yet, he is not bitter about not having been able to find a woman to share his life with.Little prepares Marty for a night he will never forget, for he meets Clara, a shy woman, that has been dumped by her date. Clara's appearance is a small miracle for this tough man. He finds he can open up to her and hold a meaningful conversation. Clara and Marty have seen their own share of disappointment in the romance department. It is easy to realize these two are made for each other and that a great future awaits them.Debert Mann directed Paddy Chayefsky's original script which he wrote for television. Mr. Mann was also tapped to direct the screen version of the teleplay that had featured Rod Steiger in the title role. In that cast, Nancy Merchant played Clara, and Betsy Blair was seen as Virginia. In the screen adaptation, Mr. Mann set the action where it rightfully belonged, the Bronx of the early 1950s. The atmosphere of the times was clearly captured by the brilliant black and white cinematography of Joseph LaShelle that takes the viewer through the streets of the area before it became one of the bleakest areas of the city.Ernest Borgnine made a creation of the Bronx butcher with a heart of gold, looking for the woman with whom he wanted to marry and formed a home with. Marty is the eternal optimist, in spite of the hard knocks in his own life. Clara is a wounded soul also hoping for a happiness that has eluded her. Betsy Blair is perfect as that lonely woman. Most of the original cast returned to repeat their roles. Esther Minciotti, Augusta Cioli, and Joe Mantell are excellent and believable.Marty was Delbert Mann's best film and his association with Paddy Chayefsky paid handsomely in this classic film that will live forever. "},{"Title":"Grow Old with Marty","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of those movies I didn't have a great deal of interest in, but after seeing it left me wondering why I didn't discover it sooner.Don't let the fact that this little film from 1955 won the Best Picture Academy Award keep you from discovering it yourself. God knows you'd be justified, given the Academy's track record. But this is a sweet, warm movie about two ugly ducklings who find one another and happily discover that they don't have to spend their lives alone after all.I've never liked Ernest Borgnine better than I did watching him play Marty. And Betsy Blair, as Marty's love interest, Clara, was wonderful too. (On a side note, I found out from watching this on TCM that she was married to Gene Kelly at the time this movie was made).In a way, Marty is a kind of anti-romance. It posits that true love isn't based on the wild passion between two gorgeous youngsters, but rather on the deep affection and compatibility that comes with finding someone you can really talk to and grow old with.A charmer.Grade A "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, Well-Acted . . . And Pretty Important","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is a very nice movie. It's a touching romantic drama about two lonely but decent people who find each other and struggle to make a connection despite the objections of friends and family. Does that sound a little conventional? Well, it is, but it's also rather well-done and the lead characters, Marty and Clara, are so kind and likable that you can't help but root for them. But aside from being a good movie, Marty seems pretty remarkable for its time in that one of its subtexts is the American immigrant experience. There would be hundreds more in the 60s and 70s, of course (Godfather Part II, anyone?), but if you check the list of Oscar-winners in the mid-50s, you'll see Marty nestled between On the Waterfront (more urban than ethnic) and Around the World in 80 Days (more kiddie flick than anything). Marty's portrayal of Italian-Americans may be a little saccharine and sentimental, but it's also sympathetic and, at least in the case of the Aunt Catherine character, painfully accurate.Marty Piletti is a 34-year-old butcher still living at home with his mother. On a Saturday night, Ma practically pushes him out of the house to go out and find a girl at the Stardust Ballroom, a local dance hall. And he finds her. Clara Snyder is a 29-year-old chemistry teacher who still lives with her parents (read old maid) and gets brushed off by the studdly doctor with whom her friends have set her up. They dance, they talk, they have coffee, they fall in love. So what's the problem? Well, Clara is supposedly unattractive, and all of Marty's friends make fun of her. (It should be noted that as Clara, Betsy Blair might be a little short on glamour, but she's not bad-looking at all and it takes some suspension of disbelief to see her as the dog all of Marty's loser buddies describe.) The second problem is assimilation. Although Catholic, Clara is not Italian, so Marty's mother Theresa can never approve. (Theresa would also probably have a heart attack if she learned that Clara is thinking of taking a teaching job in the suburbs.) Plus, while Marty is hooking up with Clara, his cousin Tommy is kicking his own mother, Catherine, out of the house because she's making life hell for his wife, a blonde lady named Virginia (there's America twice over). Aunt Catherine is the villain of the piece -- a dour, interfering, manipulative old bat who probably would have been feared and revered in the Old Country but in America, she's just in the way. (And if you think Augusta Ciolli's portrayal of Aunt Catherine is a little histrionic and over-the-top, well, then, you don't have an Italian grandmother. The lady deserved an Oscar but didn't even get nominated.) So while it may be a stretch to say that Marty is like the father of the Coppola and Scorcese pictures, he's definitely like a fat, kindly old uncle.Speaking of fat and kindly, Ernest Borgnine is shockingly vulnerable as the title character, especially if you're more used to him beating up Frank Sinatra or yelling at Stella Stevens. It may not be a great performance, but it's a very brave one. Betsy Blair never had much of a career thanks to her leftist leanings, but this film proves that she deserved much better. Clara is bright, nervous and attractive, both drawn to and frightened by Marty, and Blair is able to convey all of that complexity. She could probably have excelled in some of the frumpier roles that Joanne Woodward took on (The Long Hot Summer or Rachel Rachel, anyone?), but she chose the wrong politics (radicalism instead of liberalism) and husband (Gene Kelly instead of Paul Newman) to have much of a career in Hollywood. Marty is her best film, and fortunately it's a great one. "},{"Title":"good character piece","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a good little story about a lonely butcher living in the Bronx. He's nagged constantly from his mother and even some of his customers at the store about being single at his age. His brothers are all married and is reminded of this on a daily basis. He finally meets a girl who's referred to by his friends as a real dog. I found this funny because she's really not bad looking. She's definitely not a fox but far from someone you would call a dog. Anyway, the movie works because of the chemistry between her and Ernest Borgnine and some realistic scenes. It's also a plus for me that the film was shot in the Bronx, New York and not some sound stage in LA. A fine film indeed. -) "},{"Title":"A Little Gem","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film I'd often heard about, but it was never on where I live. In the end, I had to buy the DVD - and I'm glad I did! Marty is the eponymously named story of a Bronx butcher. Marty did not set out to be a butcher - he was to attend university - but his father's untimely death sealed his fate. Now, he has ambitions to buy the shop in which he has worked for many years.Poor Marty - he's 34, his parents' first-born, and (shock, horror!) the only one of the brood who remains unattached. It seems not a day goes by without his widowed mother, or some other neighbourhood busybody, bugging him about when he's going to get married. They tell him, You should be ashamed of yourself! for still being single. It must've been quite a cross to bear, being over 30 and single in a 1950s Italian-American family! Marty supports himself and his mother. They live in the family home, where Marty grew up. He is a gentle soul, who has not had a lot of luck with the opposite sex. He doesn't have a great deal of confidence in himself, and believes himself to be ugly.Life is pretty ho-hum in Marty's world. He always meets the same group of friends, the guys, all of whom are single and in pretty much the same rut as Marty. They have conversations like, What do you want to do tonight? I don't know, what do you want to do?, back and forth. Each suggestion of something to do is met with disdain.Marty's friends extol the virtues of the pulp writing of the most macho writer of macho stories, Mickey Spillane (That Mickey Spillane, he sure can write). Marty's friends are all going nowhere, fast. If those guys were around today, they might be talking instead about the latest Xbox and PlayStation games.Marty meets a plain-looking woman, Clara (who had been dumped by her own date) when he and his best friend Angie (short for Angelo?) go to the Stardust Ballroom, looking to meet tomatoes. Marty and Clara seem to hit it off and talk for hours, stopping at various other spots after leaving the Stardust (in Marty's excitement, he forgets to tell Angie he's leaving). Marty and Clara stop back at his house for something, where Clara briefly meets Marty's mother.When Marty's walking Clara home shortly thereafter, they run into Angie, who is very rude to Clara when Marty introduces her to him. Angie is peeved that Marty left him behind for her.The next day, Marty is flying on cloud 9, but his mother, after interference from her fatalistic sister, now believes that she will end up out in the cold because of Clara. She tells Marty that she doesn't like Clara, and forbids Marty from ever bringing her to their home again.Later in conversation, Angie dismisses Clara as a dog, and that, plus his mother's feelings, causes Marty to reconsider his feelings for Clara.Ernest Borgnine was superb in this film. I know it was based on a tele-play with Rod Steiger in the role, but I've never seen that version. I cannot picture anyone doing it as well as Borgnine did.I believe this film was well-cast all around, and cannot think of a single actor who did not acquit himself/herself well.At first glance, I thought the characters of the mother and the aunt were rather stereotypical old Italian ladies. However, remembering the older women in my own Italian-American family, those characters do ring true. There was not a lot left for older widowed ladies back then, because all they'd ever known was husband, house, and children. They'd never had to earn a paid living. When the husband died and the children grew up, they were often at a loss as to what to do with themselves. They usually did end up living with one of their children's families, though not always happily-ever-after.The film was shot in black and white, which gave it a stark moodiness that color couldn't have provided nearly as well. It helps to convey the almost claustrophobic, brooding feeling in Marty's house, and to highlight its physical decline - letting us (and Marty) know that maybe it's time to move on to something new? "},{"Title":"What do you want to do tonight, Marty?","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ernest Borgnine plays Marty. He's a lonely butcher who's almost middle-aged. His mother keeps pressuring him to find a nice girl to settle down with. But Borgnine keeps saying whatever it is women like, I ain't got it.Then one night Borgnine meets a teacher (Betsy Blair). They have a lot in common and he feels something he never felt before. Love. They have a relationship together even though they have insecurities.This is really an Ernest Borgnine movie. It was the perfect role for him to play. And it's probably his best film. He brings a certain something to the screen that audiences hadn't really seen before. The sweet and lovable tough looking mama's boy. And Delbert Mann executes it exquisitely.The film is the only Best Picture winner to also win at the Cannes Film Festival. It won Picture, Director, Actor, and Screenplay. And it was nominated for Supporting Actor (Joe Mantell, Borgnine's best friend), Supporting Actress, Art-Direction, and Cinematography.  "},{"Title":"Sentimental and irresistible","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Delbert Mann's movie of Paddy Chayefsky's teleplay is perfect.  I remember that section of the Bronx in 1955, and the reality of lonely people going to places like the Stardust Ballroom in hopes of being a little less lonely for the evening.  This film spawned a genre known as New York realism because of its substance, grit, and reality.  But,unlike many later entries, it also has plenty of heart.  Ernest Borgnine won a well-deserved Oscar in the title role.  Relatively unknown Betsy Blair is perfectly cast as the spinster teacher who is just as awkward at the whole relationship angst as Marty. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet slice of life","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While recently checking out The Wild Bunch DVD I noticed Ernest Borgnine won an academy award for some film called Marty which as it goes, also won the academy award for Best Picture.  Now I'd seen Borgnine do comedy(McHale's Navy) and I'd seen him do action(The Wild Bunch, The Dirty Dozen), but serious drama wasn't something I could really picture him doing. However, to my delightful surprise, not only was he good at doing drama, but he was great at it(which winning an academy award doesn't necessarily always mean).  Marty is one of the most endearing films I've ever seen, which great performances all around.  It even triumphs despite some obvious stereotypes.  I can't say the movie is ever truly happy though because even when Marty finds someone who he can love and have his love returned, lots of things stand in his way.  First of all, his mother and his manipulative aunt, who fear they'll ultimately be left alone and forgotten.  Also, his best friend fears losing him as well, because who else can he sit with every saturday night asking What do you want to do tonight? only to the reply of I don't know. What do you want to do tonight?The Saddest thing of all though comes in the end. spoiler, although if you haven't seen this film, I'd doubt you'd read comments  After Marty has found his happiness and made his decision to pursue it despite his mother, aunt, and best friend's protest, his final few lines as he calls up his girl are the exact words that antagonized him for so long, as he says to his friend, How old are you? 34, and not married. You should be ashamed of yourself. You really should be ashamed of yourself.  At this point I'm no longer sure whether to be happy for Marty's fortune or mad for him turning into someone who pained him for so long.  It's truly a bittersweet ending. "}{"Title":"A story with heart and soul","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has been one of my favorite films for years, and my admiration for it only increases on repeat viewings. It's a plain film about plain people. The story goes beyond the surface of gloss and superficial beauty to the heart beating underneath. Ernest Borgnine gives the finest performance of his career as the lonely butcher, Marty Pilletti. It is one of the most multi-layered performances in the history of film. We see Marty as he appears on the surface, then Mr. Borgnine peels away layer after layer, like an onion, revealing the real Marty deep inside. He calls himself a fat, ugly man but he has the most beautiful heart in the world. The supporting cast is first rate, especially Betsy Blair as the plain-jane Clara Snyder. The film explores so many issues, how people can ruin another person's happiness, how ideas and perceptions can change everything in a person's life. I cannot imagine this film being made today. Whenever they try to make films about plain people they end up trying to make Michelle Pfeiffer and Al Pacino look plain. It just doesn't work. This is a film of beauty, heart and soul, and I've never seen it equaled, and certainly never exceeded. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Flick!","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone over 20 years old who is in love or desires to be in love and wants to break out of that adolescent mold (which just about covers the entire human race) should view this film. Yes, it's a bit dated, but I defy anyone tell me that this story isn't as timeless as Romeo and Juliet. To all those who are stuck in the singles doldrums tell your dopey friends you're busy tonight, get out of you mother's basement, and go see this film - you won't regret it.  Is it possible for anyone to watch it and not be rooting 110% for the film's two main characters?  Borgnine's performance, Chayefsky's writing, and the film itself all won Oscars that year, and all were very well deserved. I know it sounds cliche, but they just don't make them like this anymore.  "},{"Title":"Borgnine's bravura performance as the love-starved butcher.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You'll have a hard time getting anyone under 30 to watch this one-the special effects are in the DRAMA! Borgnine gives the performance of his career as the love-starved butcher in quest of a 'normal' life. Based on a play by Chayefskey, the dialogue and stereotypes, while laughable, cannot conceal the pain so achingly close to the surface. One has to wonder if Borgnine's flawless performance wasn't the genesis for Stallone's love scenes in Rocky. Watch for an early appearance by Frank Sutton, later Sgt Carter on Gomer Pyle. "},{"Title":"This one's for you","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is such a great film because of the fact that it focuses on a realistic relationship, as opposed to the frothy, beyond-incredulous romance films that serve as nothing more than escapist fantasy. The biggest harm those kinds of films do is that they provide people with the false sense of idealism about modern relationships and lead them to accept cutesy scenery and romantic walks with perfunctory dialog as the norm. Marty is an honest film, with a titular character you're way more likely to find than the leading male character of a contemporary romance film.Marty Piletti (Ernest Borgnine) is your average blue collar, Italian fella, living in The Bronx, working as a butcher, and residing in a small apartment with his mother. Unmarried and without a girlfriend at age thirty-four, Marty constantly gets flak from his mother, who gives him the tired motherly speech of how there is somebody out there perfect for her son and she can't stand to see him unhappy and single. In reality, Marty would love to have a woman, and seeing his brothers and sisters all have significant others makes him only sadder. In a sad and almost tear-jerking monologue, Marty explains to his mother how he sees himself as fat, ugly, and relatively useless, who no girl would ever subject themselves to going out with.After being badgered by his mother (Esther Minciotti) to attend a get-together at the Stardust Ballroom on a Saturday Night, Marty meets and connects instantaneously with Clara (Betsy Blair), another equally average soul, working as a schoolteacher. He finds her sobbing on the roof after her blind date abandoned her and left her all by her lonesome. Marty, being the kind and genial soul he is, accompanies her for the rest of the evening, as they dance at the ballroom, walk along the bustling streets of New York, and even converse over dinner at a local diner. Marty has finally found somebody who will listen to him, understand him, and, most importantly, encourage him in his often self-deprecating state of mind.The only thing that could possibly come between this great, spirited couple is when Marty's aunt moves in with him and his mother, and proceeds to warn his mother about how once Marty marries, she will have no loyal children to lean on; she'll be abandoned and only seen on holidays. Marty's once-demanding mother implores him to almost reject the idea of getting together with Clara, in a scene of events that, while somewhat incredulous, works to illustrate a certain truth about relationships and the opinions of those in them and affected by them.The film poses two honest ideas that are often shortchanged in the face of peoples' opinions and views on marriage. For one, some people can be as nice as they want but never meet somebody, which happens quite often, and two, that once we are married, some of us have a tendency to neglect those who raise them in a sad, but true reality. Marty illustrates both of these points effectively by showing a memorable relationship at its core.Borgnine is perfect as Marty, from a physical standpoint as well as a mental standpoint, constantly giving off some sort of effervescent, positive vibe, excluding a few keys scenes. The character of Marty isn't burdened by some sort of deeper, more subdued level of internal anger or something to detract from his commonality and his inherently kind nature; he simply is and that's what makes him a winning character. Borgnine knows how to play a man in his mid-thirties, brought down by his domineering mother, and clearly hurting from the lack of a female companion in his life. He gives a performance of complete tenderness that will immediately win many over, especially those who see a bit of themselves inside the Marty character.Romantic comedies, as I've said time and time again, are no longer interested in showing the true side of relationships or the peaks and valleys that couples often experience. They'd much rather illustrate a beautiful, young picturesque couple whose problems stem from not being able to leave their incredulous pasts behind rather than on pragmatic ideas such as finances, infidelity, or lack of willpower. Marty possesses an honesty about relationships, and illustrates people and characters that are usually never thought of when the concept of a romantic comedy comes into play. There's no better way to put it than, to all those who have felt neglected in mainstream cinema in terms of getting a character like them put on screen, this one's for you.Starring Ernest Borgnine, Betsy Blair, and Esther Minciotti. Directed by Delbert Mann. "},{"Title":"An old quaint favorite...but not trite or too dated","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This little film is a surprise that needs to be discovered by younger viewers. Its quaint, old world Italian boy Ernest Borgnine as Marty, with his mom, an overprotective mother who just wants her sons to marry a nice Italian girl. Betsy Blair as the plain-jane Claire, a math teacher/spinster is very good in this. I was quite surprised reading her biography and that she was so part of Hollywood yet so rebellious against it. This film was way before my time, and the story behind it and the cast is very intriguing.It's your basic confirmed bachelor story, misfits. Borgnine, while admitting to his mother I'm just an ugly fat man eventually finds a girl who wants to share life with him, who cares about him as a person. He feels sorry for her as her date with a doctor goes awry, she isn't sexy or hot enough for his night out the Stardust Ballroom It was written by Paddy Chayefsky as a short film for television (when TV was creative and classic, not the reality trash proffered to audiences today).What a shame we can not go back to the days of American Playhouse and quality TV actors, directors and writers. Sad that TV today is nothing more than trash TV as interesting as floor cleaner infomercials.Well, possibly the DVD series of TV films from this era are available. This little film is well worth the time. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Classic's","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is one of the most uplifting movies of all time. The story that surrounds the Movie is simple and meaningful. Ernest Borgnine, probably one of the most underrated actors of his time, is cast as a man who is happy on the outside but sad and lonely inside. Borgnine portrays both sides with perfection.From the time you meet Marty, you actually start to feel sorry for him, and want to urge him to come out of his shell, and hope he finds a woman that will look after him and vice versa.The story rolls along well, showing why Marty has been unsuccessful in finding his true love. Marty's best friend seems to be more desperate than Marty himself, and really doesn't help Marty's cause. His mother although very loving is a little selfish and relies on Marty a little to much.The way in which Marty meets his true love Clara, shows the true character of the man and the heart of gold he possesses. From then on his relationship with her grows overnight as to say this was a match from heaven. There is one scene where Marty is walking down the street with Clara and stumbles into his friends in a car with a easy nurse. His best friend pleads with Marty to dump Clara and hitch with them as the nurse is a sure thing, something Marty probably has never had before. At this point the camera moves from Clara to Marty and back again, teasing the audience with what decision Marty will make. This is the turning point of the movie and Marty, thankfully chooses Clara!The next day, Marty is confronted with some difficult barriers thrown at him by his Mother and friends who have their reasons why Marty should not see Clara again, but his heart chooses the correct path and he and Clara will once again see each other.The end of the film shows Marty triumphing and phoning Clara to ask her out and you know from that point on that these two lonely people will be together forever. A true fairytale which leaves you with a good feeling and hope that everyone will meet their true love one day. "},{"Title":"Re. missing scene","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After Marty takes his date Clara home, she walks up the stairs and the scene where she opens the door, walks to her room passing her parents room, she stops and enters their room where they are sitting waiting for her to see how everything went, she sits on the side of the bed and tells about her date with Marty, telling them what he does for a living where they stopped for a coke about the walking and Marty's non-stop talking, she tells them he may call her the next day and so she tells them she will remain at home if he does call when she is finished and leaves the room her father remarks to her mother I sure hope that boy calls her because I sure love that girl. This whole scene has been cut, I have a BETA pre-recorded copy which has this scene in it so I copied it to to a VHS copy and added this scene to it. The VHS and DVD copies do not have this scene in it. This is not the Oscar winning movie. End P.S The scenes have been restored. Thank You TCM "},{"Title":"Borgnine and Blair make it worthwhile","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 35-year old Bronx butcher (Oscar-winner Ernest Borgnine), unmarried and living with his widowed Italian-Catholic mamma, meets a single girl at a dance who has the same low self-esteem as he does; after coffee, pie, and about three hours of intimate conversation, he's smitten with the girl, but his single buddies and his worried mother immediately disapprove. As directed by Delbert Mann and written by Paddy Chayefsky (adapted from his teleplay), we're supposed to automatically see ourselves in these real characters--yet nobody on-screen talks with the rhythm of real people. Chayefsky tries turning naturally hurried, everyday talk into low-class poetry, but his own rhythm is repetitive (Borgnine keeps asking everyone, Whad'dya so sore about?! in the same intonation). One sees right away the circular device of the slim story--and waits for the plot-thread to come full circle. Surprisingly, when it does, it's quite satisfying, mostly due to Borgnine's insight into his character and his dedication to keeping him honest. The picture isn't profound, nor is it especially intuitive or heart-wrenching, but it does have a quiet easiness that appeals to audiences. When Betsy Blair returns home from her date with Borgnine, she talks about the date to her parents in a light, sing-songy way that makes you smile. What doesn't pass are the performances by Esther Minciotti and Augusta Ciolli as Borgnine's mother and his aunt; these women approach the material like they've been playing the same characters on TV or on the stage for years, and their braying voices and martyred hurts are so creaky they threaten to turn the proceedings into a self-parody. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Love Can Happen.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  30-something Brooklyn butcher Marty (Oscar-winner Ernest Borgnine) struggles through the fact that he is not yet married and seemingly alone in a world that continues to slap him and over and over in this sleight 1955 Best Picture Oscar winner. His Catholic-Italian mother (Esther Minciotti) is absolutely no help as she ridicules rather than embraces her son who has a heart of gold. Things look up by chance when the titled character meets a rather plain-looking school teacher (Oscar-nominee Betsy Blair) and a romance blossoms. However Borgnine is once again ridiculed by his stand-offish mother and loser friends. In the end he must decide whether he will be influenced by his new-found love or his so-called friends. Marty was simple film-making, even for 1955. Based on a television stage production which starred Rod Steiger, the film barely got enough backing to get a suitable cinematic release. The film benefited from good timing and an ingenious idea of casting two relatively normal looking people (Borgnine and Blair) in a love story. Hollywood love stories before this had always cast ridiculously beautiful women and handsome men in the key roles. Oscars also went to director Delbert Mann and screenwriter Paddy Chayesfsky. Never quite reaches excellence, but still a moving and entertaining production. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Every Dog Has His/Her Day","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This Movie was a Sleeper that turned out to be Loved by Critics and Audiences alike, not to Mention that it was Nominated for Numerous Academy Awards and Won for Best Picture, Actor, Director, and Screenwriter.It was a Low-Budget Independent Film that was a Remake of a Fine TV Drama Written by Paddy Chayefsky (who in turn wrote the expanded Screenplay). Ernest Borgnine Solidified His Career with this Against Type, because Until Marty He was Always the Heavy (no pun intended).The Movie is So Simple and Well Done that it Looks Virtually Effortless and Draws the Viewer into its World of 1950's Italian/American, Middle-Class Bronx Life, from Frame One. The On-Location City Landscape Filmed in Stark Black and White, with Glaring Realism Helps Create a Situation that is at Once Recognizable and Ironically Inviting.Delbert Mann was the Only Director to Win the Academy Award with His Debut Film until Robert Redford with Ordinary People (1980). Marty was Certainly a Story about Ordinary People, In Fact that was its Winning Charm and what made it a Big Box Office Hit. The Masses Flocked.Chayefsky has some Joy at the Expense of these Folks Poking Fun at Their Literary Hero Mickey Spillane...Boy that Guy could write boy. Spillane was a Mediocre, Low-Brow Writer that Sold Billions of Books Hammering out one after another that were Instant Best Sellers, but Hardly Anything Approaching Great Literature. One Senses a bit of Jealousy on Paddy's Part.Overall, this is Prime Cut. A Slice of Life Movie about a Butcher Boy that is Smart, Poignant, and Appealing. So if You are Sitting Around with Friends Saying What do you wanna watch tonight? and They Answer...I don't know, what do you wanna watch tonight? Well, there's always Marty. "}{"Title":"You see, dogs like us, we ain't such dogs as we think we are.","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know if I'm going along with Marty's (Ernest Borgnine) assessment of the way he and Clara appear to the world around them. I get what the picture is trying to convey, there's someone for everybody if one makes the attempt, but to concede right out of the gate that one is ugly is not very realistic. Personally, I don't think Borgnine's a bad looking guy, nor was Betsy Blair's character Clara. Perhaps the point being made was that they weren't glamorous in the way Hollywood and the media generally defines handsome men and gorgeous women. But a quick look around is enough to illustrate that Marty and Clara are closer to the norm than a Clooney (that's George, not Rosemary) or a Roberts (that Julia, not Jake the Snake).All that aside, I really liked this movie. I don't know that I'd consider it an Oscar contender, much less a Best Picture winner, but there's a valuable message lurking around in here. Finding the love of one's life might seem impossible if you're going to make a project out of it, but then, sometimes it just happens. Recognizing the opportunity is just as important as trying to find it in the first place.You know, it's funny how movie making over the years put certain things into context, like the life span of a human being. In Gregory Peck's Western, The Gunfighter, his character Jimmy Ringo laments that he's an old man at the age of thirty five, while Marty's friends and family berate him over the fact that he's thirty four and not married yet. Today, at least to my mind, one's not really getting started until the mid-thirties in terms of family and a career track. Interesting how society and culture progress along in a way that changes one's perspective about such things.Well I caught this one on Turner Classics a couple of weeks ago and enjoyed it so much I called it up again from my local library just a few days later. This is one of those films you can watch over again from time to time for it's heartwarming theme and watching two people come together because they simply like to be around each other. If only real life were loaded with tomatoes like that. "},{"Title":"Angst","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I enjoyed it for so many reasons it made me wanna cry it made my heart bleed it made my heart fly so many different emotions. And the reason is because if someone in their 40's I have felt everything go on motion he has. And it's amazing that I'm in 2014 but this movie was late so long ago but all the feelings are still the same. I thought this movie was well acted well played out and it really showed the raw emotion that a real person feel. Sometimes I wish the actors of today could show some emotion like that. Not just sex true intimacy and wanting to belong. Wanted to be appreciated. It's amazing to me I've known artist and so many TV shows in other movies but I have never seen him in this film before. He did a fabulous job. I would tell anyone in their 30's to watch this movie and see how they feel afterward. To me this show there's always hope. And there is somebody for everybody. The girlie girl and me wish I could have seen how the movie ended with them a year from the end. "},{"Title":"Gentle, Sweet, You'll Root for Marty!","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a lovely story about a regular fella looking for love and not expecting to find it. Marty is a quiet, upstanding, old-fashioned guy. He has substance, the kind of man who is thoughtful and reliable. A sweet story that's all heart. It's real. We could recognize many of the characters as people we have known. Any gentle soul who ever wondered if he/she would ever find a mate, will recognize themselves. This has become one of our most-loved films. We are a long-time, happily married couple and we both thoroughly enjoyed Marty. Our children (10 and up) also enjoyed this, but they also watch a lot of old movies with us. "},{"Title":"Worth a Closer Look in a 50's Context","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Considering the glamour obsessed 1950's, this little unglamorous film sticks out like the proverbial lonely petunia in an onion patch. What I really like about the movie is the depth of feeling Borgnine (Marty) and Blair (Clara) manage without going over the top. Together, they show how a drab exterior can conceal a compelling inner person without the person's knowledge. Thus, Clara and Marty, following a lifetime of social slights, blossom in one another's company, revealing at last the charming inner person that each is. For me, it's Clara's plain-Jane plight that is most affecting. After all, Marty as a man has many pro-active options denied to drab school teacher Clara. Instead, her string of rejections are ones that as a woman she is required to somehow passively endure. Thus, seeing her genuinely smile in the company of Marty's affection is one of our cynical silver screen's finer moments.But the movie goes against more than just Hollywood glamour. TV of the 50's famously idealized the family in pretty unrealistic fashion, e.g. Ozzie & Harriet, Father Knows Best, etc. Not that these shows were not entertaining in their own right, but they did present a pretty strong contrast to family life as it's actually lived, (the sitcom All in the Family finally broke TV's idealized mold in 1971). This is certainly not the case with Marty's family. Clearly, they're not much help, at all. Cousins Virginia and Tommy quarrel constantly, while Tommy reneges on giving Marty the financial advice he promised. At the same time, Aunt Catherine complains about anything and everything, while Mom rejects the not pretty Clara thanks to Aunt Catherine's malign influence. No doubt about it, this is a long way from an Ozzie & Harriet version of the American family. But it's also a family that viewers could watch, relate with, and not feel inferior to.So, when Marty at last picks up the phone to call Clara, it's his declaration of independence from the rut he's been in, not just the rut of his unhelpful family but from his dead-end buddies, as well. Clearly, the guys lean on one another for the fraternal support each needs in the absence of anything more than a physical connection with the opposite sex. Thus, it's another sublime movie moment when Marty breaks free of that joyless dependency with the simple act of picking up the phone.Kudos to writer Chayefsky for the first-rate story and screenplay. I really like the way he provides motivation to even the least likable characters. And how astute of the producers to film on New York location to help give the story its realistic feel. I guess my only complaint doesn't come from the movie itself. Rather it comes from Hollywood's big ballyhoo machine. As I recall, the industry went into near paroxysms congratulating itself on recognizing such a lowly little b&w with a string of Oscars. The ballyhoo was self-serving at best, and of course the industry went back to 50's form the following year with the Technicolor extravaganza, Around the World in 80 Days (1956).But industry aside, Marty remains a wonderfully affecting little movie, with Oscar-worthy performances from both Blair and Borgnine. Happily, their characters project genuine pathos without also becoming pathetic, a real necessity to the story's success. Nor, for that matter, does the story ever descend to a sappy level, always a pitfall for films of this type. It's features such as these that help make the movie as compelling now as it was so many years ago.(In passing&#x97; Over the years, I've seen a ton of movies, good, bad and in-between. But I've never seen a movie where mother and son look so convincingly alike as Borgnine and Minciotti! See if you agree.) "},{"Title":"Deserved Oscar winner for Ernest Borgnine...","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw 'Marty' many years ago, when films to me were like buses - you either caught them on TV, or not and it didn't matter either way, too much. If you told me then that I'd really like a black & white romantic drama featuring an Italian descended rotund butcher, I wouldn't have believed you.Through the likes of Copolla and Scorsese, we've been blessed with many great films featuring Italian families - the close-knit relationships, the dominant 'Mama' and the fiery temperament and the oh-so natural dialogue, that flows like long pasta on a fork, swirling and coiling and always so involving. Well, to my knowledge, 'Marty' has all this but as it's 1955, must have been the first of this kind of movie.Seasoned director Delbert Mann makes it all look so simple, workmanlike even, that it fits into the essence of the story, unfolding like a great novel; easily, naturally and with the pages turning over readily. It all started as an-intended TV movie with a script by the brilliant Paddy Cheyevsky and which then unassumingly took to the cinema-goer's hearts and went on to win four Oscars.What makes 'Marty', both the film and the central character so readily and universally identifiable is that it touches the hearts of everybody. Those in love, those out of love and for us all in-between, who just try and try and just never seem to get that lucky break. It quietly gives hope to those, who, like Marty, have given up on the love game, as it's a lottery that he never even gets a chance of winning, yet who is a decent, honest, hard-working 34 year old and who loves his Ma. The flashy punks who always seem to go home from the dance-halls with more girls than they know what to do with just make life for the likes of Marty seem unfair and miserable.One night at the dance-hall, after repeated pleadings from his Ma to 'find a girl and get married', Marty approaches schoolteacher Betsy Blair. He's natural and honest, she's been let down and without any syrupy schmaltz they hit it off. It happens without fireworks, or big dance numbers, just like in real life.And so starts one of the greatest films about love and life and is a genuine, all-round pleasure to be part of, let alone watch. I'm actually rather surprised that no attempts have been made to remake 'Marty', but probably thank goodness it hasn't, however it still is amazing how current DVD renters are only too happy with today's crass, broad and generally awful 'rom-coms' that are churned out like an overflowing sewer.If you've never seen 'Marty', get it. It's that simple - watch it on your own, with your partner or with the entire family - this is a rare classic that genuinely appeals to all - and everybody. "},{"Title":"...a professor of pain...","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty (Ernest Borgnine) is a fat, middle-aged butcher with a heart full of pain. He's been looking for a girl every Saturday night of his life and always gets his heart broken. Still, Marty agrees to go to a dance hall when his pal tells him there'll be a loada tomatas.I love this movie. It really is as good as the hype. It's a national treasure, in that it captured the lives of common folk in 1950s New York and it's very interesting to see how society has changed since then. What isn't gone is the universal agony of loneliness and Ernest Borgnine portrays this beautifully. He's lovable, profound, and makes acting look effortless; I'm glad he won the Oscar for his performance. All of the supporting cast are outstanding, especially the two ladies who play Marty's mother and aunt.The story covers just one weekend in Marty's life and it moves quickly, with not a scene or line of dialogue that isn't perfect. Bring your hankie; this is a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"A Portrait of Insecurity","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This tidy little character study of a lonesome guy and a lonesome gal who discover one another in the marauding rabble of a Bronx ballroom and hook up notwithstanding their families and friends makes a warmhearted and charming story, alive with the kind of frank observation of ordinary, monotonous folks that even now rarely makes the screen. Save quite an abrupt conclusion, it's a spruce and gratifying movie. Basically, this hour-and-a-half vignette is simply a pleasant, melancholy castigation of some of the socially self-conscious mores of the inner-city working class. The hero, a gruff, thickset butcher, is 34, single, taking no risks and adrift in tedium and seclusion. He lives with his old-fashioned Italian ma and squanders dreary hours with his likewise feeble pals whose paradigm of femininity is shared only by Mickey Spillane.Into the life of this chum comes a dull, desperate schoolteacher who's as hopelessly jaded and alone as he. She, also, has accepted the humiliation and sorrow of being rejected. She, as well, has nearly tired any expectation of finding someone. And albeit our hero nobly assures her, she needs much more than assurance. Borgnine, who would've done it for free, and Betsy Blair are such an endearing pair of underdogs. Dogs, indeed, according to the values of the Bronx backdrop. And that's what makes them lovable.Blair's first moments are so crushingly tender. We see how nave she is on account of her desperation to lighten the weight of desperation and inferiority. She'll take whatever she can get. It makes this early Chayefsky nugget that much more life-affirming that it pulls no punches in life's cruelty to her, because when Marty comes along, we feel that relief, that warmth that she does. It's because of Borgnine's unassuming earnestness that we immediately see that Marty is not just the one of any shoulders Blair needs to lean on, and hang on to for dear life in her quiet, beaten-down way, because his performance is not in the least self-involved. He treats his co-star with the attentive care and respect that's needed for them to ignite the screen as small-fry lovers in the quicksand of their insular neighborhood, which is its own rich character.As Marty's anxious mother, Esther Minciotti is excellent, and Augusta Ciolli is brilliant as a dourly needy aunt. Jerry Paris is gripping in his few scenes as the aunt's conscience-suffering son, and Joe Mantell is amusing and penetrating as Marty's chum. Chayefsky's script is rich with truthful and vibrant dialogue, so brusque and tactless at times that it breaks your heart while smacking of humor with its frankness and liveliness. And Mann's superb dramatization has got the texture and savor of the Bronx.There is this down-to-earth state of affairs. That's it. Yet inside the histrionic interlude of not much more than a day or so, our hero infiltrates the reserves of his apprehensive and self-doubting mindset. He movingly acknowledges someone equally as forlorn as he. And he humorously and daringly grasps for her despite the pathetic sneering of everyone else. "},{"Title":"Marty, or the martyr of good-hearted people in a world of shallowness ...","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You don't get to be good-hearted by accident. You get kicked around long enough, you become a professor of pain. Marty, or the martyr of good-hearted people in a world of shallowness &#x85;Paddy Chayefeski couldn't have written truer words of wisdom. Marty, the titular character of 1955's Best Picture and Golden Palm unexpected winner, is indeed a good man with a good heart because despite all the rejections he's been enduring his whole life, he remained faithful to his principles and never get absorbed by his entourage's cynicism. A movie like Delbert Mann's Marty has often been associated with such words as 'underdog story' or 'romance' but I just prefer to call it a great film about a decent guy who needed a break. And thanks to Paddy Chayefski's deservingly Oscar-winning script, Marty's dialogs ring true with an extraordinary sincerity, a remarkable achievement since Network proved how Paddy was capable of pessimistic lucidity in his writing, but it also demonstrated how ahead of his time, he could be and being an inspirational story combined with a slice of life in the 50's New York City doesn't deprive it from a touch of modernity. Indeed, Marty tackles many contemporary issues by dealing for the first time with the issues of loneliness in modern cities. The premise of the film seems very simple, but let's get back to the times where Cinema was synonym of dreamy escapism, when lighthearted comedies consisted on Cary Grant acting like a jerk but getting the girl nonetheless, generally a wisecracking brat who got smartness and bitchiness mixed up, and there was the witty and fast-paced dialog so realistic it sounded like a verbal Ping-Pong game. Personally, I disliked A Girl Friday as much as I loved Marty. Or let's not get too far away, I loved Marty as much I was left indifferent by its Best Picture co-nominees Love is a Too Many Splendored Thing a typically Hollywood close-to- perfect couple and Picnic a romance that contradicts its own message about loving someone for the personality rather than the appearance.Marty is not about extraordinary persons loving each other, but two ordinary persons finding something extraordinary in each other, in a beautiful reciprocity. It's not Grant and Russell, not Holden and Novak; it's Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair. I've always thought the word 'dog' to qualify Blair's character Clara was harsh, especially coming from the mouth of his loser friends. But this was the shallowness I was mentioning in the first paragraph. A girl wasn't necessarily a 'dog' because she was 'ugly', but because of her attitude. Clara wasn't flashy, she was a shy and sensitive nature, and if one thing, she wasn't money in a bank, she was just the girl-to-marry that passed her 'use-by-date', too old to be married, too old to have fun with, Clara mirrored Marty's condition, except that &#x85; a guy could afford not to be good-looking, to be a small little prick like Marty's friend Angie (Joe Mantell) or a wannabe Mickey Spillane, if he was a 'character'. Girls loved Macho self-confidence, but Marty wasn't looking for this type of girls anyway.And this is why Marty is so lovable a character, unlike his friends; he didn't use his bitterness to vent his anger on women. He underwent a very tough family pressure, he who all his brothers and sisters got married, he who should be ashamed of himself and an even more difficult peer pressure from his friends who wouldn't let him date a 'dog', for his reputation's sake. In a masterstroke of realism, Marty is confronted to two realities that are still relevant today especially the subplot involving Marty's family, so Mediterranean it reminded me of mine. But those were the times, where guys still had to go outside to date a girl, without the Internet as a convenient time-filler. A few guys would ask now their buddies what they feel like doing tonight, now that the Internet can get you girls without making the effort. And now Facebook became the barometer of one's reputation, and dating has been reduced to an indecent form of consumption where it's about how beautiful your date looks, rather than how passionate is your love. But thankfully, Marty is an inspiration to overcome these pressures and try to imitate people like Clara and Marty.No character would have played Marty with the same level of genuine authenticity (deliberate pleonasm) as Ernest Borgnine. Three scenes always strike a sensitive chord in my heart the first failed invitation by phone, when Marty put his dignity aside to bargain with some 'broad, he didn't even want to call first' and his eyes closed shows the level of painful desperateness and loneliness can push you in. The second is the outburst of anger where he shouted, I'm ugly! I'm ugly! I'm ugly to his mom, before his resignation to go to the Stardust Ballroom, and the third one is his reaction when he couldn't get his first kiss, a sad moment that makes his following joy even more rewarding. Ernest Borgnine delivered a beautiful performance and it's interesting that he won the Oscar over Spencer Tracy who punched his villainous character in Bad Day at Black Rock, Ernie who did so many evil sidekicks in the 50's, played here an unconventional lead role, but definitely the most deserving of the Best Actor Oscars.This is the power of Marty, sincerity, simplicity, and a touch of modernity, some would find the movie too short, or its ending too abrupt, but it's not. The movie was less about the romance than the coming of realization from Marty, that he could finally get a break by choosing Clara. Marty is not groundbreaking in its form but in the content of its story, universal and inspirational on many levels &#x85; indeed, all the 'underdog' films owe a little something to Marty. "},{"Title":"Not really a Hollywood movie","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very atypical Hollywood movie for the time of its release. Instead of having stars, this movie has actors who look and act like real people and have same problems like real people. A pity Hollywood doesn't makes more movies like this.Marty is 34 years old butcher who has almost given hopes of finding a good woman to marry. And when he does find someone who he likes his friends discourage him as she is plain looking. He gives in to the peer pressure and instead of going out with her goes with friends on a fruitless hunt for girls. It is there he realized that what a mistake he is making.Movie is very subtle, and even the meeting between the two leads is not done in a typical Hollywood manner when you fall in love at first glance and you are laughing together from the get go. Instead there is the usual anxiety associated with first meetings and uncertainty about whether the other person will call or not.One big reason why this movie clicked for me is that I could never see what attractiveness had to do with spending your lives together, and how you can fall in love at first sight.It is a wonderful movie and it deserved all the awards it got. "},{"Title":"Boy, that Paddy Chayefsky. Boy, he sure could write.","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Delbert Mann's Marty is the film that walked away with the 1955 Best Picture Oscar. Based on Paddy Chayefsky's television play from a couple of years earlier (also helmed by Mann) the film tells the story of a Saturday night in the life of the title character. According to him, he's 'been looking for a girl every Saturday night of (his) life', but, without the advantage of good looks, this kind-hearted fella just can't catch a break when it comes to romance.Ernest Borgnine portrayed the title character and his performance was rewarded with an Oscar. He really does a great job and so does his Oscar-nominated co-star, Betsy Blair. Given the relative simplicity of the plot, the performances of these two really propel the film. Joe Mantell (reprising his role from the TV play) also landed an Oscar nomination for his efforts while the rest of the cast members (including some others reprising their earlier roles) are satisfactory but unremarkable.Delbert Mann's direction is nothing to get excited about as far as I'm concerned but he did end up taking home the Best Director Oscar, so I guess that counts for something. Personally, I think that most of the behind-the-scenes credit should go to Paddy Chayefsky for his script which deservedly won him an Oscar. I also thought that Roy Webb's score was pretty good even though it didn't get any awards attention.In the end, it is the emotional impact of this film that makes it stand out. The actors' interpretation of Chayefsky's script produces a story that feels genuine and has real heart. These are things whose value can't really be quantified in words. "}{"Title":"Bronx Cheer","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the real thing. In a class with Brief Encounter, It Happened One Night, Les Enfants du Paradis, four utterly diverse movies but all with that indefinable yet unmistakable 'something' that makes them timeless, eternally appealing and 'speaking' to generations yet unborn. It starts, of course, with the words and Paddy Chayevsky was right up there with the best, churning out 'speakable' dialogue the way Marty churned out hamburger mince and creating the impression he wasn't so much creating as walking around the Bronx with a tape recorded concealed about his person. Then come the performances; unbeatable right across the board; it would have been a travesty if Borgnine and Blair weren't nominated for a slew of major awards and it remains a total miscarriage that Blair failed to win the Best Actress Oscar. Outstanding. "},{"Title":"Let the heart be your guide","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty Piletti is thirty-four-years-old Italian American living in New York City. He was supposed to go to college but his father passed away prematurely and Marty had to go to work to help his mother handling the family issues. He has got good manners and is sensitive. People who are willing to hurt others with no reason he doesn't understand. He is a man of a good heart.Brothers and sisters of Marty are married. He is the oldest one but still remains single. He used to look for a woman but he is always receiving rejection so he doesn't believe in his luck with women any more. Marty's mother and her friends put pressure on him to get married as soon as possible what makes him frustrated and upset.Ernest Borgnine who impersonates Marty gives an acting lesson to all with absolutely smashing performance. He acts delightful. His facial expression, his eyes, his mouth, his gesticulation and voice are top class and show off in the scene when Marty talks on the phone but audience sees and hears only him. With no doubt it is an effort that deserves an Academy Award winner.Marty is a movie about normal problems of a normal people. It's authentic and honest. It could be considered as a comedy but isn't life a mix of comedy and drama? This movie is our life. Life can be disappointing if one isn't able to see the bright side of it. Marty can and he knows what makes him happy. No matter what others think. He listens to his heart and intuition. That for sure is a good way to change his life for better.Other meaningful titles with Borgnine are The Dirty Dozen (1967), The Wild Bunch (1969) and Emperor of the North (1973). "},{"Title":"Ernie Borgnine Proves He's Not Just McHale","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is Ernest Borgnine's show from start to finish, thanks to a beautiful script by Paddy Chayefsky. Who cannot relate to the fear of growing old alone, personified here by Marty's elderly mother and aunt who live with him. At age 35, battered by loneliness and longing, this shy Bronx butcher finally finds love in a funny, bittersweet romance.Borgnine delivers a career performance, earning a well-deserved Best Actor Oscar. (Chayefsky also won for best screenplay.) In such a restrained and carefully modulated role, it is hard to imagine that he would play the clownish Quinton McHale in McHale's Navy just eight years later.Perhaps this film resonates with me because it was released the year of my birth, and Marty and Clara could have been my own parents. (Actually, Borgnine does look a bit like my father.) This is a great movie for families, especially thoughtful teens battling their own fears of loneliness, peer pressure and rejection. "},{"Title":"Everything about Marty works.","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The deep affection (and disagreements/tensions) these characters have for (and with) each other (Marty and his mother, Aunt Catherina and Tommy, Tommy and his wife) is so refreshing that when the hour-and-a-half movie ends, I bet, you will be left yearning for more &#133; I was. What also makes this mid-50's movie an enjoyable experience is that its origins are live television and it does not pretend to be otherwise. The writing, the direction, the sets, the acting, the production design are so refreshingly real world that you may, just like I did, recognize your loved ones and friends/acquaintances among the Bronx characters. ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Realistic, street scenes excellent","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Relatively realistic depiction of life in an ethnic household in the outer boroughs of New York. Especially like the street scenes (possibly of the Grand Concourse in the Bronx). To be fully realistic there would be profanity and ethnic slurs among Marty's pals but the film depicts a life similar to that of my father and his relatives. "},{"Title":" Dogs Like Us","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this wonderful yet sad and somewhat soapy love story with brilliant writing Paddy Chayefsky and equally realistic and dramatic acting Ernest Borgnine,Betsy Blair and especially Esther Minciotti we have a real 50's B&W treat.The story is simple yet honest and gripping in its portrayal of a single bachelor butcherBorgnine and his quest for something to occupy his time on the weekends,with fellow buddies and his live at home domicile nature.His existence has taken on a rather humdrum fate and is getting on his nerves as well as his dutiful mother,who he lives with.With the constant reminder of he outta be ashamed of himself for not be married by both his butcher customers and his very concerned mother,he starts to doubt even himself.Being overly tired of the nagging and the looming question of his eventual life without bride,he manages to put on that blue suit of his and go out to dance club,as per usual,looking for any worthwhile tomatoes 50's slang for chicks.But this Saturday night finds him hooking up with a plain jane an lonely heart like himself who find comfort and kinship with each others company and from there its all down hill.Except for all the peer pressure and self-doubt that is thrown his way by suppossed family and friends. This is one of my all time favorite movies and as far as bittersweet love stories with a light at end of tunnell,is almost unsurpassed in it's dramatic scope.Straightforward and gritty,it personifies the human condition of middle-aged bachelor with as much compassion and tenderness as Hollywood is likely to produce.Therefore its Academy Award for a much deserved and applauded Best Picture.We need another one or a qualified remake,for old times sake.Can't get enough of truly unique films. "},{"Title":"A Treasure For All Time","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Produced in 1955, in the midst of studios creating Cinemascope, Technicolor, and Stereophonic sound, this deceptively simple, small, B & W picture deservedly beat them all for the Academy Award's Best Picture (and 3 other awards). Ernest Borgnine is moving (won the Oscar) as a 34-year-old Italian Bronx butcher living at home with the mother (Esther Minciotti) and longing to find love, but resigned to loneliness. Mother keeps nagging Marty when will he marry, since all the other kids have settled down. Her sister comes to stay, complaining that now that her children are gone (and husband passed), these are the worst years. By chance, Marty meets a plain schoolteacher (movingly played by Betsy Blair) at a dance and they hit it off. Written by the great Paddy Cheyfeyesky (Oscar win) and directed by Delbert Mann (Oscar win), the film has much more than meets the eye. Mother turns jealous of Marty's new companion, saying she's not good enough, when in actuality she fears abandonment. To illustrate the other side, the Aunt's son (Jerry Paris) and daughter-in-law (Karen Steele) are having marital difficulties. His best friend (Joe Mantell) also fears losing him. One scene toward the end featuring The Ed Sullivan Show is heartbreaking. And the film has a perfect un-Hollywood-ish ending which struck a chord with movie audiences decades ago. Don't miss this. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary time capsule of quiet desparation","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A humorous examination of quiet desperation among homely misfits in a Bronx that no longer exists.  Fascinating exploration of the struggle to overcome pride and defense mechanisms to struggle for some small measure of happiness and companionship.  Borgnine's Oscar was well-deserved for imbuing the hapless butcher with empathy and heart.  And Betsy Blair is outstanding as the shy schoolteacher who isn't the dog she thinks she is.  "},{"Title":"Marty","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most compassionate and touching films about the lives and problems of ordinary people ever produced. Borginine is majestic as the title character, a lonely middle-aged butcher who finally falls in love with a girl in similar circumstances, played beautifully by Blair. Written by the great Paddy Chayefsky, it is a masterpiece laced with subtleties, irony and truth. Won Oscars for Borginine, Chayefsky, director Mann and for the Best Picture of 1955.   "},{"Title":"The Bronx The Way It Used To Be","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I danced at the Stardust Ballroom. You could not see a film more representative of the way the Bronx used to be in the 1950's than Marty. The bus stop, the butcher shop, the Grand Concourse, it's all here -- beautifully preserved for you. And, you can see the seeds being sown for the actually undoing of the neighborhood into what it eventually became (see Fort Apache, the Bronx, and Do The Right Thing).Beyond the preservation on film of the Bronx, Marty was a true pioneer as a slice-of-life masterpiece. I could watch this movie 100 times (and I think I may have) and never grow tired of it. The feelings are gritty and real. The mores followed by the characters are perfectly representative of the time. When Marty chuckles with a mixture of bemusement and embarrassment at his mother for telling him to go out to the Stardust Ballroom because he might meet some cute tomatoes, I see my own youth in the Bronx flashing before my eyes. The scene where Marty tells Betsy Blair's date off for offering him five dollars to take her off his hands cuts like a knife to all of us more-homely-than-average types out there. See this movie, and appreciate it for what it is. "}{"Title":"MARTY MIGHTY MARVELOUS","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just saw this film again on television and I haven't seen it in quite a while. I agree with all the aplauding comments made here. The movie is a simple classic and there have always been men and women like the characters in this film, and now that I think about it, there are many teenaged or young Marty's today. The movie will never go out of style ,I think, as there are millions of classifieds and dating services today for people to meet people. The film also makes a comment that the beauty inside is more important than the beauty outside. I can't think of anything to criticize about this movie, but a lot of things to praise it. "},{"Title":"Most Honest Characters You've Ever Seen?","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's a fine way of putting it actually, I voted this movie the rare 10 simply because, like any 10 there was really nothing wrong with it. The honest, secret, inner connection I felt as a human being gave it that extra 1 or 2 pts (since it's easily a vote of 8 at minimum). "},{"Title":"Great movie!  Loved it!","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie i saw around 2 days ago and fell in love with it!  Marty is an innocent guy who can't seem to find a girl until a girl in a similar situation finds him.  It's a warm story that makes you feel happy and joyful.  You can really feel for the characters in this movie, I felt bad, but also happy when he did.  What I also liked is that you fall in love with the characters.  Marty, is a great/nice guy who you can't help but like. He's warm-hearted and a gentlemen, and perfectly played by Borgnine and Blair. "},{"Title":"Every guy can relate...","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard about this film through watching another film.  What film was that?  Well it was Quiz Show, and in that great movie  there is a scene where the contestant on the take is told by the producer of the game show, how he is going to loose on the next show.  He tells him that the question that will be asked is what film won best picture in 1955? and he is suppose to reply On the Waterfront.  The real answer of course, is Marty, On the Waterfront won last year to which the contestant replies NO WAY am I loosing on that question.  I saw that film 10 times everyone's seen that film, it is great.  I love that film!  YOU CAN'T MAKE ME LOSE ON THAT QUESTION!!!  In reality Marty was a little picture with no major stars in it, an independent production, but it swept America and broke box office records and awards as America embraced good ole  Marty.An enjoyable little film about a guy named Marty who works in a butcher shop (played by Ernest).  A simple guy who's life is  uneventful as everyone in his family tells him he should get married considering he is now 34.  He thinks himself as nothing but an ugly duckling, and has given up, feeling he will live his entire life with his mother.  This film is done real well, and when I saw Ernest Borgnine get the award for best Actor I was mystified.  Borgnine is a guy I know who has had work in the past, but I can only remember him for the lame roles he has had in TV (like the show Airwolf).  I was hoping there was something more to this guy.Turns out Ernest's role in this film isn't just good its GREAT!!  This guy actual has talent!  The film is a little dated (the parents take their daughter out to the dance to help her find a date, and Ernest tells a woman he meets that he has to call it a night to be at mass at 10) but the movie is also timeless cause of the issues guys have with trying to find love and the relationships with family and friends.  My only criticism was that the film ended too early and I didn't want it to I wanted it to KEEP GOING!  But still an enjoyable little film.Rating 7 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good straightforward melodrama","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sincere effort at a realistic, adult drama about very unglamorous lovers who meet one night at a dance hall and must rise above everyone's objections (including Borgy's ma, who at the story's commencement seems to want nothing more than to see her son married... making the point that so many of us really don't want what we want).  Borgnine and Blair keep their feet on the ground, giving this film the kind of solid center it needs to be such an earnest drama and not come off as sappy.  Adapted from Chayefsky's groundbreaking script for TV, and it shows. "},{"Title":"Boy that Paddy Chayefsky!  He could really write!","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Almost beyond hope of ever finding love, a working-class Bronx butcher meets a young lady at a dance and they fall in love. That's it - it's that simple, but out of this simplicity is crafted a wonderful, real, moving film about you, me and the people we know. Borgnine, in the role of a lifetime, is superb and Blair is almost his equal. They're two lonely hearts desperate for someone in their lives. Their scenes together are so marvelous that they make us care. We WANT to see them find happiness. If that isn't great acting, I don't know what is. It is also a credit to Chayefsky's fabulous script. What a perfect little gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"One of my top-ten favorite movies","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty (1955) was written by Paddy Chayefsky and directed by Delbert Mann. Ernest Borgnine plays Marty Piletti, a Bronx butcher. He's intelligent and capable, but he sacrificed his ambitions to help support his family. Marty has a large extended family, but the people we meet are his mother, played by Esther Minciotti, his mother's sister--Aunt Catherine-- (Augusta Ciolli), and his cousin Tommy, played by Jerry Paris.The primary plot involves Marty and his friend Angie (Joe Mantell). Both of them are in their 30's, but their wheels are spinning and they're going nowhere socially. Most of their dialog involves one of them asking the other, Whaddya wanna do tonight? The answer is invariably, I dunno. Whaddya you wanna do? Marty dreams of finding a woman to love and marry, but the magic never happens. He's under intense pressure from his mother and his family to marry, but he has to find the girl first.The secondary plot involves Marty's family. This is a weaker effort on the part of the writer and director. Jerry Paris as Aunt Catherine's son Tommy (Marty's cousin) appears to be a decent actor, but his character is cut out of cardboard. Karen Steele as Tommy's wife, Virginia, is too beautiful for the character she plays. And, like Tommy, she hasn't been given a great role.The primary plot progresses when Marty meets Clara (Betsy Blair). We have to suspend disbelief and accept the fact that Clara isn't beautiful. (If she were cast as a beautiful woman, the plot wouldn't work.) She's unmarried and alone, because everyone who sees her perceives her as a dog. Of course, Blair was beautiful. But, in the context of this movie, she's not attractive.So, the main plot follows Marty and Clara as they begin to understand themselves and each other. It's a beautiful love story. Just because the movie takes place in the Bronx, it doesn't mean that the characters can't have the same intense emotions that Romeo and Juliet have in Verona.I saw this movie when it was released, in 1955, and loved it. I saw it again yesterday on DVD, and I loved it even more. I'm not alone in my beliefs that this was a great film--it won four Academy Awards--Best Picture, Best Actor (Borgnine), Best Director, and Best Writing/Screenplay. It was nominated for four more Academy Awards--Best Supporting Actor (Joe Mantell as Angie), Best Supporting Actress (Betsy Blair), Best Cinematography (B/W) and Best Art Director-Set Director (B/W).Not only was this picture considered a great movie in its day, but it wears very well. The automobiles may look primitive, but the plot is sophisticated, complex, and is as true today as it was 60 years ago. Any movie from the 1950's will look better on a large screen than a small one, but this movie worked really well on DVD. If you haven't seen it, now's the time to view it. It's an incredible film, and you won't be disappointed.Note Betsy Blair came to Rochester NY to accept an award at Eastman House. In the Q&A portion of the evening, I was able to ask her a question How did you manage to look like a 'dog' when you were so beautiful? She said, Makeup and costume helped. However, I'm an actress, and I was doing my job. "},{"Title":"Aw-nest","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow! How did I miss this classic until recently? Every move, every scene, every set-up, is tight and economical. There's not a single wasted moment in the narration of this tale, and that's something that absolutely stood out for me. The same economy in story-telling that is demonstrated in most EU productions, seems to be a common staple of most black-and-white classics such as this.Onto the tale itself then - Ernest Borgnine, the typical heavy in any classic, is front-and-center here as someone who life has passed by, who's making an honest buck as a butcher, yet who has no one (unless you count his Ma) that he can call his own. Shy, and outa luck with the ladies, he's at that age when he just has stopped trying to find a date, and weekends are nothing but filled with friends trying to get him drunk, or go about a night on the town, with the kind of company that he doesn't crave. Then, he, somewhat accidentally, meets someone, who's (yep) almost just like him, who just might be the one, and you yearn for them both to get together, while in parallel, and you know that will happen, you also are literally shouting at the screen, at Marty, willing him not to screw it all up, and he is wont to, with all of the foreshadowing that's in your face. The entire flick then just shows Marty being Marty, and all you can do is watch it unravel.Kudos to everyone involved for keeping it tight, and everything else, the fine technical details, et al, are just there for you to be involved with the tale and not call attention to themselves at all. Suits me just fine. This is one to enjoy - doesn't matter if you're on your own or with company, and I do hope there's a retrospective of Borgnine flicks sometime for us to get an opportunity to watch in on a larger screen, with a larger, and hopefully, like-minded, audience. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the face of Gentility doesn't appear to be so Gentle.","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is amazing how a simple story can touch the heart, especially when dealing with physically unattractive characters. Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair are totally believable as the losers in love who somehow find each other against the odds. He is a good-hearted butcher, a Bronx man whom everybody in the neighborhood likes but takes for granted, while she is the lonely spinster school teacher set up with him on a blind date. Marty lives with family, which includes his aging mother (Esther Minciotti) whose sister (Augusta Ciolli) bitterly warns her that if Marty finds love, he surely will toss mama to the side. So mama is instantly resentful when she meets Blair, having issues of her own with her other daughter-in-law (Karen Steele). Marty must decide what kind of happiness he wants without hurting either his mother or the woman he gets to know deeply inside one awkward but romantic night.Some masterful human acting makes this surprise sleeper one of the most deserving Best Picture Oscar Winners. Even with the two elderly sisters, you sense the isolation they feel as the younger generation seemingly pushes them aside, dramatized in a short scene between them where the film's motivations come together. Minciotti's performance as the manipulated manipulative mother is a small gem of brilliance, and Steele is also quite memorable as the daughter-in-law with Joe Mantell equally great as the hot-tempered brother. But this film truly belongs to Borgnine and Blair. His performance is refreshingly natural when compared to the sometimes contrived acting of the leading men of the time. See if you don't see some influences for Nicholas Cage's butcher in the similar Moonstruck. He certainly is a far cry here from his bully character in the Oscar Winning From Here to Eternity. Blair's seemingly pickle-pussed spinster has some qualities hidden just below the surface that you can see how he could adore her, yet end up manipulated by his buddies who see Marty as just another dude rather than an individual with a soul. "},{"Title":"There is always someone for everybody.","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a little ugly, fat man says 34 yr old butcher Marty Piletti(Ernest Borgnine). Marty lives in the Bronx with a domineering mother(Esther Minciotti). Everyone around the hard working Piletti seems to be on his case about not being married and having kids; his mother bothers him the most. Marty is a bit simple minded and his low self-esteem makes him shy and he spends a lot of his time daydreaming of the day he could find a girl to fall in love with him. When Marty finally finds love with an equally shy schoolteacher Clara(Betsy Blair), his over protective mother tries to break the couple up thinking she is not good enough for him. The butcher from the Bronx finally gains the fortitude to stand on his own two feet. Borgnine's approach to playing this role was strong enough to win him the well deserved Oscar for Best Actor. Supporting players Joe Mantell, Jerry Paris, Karen Steele, Frank Sutton and smaller roles for Jerry Orbach, Glenn Strange and even story/screenplay writer Paddy Chayefsky. Kudos to director Delbert Mann. "}{"Title":"Marty The Essence of Character","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Delbert Mann's 1955 Oscar-winning film Marty is a character driven delight. It's the story of social outcasts, striving to fit the mold and expectations that have been placed upon them for various reasons. Marty (Ernest Borgnine) is approaching middle-age, overweight, awkward, Italian, and unmarried. Clara (Betsy Blair), a simple schoolteacher, feels like she should be so much more and is abandoned on a blind date. The two meet, unexpectedly, at a ballroom and chat away about lost ambitions and troubling loneliness. It sounds almost like the indie art film before Hollywood even knew what it was. Not surprisingly, it's one of the few films that won top prizes at both the Academy Awards and the Cannes Film Festival. Borgnine brings a classic charm to the role, with a humble pluckiness that makes the work come to life. His melancholy alienation makes you feel every layer of his pain, from his trying to please his nagging mother to simply respecting himself. Betsy Blair is a marvel, in a simple and undramatic turn that ends up being completely engaging. It helps that they are given a spectacular screenplay by Paddy Chayefsky, who mixes humor, realism, and heartbreaking American immobilization in a mild but felt manner; a scene following a successful first date has Marty calling a cab with a newfound passion for love and life he makes this rare expense, it's triumphant and a great moment in cinema!Other times, it doesn't work so much. There are some subplots and minor characters that detract from the heart of the story and slow down the momentum towards the end of the film. If Chayefsky had a narrower focus on the romance and anticipated connection of the characters, it would have wrapped the film up with a lovely bow, but instead we get just a few thoughtless ribbons on top of a gorgeous package. That being said, the a characters are so well-realized and written, that you almost forget anything or anyone else in the film matters. This is both the greatest and weakest aspects of the film. B "},{"Title":"An Under-Rated Classic...","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" On the surface, 'Marty' appears to be a small & simple love story about a butcher and a school-teacher, but there are many more layers to this film, which manages to be funny & deeply touching simultaneously without ever getting corny. There's so much about this film that stands the test of time half a century later. It's no wonder it won so many awards that year (including 4 Oscars.) In her autobiography, Betsy Blair mentions that 'Marty' was the high point of her career; it made her a movie star overnight and she was never again in anything as important (though I thought her performance in 'A Delicate Balance' with Katherine Hepburn years later was even better.) She won the BAFTA for her role here, as did Ernest Borgnine, who deservedly swept every award that year for his role as Marty, including the Oscar & the Golden Globe. Borgnine is flawless in his performance & lovable from the very first scene. Esther Monciotti as his mother also delivers a standout performance. Some of the funniest & most memorable lines in the film belong to her and her on-screen sister. The rest of the supporting cast are also great to watch. The frank talk & humanity of the characters make this a film you want to watch over and over again. ~NN "},{"Title":"The Butcher","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet Ernest Borgnine's character, Marty, a 34-year-old Italian American butcher from the Bronx. The story, his story happens in two days, a Saturday and a Sunday, and we meet the people that Marty normally have contact with his clients at the butcher's shop, his friends (Joe Mantell plays, in a great way, Marty's best friend Angie) and his mother Theresa (Esther Minciotti). Some of the first words we can hear from Marty indicate that all of his younger brothers and sisters are married, actually whenever place Marty is during his Saturday the main subject of the conversation is that he is still a single man his clients at the butcher's shop, old women, don't hesitate to say to Marty that he should be embarrassed for not being a married man, since it's Saturday Angie asks about the plans for the night and they both are like my mother drives me crazy, every word out of her mouth when you gonna get married? and well his mother asks about where his 34-year-old boy can find a nice girl (you know a nice girl he can marry?). And Marty wants to get married but is certainly annoying for him at this point of his life to not hear words about other subject from everybody. We have a sort of contradiction since Marty, for example, will say to his friend that he is not interested at all in calling a certain woman they meet before but later on Marty will be calling her, well in other words even that at this point of his life Marty claims to be tired of looking for a girl every Saturday night we do see Marty being rejected by certain women during the only Saturday of his life we see, we do see Marty suffering.Jerry Paris and Karen Steele are great as Tommy and Virginia, they have few minutes in the film but they are very important characters. They are the only married couple we get to see in the film but unlike most married couples they don't fight and that's because, in words of Virginia, we can even have a fight, pretty much Tommy's mother Theresa Catherine (Augusta Ciolli) is their common enemy. Tommy is Marty's cousin, son of Theresa's sister and at one point Theresa, as Tommy and Virginia asked her for, will say to her sister that she should move to her house lo live with her and Marty (and yes when the married couple knows that their common enemy is going to move the fights between them are there, Tommy is like why you didn't try to go along with my mother and stuff) and is upon that first talk we see between the sisters that Theresa will began to think about what is she going to do if Marty gets married so when Marty is in home with a nice girl (the lovely Betsy Blair is quite good as Clara, a girl who that Saturday night suffered just like Marty and who will be waiting for Marty's call the next day) she won't be thinking in Marty, she won't be thinking in the many times she said to her son when you gonna get married?, when Marty is happy for who he meet the previous night she won't be as happy, but Marty&#x85; As a matter of fact this 1955 film was released on R4 DVD this same year. I knew this film since long time ago but honestly I wasn't extremely interested in checking it, to the point that I decided not to get its R1 DVD during many visits to my local store and also I didn't get its R4 DVD immediately, I just bought it a couple of days ago, it was on offer so yes having a little interest in seeing Marty it was simply on offer I couldn't refuse. Certainly a good decision, Delbert Mann's Palme d'Or and Academy Award for Best Picture winner picture is a little one that is extremely entertaining, funny, sad and deep, and with superb performances&#x85;no wonder why Burt Lancaster, in the theatrical trailer (that is the only bonus material on the R4 DVD), says that he is plain proud of the picture (and well according to the IMDb trivia section it was rumored that producers Harold Hecht and Burt Lancaster financed the movie as a tax-write off, believing the picture would lose money and the film, which cost only $340,000 to make and generated rentals of $3,000,000 at the domestic box office, reportedly was one of the most profitable movies ever made).PS - I laughed my ass off The way I figure, a guy ought to marry a girl 20 yeas younger than he is so when he's 40 she's still a real pretty doll of 21. That means he'd have to marry the girl when she was one year old. You're right, I never thought of that. "},{"Title":"transports you back to the Italian-American world of the '50s","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ernest Borgnine does a great job as Marty Piletti, a middle-aged, single Italian-American looking to see if he might finally develop a relationship, against the wishes of everyone around him. Aside from looking at his life, one gets the feeling of the lives of Italian-Americans in 1950s New York Marty's mother is concerned about his status as a bachelor, his aunt moves in with them after getting kicked out by his cousin, and other things.I also got the sense that the movie was looking at some of the changing mores of the post-war era (which still had yet to come to full fruition). This is manifested in cousin Tommy's marriage, and how his wife keeps getting in conflict with his mother. No longer would everyone only marry within their own ethnicity, and it probably would create some conflicts.But no matter how you look at it, Marty is a very admirable movie. Not only do I agree that it deserved its Oscars, I can see why it became so popular in the Soviet Union. I certainly recommend it.PS Jerry Paris, who plays Tommy, played the neighbor on The Dick Van Dyke Show. "},{"Title":"Simple But Beautiful Movie !","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just saw this movie when it was shown on Sunday afternoon TV. It's one of those classics I so wanted to watch I deliberately stayed home after reading it on the TV guide instead of going out as I usually do on Sundays. Such a simple plot - yet it is so applicable to today's modern world with all the high-tech computerized gadgetry around - in the 21st century, Marty and his friends would be hanging around in nightclubs instead of dance halls, and instead of gathering around on the streets discussing the writings of Mickey Spillane, they could be debating on the merits of the latest mobile phone models or gadgetry or catching up on each other on Facebook. Yet essentially Marty would still be the same - a lonely, lovelorn bachelor, regardless if he wearing a butcher's apron or a business suit. Marty's comment to Clara that being a butcher isn't socially acceptable was perhaps the only point in the film that I disagreed on. It's a refreshing change to be watching a film which depicts realistic characters in real-life situations - in a very down to earth manner.Not to mention its clean undertones - no sex or violence at all - which may bore younger viewers of today, if I may be so bold to add, as this is supposed to be a romance/drama sort of a movie, but so different to the ones being produced nowadays. There aren't enough words to describe what I feel about this movie - go rent it in the video/DVD shop and watch it for yourself!To Hollywood producers out there - No remakes please. "},{"Title":"Mid century urban working class Americana","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the first time that a television show had been made into a movie. In 1953 Paddy Chayefsky's story and screenplay were made into a television play with Rod Steiger and Nancy Marchand in the Marty and Clara roles. Delbert Mann directed, who was and would return as a prolific television director. They decided to make this into a theatrical release so again Chayesfky was asked to draft the screenplay to his story for the big screen and Mann was tabbed to reprise his directorial role. Cast as Marty was Ernest Borgnine, known for tough-guy roles and Betsy Blair as Clara. Also cast in the film as Marty's buddy Angie is Joe Mantell. Marty is a shy and softhearted bachelor from the working class who works as a butcher and is approaching middle-age but he comes across as dull and ordinary and is fed up with spending his nights hanging around with his pal Angie. Clara is a mousy spinster school teacher who is a timid wallflower when it comes to the opposite sex. This film stunned much of established Hollywood at the Academy Awards for 1955 by coming out of nowhere to win Best Picture. Delbert Mann in his major motion picture debut won as Best Director beating out several renowned established nominees. Borgnine picked up Best Actor beating out such luminaries as James Cagny, Spencer Tracy, Frank Sinatra and rising star James Dean. Paddy Chayefsky picked up the fourth major award for Best Screenplay. Joe Mantell and Besty Blair had been nominated but did not win in their respective support roles. It was also nominated for but did not win in the cinematography and art direction categories. It's a small film that incredibly won some big awards but it is a very well done and endearing piece of film making. People were looking for something tender and emotional yet simple. A slice of mid century urban working class Americana. They found it in Marty. I would give it a 9.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Sleeper Hit!","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While MARTY may not be well known to movie watchers today, it was a Sleeper Hit that came out in 1955. Ernest Borgnine played the title character and won an Oscar for Best Actor. This movie was a change for Ernest Borgnine as he had been playing heavies in Hollywood up to that time. Anyhow, the movie MARTY tells the story of a lonely over-weight Italian butcher in the Bronx, who is constantly being pestered by his mother and everyone else to get married. He has a group of friends he hangs out with. In fact, I would say that the most quoted line from the movie is when Marty and his friends say to one another I don't know. What do you feeling like doing tonight, Marty? I don't know. What do you feeling like doing tonight, Ang? However, Marty is really very lonely and it is not until he gets talked into going to a dance hall that he realizes how lonely he has been. That is because he meets a girl named Clara, played by Betsy Blair. The two share a dance and find that not only do they like each other but they share things in common. However, the two big stumbling blocks are Marty's mother and friends who don't approve of Clara for their own envious reasons; his mother because she thinks she will lose him and his friends because they think Clara is a Dog. Note Dog was considered slang for someone being unattractive. Like MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING was when it came out a few years back, MARTY was considered a sleeper hit when it came out in the 1950's. Also, like MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING, MARTY had a relatively small budget. It is worth noting that MARTY was originally a televised play with Rod Steiger playing the character of Marty. This is not a very long movie; about an hour and a half. I have MARTY in my video collection and like to watch it from time to time. In fact, whenever I watch MARTY, I find that I can relate to all the characters in this film in one way or another, especially Marty. That's because, like most people, I have been rejected in one way or another over the years. "},{"Title":"A Romance for Men(!)","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Romantic movies have been made since the very beginnings of motion picture entertainment, but a very select few measure up to Marty. Paddy Chayefsky adapted his 1953 teleplay into this gem, starring Ernest Borgnine as a lonely butcher who has all but given up on women. Borgnine's character, Marty Piletti, is an everyman who toils day in and day out in the butcher shop, listening to the occasional customer who reminds him that he's 34 years old and still without a wife (as if he doesn't already know this!). His frustrations are amplified by the fact that he feels women aren't attracted to him.Wonderfully acted and brilliantly written, Marty feels very real, unlike most romances which reek of contrivance. On a personal note, I can relate to this movie on many levels, as I am sure that any average Joe would.The supporting cast does very well here, too. Betsy Blair is sympathetic as Clara, a schoolteacher who also feels unattractive and, therefore, is as lonely as Marty. Look for Frank Sutton, best known as Sergeant Carter on the TV show Gomer Pyle, USMC, in this movie, as well.Marty is one of those movies that has stood the test of time, and will continue to stand on its own for a long time to come. Also, this film is unique, in that it is a romance told from a man's perspective. If you ever come across it on TV or in a video store, see it. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Marty Applies to Today","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is similar to a lot of people today who find themselves aging and still unmarried and childless. For different reasons, a person today may devote the earlier years of his or her life to a career or education. Peer pressure from all ages drive some people to feel that they are unattractive and are unable to find a suitable mate. Rejections compounded with these feelings of being unattractive to the opposite sex, have caused many people a great deal of pain and suffering, even in some extreme cases, suicide. Marty faced obstacles that a lot of people face today. His mother was afraid of being cast out if her son married. His cousin could only see his own problems with his own mother and the problems it caused having her live with him and his wife and young child. His friends only thought of their own situations if they were left without their buddy to hang out with. No one could see what Marty needed in his life or what the school teacher he met needed in her life. They had so much in common. They both lacked that physical beauty that seems to be so important and both of them had been hurt and rejected. I think this movie has a message that is timeless, unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Simple Story Simply Superb","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling.It's getting where it's hard to find good storytelling these days.  The MARTY sweep at the 1956 Oscars was a shouting testament that there was a day when telling a story was all a movie needed to succeed.In my lifetime, the same 46 years since this movie won 'Best Picture', the Art of movies has undergone technological breakthroughs that would amaze any era.  Yet, in those same years, the respect for a story has been overshadowed by these same breakthroughs.  Perhaps the word is crushed.  Yes, technology has crushed storytelling.Let's hope that the pendulum begins to swing the other way very soon.Let's hope that movies like MARTY start to be appreciated, and made.Let's hope that actors like Borgnine, Blair and Mantell, writers like Chayefsky, and directors like Mann - still exist...and are planning a renaissance.  "}{"Title":"I Don't Know, What Are You Doin'? Watching 'Marty' _ Again","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A great, great film 1955's Oscar-winning Best Picture, Marty. Produced by Burt Lancaster's Hecht-Lancaster production company (Lancaster's broader, successful films allowed him to produce and-or act in edgier small pictures like this and Sweet Smell of Success), written by an original angry young screenwriter, Paddy Chayefsky (Network), and starring Ernest Borgnine (Oscar for Best Actor_ previously he had played villains in the likes of From Here to Eternity and Bad Day at Black Rock). This film started a trend _ it first was presented on TV, then adapted for the screen (with Borgnine, who had probably made an impression on Lancaster playing the bad guy to Lancaster's good guy in From Here to Eternity, taking over the role from Rod Steiger). It had been the other way around, movies going first and TV doing the borrowing. Marty, in both the TV and film versions, illustrates the power of supreme minimalism and the innate beauty of underscoring everyday life, connecting with the audience on a been-there-done-that level. A magnificent gem in black and white. Well worth your time, if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Sentimental Portrait of Working-Class Life in Fifties New York","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" On its release in 1954, MARTY was feted by critics and audiences alike as an accurate portrait of a certain strand of working-class life in New York at that time.Shot in and around the Bronx, Delbert Mann's cinematic rendering of a play that had already been a success on television captures a world long past, of small shops, seedy bars, and crowded streets, where people could walk out at all times without fear of being attacked or molested. Although comprised of different ethnic communities, everyone managed to get on with one another, even though there was not much recreation except to go to the dance-hall every Saturday night.Produced by Burt Lancaster, MARTY brings familiar television techniques to the big screen. Much of the action unfolds in a series of close- ups, two-shots, and tracking shots, focusing our attention on the relationships between the protagonists. One particularly memorable sequence occurs when Marty (Ernest Borgnine) meets Clara (Betsy Blair) in the dance-hall. The two of them smooch to the sound of the music; as they do so, they move through 180 degrees, so that we can see their faces as they hang on one another's shoulders. Their sense of self-doubt is palpable; although they force themselves to smile at one another, their happy expressions are only skin-deep; the frown soon returns, as if they are not quite sure about what they are doing.In Marty's case, such doubt is justified. Living with an over- protective mother (Esther Minciotti), he frequently submits to her authority, even when it is to his personal disadvantage. Director Mann emphasizes his isolation in one sequence taking place at night, where he walks morosely across the frame, his face turned to the left of the camera as he smokes a cigarette. He completely ignores his mother, as if unwilling to say anything to her.Likewise Marty is inhibited by the need to sustain a front of aggressive masculinity in front of his drinking buddies, all of whom describe women in derogatory terms as tomatoes or dogs, depending on their moods, and spend much of their time at dance- halls as professional wallflowers, gazing at but not committing themselves to any women in particular. In the film's closing sequences Mann shows how Marty is hemmed in, both verbally as well as physically, as he sits in a small room, yearning to escape from his friends but lacking the gumption to do so. The ending comes as a surprise, at Marty at last detaches himself from his leech-like friend Angie (Joe Mantell), and phones up Clara, closing the door of the public telephone behind. Symbolically speaking this is an important moment, showing how Marty has at last managed to put an emotional as well as a physical barrier between himself and his buddies.The production admirably captures the claustrophobic nature of Marty's life, as he moves between his cramped family home, to an overcrowded bar. Likewise Clara has to share a small apartment with her father and brother, and endure the torment of watching nighttime television where the audience laugh hysterically while her face remains mask-like and emotionless.Mann's film might have a sentimental ending, but it vividly captures the everyday sexism and the apparently inflexible codes of masculinity and femininity that inhibited rather than promoted interaction between the sexes during the mid-Fifties. As a sociological document, as well as a piece of heartwarming entertainment, it cannot be bettered. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very good movie first time I have ever seen at I like how throughout the whole movie everyone is telling Marty he needs to get married and have a girlfriend and get a life and the time he actually goes out and does this everyone seems to turn on him and tell him she is no good the reasons she's no good is for petty differences of opinions from other people and this is why these people look down on her perfume she is not good for Marty it's good to see how somebody could get over their fear whatever it may be in learn or bring out the tools they need to achieve what they want to and not be scared about what the outcome maybe very good movie definitely worth watching for the first time "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is a great movie and the main reason for that is the great performances given by the two stars, Betsy something (I can't remember sorry) and Ernest Borgnine who I've always been a fan of, who apparently won an Oscar for this which I never knew about. It's good to know he won an Academy Award for this because like I said I've always been a fan of that actor because he always played good characters and just seemed like a really nice guy, but also because in this movie, which I have never even heard of before, he gives just a really fantastic performance as Marty.Marty (Borgnine) is a butcher and one of several children (the only one still living at home) of his Italian mother who worries a lot about him and wants him to find love/a wife. He has all but given up on that and thinks he is too over the hill to hope to find a woman (he's in his 30s) but he relents to her pressure and goes to a dance where he meets a woman who might have similar reservations and also fears.Great story, very honest, and really great performances. Can't recommend this one highly enough. "},{"Title":"typical love story","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not a fan of dramas. For the most part I find them to be the same, someone has a rough history of relationships and then someone magically comes along. This does not stray from that stereotype. Though there are some interesting differences, such as Marty being socially awkward. I like that he was not a typical male lead in a love story. Music set the mood for certain scenes, changing from happy to mellow a few times. The acting was pretty good, but some part seemed to be over dramatic and unrealistic and that doesn't make it desirable for me to watch. The story was interesting enough, but there were points in which I found it hard to sit through. Overall a decent film, but I don't think i'll find myself willingly watching this again. "},{"Title":"Simple Love story","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It really is a realistic simple love story. The characters are relateable and the story is heart warming to those who watch it. I would definitely recommend this to people who like more realistic love stories between to regular people who aren't deathly attractive or a handsome devil. I enjoyed this movie more than I thought I would, i had imagined I'd get a little bored but it kept me watching with really great acting by Borgnine and Blair who really had good chemistry. You found yourself rooting for Borgnine's character because you really felt for him, which I attribute to good acting. It was shot rally well, and directed well really expressing the characters feelings through their actions. A really nice movie "},{"Title":"Loving chemistry that borders simplicity","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There has never been a pair of leading actor and actress with better romantic chemistry than Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair. They amplify each others emotion. Mary's loving relationship with his mother is also shown greatly. This movie communicates the stress of finding the love of your life in a heartfelt way. Their are certain points where scenes drag on too long. The awkwardness of the ballroom scene is perfectly timed but the out on the town scene seems to take too long. This movie does seem too simple at times. As if the characters are just going through the motions of life without a purpose but that is also the point of the film. This film has a hard time balancing the realistic feel of the story with monotony. But the chemistry between the lead characters draws it all together. "},{"Title":"A Charming and Sincere Winner","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie occurs over one autumn weekend in New York City. Marty Piletti (Ernest Borgnine) is a good-hearted but socially artless thirty-four year old Bronx butcher. He lives with his widowed mother (Esther Minciotti). All of his siblings are married. Older women customers constantly badger the hapless man about marriage and settling down When are you gonna get married? In truth the heavyset Marty, totally disheartened by his rejection by available women, has resigned himself to a permanent single life. He says, Ma, sooner or later, there comes a point in a man's life when he's gotta face some facts. And one fact I gotta face is that, whatever it is that women like, I ain't got it.At the urging of his mother, on Saturday evening Marty heads to the Stardust Ballroom where younger people congregate, meet, and dance. Mrs. Piletti hopes he will meet a nice young Italian Catholic girl. Marty of course has difficulty in persuading ladies to dance with him. Before long, though, Marty approaches plain looking but decent twenty-nine year-old chemistry teacher Clara Snyder (Betsy Blair), who was abandoned by her rascal of a date. The two lonely people spend the evening enjoying each others' company &#x96; dancing, walking, and going to a luncheonette. Marty delivers one of the film's funnier lines, See, dogs like us, we ain't such dogs as we think we are. Marty is so excited and so overjoyed that he talks a mile a minute There I go again. I can't stop talking'. He takes Clara home by bus and promises to call her the following day after Sunday Mass. Meanwhile there are several subplots that do not require reviewing here.On Sunday, Marty's friends and even his mother &#x96; who now fears being left alone after conversing with Aunt Catherine (Caterina, Augusta Ciolli) &#x96; disparage Clara. Feeling pressure from his mother and friends Marty does not call Clara after Mass. Then early that evening while Marty is with his friends he hears the same old refrain What do you feel like doing, Angie? I dunno. What do you feel like doing? I dunno.Arising from his slumber, Marty mimics the conversation, 'What are you doing tonight? I dunno. What are you doing tonight?' . . . Miserable and lonely and stupid! What am I, crazy or something? I got something good here. What am I hanging around with you guys for? When his friends asks Marty what is wrong he finally reprimands them, You don't like her. My mother don't like her. She's a dog. And I'm a fat, ugly man. Well, all I know is I had a good time last night. I'm gonna have a good time tonight. If we have enough good times together, I'm gonna get down on my knees. I'm gonna beg that girl to marry me. If we make a party on New Year's, I got a date for that party. You don't like her? That's too bad. He rushes to the nearest telephone booth to call Clara, who with her parents is watching the Ed Sullivan Show on TV. As he dials the telephone Marty tells his pesky friend (Joe Mantell), Hey Angie, when are you gonna get married? You oughta be ashamed of yourself. You're thirty-three years old and your kid brothers are married. You oughta be ashamed of yourself. Marty closes the telephone booth door as Clara answers the phone. Marty exemplifies excellent performances by all. Nicely filmed on location in the Bronx, it was shot on a low budget ($343,000) that yielded high quality results and a hefty balance sheet ($3,000,000 in US revenues). This likable film won four Oscars, including Best Picture and also Best Actor for Ernest Borgnine. Overseas in Cannes it won the Golden Palm (Palme d'Or). In 1994, Marty was selected for permanent preservation in the National Film Registry. "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mart is an alright movie, it certainly wasn't great. Occasionally, it seemed that a character would be blurred out a opposed to other characters in the shot who ere relatively clearer to the audience. The movie also didn't really hold onto my attention. I found my mind wondering from time to time. It as just another romantic movie to me. To me, the story and characters were boring and kind of repetitive. Other than these things, the movie was relatively decent. I liked the character of Marty if nothing else. He brought some humor into an otherwise bland situation. Also, I kind of like the ironic ending of the film. "},{"Title":"A story with heart","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite having only the most basic of story-lines, this is a nicely-crafted movie with a worthwhile story. The story goes beyond the surface of gloss and superficial beauty to the heart beating underneath. The film stars an admittedly unattractive person, and deals with his feelings of loneliness and insecurity. The story also shows that it is just one person you need, to peek at the good heart you carry. That's when the world goes upside down for Marty. We see Marty as he appears on the surface, then Mr. Borgnine peels away layer after layer, like an onion, revealing the real Marty deep inside. He calls himself a fat, ugly man but he has the most beautiful heart in the world. The supporting cast is first rate, especially Betsy Blair as the plain-jane Clara Snyder. The film explores so many issues, how people can ruin another person's happiness, how ideas and perceptions can change everything in a person's life. I cannot imagine this film being made today. Whenever they try to make films about plain people they end up trying to make Michelle Pfeiffer and Al Pacino look plain. It just doesn't work. This is a film of beauty, heart and soul. "}{"Title":"Marty - My Review","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy... I was not expecting this.I gave this a good rating, but watching this was like a stab in the heart. Right from the start I was just so upset with this. What a shitty world these people live in. I could relate with the main characters right off the bat, which I guess was the point, but everything felt so mean-spirited, so pushy and superficial and just damn mean--calling women dogs, turning down Marty for his appearance, basing peoples' success on their ability to hold down jobs and who marries whom, and everything in between.But! BUUUUT... it slowly returned to something resembling real life once the two main characters met. Then from there on out things got so much better. They were so cute together I cried so much, holy crap. The characterization of Marty, especially, got me pretty hard. What a nice guy, so full of heart, even when people asked him to go with other girls when he had Clara with him. Needless to say I could relate to some extent, and it was so nice and refreshing.One of the issues I had with it was that we never get to see a lot of Clara's back story, and whenever we did it was about other men in her life. I wish we had more to go on with her, but at the same time I could tell that there was a lot of character with her. It felt like her shyness was enough of a clue of how she was as a person.That, and in general I felt like they handled these two very well. They were different people, people who didn't base their values in life off of the general social norms, and I liked that. It was clich, but it was really nice to see in a movie from the 50's.I was genuinely surprised with this movie, and didn't expect it to be anything more, but I was happy that it ended up being just that. "},{"Title":"Lovely movie","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When my girlfriend asks me what I want to do I have a habit of saying, I don't know Marty, what do you want to do. So I figured she should see the movie.It is, as she discovered, a wonderful film. It's small movie with an elegantly constructed script that focuses on the romance between two very un-glamorous, very nice people. You could tell the whole plot in a couple of sentences, but the film is wide and deep with its characters and nuances. It's both funny and touching, with wonderful performances throughout. It is a hopeful movie, but one that recognizes the difficulties of life (although yes, it does resolve things a little too simply). It is a movie everyone should see. "},{"Title":"A gem.  The spoilers are vague and should not ruin the movie for you.","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure now what piqued my curiosity regarding this movie. I do like Ernest Borgnine, I've appreciated him in everything from war movies to silly comedy and not once did I get the feeling he was acting. I didn't even know that Marty got an academy award for best picture until I came to IMDb to post a comment. So that is not the reason I chose this movie. I rented it from Netflix because the local movie stores don't stock these oldies. I think that says a lot about the academy voters. Lately, movies have to show awesome costumes and special effects to win best picture. This one had none of that and yet the academy saw the real story in this movie. Impressive.It moves a bit slow at times, I fear there will be few people under 30 who will appreciate this movie. It dealt with, no perhaps I should say, it demonstrated some issues that are still a part of society. Maybe in 1955 it was okay to portray Italian mothers as overbearing. I doubt anyone would make a movie like that today. And of course most Italian people have intermarried and their life is not quite the same as the ones depicted in this movie. But it sure made Italian mothers look bossy and controlling.Martys mother is frequently after him to get married. he is 34 and she thinks he should have four children already. He meets a girl he really identifies with and suddenly mama doesn't like her. She isn't right for her boy. Marty is a hard working decent guy throughout this whole movie. He has to sort some things out but in the end he does what I believe is best for him.The movie does a fair job of showing life in the 1950's Bronx. At least according to a couple friends who described it to me while in the army.This is a movie I'll watch again one day just because the acting and the message is so good. "},{"Title":"Loneliness and Shyness Does Not Get Outdated","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this gem of a movie at a retrospective theater with my wife. It was quite sentimental and believable. Well acted performances by all, especially the leads, Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair.We can relate to the shyness of both leads. I used to hang out with guys kind of like Marty's friends.....kind of. We wouldn't go around saying, What do you feel like doin'? It is great to see Borgnine win the Oscar. Is it deserved? I suppose. Probably is first film as a non-villain. I find it hard to believe Joe Mantell (Angie) was voted for Best Supporting Actor, though. He was terrific, but to be nominated? Also the movie is a lesson in peer pressure. Good thing Marty didn't give into it......at the end. "},{"Title":"Marty transcends its era and speaks to the most basic needs for love and companionship.","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a warm and winning film, full of the sort of candid comment on plain, drab people that seldom reaches the screen. A 34-year-old Bronx butcher (Ernest Borgnine) fears he will never get a girl because he is unattractive, but at a Saturday night dance he meets a vulnerable young schoolteacher (Betsy Blair) who shares his outlook.Marty was the first of the 'anti-epics' - filmed plays from TV which in the mid-1950s seemed like a cheap breath of spring in Hollywood, and also brought in a new wave of talent. This is one of the best, its new naturalistic dialogue falling happily on the ear; but it has been so frequently imitated since that its revolutionary appearance is hard to imagine. "},{"Title":"One of the cutest love stories.","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's very refreshing that this is a romantic movie with some real people in it for a change. With this I mean that this movie does not feature the most popular and beautiful Hollywood persons of its days. It lets the characters and the whole romantic aspect of the movie work out far better, as in being more realistic, likable and effective.This movie should be far more recognizable for the majority of people than the usual romantic-drama. People should be able to connect with its characters and I also like how the movie does not attempt to let anything some better or more beautiful than it is in real life. It's a quite powerful movie, without ever getting or trying to be melodramatic. It's really not an heavy movie to watch and actually is being quite light-hearted for most of its time.It's a real cute movie to watch, which is mainly thanks to its two main leads, who fall for each other. Both have pretty much given up on ever getting married, which was a big issue it seems back in those days. Yes, lots of aspects are being pretty much outdated by today's society standards but it's pretty easy to get into this movie and understand all of the issues that are being handled in it.The movie is quite simple with its concept but it handles quite a few issues. You're often getting views from different perspectives. For instance Marty his friends seem to have other priorities with life and women than Marty seems to have and Marty's mother gets more and more worried that her role as a mother and woman will be over once Marty gets settled. It's not just a simple love story of boy meets girl but more as well of what happens to his surroundings when a boy finally meets a girl. His whole view and priorities in life seem to change and he needs to make some choices between what is safe for him and what he truly wants. There are lot of issues being handled in this movie, which gives the story multiple layers. Far more and much deeper than you would expect from an only about 90 minutes short movie. The overall movie gets to made believable and likable due to especially its two leads but all of the other actors in general as well. It seemed like a perfectly cast movie to me, in which not all of the actors seem to be full professionals but this makes them all rather believable as 'real' people in this movie. Ernest Borgnine truly deserved his Oscar for his role in this movie. I have never seen him giving a better performance in anything. You really feel and understand the characters, just by often only looking at them.It's also a really well made movie. Appearantly it was a very cheap one to make and not much was ever expected from it. Surprisingly enough it did ended up winning even an Oscar for best picture of the year and looking at all of the other nominees that year, it seems like it truly deserved it as well. The movie is greatly directed and being creative. I like some of the long shots in this movie that really seem to capture the right mood and atmosphere for its moments.I think that Marty is one of the cutest romantic movies ever made.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A clever and smart look at our own fears and fallacies","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty demonstrates that when great acting, clever writing and smart directing all come together, the result can be heartfelt, tender, scathing and powerful; regardless of big names, budget and effects. Marty is one of the most refreshing original Hollywood films and probably also one of the most under-appreciated.The story follows Marty, an Italian catholic living in New York with his dogmatic mother and his large Italian family. His friends and family never give up the opportunity to tell Marty how he should be living his life and so he forms depressing comparisons with his brothers and sisters. As a result Marty feels worthless and trapped in his life, and relinquishes himself to never finding love. Until one night he finds a kindred spirit in Clara and the pair strike up a heartwarming and tender friendship.We discover throughout the film that each of the peripheral characters have their fallacies from Marty's mother and aunt who feel that living out their older years will only them bring them only disappointment and despair, to Marty's brother and sister-in-law who find themselves suffocated by the financial and social strains of family life, and Marty's friends who cannot find anyway to relate to guys and girls on a close personal level.Borganine is a revelation. His transformation as a socially repressed outside to a man in love with life is outstanding. He plays Marty with conviction, honesty, heart and subtlety. The performance is so natural and so heartbreaking. I immediately fell for him and could not resist feeling his joy on finding that niche in his life.Clara was a charming character and I found her quite a beautiful match for Marty. She reacted splendidly with Marty and showed us that we're not always alone in our faults and flaws. She shows us that although we sometimes feel alone, there might be someone just around the corner that truly understands our fears and feelings. The stand-out script by Paddy Chayefsky delves into the hearts and minds of all middle-class society. While very subtle, there is much to be read in between in the lines and through the rhythms and harmony in which the scenes are structured. Each demographic of society harbour fears and faults. Most of them we too afraid to admit to our family and dearest friends. Many fears prevent us from connecting with society and While irrational, they are almost impossible to shake. Marty demonstrates how can break down each other's fears if we look beyond our protective screens and learn to listen to each other.The direction by Delbert Mann is exceptional for any film whether made 40 years ago or only yesterday. There is much beauty in the way that he frames the scenes with the light, shadows and a symmetry which he begins and finishes each scene. He takes the time to observe the world around Marty and the social patterns and rituals that help us ease into old and new relationships. He fully showcases Marty's despair and joy allowing him to shine in his interactions with the world around him. Plus it was a really charmingly to immerse myself in the nightlife, splendour and conservativeness of bygone 50s New York.This earned 4 very-well deserved Oscars for Picture, Director, Actor and Screenplay. Over 40 years later, it peers into our hearts and rings so true about the clutters in our deepest personal relationships and the alienation of our social system. Marty represents those personal flaws that some of us sometimes experience and also the hope and love we attain for. "},{"Title":"A Slice of Life","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've got a hold of some tapes of original broadcasts from The Golden Age of Television and the movies that were later made of them and it's interesting to compare them. My first review is of Marty, the legendary1953 production that is often mentioned as being the summit of the era and the highly successful film Lancaster-Hecht made out of the same story two years later, a film that won the best picture and actor awards as well as first prize at the Cannes Film Festival in France.The story itself is just a slice of life, (literally). A plain-looking, overweight Bronx butcher meets up with a homely girl at a dance and decides he wants to marry her, over the objections of his mother, who is afraid of being turned out of their house and his friends who think she's a dog. And that's all there is to it. That's all there needs to be to it. It's not dramatically overpowering, just bitter-sweet and real. A typical episode of a modern TV series has more action, a more complex plot and even more complex characters. But we've lost the ability to present these simple but touching stories because there is no platform for them anymore.It's axiomatic, (but not always correct) that the original TV version is always better than the film. So is the play or the book. Something is always better than the film. But why do we keep going to them? The TV Marty was written in a matter of days, (the announcer at the beginning intones that this is the 483rd presentation of Goodyear Playhouse. Greatness is going to hard to maintain with that schedule. Fortunately, this was not a film that required too much in the way of production values. But the script of the film is a more refined work, with more to it because Paddy Chayefski had two years to work on it and another 40 minutes of screen time to work with. It's a more complete story with a greater examination of supporting characters, (especially Marty's bickering in-laws that give him a sorry example of what a marriage can be like there's also a scene of his girlfriend with her parents that is missing from the tape version).Ultimately, though, it comes down to the actors and what they bring to the characters. Several of them are the same but in the movie Rod Steiger and Nancy Marchand are replaced by Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair. In classic Hollywood style. Blair is too good looking for her part. She's not Liz Taylor but she's hardly the dog Marty's friends insist she is. She also has a hairdo that's clearly the product of tinseltown know-how. Nancy Marchand looks the part. Unfortunately the estimable Ms. Marchand, (Mrs. Pynchon in Lou Grant), puts very little into it, playing her character not like a wallflower but like a crime victim. She seems to be in shock, with an inability to emotionally react to anything. It's a reasonable question to ask what Marty sees in her and it has nothing to do with looks. Blair, on the other hand, has a sweetness that makes the attraction seem much more logical.The ultimate comparison, of course, is the two Martys. Rod Steiger is a great actor giving a great performance. Ernest Borgnine is a good actor giving a very good performance. Steiger is an introvert who wears his pain outside of his skin. Borgnine is an extrovert who hides it deep inside. He seems like a nicer fellow, one that one would make for a more interesting evening. I think he might make a better husband, too.I love looking at films of this period to see so many faces I remember from the TV shows I watched growing up, many of them still early in their careers, still hoping for major stardom. They contributed a lot to the business even if they didn't become household names. Looks for George Maharis and Don Gordon in the ballroom in the TV version and Nehemiah Persoff as one of Marty's thick-headed friends. Howard Caine, (Hochstetter from Hogan's Heroes), was the bartender. Lee Philips, his brother in law, was later the star of the glossy movie version of Peyton Place. Betsy Palmer brightened up many a game show. Johnny Berardino is one of the barflies from the movie. Frank Sutton, Gomer Pyle's nemesis, is another of Marty's pals. Jerry Paris, later Elliot Ness's first side-kick, then Dick Van Dyke's neighbor before becoming a leading TV director, replaced Philips in the movie. His wife was played by the beautiful Karen Steele, who guest starred on shows like Maverick and Perry Mason. Why didn't she make it big? "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen over a thousand movies in my time, but this is by far the greatest movie I have ever seen. I own a copy and have watched it over a dozen times. The acting by Ernest Borgnine was amazing. The scene where he calls a girl up that he doesn't want to date, and gets her reply, shows a great amount of emotion to the extent that I could feel what he was feeling. I have been there at times in my life, as I guess many have. The characters around him helped to make the movie what it was. His in-laws, his aunt, his mother , his friends, all contributed to the plot and made the movie what it was. I compare the acting of Borgnine to that of Jackie Gleason in a rare dramatic role in the movie Requiem for a Heavywieght. Both displayed emotion that drew you into the picture. I would highly recommend the movie Marty to anyone of any age bracket, as it is a timely movie, even in this day and age. "},{"Title":"Chayevsky at his, Borgnine at his and Drama at it's very best","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you haven't seen this movie, you should see it. If you have seen this movie, then you should be at least aware that it is one of the finest dramas of all time, even if you didn't like it personally.Marty was written by one of Americas greatest drama writers and possibly the greatest writer ever of television drama. Marty is in so many ways, the quintessential Drama of the 20th century, it says so very much in such a seemingly simplistic way. Like all great drama (Marty in among the greatest) it deals with the hopes,fears,joys and aspirations of life, unlike many classic dramas, Marty deals with the simple folk, the average human being and is one of the few dramas in it's macho age, that searched the depths and ever profounder depths of a gentle,loving respectful and often seriously and deeply hurting man. Everyone in it is good, Borgnine is more brilliant than words could express. "}{"Title":"A triumph for the Average Joe!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hey Marty! His friends shout. Let's go get some dames tonight! Marty is your typical average Joe. He's a real nice guy. He lives with mom who he adores. He is good to his customers at the meat shop and he'll enjoy an evening watching the hit parade with his pals. But Marty is going through a crisis. He can't seem to get a date. Poor Marty, he just doesn't have what it takes to attract beautiful women. We all fall in love with Marty, because he's just a kind and gentle soul looking for love. Ernest Borgnine is perfect in this role of the lonely bachelor trying to make a life for himself. Marty is a sweet film of homespun persuasion that will win your heart. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently picked up a VHS copy of Marty very cheap from a shop which was having a sale and was pleased I did.Marty is a butcher in his mid-30's who is still living with his Italian mother and has not yet married. He then meets a woman who is a teacher and find she has a lot in common with him. After taking her back to his home, she meets his mother who she dislikes her, as do Marty's mates. Despite all this, he phones her at the end to arrange to see each other again. Looks like Marty has finally found his perfect woman...This movie is shot on location around New York and the Bronx area and gives you an idea what these areas are like, especially at night, when a lot of the scenes were shot.The cast features an excellent performance from Earnest Borginne as Marty and Betsy Blair as his lover Clara. Esther Minciotti plays his widowed mother.Marty is essential viewing for all old movie fans. Certainly worth the 50p I paid for this! (Brand new as well).Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Clara Too.","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Delbert Mann won an Academy Award for his directing debut(as did the film itself) for this warm and heartfelt drama starring Ernest Borgine(Academy Award winner as well) as Marty, a 34-year old unmarried butcher from an Italian family who are constantly after him for being a bachelor. Marty works hard and still lives with his mother, and suffers from low self-esteem. He has a group of friends who seem direction-less, and Marty grows bored with them until he chances to meet a lonely young woman Clara(played by Betsy Blair) at a dance hall. They have a lot in common, and wind up falling in love, though his clinging mother and friends stand in the way... Fine acting and direction, with a believable story and two lead characters you come to care about. Simple but effective romance, though not quite the masterpiece its Oscars would indicate! "},{"Title":"Two Prole Dogs Find Love.","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had the great good fortune of growing into an exact facsimile of Robert Redford without the warts. It's embarrassing to have beautiful women grovel at my feet in the supermarket, begging to be my slaves. But my heart still goes out to the dogs of the world.Ernest Borgnine is Marty Piletti and Betsy Blair is Clara Snyder, two dogs who illustrate G. H. Mead's argument that we derive our identity from the reactions of others. Everybody considers Borgnine and Blair to be unattractive. Borgnine defines himself as plain ugly. And, in fact, he looks pretty repugnant, at least to me. That's why he was so often cast in the role of the sadistic heavy. Betsy Blair, on the other hand, is rather plain looking but evidently some effort was put into creating her dog character -- make-up, uncomely hair style, droopy clothes, that sort of thing, plus she ACTS servile, diffident, and defeated. Borgnine's character is, as he puts it in Paddy Chayefsky's marvelous script, a professor of pain, but he's good-natured, generous, and outgoing too, whereas Blair lives a mousy existence as a chemistry teacher.These two losers meet at the Stardust Ballroom in the Bronx and immediately a quiet mutual bond is formed between them. Chayefsky has the euphoria of love down pat. Borgnine walks Blair around the city and can't stop talking, no matter how often he tries. Blair is reserved, amused, and enormously attracted to him, as we find out later.However, all sorts of arguments are marshaled against Borgnine's intensifying the relationship which normally leads to marriage. Borgnine lives with his mother. She doesn't like Blair because Blair isn't Italian, but that's just her way of standing in Borgnine's way. She's really worried about what will happen if the nuptial knot is tied and there's another woman running the house. Worse, Mamma might be consigned to the living-room couch.Borgnine's best friend is Angie, Joe Mantell (Forget it, Jake. It's Chinatown), and he resents Blair because of the sentiment expressed in the old song, Those Wedding Bells Are Breaking Up That Old Gang of Mine. Borgnine's cousin, Jerry Paris, is battling with his wife, Karen Steele, and passionately advises Borgnine to stay single and avoid the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood.The direction is by Delbert Mann and is functional, no more than that. The photography is professional but better use might have been made of the New York locations. Roy Webb did some fine musical scores for earlier films at RKO but this is mighty dreary stuff and includes a stupid waltz that has lyrics beginning with, Hey Marty, Hey Marty, Hey Marty and goes on to the sublime, It seems like a year since we chugalugged a beer. That gets all the weaknesses out of the way, I guess. The rest is a delight in almost every respect. Maybe it resonates more with me because it's the milieu in which I grew up. Few of the characters own cars. They depend on public transport, as I did. I once dropped off a date and had to take the subway and buses back to the outskirts of Newark. Try that at 4 AM. I could have walked it faster. Borgnine gets a chance to exercise his acting chops and does a fine job of it -- much better than Rod Steiger in the TV version. Joe Mantell as Angie is equally good in a lesser part. What a career he's had -- one of those reliable supporting players that never rang the public's chimes. He was Jack Nicholson's assistant, Walsh, in Chinatown. The dialog is nearly perfect. Borgnine wants his cousin's advice on a business deal and interrupts an argument by saying, I need to know by tomorrow, so just give me a minute. You and Virginia can fight anytime. There is a hilarious scene in which five guys are sitting in a living room discussing Mickey Spillane. One guy opines that, The best thing is for a man to marry a girl twenty years younger than he is. That way, when he's forty, she'll only be twenty one. Second guy That means he'd have to marry her when she was only one year old. First guy (Pause) You know, I never thought of it that way. And some of the exchanges have acquired iconic status -- What do you want to do tonight, Marty? I don't know, Angie, what do you feel like doin'? The characters, their speech, their motives, their life styles, their fears and dreams, are all thoroughly believable. And very proletarian in nature. There's a certain suspicion of college graduates. Those college girls -- one step away from the streets. Chayefsky did a couple of these ashcan stories -- The Catered Affair and The Bachelor Party -- before tackling more ambitious projects like Network. He was quite a guy -- big and full of gusto. He died quickly, too early, without telling anyone he was ill. "},{"Title":"From the streets in a big town asking for marriage","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty  (1955) made by Delbert Mann with Paddy Chayevsky as movie from the television language transferred for the genre as documentary of characters from the streets in a big town, it was like an evidence that occurs rarely before. This man with a strong figure is like heaven on the sky of the corner, between two calls and asking for marriage with a doll nearby. Anybody likes his comprehension and good luck for small things of everyday and opportunity, surviving with friendship and better chance in a dark period of time with occasional employment and as character is a distinguished individual from the low social class with sensitivity and cruelty if necessary. A butcher with smooth voice and quite tough but enough though for his old Italian mother with whom he lives at Bronx. Nonetheless of that environment, he is still bachelor and risks somewhat to stay forever like that, given the fact that also he doesn't have apparently any possibility for attracting a girl of any kind as to live with her, like the same of his fellows by night searching like him the same thing but without any hope from the moment, namely for him who never till now came out of this circle of monotone life between the job and his consumers, more the entry of a subway, the flat of her mother of course where he talks the most of his time with her because he is a good guy. But the problem is searching a girl like him, no necessarily a beautiful one like in that dancing where he goes since he changes his mind for a bit of new style and fashion in his sad and monotone life. A woman only enough nice if by miracle of circumstances it was possible in that manner for quickly cutting down the edge of his sentimentality, always alone apart his fellows like him to talk about. Because he thinks that as ugly man, it's enough having a gentle not so much young woman, to talk about the others and making a couple as if announcing of the new way of life in the outskirts of New York City. It was a considerable changing in the mood of the character and his fashion with suit and tie was an antidote against the boring side of his personality as butcher without thinking now in his job by night with the neon for inspiring him to a honest love affair in a busy town. "},{"Title":"keep it in perspective","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A response to the review by seabisquit.This is a great little movie.What convinced me was when Marty tried to kiss Clara and she pushed him off. Marty railed against his rejection until Clara said that she didn't know how to react to his heartfelt, albeit desperate, reaction to her company. That she felt uncomfortable kissing a man she only met that evening, admitting to her own shyness and inexperience (I don't remember it word for word) rang true.Probably only the lucky few who are born attractive and grow to be popular can't appreciate rejection at some time in their lives like most of us. Are we so used to realism in the form of every detail laid bare shootings and GC that we can't appreciate the small moments of truth between two people? To me it was the same sort of moment of truth that occurred when John Travolta stood in front of the mirror in Pulp Fiction and talked himself out of making a play for his boss's wife. I'll bet there are plenty of guys who thought he was less than a man for not deciding to nail her. But it was about the subtleties of desire, and it is the same thing that gave Marty a universal quality. Of course the acting sometimes seems over the top for today, but isn't a sense of history important when evaluating a vintage film? Otherwise, lets just stop talking about anything made before The Matrix.I'll bet Quentin likes this film!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding Production","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, despite being made in 1955 carries a message that transcends time and generations. One thing that makes this film so ageless is the story could easily take place today. I am surprised Hollywood has not made a modern day version of it. I see Tom Hanks as Marty and Rene Zellweger as Clara. Many people who see this film will get a huge sense of Deja'Vu. Ernest Borgnine was perfectly cast as Marty. This film has been criticized for promoting negative stereotypes of Italian Americans but I think this may have been due to the era it when it came from. This film is probably the most underrated films of the 1950's. This film is a must see for any lover of the old MGM Classics. "},{"Title":"Good, but incomplete","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marty is a great film, but the VHS and DVD currently available have one or two minutes left out from a scene near the end Has to do with the girl telling her parents about her date with Marty, and mother & father's discussion later. Hope MGM puts this back in someday. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Great Love Stories","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty (1955)**** (out of 4)One of the all-time classics had Ernest Borgnine picking up an Oscar for his performance as Marty, an overweight, shy and lonely New York butcher who is constantly being hounded by his mother (Esther Minciotti) about when he's going to get married. Marty reluctantly goes out to a dance where he meets a homely woman (Betsy Blair) and the two quickly hit it off but back at home Marty finds that his mother isn't all that happy about possibly losing him. MARTY not only won Borgnine an Oscar but it also picked up awards for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Screenplay and after viewing the film you'll certainly understand why it was so popular. I think the true greatness of the picture is that it so perfectly captures real humans in the real world and in a real situation. There are hundreds of movies that tell stories about real events but the majority of them still come off as something straight out of Hollywood. That's certainly not the case here and I hate to use the word brave but I think it applies here due to the film's rather raw and frank look at its subject matter. There are several powerful scenes where Marty expresses why he doesn't want to try and look for a wife and he gives a rather heart-breaking speech where he talks about all the pain he's gone through and he simply doesn't want any more. It's moments like this where the rawness of the characters really come out and you can't help but feel sorry for this guy and the way he feels about himself. Borgnine is simply marvelous as the character and you really do feel as if the actor felt every emotion that comes out of him. The actor had several aspects of this character that he had to play from the depression to the eventual happiness when he finally meets this girl. The way Borgnine shows off all these emotions and the way he brings them across is something truly remarkable to watch. Blair is also extremely good in her role as she too has no issues getting the emotional power of the story across. I always laugh when people say movies eventually grow old because MARTY is proof that's not true at all. I think the film has lost none of its power and I'm sure that many people will be able to relate with Marty, his situation with his mother and his longing for someone to love. The movie isn't shy in the way the characters look at themselves and the frankness of the movie keeps it fresh because this simply isn't something found in movies today. "},{"Title":"So classic in its timeboundness","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A romantic story in New York ten or so years after the war. Italian, what's more. The story of sons and daughters-in-law with their respective mothers and mothers-in-law. It is so excessively grotesque that it becomes funny, not hilarious but frankly funny ah, ah, to the point of becoming funny strange.There is not much left to say after that. It is a classic in the form of the film. Black and white but already bigger wider screen, and the film permits good image quality so that it can work on a mass of people and on detail in the set or the costumes. They can also have that poor Marty running and dancing across a street with a wide shot. At the time television, we have the Ed Sullivan Show in one scene, could not have done that due to its low definition.This film is all the more important because it is on such works that Marshall McLuhan built a whole theory about hot and cool media. The cinema is hot because of the high definition, the wide screen and the wide shots, whereas television is cool because of the low definition and the image concentrating on one character if not a close-up shot. The picture of the Ed Sullivan Show is typical Ed Sullivan filling the whole screen.It is funny to read all that theory built on such a film and the black and white television with an oblong screen. What is most surprising is that McLuhan could not imagine what high definition TV and DVD could be. If you really want to see the difference with today's TV you watch the series Lost high definition and big screen permit wide pictures, a lot of action and numerous characters with a lot of detail. But Television enables the director to use a lot of flashbacks and flash- forwards that a cinema film could not sustain because a film has to have a rather tight timeline. Pulp Fiction is one rare film that does not follow a timeline within the plot but cut it up and jumbles the pieces. But it is one film, even one exception. The series Lost is entirely built on jumping backward and forward at every single moment. Note this is all the more possible because of the pauses in the shooting due to the presence of advertising. When you watch the series on DVD without any advertising you can follow better these time jumps but the result is some kind of flattening of time and then the present is the past and the past is the future and it is all one single simultaneous time that becomes timeless. Then death can be life and life can be death.This film here demonstrates how important it is to have a logical timeline. Strangely enough that makes the film pure entertainment and it somewhat kills any possible reflection, mental work apart from basic questions like Is he dumb enough to let the mothers roll over him? or Is he weak enough to let his men friends trample him over? And the film can easily have the punch line it has. That punch line would have been frustrating on TV, definitely not cool at all, whereas in the film it is reassuring about the sanity of men in that mother dominated urban Italian society in those 1950s.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "}{"Title":"Marty","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The leading actor of this film was known best as a character actor mostly playing menacing roles, with great films like From Here to Eternity, Johnny Guitar, The Dirty Dozen, The Wild Bunch and The Poseidon Adventure in his career, so it was a shame when he died, but it made me much more intentional on seeing this, the role that won him the Academy Award. Basically Marty Piletti (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Ernest Borgnine) is a large thirty four year old Italian-American butcher, just your ordinary average guy living in New York City in the Bronx with his mother (Esther Minciotti), but despite his good nature he is socially awkward, getting constant persistently pestering him to find love, get married and have children, like his brothers and sisters have. He is not opposed to the idea of marriage or finding romance, he has just been disheartened by his lack of confidence and sure that he will be rejected, so he become used to the life of a bachelor, and despite not meeting someone he can care for he continues his optimistic outlook on life, often uttering the words Perfect! and Fantastic!. His mother one Saturday night insists that he should go to the Stardust Ballroom in the hope of meeting a girl he can get acquainted with, and after witnessing her getting dumped by a blind date and walking out to weep on the roof he meets modest schoolteacher Clara (BAFTA winning, and Oscar nominated Betsy Blair). They spend the evening together dancing in the ballroom, walking busy places such as the streets, and they go into a diner and talk a lot, sharing their feelings, ambitions with encouragement from the other, and conversation about relationships, not having found someone special and such other things, and they find a bond with each other while doing this. They awkwardly express some feelings for each other when Marty takes Clara to his house, and just before his mother comes home, and delighted to have met her he takes her to the bus stop to go home and promises her that he will call her the next afternoon after Mass, at two o'clock, she is happy to do this, and after she leaves he punches the bus stop sign in joy. Marty's nosey and cantankerous Aunt Catherine (Augusta Ciolli) has come to live with him and his mother, she warns his mother that she doesn't want to be a widow with all the children married and living their own lives, and knowing he has feelings for Clara, she bad-mouths his love interest. Marty's friends have some envy towards him, and they don't say many nice things about Clara as well, because of her plainness and try to encourage him to forget this girl, remain part of the gang, don't marry, and with these words getting to him he has second thoughts about calling her. Marty realises though that he is in love with this woman and he is giving up the chance to find true happiness, and against the opinions of his friends, and ignores anything his mother said as well, and he dashes to the phone booth to call Clara, who is sitting alone hopelessly unhappy in front of the television waiting for the phone to ring, and the moment does see him talk to her. Also starring Oscar nominated Joe Mantell as Angie, Karen Steele as Virginia, Jerry Paris as Tommy, Frank Sutton as Ralph, Walter Kelley as The Kid, Robin Morse as Joe and Beauty and the Beast's Jerry Orbach as Ballroom Extra. Borgnine is perfect in the leading role of the butcher with low esteem who you can feel sympathy for and hope that he does find happiness, he deserved his Oscar, Blair is also very good as the woman he falls in love with and vice versa, it is a simple story of two lonely souls who find a bond because of their loneliness and true affection for each other, it is a really sweet romantic drama. It won the Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director for Delbert Mann and Best Writing, Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Cinematography, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Very good! "},{"Title":"Boy, this Guy Marty's a real nice guy, this Marty! And this  picture MARTY is a real great picture, this MARTY is!","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE QUEST for finding the next, great and singularly outstanding and memorable achievement in the World of the Cinematic Art leads one down many an extraordinarily long and twisted a road. Stories of High Adventure, Costume Period Pieces, Science Fiction /Super FX Blockbusters and Historical Dramas (like DONDI).OCCASIONALLY a common, everyday type story about common, everyday, workaday folk; living out their lives in quiet desperation gets by and finds its way to the screen. Often times a small picture, with little expectations, but a better grade of writing, intelligent direction and truthfully rendered acting by lesser-known, albeit not less talented actors, makes the grade. The combination of lack of pretension and an almost mandatory and correspondingly ingrained sort of Life of Its Own follows that sets such an underdog of a film above the run of the mill product type pf pot-boiler that the producers and distributors had figured they had.ONE good example of this type is MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING (Multi Companies/20th Century-Fox, 2002), the Nia Varcalos' tour-de-force; having been developed from her one woman stage show.ANOTHER good example would be a little, small budget, B & W film adaptation of a previously produced, live television play, MARTY by Paddy Chayefsky, produced on Goodyear Television Playhouse/ NBC Television Network, May 25, 1953. Mr. Chayefsky's play, starring Rod Steiger as Marty and Nancy Marchand as Clara was the first TV play to be turned into a movie, although the reverse process of Movies to Television had been fairly commonplace.IT was a trend setter, as many a television spawned series or play would follow the path that was trail-blazed by the Cheyefsky little masterpiece. In true show biz fashion, a veritable of deluge of material then flowed from the little screen to the big one. There were many feature film additions to existing TV Series; but also many a one shot play made the jump. We saw such individual works as THE MIRACLE WORKER and REQUIAM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT, both from CBS TV's Playhouse 90; and The Theater Guild's Production of NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS from the United States Steel Hour, ABC Television Network.* AS for our honoree of the day, the feature film version of MARTY (Hill-Hecht-Lancaster Productions/United Artists, 1955), we must comment on what we saw then and what we gave most recently re-screened (if you will).WE had seen the original TV play on some re-showing on some sort of PBS pseudo intellectual revival of old TV stuff; you know, the sort of programming that the Public Broadcasting System** would have poo-pooed years earlier. But now, years later some self-styled critic has declared to be Art.** ANYWAY, in contrasting and comparing the two versions, we have come to the conclusion that while the Movie was afforded all of the amenities that were allowable and proper for this transplanting; yet the producers didn't carry it so far as to have ruined a good thing. While the advantages of multi takes, cutting, editing and multi planed shots were incorporated into the big screen version, any temptation to push too much of a good thing onto the production's already plate. The Film made good use of the longer running time , moving up from Television's 51 minutes (Hour Show minus time outs for commercials, opening, closing, etc.) to be a slightly over 1  Hour running time at 91 to 94 minutes; depending on the version.THE film made excellent use of this extra 40 minutes, as well as so many great locales in NYC as well as in nearby eastern New Jersey. Maintaining the B & W color scheme added to the story's common touch and everyman social stratum.THOSE most powerful human motivators of sex, loneliness, love, acceptance and security were examined in their importance to mankind. Masterfully the story looks into the innermost recesses of two lonely people, mercifully cast together as the end product in a long and unlikely chain of otherwise unrelated events, or were they? FOR AFTER ALL, if one has any belief of The Almighty, or some Something greater than Self, and that would certainly seem to be the vast majority of us, one would not be unreasonable in having a deeply held belief that EVERYTHING HAPPENS FOR A REASON. Mr. Chayefsky's script and storyline would seem to reveal some inner most feelings and beliefs of the author.AND what a magnificent script it is, replete with some of the very most cleverly written dialogue ever. Whatta ya wanna do, Angie?, Marty would ask his buddy. Almost immediately a I dunno, whatta you want? would come served back like a verbal ping-pong game.OTHER most notable at various times in the play involved Marty's reassuring Clara that she wasn't such a bad dog after-all, and a car-full his buddies observing that That guy, Marty is a pretty nice guy, that Marty is. (Or some such similar chatter).AS a fine example of what a Film can truly be and what it does not need in the way of color, wide screen and a myriad of Special FX, MARTY stands as one of those truly unique and one of a kind movies. Apparently some folks in high places as Oscars were awarded to the male lead, Ernest Borgnine (hey Schultz, it's McHale!) and Best Picture of 1955.NOTE * In fact NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS made the jump from novel to that original Television performance, to Broadway and then onto Warner Brothers. In all reincarnations, it was Andy Griffith's portrayal of Hillbilly Private Will Stockdale that was the glue holding the story together. Mr. Griffith even said in an interview that he owed everything that he had to Will Stockdale.NOTE ** RIDDLE What is the difference between Obscenity and Art? ANSWER A Federal Grant! POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"Failures slow rivers of seeking to still waters.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We learn from our mistakes, so make many.One drops out of school too early, one holds on to school too fiercely. One has a parent who needs help but really doesn't, one has many friends who need too many friends. One considers career moves out of reach by women of the day, one fears undercutting competition by men from both sides of his business location. Both strive for success, but others travel much farther. Throw away little oars. Stop and feel life's depth. Love is placid, wide and deep. The warmest spot is where the two of us are, on the surface. Our strength is in our depth. Draw now from this movie direction. The direction that has no need for direction except the direction of the other. "},{"Title":"The Good and the Ugly","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A homely butcher finds a love match with a mousy school teacher in this mediocre drama, which inexplicably won the Best Picture Oscar over such nominees as Mister Roberts, not to mention a masterpiece like The Night of the Hunter that wasn't even nominated. After years of playing villains, Borgnine gets to play the good guy and the reliable actor makes the most of the title role. Blair is made to look unappealing, but she is hardly a dog, a term used repeatedly in the film to describe her. The message that ugly people have it tough is hammered home without any subtlety in Chayefsky's simple-minded script. Mann's direction is rather dreary. The ending is abrupt. "},{"Title":"Low-budget movie was a huge success at the time...","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" MARTY was written by one of America's most talented playwrights at a time when live TV was doing plays by writers such as Paddy Chayefsky. His MARTY was an overnight sensation when Rod Steiger played him in a made for TV movie. And that's what the film feels essentially like--a glorified made for television piece that could have been tailored for shows like Playhouse 90 which gave live presentation of feature-length stories.But the magic in MARTY blots out the fact that it is, after all, a low-budget film depending heavily on its realistic characters to carry the day. And the magic is--namely--ERNEST BORGNINE's deeply felt, deeply human portrait of a working class Bronx butcher who meets a girl others describe as homely, and how he's ribbed by his friends and family about his poor choice, but decides finally that she's the girl he wants to marry and has the courage to go through with it. BETSY BLAIR is warm and believable as the girl, and she's part of the magic too.But whether this simple story of a butcher's love for a simple girl from the Bronx is going to resonate heavily with today's viewers, I don't know. The story itself is still timely but anyone expecting a big Oscar-winning film will be surprised at just how modest the sets, cast and production values are in this Oscar-winning film. It does show its source as a TV play despite attempts to give it more dimension.Nevertheless, it won four Oscars including Best Actor, Best Writer (Paddy Chayefsky), Best Director (Delbert Mann) and Best Picture. "},{"Title":"Dated, repetitious, drawn-out, and still relevant","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty is somewhat hard to watch today -- it's loaded with stereotypes and moves with the speed of molasses, as if all the characters' brains were running in slow motion. Still, Ernest Borgnine remains convincing as a sad-sack butcher who gets turned down a lot at dance halls. Prim Betsy Blair is good as a plain-Jane schoolmarm teetering on the edge of spinsterhood.What's still effective here is the depiction of the characters' obnoxious social networks. Marty is told he should be ashamed not to be married -- yet when he meets a nice girl he's knocked for choosing a dog. If Marty changes, then everybody else will have to adjust -- his buddy will lose a hang-out friend and his Italian mama her home. This TV play seems padded but has a few good lines -- She told me my father always tried to understand...College girls are one step from the street!...We're just afraid to go out on our own! And the script excels at nailing some of the bad manners and the paucity of integrity that marked the dating scene then -- as it does today. "},{"Title":"The Academy went mad!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a year that saw such masterpieces as East of Eden, Rebel Without a Cause, Night of the Hunter, It's Always Fair Weather, To Catch a Thief and Love Me Or Leave Me not even get nominated for Best Picture, this little TV-style drama scooped the pool at the Oscars.  Admittedly some of the other films nominated were pretty ordinary too - Love is a Many Splendored Thing and Picnic - but they could have chosen Mister Roberts or The Rose Tattoo.  And was Borgnine's earnest performance as Marty really better than James Dean's ground-breaking performances in Eden and Rebel, or Cagney's bravura work in Love Me or Sinatra in The Man with the Golden Arm or Tracy in Bad Day at Black Rock (or for that matter Mitchum in Night of the Hunter or Henry Fonda in Mister Roberts)?So what was it about Marty that appealed so much?  Looking at it now it's hard to say.  Perhaps it was its ordinariness, its realism, its smallness. But films had been going that way for a while - On the Waterfront won Best Picture the year before.So I don't know the answer.  Having said all that this is a good film - well acted, shot and directed.  But it's certainly not a great one.  Its Oscar success is as mysterious as Gwyneth Paltrow's recent award. "},{"Title":"Another Classic Film That Disappointed Me!","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Starring Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair, Marty is about two lonely bachelors, the butcher Marty and a teacher, both getting to a point where they are giving up on love, meet each other at a social and have a fun time together on one single night. I know this film was super acclaimed back in the day, winning Best Picture of 1955, but the question is, was the film really that great??? While I was intrigued at the chemistry between Betsy Blair and Ernest Borgnine, who was the highlight in this film, the film doesn't really make that much sense in the end, especially in its plotting. It's also not really that realistic, rather focusing on a cheesy-Hollywood style romance over something that could have been meaningful to watch (it's funny cause other romances in the day considered cheesy Hollywood I like). I mean, Marty just met the girl for three hours, and the girl claims he's this great, great man, and the guy already has marriage thoughts... and that's about the point that I gave up on this movie, plus the point where there's these very obnoxious and pointless subplots that never gets resolved, such as feuding neighbors and a crazy old mother. It was a film that was played on TCM's The Essentials, and while I respect the massive acclaim it has, I don't understand its hype, and while I haven't seen the films that Marty beat out, I have a feeling that Love is a Many Splendored Thing, Mister Roberts, Picnic, and The Rose Tattoo are more enjoyable films. "},{"Title":"What are we doing tonight Marty?","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marty, the best picture of 1955, was a low-budget film.As the butcher, Ernest Borgnine gave a calm performance, much different than the sadistic Fatso in From Here to Eternity or as a gladiator in Demetrius and the Gladiators.Lonely, hanging around with a boring bunch of guys, is this what we really want out of a movie?Along comes Betsy Blair, fresh from a relationship where she has been dumped, the two are drawn into love in a simple, far from complex way.By film's end, Marty has better things to do then hear from pal, played by the late Joe Mantell,What are we going to do tonight? He has his girl.Marty's mom tells him that his friends want him to join them pick up some tomatoes. She means the food, the friends, the ladies! Wow! What a fun line!1955 had far better pictures. We had Picnic, Love is A Many Splendored Thing, The Rose Tattoo, I'll Cry Tomorrow, Love Me or Leave Me, Interrupted Melody, East of Eden. I could go on and on.Sorry Academy **1/2 for this one. "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have made many attempts to watch this movie and finally got through it on the umpteenth try. It's not that it's a bad movie, it's just very mediocre. But the Oscar for best movie and best actor (Borgnine)?? I don't get it. Marty got the academy award for best picture in 1955 and East of Eden, Rebel Without a Cause, The Night of the Hunter, The Seven Year Itch, and Blackboard Jungle weren't even nominated?? Ernest Borgnine gets the Academy Award for best actor and James Dean isn't even nominated for Rebel? Marty was not one of the top ten grossing movies of 1955, it might not have even been one of the top 20. The most interesting thing about this movie is that it is a curiosity piece for having the received Oscar for best movie and best actor based upon so little merit. "}{"Title":"Thumbs down.  Liking this movie because of it's subtlety is like liking the Cubs because they are traditional losers at baseball.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A thirty four year old NY meat cutter, living with his mother, is just too nice.  He is traditionally unable to ask girls out but finds he has a libido after all; or does he?I don't know how 'Marty' made my `must see' list, and I hate to be so harsh, but I wish I knew who was responsible so I could slap them right in the mouth.  )  Oh wait, it won the 1955 Best Picture Oscar.  What?  Dear God, have we come that far?  To me this movie was so boring, and without intrigue, as to be absolutely worthless.  Actually, no movie can be entirely worthless, it can always serve as a bad example, and this is the worst example of a Best Picture winner I know of.This movie transcends the pejorative term `predictable' because there is nothing to predict - just the `joy' of sharing the pain of overly pathetic characters.  Can I coin the term `pathetic-mongering'?  You might find yourself constantly, and torturously, waiting at the end of the various scenes for the movie to catch up as the characters drone on about how lame and hopeless they are.  In that sense, this is probably theee most non-NY NY movie I have ever seen.  I guess that was the point.  Maybe if you like silent movies, you can just turn the repetitious dialogue down and get some enjoyment out of 50s NY.  Yes Ernest Borgnine's character is believable (painfully so) but my sympathy for him was over after about 15 min. and then I just wanted to strangle him and/or the writer.  For me the high point of the movie was in the first scene where a lady customer comes up to the main character (Marty) and says `Whats'a matter with you?  My boy Frank was 19 years old when he got married.  Whats'a matter with you?'  It was the only funny line in the movie.  Marty just smiled and took it, which is what you might have to do to finish this movie.  I totally missed the point of this movie.  Good luck.The characters are like poor little birds with broken wings  Poor little birds.  "},{"Title":"skip it","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This indescribably small picture tracks a few days in the life of a shy, lonely, sad-sack butcher. He meets a girl finally, who's also nothing much in the looks department. Why? Well because the movie needs him to. They share an evening. They're both over the hill. Will this be the turning point of their lives? By any standard it's a horrible date. He nervously talks, and talks, and talks about himself. She endures it because she has no other prospects. Their mawkish date means way more than it should. They prematurely have marriage on their minds. Then, he can't bring himself to call her because his narcotized, miserable relatives prefer their rotten lives the way they are, and pass him calculatedly bad advice.I was fine with the smallness of the movie. The pathetic aspect of the duo was much less welcome, and I was disappointed that ultimately the film offers no real reason to watch it, as opposed to reading a decent analysis of it. I guess in 1955 you could argue that a movie about a homely couple was revolutionary, but it's not aging well. I found it condescending in it's own way. I was not satisfied with the pace, the complication, or the ending which arrives pretty abruptly. I found it hard to get worked up about. It reminded me of the forgotten dud 'Falling in Love' with Streep and DeNiro in which nothing happens, and actors are given too little to do. Rotten Tomatoes picked this as the number 5 best 'Best Picture' winner last week. I would argue otherwise. "}]