[{"Title":"Romance relies on ineffable mystery and destiny...","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"54 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" We all want to fall in love... The experience makes us feel completely alive, where every sense is heightened, every emotion is magnified... It may only last a moment, an hour, an afternoon, but that doesn't reduce its value, because we are left with memories that we treasure for the rest of our lives...I love watching people fall in love... It must have something to do with the excellent chemistry between the main characters...Mark Elliott, a charming sensitive American war correspondent, arrives in Hong Kong at the dawn of the Korean war... He finds in Han Suyin an awesome beauty of true grace...Han Suyin, a lovely Eurasian doctor is captivated by Mark's tenderness and insight...It was instant attraction when they first met... The two commence a passionate affair, leading them to fall deeply in love...Their love is so strong, so wonderfully expressed that highlights Elliot's married status, and the difficulties of the troubled time of the Korean War, communism and race relations... Holden is an inspired choice for the role... Not only does he have an imposing screen presence, but he brings the perfect mix of enlightenment, compassion and emotion to the part...Opposite him Oscar Winner Jennifer Jones, perfect in her oriental look, radiantly beautiful in that traditional and modern Asian-inspired Cheongsam... Jones floods her role with personal emotion giving her character a charismatic life of its own... She delivers a heartfelt performance turning her character into a woman who undergoes a spiritual and emotional awakening...Her scene in that verdant hill where she takes refuge is exquisitely touching specially when we heard Mark's voice whispering We have not missed you and I... that many-splendored thing.Henry King - who has established himself as a masterful director of romances - spreads the theme tune (by Alfred Newman) in the air above the cosmopolitan harbor... His film is colorful, elegant, with excellent cinematography and set design...Nominated for eight Academy Awards, this beautiful and sensitive motion picture won three Best Costume Design; Best Music and Best Score... "},{"Title":"A Great Many Mistakes Are Made In the Name of Loneliness","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those prophetic words were spoken by William Holden (as a war reporter) to the beauteous Jennifer Jones (as a Eurasian doctor), explaining his failing marriage on the beach. They start an affair, despite huge odds of adultery and racial issues. In Hollywood of the 1950s, interracial romance was allowed but only with dire consequences at the end. Beautiful Hong Kong scenery (although some beach scenes look studio-bound), a famous title tune, poetic script, lovely background music (by Alfred Newman), great costumes, outstanding performances, especially Jones (directed here by Henry King, who also did The Song of Bernadette - 1943, an Oscar for Jones) still make this a world-class romance weeper.  "},{"Title":"High on Their Windy Hill","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the book The Films of William Holden, the author says the film does not wear well and its popularity is due to the hit title song from the film that you could not get away from hearing in 1955. How well I remember, though I was only eight years old back then. I disagree, the film is a tremendous romance for those who like that and the location photography in Hong Kong is fabulous.A few things struck me. Since Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr had their famous romantic swimming scene in From Here to Eternity, I think that Harry Cohn was trying to one up Darryl Zanuck with having Bill Holden and Jennifer Jones do the same.I also think and I could cite other film examples from 20th Century Fox that Zanuck acquired the film rights for the original novel with Tyrone Power in mind for the male lead. Holden is fine in the part, but try and picture Power in it. Not to mention the fact that Power's favorite director Henry King is at the helm. But it is true that the song is the real star of the film. It really carries the romantic plot along. One of the great examples of the right music making a good film.Ironically both the stars dealt with a lot of heartache in their lives. Holden with his alcoholism and Jones with the various marriages and deaths of people close to her. But when you see them high on that windy hill in Hong Kong they are a pair of the most romantic lovers ever filmed.RIP Bill Holden and Jennifer Jones. Both of you dealt with so much bad karma in your lives. "},{"Title":"A love story for adults...","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this film for the first time as an adult. I still have tears in my eyes. I wish they made movies like this now, without all the crass sex stuff, that seems to be required all too often. Obviously, Jennifer Jones and William Holden (perfect casting) have great passion, but they have true to the mark tenderness. My favorite line is The greatest strength is gentleness, and William Holden portrays an intelligent, gentleman. He and Jones looked fantastic in their swimsuits, and when she asked him to bring her a cigarrette behind the rocks, I thought for sure they were going to have a torrid make out scene. (Or at least torrid by 1955 standards.) But no, she makes him wait! Also, a woman physician, who is Eurasian, was quite an idea back then. This movie was way ahead of it's time in many respects. I intend to get it on DVD, so it will last forever, just like their love!  "},{"Title":"The Most Sentimental Film Ever Made","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film in the mid 60's when I was a teenager, and it moved me so much, in fact the end scene where Han Suyin hears of Mark's death, and then rushes to the hill in disbelief, where you then hear Mark's voice saying Give Me Your Hand, and then the image of him disappears, the butterfly with it's superstitious meaning, the music, the shattered emotions of Love of Han Suyin, just left me sobbing my heart out.  I was outwardly crying bitterly, my mother and sister looked up and were shocked at my reaction.  I just left the room to be on my own.  Fortunately I do not react like that any more BUT I always cry at the end.  I love everything about the film, the music mostly, the costumes of Han Suyin, and location.  The beauty of Jennifer Jones and the handsome William Holden, they were both at their best.  I have the VHS and DVD of this wonderful movie.  I also have two versions of the Music & Lyrics by Arthur Newman and Sammy Fain.  I also have the book A Many Splendored Thing by Han Suyin.  I recommend this film 100% "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jones, Henry King and Bill Holden","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two great stars and a legendary Director created a magnificent throbbing love story that is memorable and moving on so many levels.Henry King directed Jennifer Jones in her first hit Song of Bernadette and he again directs Jennifer Jones in this film and Miss Jones is perfect in this role and gives a edgy, beautiful performance that captures the conflict in the character and Bill Holden who hit home run after home run in the l950's with a series of smash hit films beginning with Sunset Blvd, Stalag 17, Born Yesterday,Country Girl, Picnic, and of course River Kwai is superb in this role.Hard to imagine anyone but Holden in this movie I loved the ending and cry every time I see it. For anyone who has ever loved and lost, you will understand. For those who haven't, you won't. "},{"Title":"Sentimental romance","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie will likely be too sentimental for many viewers, especially contemporary audiences. Nevertheless I enjoyed this film thanks mostly to the down-to-earth charm of William Holden, one of my favorite stars, and the dazzling beauty of Jennifer Jones. There are some truly heartwarming scenes between the pair and the talent of these two actors rescues what in lesser hands could've been trite lines. The cinematography of Hong Kong from the period of filming is another highlight of this movie. All in all, a better than average romantic drama, 7/10.   "},{"Title":"THEE Definition of Star Chemistry","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Holden and Jones SIZZLE in this movie, but not in the way we think of sizzling today -- it's very subtle and under the surface -- yet palpable. Jennifer Jones, in particular, is SO SEXUALLY HOT in this film (much more than a caricature like Monroe EVER was) because she creates a real woman -- with ALL facets of womanhood She's intelligent, intuitive, graceful. She's desiring AND desirable. There's a scene on that famous hill, where she's lying down in the grass, looking up at Holden, and the expression in her eyes is X-rated, yet in the context of the scene and character, in makes complete sense. You don't need to have it all said in the dialogue -- spelled-out like the crude obviousness in most modern films. It's all there in her eyes -- sexy yet elegant. What a stunning, under-rated actress she was. (I saw her MADAME BOVARY for the first time recently and was equally blown away.) I'll take her over Bergman, Davis, or the two Hepburns any day.  "},{"Title":"`There's nothing fair or unfair under heaven.'","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"     Directed by a veteran Hollywood director Henry King who began his career still in 1915, Love is a Many Splendored Thing was one of his last great films. It was based on a bestseller by Han Suyin called simply A Many Splendored Thing the phrase that was borrowed by the author from the poem The Kingdom of God by Francis Thompson where that many splendored word `love' was used in quite a different and rather transcendental context meaning the love of God. Made in the &#145;50s, the film marked along with works by such directors as Douglas Sirk and Vincente Minnelli a sort of renascence of melodrama, its florescence and reaching yet again a peak of popularity.     The story begins when a handsome American reporter Mark Elliott played by William Holden yet once again typecast in one of his irresistible `playboy' roles comes to the Hong Kong and meets there a young and pretty Han Suyin (Jennifer Jones) of half-Chinese half-English origin who is working as a doctor at a hospital and whose husband was recently killed by the Chinese communists. Instantly Mark feels a rather strong attraction towards her but at the beginning his deep feelings are not quite reciprocated by Han's heart left cold after the death of her husband (`I believe in human heart now only as a doctor'). But very soon she yields to the persistent courting of tempting as hell Mark and both of them enter a passionate relationship apparently stoppable by nothing, even by the fact that Mark is unhappily married and his wife doesn't want to give him a divorce or social differences and prejudices caused by Han's Chinese origin. But still it's the fate that has a final word to say in determining the fairness of the eternalness of such a blissful loving relationship for no matter how enduring the two assume it to be the merciless time is waiting in a rather alarming form of death, prepared at any given moment to prove its impermanence.   Undoubtedly one of the most romantic films ever made, Love is a Many Splendored Thing features fine performances from William Holden and Jennifer Jones, wonderful Academy Award winning musical score by Alfred Newman and extremely romantic, touching, heart-warming but ultimately heart-breaking story. Don't miss that many splendored film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Poignant Doomed Romance","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love is a Many-Splendored Thing is set in Hong Kong in 1949-50, and tells the story of the relationship between Mark Elliott, a white American journalist, and Han Suyin, a half-Chinese half-European doctor. This story of a mixed-race love affair was quite a daring theme for the fifties, and, as it often did, Hollywood tried to soften the blow by casting a white actress as the supposedly non-Caucasian woman who falls in love with a white man, something that would be regarded as politically incorrect today but was quite acceptable then.. (Think, for example, of the casting of Ava Gardner in Show Boat or Natalie Wood in West Side Story) The setting of the story in a British colony was also perhaps a way of exploring racial issues in a way that would cause less controversy in America. Suyin loses her job in a Hong Kong hospital because her British superiors take exception to the fact that she is dating a white man, whom she is unable to marry because his estranged wife will not grant him a divorce. As was sometimes the case, European colonialism was made the whipping-boy for some of America's own failings. Imagine the furore that would have been unleashed had a similar film been made about a black or mixed-race woman doctor in a hospital in Alabama.Besides racial issues, the film also raises questions of international politics, referring to both the Communist seizure of power in China and the outbreak of the Korean War. Han Suyin was a real person and a well-known author of the period; in reality she tended to support Mao's Communist regime, but here she is shown as firmly anti-Communist. This is not, however, primarily an issue movie about either racialism or politics, but rather a romance, a good example of what would have been known at the time as a woman's picture. Such films, although mostly made by male directors, were mostly aimed at female audiences. They dealt with love and romance- often unhappy romance- from the woman's point of view, and had a strong female character in the leading role. The genre often provided roles for actresses older than the heroines of standard romances. Earlier examples were normally in monochrome, but by the fifties they generally, as here, used lush, sumptuous colour.Although a Chinese or Eurasian actress would have been more convincing in the role, Jennifer Jones, does a very good job as Suyin. I found William Holden, as Mark, rather uncharismatic, but this does not matter much as Suyin is very much the dominant figure. She is screen much more than Mark, and the film examines her family and professional life much more than it does his. Although Jennifer was still strikingly beautiful, she was in her mid-thirties, rather older than most romantic heroines of films of this period. Holden was about the same age, unusually for the fifties when boy-meets-girl often meant older man meets girl.The film is not particularly profound, but is well-made with some attractive photography, particularly of Hong Kong itself, reflecting the growing trend in the fifties for shooting on location rather than on studio sets. Seldom can Hong Kong have looked so beautiful; the view from a hill overlooking the city takes on a special meaning, as this is where Suyin and Mark go for their romantic assignments. The overall mood is one of poignant, doomed romance, a mood heightened by the atmospheric photography and the musical score, including one of the most memorable movie themes ever written. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Two lovers kissed, and the world stood still...","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just sat through this film again and can only wonder if we will see the likes of films like this anymore? The timeless music, the tender voices of William Holden and Jennifer Jones leave this grown man weeping through joyous, romantic scenes and I'm not one who cries very often in life. Where have our William Holden's gone and will they make these moving, wonderful, movies any more? It's sad to have to realize that they probably won't but don't think about it, just try to block that out of your mind. Even so, they won't have Holden in it and he won't appear on that hill just once more either. You can only enjoy this film and watch it again. "},{"Title":"A Many-splendored film","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I purchased the DVD for this one, having seen the trailer for it on another DVD. I am fascinated by the film for several reasons and wonder whether it was really filmed in Hong Kong. The paradisiac scenery of the film, continuous anticyclonic weather, clear blue skies, the beautiful hill with the tree behind the hospital, a deserted beach etc etc all seem to have very little to to with the pictures we see of HK today - rain, mist and thousands of skyscrapers ... could it really be the same place, or was the film in reality shot elsewhere ? Perhaps HK internauts could confirm or deny ! Does that hill with its tree really exist.In French the film is called  La Colline de l'Adieu  ( Goodbye hill )Apart from this, I don't like the Cinemascope format, all the characters seem to small, so I have to use the zoom on my DVD to fill the screen ( losing picture detail in the process of course ).Perhaps Mr William Holden liked the Orient, I'd already seen him in Suzie Wong and it was interesting to compare the two films. SW was more gutsy and crude than LIAMST.I love the theme music of this film and have countless different recordings of it. I also loved both actors, both Holden and Jones were beautiful people. Repeated viewings of the DVD have brought me to like the film more and more, but I would have preferred just a little more passion in the love scenes. Also, JJ as a Chinese person leaves a little to be desired, beautiful though she is, she doesn't have the mannerisms of a Chinese person. It would be interesting to have an Oriental point of view on this one.Should I add that the FINAL scene on the hill tightens the spectator's throat to a point of near suffocation ! "},{"Title":"This is really worth watching","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film immediately catches the eye, with the atmospheric aerial views of a very pretty Hong Hong. Filmed in those rich colours of 1950 films which modern blockbusters never seem to capture. Probably a sign of those times, because this is not a high powered, seen it all before film, full of havoc and violence. The havoc and violence are there though, in the backdrop, with thousands of refugees trying to get out of China This is a very moving and compelling story, full of hope and love in a tragic time, in recent history. The story of two people from different cultures falling in love. And the build up to them trying to overcome this is at the heart of this very fine and moving film. "},{"Title":"Truly, one of our silver screen's masterpieces","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I regard this loving, and sensitively written story, to be one of the screen's true masterpieces. After having seen this film, originally on the silver screen with my mother, in Los Angeles, California when it first came out, many years passed before I would have the opportunity to experience it again. The beauty, quiet simplistic elegance and tranquility of the film to me, set it aside from many, many others of its kind. Yes, tears still come to my eyes when I see it, and hear the refrain of that once in a lifetime song. perhaps still, today my number one all-time most beloved film. I would hope, this classic love story will be enjoyed, and appreciated, by our future generations. "},{"Title":"Lucent as a Pearl, A Story of Courageous Lovers, Barriers and Bigotry","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Age cannot tarnish the beauty of this East-west love story for me. Ignoring the famous and lovely title song and its lyrics, what we have is a dramatized biography of two remarkable people caught in a moment of counter-currents involving social conformity, bigotry, war, doubt, and the need for immense courage. With Hong Kong as the backdrop, this movie tells the story of a Eurasian doctor and a U.S. journalist who meet and fall in love during the Korean War. As Mark Elliott, William Holden is intelligent, breezy and a bit weak; Jennifer Jones is perhaps well-nigh-perfect as Dr. Han Suyin, by turns doubt-torn and ecstatic, eager and hesitant. Others in the large cast include Torin Thatcher, Isobel Elsom, Murray Matheson, Virginia Gregg, Richard Loo, Soo Yong, Philip Ahn, Jorja Curtright and Donna Martell; many of Hollywood's best oriental actors played smaller uncredited parts also. The script by John Patrick followed Han's exquisite novel closely; the direction by Henry King was solid as always. The thrust of the storyline is how unwilling Han was to fall in love with Elliott, with her busy and demanding schedule as a doctor and her doubts about their future; and how unafraid he was, despite the intolerance and interference they faced as their affair became known. The film is unarguably physically busy, interesting and often beautiful also. The hill to which the lovers go to be apart, the lovely bay where they swim are set against an already busy and crowded business city, large social events, and teeming streets, hospital corridors, and traffic-filled arteries. With cinematography by Leon Shamroy, Ben Nye's makeup and Helen Turpin's hairstyles, the great work by set decorators, sound and lighting, art department and all concerned, this has to be one of the most memorable productions set in a major non-U.S. city of all time, and one of the most difficult to capture on film. Yet what one remembers most here is the lovers, thankfully not extremely young, facing the odds against them and assessing exactly what they are--then going ahead as if love mattered and those conditions which are set up as barriers to love do not., The climax of the affair is Mark's going back to war; thereafter Han receives his letters, even after she knows he is has been killed; they seem messages from a better wold. A world where hope is all that matters, courage is the price of admittance to that world, and it is always summer on a high and windy hill set apart and above a zone where beauty and individual desires can be victimized, made subject to ill-fortune or brushed aside by militant forces of evil. Truly, love is a many-splendored thing, Dr. Han says; and this movie stands as one of that doctrine's shining proofs, lucent as a pearl, timeless as a Chinese proverb and lovely as polished jade set against a rough background. "},{"Title":"This is the single greatest Hollywood romantic film of all time...","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... in my opinion, of course. There are films that come close-- An Affair To Remember, Rome Holiday, and several others. But for sheer appeal to die-hard romantics like myself, Love Is A Many-Splendored Thing is the absolute pinnacle. It qualifies as a perfect romantic vehicle in my mind because of it's perfection in all areas of the cinematic art-- story, script, location, acting, even in it's controversial subject matter, illicit love. But in the capable hands of William Holden and Jennifer Jones (a truly inspired bit of casting), both still in the prime of their careers, it became a thing of beauty forever. In fact, one totally forgets the racial context of their love affair, leaving only the passion and romance. I even loved the theme song, which like the film itself, has become a romantic standard over the many decades since it was made. This was the first movie that made me cry like a baby, the dramatic emotional impact in my life, totally unforgettable. This epic film, exploring everything from racism to the the horrific toll of war, is one for the ages. "},{"Title":"Chinese Proverbs, knowing butterflies, fortunes told...nothing can stop fate!","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Han Suyin's autobiographical novel A Many-Splendored Thing becomes glossy, unconvincingly clean and luxurious romance set in Hong Kong, 1949, wherein a widowed female doctor of Chinese-English descent falls for an American correspondent stuck in a loveless marriage. John Patrick adapted Suyin's story, apparently turning her heartfelt remembrances into swooning romantic dross complete with poor dialogue exchanges (He I can't believe you're a doctor. .. She Too bad we don't have a scalpel, I could make a small incision.). Dark-haired, pale-skinned Jennifer Jones meets handsome, smiling William Holden at a party and immediately feigns indignance, as if widowed women bury their sexuality (or feel they must appear to) once a man takes an interest in them. Henry King directs the proceedings with a gentle touch, bringing it all to a misty-eyed flourish, yet Jones' character is never an embraceable one. Constantly referring to her heritage (and the fact she's Eurasian), this lady is forthright in all the wrong ways (she'd be more likely to turn off Holden's reporter rather than keep him around). Jones (who got an Oscar nomination) and Holden do create a loving rapport which becomes sweeter once Jennifer loosens up. This hard-working woman curiously puts a great deal of stock into superstitions (omens, Proverbs, butterflies), which seems out of step with such a no-nonsense lady; the sequence where she travels back home to Chunking to visit relatives is also odd (it doesn't take shape, it just appears as though she's running away). Holden performs in a low, easy key and glides through rather unperturbed (nothing ruffles this guy, but there's nothing to explain his devotion either; the man is obviously touched by this woman, but that doesn't tell us much about him). Alfred Newman's Oscar-winning music (and the memorable, Oscar-winning theme song by Sammy Fain and Paul Francis Webster) are lovely, and the locations are gorgeous, though the obvious studio shots are too tidy--even the hospital where Jones works seems overly opulent. A nice-enough weeper for soap fans, though one without the substance to entice a wider audience. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A Tear-Jerker Romance! Holden at his Peak!","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film always hits me hard emotionally at the end. Though the issues of the film - interracial romance and adultery - were controversial at the time, this film goes way beyond those narrow parameters and instead penetrates into ground-breaking novelty and trail-blazing uniqueness. Here we have a true love story, as written by the woman involved in this love affair, told in a brilliant aggressive style that extols the virtues and glory of mad passionate love. I love this endorsement of the only emotion that makes life truly worth living. Jennifer Jones is full of grace and William Holden is simply magnificent in his role as a reporter. A wonderful film that only people who have been in this kind of love can really appreciate and understand. And for those who haven't yet been in love, even just the hope that one day lightning can strike for you makes life worth living - because love is worth having even if but for a short time - even if you lose - because love is the stuff - the essence - of life. This film works for me. A warmly felt experience! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, intelligent romantic drama.","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" On a second viewing, this is still a wonderful romance that is, in my opinion, much better than the film it came paired with on my 2-DVD set, the Leo McCarey weepie classic An Affair To Remember. Yet it seems to have fallen out of favour slightly (Only a 6.6 rating here on IMDb, and dismissed by many critics as gooey slush). How sad, because this is an intelligent romantic drama with very good work by the two leads, Jennifer Jones and William Holden. If anything the film should be well-remembered for the gorgeous colour cinematography and the unforgettable musical score. I don't much like Valentine's Day but it gave me an excuse to watch this movie again, and I'm glad of it. While I still think Holden's character death is too heavily foreshadowed, taking suspense out of the final scenes, this film is very moving and I really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Love A Many Splendored Thing***1/2 Morning Mist 2 Lovers Kissed & the World Stood Still","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The beautifully engaging song with the same name as the film won the best song Oscar in 1955.Love is a many splendored thing.It's the April rose that only grows in the early spring.Love is nature's way of giving a reason to be living.That golden crown that makes a man a king.Once on a high and windy hillIn the morning mist two lovers kissed and the world stood still.Then your fingers touched my silent heart and taught it how to sing.Yes, true love a many-splendored thing.How can we forget such a beautiful song. Henry King, the director, had the privilege to work with Jennifer Jones twice that year for this film and the greatly under-rated film Good Morning, Miss Dove. Jones was nominated for Splendored Thing but she could have been easily nominated for Miss Dove as well.William Holden is just great as the war correspondent sent to report on the Communist revolution in 1949 China. His love for Jones, an oriental doctor, was endearing and so memorable to watch.While the ending is not pleasing, this is still one of the greatest romances ever put on the screen. "}{"Title":"A tamed Jennifer Jones.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Jones was at her best when she played rebel characters unforgettable are Pearl in Duel in the sun ,Ruby Gentry in the eponymous movie,Hazel in gone to earth .Besides, her Madame Bovary outshines all the other actresses ,be they Valentine Tessier in REnoir's work or Isabelle Huppert in Chabrol's.Love is a many-splendored thing,although it has a splendid score,cinematography and competent acting displays a tamed,self-conscious and finally not always completely convincing Jonesneither her or her friend Susan are credible as Eurasians (Susan is blonde ,at that!).When she comes back to her roots (that is to say her Chinese family),we find it hard thinking Jones and them a family unit.Despite the several reservations expressed,love is a many-splendored thing is a good work and an unqualified must for melodrama buffs.The scenes on the hill are very moving.Actually Jones is closer here to Bernadette -which King also directed- than to her desperate romantic heroines eaten up with passion. "},{"Title":"Star magic","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The stars have real chemistry in this movie. Jennifer Jones and William Holden have some screen magic in this movie, which is very romantic but not disgustingly so.  The Hong Kong locations are great to look at also.  I would recommend this to anyone in the mood for a good old-fashioned movie.  "},{"Title":"Sentimentally Wonderful Silver Screen Romance","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on the book, A Many Splendored Thing by Han Suyin and tackles issues of race relations between Asians and Whites, a topic that comes from Han's personal experiences as an Eurasian growing up in China. That background, and the beautiful Hong Kong settings, gives this love story a unique and rather daring atmosphere for its time.Other than that, the story is a stereotypical romance with a memorable song that is perhaps more remembered than the movie itself. The beautiful Jennifer Jones looks the part and gives a wonderful, Oscar nominated performance as a doctor of mixed breed during the advent of Communism in mainland China. William Holden never looked better playing a romantic lead as a journalist covering war torn regions in the world. The acting is top notch, and the chemistry between the two lovers provides for some genuine moments of silver screen affection sure to melt the hearts of those who are romantically inclined.The cinematography really brings out fifty's Hong Kong, especially the hilltop overlooking the harbor where the two lovers spend their most intimate moments. The ending is a real tear-jerker. Some may consider sentimental romances passé, but, for those who enjoy classic Hollywood love stories, this is a shining example. "},{"Title":"We shall now have tea and speak of absurdities.","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" That line never fails to make me laugh when I hear it within the context of an intentionally dramatic scene in this atmospheric 1955 romantic sudser that was a big hit in its day thanks to the familiar Sammy Fain theme song. At the same time, the somewhat patronizing Orientalism of that line represents much of the arm's-length approach the film has in reflecting U.S. attitude toward China in the 1950's. Viewed by today's standards, the result feels emotionally simplistic like a more thoughtful Harlequin romance novel, even though the production values are first-rate. However, the bigger problem is the unfortunate lack of chemistry between the two leads, Jennifer Jones and William Holden. Their characters' romance never quite resonates, and the pacing is not helped by Henry King's lugubrious direction.Set against the backdrop of the 1949 Communist Revolution, Han Suyin, a Eurasian doctor in Hong Kong falls for Mark Elliott, a married war correspondent. The film focuses on their somewhat illicit love story at a time when a relationship between a half-Chinese, half-European woman and an American was considered as forbidden as the resulting adultery. The racism and culture clashes between East and West take up much of the storyline with the lovers surrounded by English colonialists thriving on the class distinctions left over from the Victorian era, and by her equally traditional Chinese relatives who shun the imprint being left by the Europeans. The film benefits immensely from the use of actual Hong Kong locations with the cinematography by Leon Shamroy and Charles G. Clark providing a textbook example of how to create the right atmosphere given the exotic locations.Because of her Svengali-like relationship and eventual marriage to mega-producer David O. Selznick (Gone with the Wind), Jones had an interesting array of roles during her career. She can be appealing in the right role (Portrait of Jennie, Beat the Devil), but she never quite brings this conflicted character to life. Burdened with trying to look and act Chinese, she comes across as stiff and actressy, although she improves as the story moves along. As Mark, Holden is wasted in a relatively colorless role given that he was at his career peak at the time, and despite his expressions of enduring love, he can't seem to create sparks with Jones like he did with Audrey Hepburn or Grace Kelly. Even with all its flaws, the movie is still worthwhile to see for its lush production and for the surprisingly robust set of extras on the 2003 DVD with a commentary track provided by film historian Sylvia Stoddard, UCLA film scholar John Burlingame, and cinematographer Michael Lonzo. Stoddard and Burlingame fill in a lot of the interesting details on the life of the real Han Suyin, while Lonzo's comments are limited to the technical details of the CinemaScope production. "},{"Title":"A Winning Romantic Concoction","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the 1952 autobiography A Many-Splendoured Thing, Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (1955) tells the story of Han Suyin, focusing on the romance that Han, a widowed Eurasian doctor in 1949 Hong Kong, had with a married American correspondent named Mark Elliott. I don't want to feel anything again, ever, Han tells Mark soon after they meet, but the two soon develop the mutual irresistibles for each other, and who can blame them? Mark is played by William Holden at the near peak of his hunky-dude period (the following year's Picnic would be the peak) in this, the first of three films over the next seven years that would find Holden in China (1960's The World of Suzie Wong and 1962's Satan Never Sleeps being the others). And Dr. Han is here played by Jennifer Jones, who, although not a Eurasian (unlike yummy Nancy Kwan and pretty France Nuyen of those other exotic Holden films), does a credible job of passing as one. Whether dressed in cheongsam, European frock, surgical gown or (hubba-hubba!) bathing suit, Jones looks ridiculously gorgeous here. No wonder East meets West in this film so dramatically! With its two appealing lead stars, breathtaking Hong Kong scenery, beautiful CinemaScope and color, Oscar-winning costumes and that classic, Oscar-winning title song that wafts through the film like a lovely incense, Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing turns out to be quite the winning and romantic concoction. Han herself supposedly did not care for the picture, so I can only imagine that great liberties were taken with her source material. Still, I enjoyed it. And if the film's ending causes a tear to come to the eye, just remember Mark's words of wisdom Life's greatest tragedy is not to be loved. "},{"Title":"sad beautiful love story","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It stars war correspondent William Holden separated, who falls in love with a stunning Eurasian doctor Jessica Jones set against the stunning backdrop of Hong Kong. The cinematography is magnificent as they rendezvous on a hill overlooking Hong Kong. The story deals with racial tensions, society frowning on mixed relations and extra marital affairs. But what I love about it is the strong character of the heroine portrayed by Jessica Jones, who is a Eurasian doctor, who stays humble and steadfast in her altruistic mission and stays loyal to her love. Despite that, she gets sacked at her hospital for cavorting with a married man by gossipping high rankers. One day William Holden is called to the Korean war which he covers and then that ill fated day, she gets the news of his demise. The end, of course is tragic, I cried when she went to their hill. It was a very sweet ill fated love affair. It defeats all the odds, the fact that she got fired from her job, how his wife would not grant him a divorce yet their great love persevered--they experienced a great love despite it all. I personally do not believe in extramarital affairs, and think he should have not started something when he was bound to someone else and she should not have allowed herself to let it happen, but despite that a truly magnificent movie. I think the heroine overshadowed the hero. Jessica Jones is sultry and gave a magnificent performance although I thought it strange they didn't not hire a real Asian actress or someone with Asian blood. I agree with one review, Jessica Jones oozes sexuality when she lays on the ground and looks up at William Holden speaking calmly but her eyes say come take me now.I find it a pity most great films were made before I was born, it seems many Hollywood movies are lacking in depth, great acting and depend entirely on stunts and heavy sex scenes. This is truly one of the greatest ill-fated love stories in movies. "},{"Title":"Timeless Classic","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some movies just stands up to the changes of time. This is one such movie. Why it never gets old is because it's a quality production, with good settings and story.I really love this movie, although the story is kind of simple, the situation is not. Jennifer Jones plays an Eurasian woman from Chung King, and William Holden a reporter from Singapore. Two people from a very different background meet in one of the most international city in the world - Hong Kong - where old Chinese culture and new capitalism meet. Now that would be confusing to anyone who's trying to sort out their relationship.The movie combines all these elements well, and exotic Hong Kong location adds to the beauty of the story. It's interesting to see Hong Kong in 1955, comparing it to Hong Kong of today. Some places looks similar like the Victoria Peak (although it has no high rise buildings), but Aberdeen was much less crowded.Music score is a real tear jerker.If you like romance, this is one of the best movie you can watch. "},{"Title":"Sad, larger than life, timely, overreaching, beautiful, etc etc!!","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love is a Many-Splendored Thing (1955)This should have been could have been terrific, and it won five (five!) Academy awards, including for it's now more famous title song. One reason it was a hit was it was deeply romantic and epic and yet dealing with a vividly disturbing issue for Americans, the take over of China by Communist rule. William Holden, at the height of his fame, holds his own in his restrained and slightly diffident way, and Jennifer Jones is forceful and believable and likable, if a hair too mannered for my taste and too frankly lovely for the good of the movie. This is a love story set against a new kind of wartime, leading eventually to the Korean War, and there is nothing better for a movie than love and war. Ask Tolstoy. The filming is wide screen saturated color in that first two years of this kind of spectacle, and like other films of the mid-fifties it falls victim to being pretty at times. The events are set in Hong Kong and that's part of the visual charm, but it's also a distraction for the filmmakers, drifting (just slightly at times) into a travelogue. There, all my reservations are out of the way. If you can not worry about how good the movie is or what it could have been (compared to others, or just on it's own formal terms), it's a vivid, engrossing, politically loaded situation with two charming and beautiful actors. It might be a surprise that Jones plays a Chinese doctor (Eurasian, officially), Dr. Han Suyin (Jones was actually an Oklahoma girl), but this is what Hollywood was still demanding of its casts, afraid to diversify. And depending on star power to succeed. Holden plays Mark Elliott, a journalist.As the affair begins between our leads, Dr. Han Suyin (a widow) says to Elliott, after he wonders why she'd go out with a married man, I thought if you were happily married there could be no danger, and if you weren't it could make no difference. And it begins there, freighted with desire and worry. You know somehow that things will not go smoothly, and they don't, though the plot is oddly prosaic at times. It's partly the script, but also, oddly enough, the filming, with a very static camera (which sits and waits as the actors talk, beautiful backdrops and all). I think Jones and Holden are creditable in their roles, a good word because it's so awkward and awful.One thing that happened for me, in 2011, was getting washed in nostalgia. It's a movie about falling in love as the world is spinning out of control around you. It's before cell phones and constant news--so some of the best scenes are out of touch with everything in the world except the two of them. The music swells, the sun hits the blue waters in the bay, and it seems like a huge escape. I suppose that's what it was for them, from their histories, from their obligations. Eventually the world caught up, however, and things unravel.Another great thing about the movie, however old-fashioned the approach might seem, is the racial conflicts at work, for and against them. It is maybe the big theme of the movie, when all is said and done. This is a tear jerker of the largest magnitude. Soak it up. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 20th Century Fox had a great hit in Love Is A Many Splendored Thing starring Jennifer Jones and my candidate for the best ever American Leading Man William Holden. Directed by Henry King (who directed Ms. Jones in her Oscar winning Song of Bernadette and who would direct her years later in the sublime Tender Is The Night). William Holden is perfect and dashing and manly and All American in the lead and top billed star. Jennifer Jones-looking beautiful- plays an Eurasian doctor who falls for a married man. Expert camera work by 20th ace Leon Shamroy and great set design. ( Hong Kong in those days was an isolated area adjacent to the then Red China and had a mystery all to itself. The back story of this movie is that William Holden adored by his co stars one of which Barbara Stanwyck made a truly moving and memorable reference to her golden boy when she was awarded an Honorary Oscar, William Holden was a real ladies man and co starred with Susan Hayward, Kim Novak, Sophia Loren, Lucille Ball, Judy Holiday and had affairs with co stars Audrey Hepburn, Grace Kelly and Capucine but when it came to Jennifer Jones, Holden and Jennifer did not get along at all in real life, Hard to believe because the chemistry of the two stars is so apparent on the screen.The ending of the film is memorable and Ms. Jones received Her 5th Oscar nomination. William Holden should have been nominated as well. "},{"Title":"The Best love movie forever","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is the best one forever upon the warm feelings of this real love story during the Korean war by the story of Hy sun the Eurasian doctor and Mark Elliot an American corespondent at the shadow of different habits between east and west upon his quotation in the love scene between two lovers when he invited her to dance (The relationship between east and west must be close) in spite of Chinese habits and customs that destiny made their great role by appointing between them to replace the pains for both (Elliot suffered from failure marriage ) and (Hy sun suffered from the harmful shoot of her husband by Chinese communists at the time of Mao Ze dung in 1949).She could not stop the decision of destiny in spite of her practical profile because love has a magnetic spirit for everyone seek for happiness , soul and brilliant memory as the final quotation by the voice of Elliot after his death and the sadness receive for Hy Sun for this hard situations when she went to the hill the source of this love under the tree to say goodbye for his body and live with his soul among their souvenirs. "}{"Title":"I've loved this movie since I was a little girl.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie used to show often as I was growing up and was compelled to watch it whenever I found it viewing. It took quite a while for me to locate a copy of the film on video, but Hooray!!, I finally got one. It still makes me cry. Love the film. "},{"Title":"Not Bad..Hong Kong is highlight","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a William Holden fan..I am not too nuts about Jennifer Jones though. I guess I still can't get past the way she suppose to have treated Robert Walker when she dumped him for Selznick.  In any case she is pretty good in this movie as a Eurasian doctor in Hong Kong. Spoiler ahead.  She gets involved with Holden who is playing a newspaper man covering Asia,  he's married.  It doesn't take them long to fall in love.  Her career is jeopardized and his wife will not give him a divorce.  Oh boy..do we have to guess that one of them is not going to make it to the last scene of the movie. But the highlight of the movie was Hong Kong!! It is a great travelogue for the city.  I also like the controversial issues they approached.  Such as Jones classmate posing as a white woman so she can date rich English men.  Communism is a touched upon because of the situation on mainland China. Her sister is in a mess living with some foreigner on the mainland disgracing her family.  These sidebar stories are more interesting then the main story which is nothing different then any other married man involved in a affair movie. Nice mindless entertainment. "},{"Title":"beautiful film....but...","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...what director today would dare have that love theme music (as lovely and beautifully haunting as it is) play over and over again on the soundtrack??? I'm sorry to say by today's standards too schmaltzy when overkilled like this.Don't get me wrong...I think Alfred Newman was one of Hollywood's greatest, but there is time when too much of the same theme is just too much.The cinematography (Leon Shamroy, who btw also did South Pacific) is gorgeous,and like a film from Fox released around the same time (Island in The Sun by Freddie Young) helps save this one. "},{"Title":"It has changed so much!","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" After many, many years I saw again this beautiful love story, thinking about how would I, half a century after, react to a film which made so many girls cry and sigh at that time, when I was just an male adolescent trying to understand women's behaviors, in a small city in Brazil.This time, however, what caught my attention in the film was something very different, namely the insistence with which the physician Dr. Han Suyin (Jennifer Jones) makes clear to the journalist Mark Elliott (William Holden) her special ethically condition as an Eurasian. In fact, she is constantly putting emphasis on this point in their relationship, repeating she is willing to assume her love for him and carry it on in a occidental way, provided that, by doing so, she is not betraying her Chinese side. Its seems to the spectator that Suyin is eagerly making efforts to establish a very subtle conciliation between those two unstable and opposite aspects of her culture, for they will immediately engage in overt conflict in her mind at a minimum failure in her attempts to control them.Therefore, Suyin's attitudes always leave poor Elliott &#x96; a determined, brave and extremely practical man &#x96; anxious and perplexed, without knowing how much importance to give to her words. For him, whose love for her is plain and simple, the situation is totally clear if we love each other, let us make a couple and begin immediately a life together. Not so fast, is what she seems, verbally and non-verbally, to answer him all the time.In fact, Suyin's Chinese portion would never allow her such a level of pragmatism. And, as she goes on and on reinforcing this much aimed equilibrium between those two worlds inside herself, she also frequently signals to him that also a very peculiar trait of Chinese culture is deeply rooted in her mind, namely the constant raids on the real world by invisible beings from an spiritual or non-physical world. For Suyin is always alerting Elliott about how dangerous is life, not because of any objective and concrete threat (as would be the perpetuation of the English colonialism or the eminence of a Japanese invasion), but due to the threats of plenty of cruel and harmful gods and other mystical and mythical beings over the poor, fearful and vulnerable human beings.In fact, it looks like a whole bunch of Chinese deities are permanently on the watch to make people's life totally miserable. Because of that, mothers must dress their precious male babies in girls clothes, so that they are not taken away by jealous gods; everyone should always be ready to make loud noises to send the clouds away, in order to avoid their covering the sight of the moon; peasants are advised that they should shout loudly The rice is bad! The rice is bad! to protect their crops from being stolen by deities; and, in a funeral, it is recommended that the dead's family be isolated from the other people by curtains, so that the gods don't take advantage of their sorrow and fragility.In other words, Suyin introduces us to a culture in which the supernatural has a real existence, as if a rather disturbing pantheon of malign and sadistic gods are always on the verge of negatively interfering with the most banal acts in anyone's daily life.As the story takes place in Hong Kong in 1949, it should be clear that China really was, at that time, almost a semi-feudal society, while the country from which Elliott had come from was not yet dominated by the fierce capitalism that, launched by the USA after the first oil shock in 1973, took charge of the whole world. Therefore, at least in one aspect, both sides of Suyin's Eurasian personality were still much more innocent than they would be today.A lot of History came into being since those old days. As to China, the main fact is that, after several phases of a communist regime, the country finally reached, in the last two decades, the condition of a very aggressive economy much more properly described as State capitalism. And, what happened to that old spirituality that so much enthralled Suyin in Hong Kong, in 1949, and with which she used to impress so much an impassioned Elliott, under that tree on the hill behind the hospital? It is gone, completely gone! In brief, if that story took place today, Elliott would not find it necessary to go to China to propose to Suyin in the presence of the Third Uncle and her entire family. In fact, both men would now be incomparably closer to one another, in their huge pragmatism, talking business as usual! "},{"Title":"Jennifer and Bill went up the Hill","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Hong Kong, Eurasian doctor Jennifer Jones (as Han Suyin) is unable to resist falling in love with clean-shaved newspaperman William Holden (as Mark Elliott). The movie is rather long and unconvincing; and, the much-ballyhooed star pairing lacks passion. Still, it won Photoplay awards for Best Picture, Actor, and Actress. The film's main strengths are its Sammy Fain/Paul Francis Webster theme song, and Leon Shamroy's beautiful Hong Kong cinematography. Decca recording stars The Four Aces filled the autumn of 1955 with their million-selling #1 hit version of the title song; and, coming in under three minutes, it's a superior way to experience Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing.****** Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (8/18/55) Henry King ~ Jennifer Jones, William Holden, Isobel Elsom "},{"Title":"THE big date movie for 1956....didn't work for me,sadly...................","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" One summer night in 1956 it was a straight choice between this and The Man With The Golden Arm.Frank Sinatra in a controversial junkie movie with a cool Elmer Bernstein score and Shorty Rogers as a band - leader. Did I want to see William Holden and Jennifer Jones in a schmaltzy love story with a soppy theme song that was all over the radio?You couldn't escape from it.All the record shops in Brighton were playing it,even Woolworth's own label,Embassy,were selling out of copies.My girl - friend thought Sinatra was square and Shorty who? was her only comment when I mentioned the music,so Love is a many splendurd thing it was then. She sobbed throughout and clung onto my hand - which was a plus.I smoked my Olivier(nothing pretentious then!) right up to the corked tip before tucking into the recently off- ration Cadbury's bar until I felt slightly nauseous. Up on the screen Jennifer Jones was totally unconvincing as a Eurasian doctor in love with gruff,cynical William Holden,American Newshound. The more Miss Jones mentioned the fact that she was Eurasian the less I believed her - for a start her eyes seemed to have changed shape from time to time and she seemed to have trouble talking in Chinese on the few occasions she attempted to do so.She was too matronly to be sexy,too girlish to be a doctor.This was not helped by the fact that the Chinese actor who played her colleague read his lines as if they were the instructions for a particularly complicated item of electronic equipment. Whenever Mr Holden was supposed to be happy and gay(Ah,those were the days when a chap could be gay without looking over his shoulder)he merely succeeded in looking marginally less grumpy than usual. And the bit on the high and windy hill?Well,my girlfriend was almost beyond comfort by then,the heavenly choir soaring into space on the back of that all - too - familiar tune.I found an old handkerchief wrapped round a half - empty packet of Spangles in my pocket and handed it to her in a gesture she mistook for being one of eternal devotion when all I wanted to do was get her cleaned up for the walk to the bus station. As we walked hand in hand down a West Street blisfully free of drunks,dopers,cardboard city dwellers and Big Issue salespeople she began to sing Love is a many splendoured thing in a soft,sweet voice and I realised,perhaps rather belatedly,that we were not ideally suited. "},{"Title":"Love Is A Many-Splendored Thing?... Oh? Really!?","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" After patiently sitting through this 1955, star-vehicle, meant solely to showcase the likes of Jennifer Jones and William Holden, I'm now convinced that love is a many-demented thing. It really is. As on-screen lovers, I found Jones and Holden had as much chemistry going between them as do two, cross-eyed slugs meeting for the first time.I think - The only audience that this trite, mixed-race tale of semi-forbidden romance could ever appeal to would be those who (within watching the first 10 minutes of this film) still cannot figure out where this one's story is inevitably heading. (Yes. This picture's story was really that predictable) This film also lost itself some significant points because director Henry King did not see the importance (as I do) of taking lots of close-ups of the actors' faces as they deliver their dialogue, pretending to emote real feelings of passion, anger, sorrow, etc., etc. King held the camera back so far that I couldn't tell, a good part of the time, what the real expression was on these people's faces.*Note* - Be prepared to end up hating (like I did) this film's title song Love Is A Many-Splendored Thing by the time the story is over, due to repeated strains of this popular tune being constantly recycled throughout the entire course of its 102-minute running time. "},{"Title":"So wrong, yet so right","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Such a lovely film, even with all of it's many faults. The script is really really bad, there is not much chemistry between the two leads, and casting Jennifer Jones as Eurasian is just silly and borderline offensive. Yet this is a very entertaining film. The scenery is absolutely beautiful, and seeing the Hong Knong of 1950s is quite fascinating. The decor and clothes are stunning, as is the always handsome William Holden. And of course the theme song is a classic. And yes, I got some tears in my eyes at the end. If you judge it by today's standards it's quite ridiculous, but even though it feels rather fake and unrealistic, it still manages to touch you. "},{"Title":"Talk About Title Song Overkill","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" After watching this 1955 soap opera - I'm now convinced that love is not a many-splendored thing. No. It isn't.It was so easy to see, almost right from the start, where this trite, little Romantic-Drama was going. It held absolutely no surprises for this viewer. And its ending was one of the most laughable that I've seen in a mighty long time.And, if that wasn't bad enough - Strains of this film's title song swelled up so often throughout the course of the story that it ended up making me absolutely sick to death of hearing it.This film, now 60 years old, may have satisfied its audience back in the good, old days, but, today, it's just an easily-forgettable nothing of a picture, if you wanna know the truth. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I both enjoyed this movie.  It struck us as a possible propaganda movie during a period when anti-communism was building in the US. Very nice scenes of Hong Kong.  "}{"Title":"Splendor in the Grass of Hong Kong","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love blossoms between a half-Chinese doctor and an American correspondent in late 1940s Hong Kong in this glossy Hollywood romance starring Jennifer Jones and William Holden. The film looks exquisite with lots of mobile camera-work and dazzling Oscar winning costumes; Alfred Newman's rousing score also won an Oscar and is arguably the film's best feature, adding atmosphere throughout and never overbearing. While the film looks and sounds great though, the story is pretty bare bones. The only hindrances to the central romance are Jones considering her Chinese roots (something a little awkward since she never looks Chinese) and the question of whether or not Holden is genuine in his intentions since he does, after all, have a wife at home. It is not quite enough though to support a feature length film and while subplots involving a sister's romance and a sick little girl carry some interest, they ultimate add up to little. Indeed, once it becomes clear that Holden does in fact genuinely love her, little else in the way of suspense or mystery exists to drive the plot. The film was quite popular back in its day, winning a third Oscar for its theme song and receiving a Best Picture nomination (over Best Director nominee 'Bad Day at Black Rock'!) and the appeal is certainly understandable. The locations are great, the technical credits are top notch and Jones offers an appealing performance, but whether the film has much more to offer is highly questionable. It all depends upon what one is looking for in a film. "},{"Title":"An Unusual Romance","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A widowed doctor of both Chinese and European descent (Jennifer Jones) falls in love with a married American correspondent (William Holden) in Hong Kong during China's Communist revolution.I love William Holden, so I appreciate him in this story. Jennifer Jones I am not as familiar with. Looking back now, it seems sort of racist to have a white woman play a Chinese woman, but at least she is only half-Chinese, so it is not as blatant as the roles that Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre were playing.How close this fits into the actual story from the memoir, I do not know. But as someone who loves the history of the Korean War, I appreciate how this has factored in. For those who have forgotten, between World War II and the Korean War, the Chinese switched from being American allies to American enemies. How that might affect a Sino-American romance is something only those in one could know. "},{"Title":"Love Is A Many-Splendored Thing","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is based on an autobiographical novel written by Han Suyin, a Eurasion doctor during the time of the Communist Revolution in China. Dr. Han is female and has a love affair with Mark Elliot, an American war correspondent in Hong Kong. The movie came out in 1955, during an period of romantic movies, and there could not be a more romantic story than this one. The couple has to deal with racism and cultural differences from both ends. Maybe all love ends in tragedy, and this love ends with Mark being sent to Korea. I remember when the theme song was popular. Jennifer Jones was among the more beautiful actresses of her era. "},{"Title":"A bit dated, a bit imperfect, but still worth watching","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Han Suyin (Jennifer Jones) is a half-Chinese, half-European lady doctor at a hospital in Hong Kong of 1949. She lost her husband to the Chinese communists and now avoids emotional entanglements. Enter Mark Elliott (William Holden), an American journalist who falls head-over-heels for her, but has to surmount the difficulties of having an estranged wife who refuses to grant him a divorce.Sure, it sounds like pure soap opera, but along the way we get some good observations on Suyin's status as a biracial person at a time when that could make you an outcast from polite society. Timewise, this movie isn't that far from movies like The Shanghai Gesture of 1941, in which a Eurasian woman is viewed as unclean and not fit to live, and Hitchcock's Murder! from 1930, in which a murder is committed to hide a person's mixed-race status. But Love is a Many-Splendored Thing shows a Eurasian woman as sympathetic, desirable, and worthy of love and respect, a real step forward for the time and an eye-opener for people of this day and age where that sort of thing is no big deal.There's also frank depictions of prejudice, adultery, and the tense political situation, not only in Hong Kong but also in Korea. Another Eurasian character is worried about passing for British. And there's a lush, intoxicating depiction of Hong Kong of the 50s.Debits are an occasional lack of chemistry between Jones and Holden (reportedly they loathed each other but were professional enough to put that aside when the camera was on), occasional story elements that have dated poorly, and a sometimes overly-schmaltzy score. But overall it's great to see a love story in which the star couple is not starry-eyed callow teens but mature adults who know what's what. The dialog sparkles and sounds like poetry.Interestingly, this is a fictionalized (and probably very Hollywoodized) treatment of a true story, although the real Han Suyin would go on to marry twice more after the events of this film. A TV soap opera was based on this, and started off by having Suyin's now-grown daughter coming to the US...but the show's depiction of her love affair with a white American was too controversial for TV in the 60s and the character was dropped. We've certainly come a long way. "},{"Title":"Cliche but still delivers","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cliche romance drama movie with very simple plot but very good cinematography and script.The screenplay,directing and acting was also good.The flow of the movie is kind of manipulative in order to bring the audience to tears through the excellent love music and circumstance which works but later on after the movie,makes one feel raped in a way.Jones makes her character very memorable and lovable though.A deeper story could have reaaly taken this movie to a higher level but still,the movie delivers for it's genre.Only for hopeless romantics,big love story fans,big soap drama fans,50's Cinemascope cinematography fans and fans of the lead actors.....  "},{"Title":"East meets West bore---Hong Kong only interesting thing","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Star enhanced boiler plate love tragedy 1 extra star for location (Hong Kong-1955)The music is too overpowering like in Spanish telenovelas or silent pictures---the theme was still playing in my head a week later.However the music at least took some talent and effort to write, I cannot confer equal compliments on the screen play--Not because it was bad there just wasn't any thing to it. Middle aged news correspondent Holden (38) meets middle aged (Eurasian eeek!!!) woman doctor Jones 37. They take in a few touristic sites together and over the period of ? a week apparently fall deeply in love (there is no development of this). But he is called to Korea (takes place 1949) and is blown up by a bomb!There is a subplot of racism--Jones loses her job because of her hanky panky with Holden--- a PC element it needed for Oscar nomination. Oscars generally require 3 things = good old boy's doing PC gimmicks--in various quantities of each. This one had all 3 Holden aging star---Racism---Filmed in Hong Kong for an added gimmick Jones is a Eurasian with tons of eye makeup.It barely deserves a 5 ... the site shooting is all that kept it clinging and and the song isn't bad just too much with O story.DO NOT RECOMMEND... unless your only alternative is a Jacquiline Suzanne novel. "},{"Title":"Will You Believe Unbelievable?","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie Review LOME IS A MANY-SPLENDORED THINGS Director Henry King Year Release ; 1955 Cast Jennifer Jonnes as Dr. Han Suyin and William Holden as Mark ElliottIf you really want to understand the difference between Modern Hollywood and Old Hollywood, then it is more than enough to see the movie Love is a Many-Splendored Things that will be able to answer to all your questions. The movie Love is many Splendored Things directed by Henry King (Snows of Killimanjaro) tells the story of two people that falls in love to each other and despite everything have decided to be together. Dr Han Suyin (Jennifer Jones) not that young but very attractive woman, and a widow. Mark Elliot (William Holden), a war correspondent and married man. They met each other in Honk Kong, and since the moment they have met, they knew only one world &#x96; The World that they have created for themselves. In spite of everything, Han Suyin and Mark will continue seeing each other and make plans that are not destined to be fulfilled.Henry King, quite talented director, who brings us over 100 movies. And he's like no one else knew the way to tell us the love story that will never be forgotten. In addition, Henry King knew that the story he had to convey to the viewer occurred in real life between the British war correspondent and Dr. Sui Wing. But, soon, Mark was killed in the line of duty in Korea.Despite the fact, that both actors literally hated each other and almost never talked during filming the movie Jennifer Jones (Beat the Devil, Carrie, Portrait of Jennie) and William Holden (Sunset Blvd, The wild Bunch, Casino Royale) were so remarkable and believable in their role, that sometimes it seemed that the feelings of the characters have long been transported into a real world. And both actors were able to deliver us the love story that has become one of the most memorable in Cinematography World. Although this story was not the future, and it was very short life, but it was enough time for them to experience for yourself how love is one of the most beautiful things in the world.And both actors have delivered a remarkable performance of two people and their story about love that has become one of the most memorable in Cinematography World. Even though, they did not have enough time to be together, but that time was enough to realize that true love's a many splendored thing. "},{"Title":"Lots of gloss...and syrup...and a lady who keeps reminding us that she is half-Chinese!","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is set in Hong Kong during the final days of the Chinese Communist Revolution and the beginning of the Korean War. William Holden is a correspondent who falls for a half-Chinese doctor (Jennifer Jones) and many things seem to be conspiring against their love.Love is a Many-Splendored Thing is a lovely film. It's very glossy, colorful, filled with tremendous locations and a nice theme song. However, it also is filled with very sappy dialog, characters who are difficult to really like and that #^$@ theme song, as they play it INCESSANTLY!!! It not only wells up when the two lovers are in a clinch, but when they turn on the record player and, well, ALL THE TIME! While pretty, it becomes pretty insufferable after a while. It's really a shame, as Jennifer Jones and William Holden are nice actors--but the film really could have used a re-write. While some reviewers loved the romance, I couldn't get over the fact that Holden's character was already married--making him an adulterer. For me, adultery isn't romantic--it's just kind of sleazy. This, combined with the sappy dialog (some of which made no sense at all) and the theme song made this a chore--a very pretty chore, but a chore nevertheless. And don't even get me started on the casting of Jones as a half-Chinese lady (who mentions it every 35 seconds--as if trying VERY hard to convince us of something that is really hard to swallow). Not wonderful...but pretty.By the way, if you are wondering about the dialog that makes no sense at all, here's an example When Holden is away covering the Korean War, Jones comments how 'it feels like he's more with me now than when he's really here with me' as she reads his letter to her. Huh?! "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I often enjoy love stories, but this one was sappy and dumb -- though set against a dazzling Hong Kong backdrop.Jennifer Jones was saccharine and one-note as a Eurasian doctor as obsessed with her bi-racial heritage as with an American war correspondent who would never marry her.I found William Holden as her friend -- it's implied their love was never consummated -- similarly unappealing. He was always late and breaking dates, yet rarely seeming to write anything. What a cad.The acting of the Chinese characters in the film was often so stilted as to be absurd. Were these professional thespians? I will admit the film has a few good lines, though they sometimes sounded like they came from fortune cookies A great many mistakes are made in the name of loneliness. There is nothing stronger in the world than gentleness. To go on living one must be occasionally unwise. I won't be sad -- sadness is so ungrateful. One could tell from the start this story would not end well. I managed to get through it due only to mild curiosity about how, exactly, it would all turn out. "},{"Title":"I'm Eurasian ya know","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's Valentines Day and we decided to stay in, have a nice dinner, and watch this movie on TCM instead of going out. We're in our 40's - 50's, love romance, and are both softies but this movie just bombed for us (it's hard to imagine that it was nominated for Oscars, etc. but I guess that was then). The cinematography was beautiful but for the most part the movie as a whole is terribly dated. Jennifer Jones' character made so many references to her being Eurasion that we started counting and after a while we were giggling every time she said it. Add to that the theme song played incessantly throughout the film and we couldn't wait for it to be over so we could watch the evening news. "}{"Title":"Where are the fireworks?","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"       This love story between an American journalist and an Eurasian lady doctor does not contain much conflict, since she is largely Westernized (having studied in London), nor any fireworks, since she behaves rather restrained. What little interest the story manages to raise is knocked down further by their wooden dialogs. They are supposed to be two cosmopolitan intellectuals, but talk as if the words are put in their mouths by a Hollywood hack who is not much of one himself. The movie also suffers from an amazing lack of realism - a completely deserted beach in crowded little Hongkong, overrun by a million Chinese refugees? And a presumably accomplished American journalist in his 40s who doesn't know what a hysterectomy is? Hollywood ideas. Finally the song. After hearing it an estimated twenty times throughout the movie, starting right with the credits, it tends to loose some of its emotional impact, sorry to say.   "},{"Title":"a real love story","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" this isn't really a review. like is says it is actually a real love story. its a story about a slightly similar story as this movieThe Season for Giving Hey. I was hoping you could help. Please. For some good karma and the feeling that you helped someone out. I entered this competition to win a bike and I'm a finalist. I'm currently in second place! I need votes. If I win I'm giving the bike to a beautiful woman I really like so I can go riding with her.the competition is at http//vivabicycles.com/My entry is The Gears of LoveIt's on the homepage. It will only take 2 seconds. 2 clicks Please could you help it would mean soooo much!! All you would get is good karma. But I really need this. I don't have any money. I just want to get her a bike so I can share my passion with her. Thanks for your help... you should go check out their bikes anyways... their sick!!! "},{"Title":"Love Is a Syrupy, Schmaltzy Thing","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film looks great, and that's about where my praise ends. Love Is a Many Splendored Thing came out in the very schizophrenic year of 1955, when candy-coloured nonsense like this co-existed with trail-blazing artistic fair like Kiss Me Deadly. As a trend toward smaller, socially conscious films like On the Waterfront and Marty established itself in the mid-50's, other directors felt the need to stick with the unchallenging, pandering melodrama that classifies so many other films from that decade, and Love is one of the latter.This is the kind of 50's movie where the Technicolor is used to its garish utmost and the lighting is invariably high-key; even scenes taking place in a dark room or at night are brighter than the average sunny day. I never want to hear the theme song again, as it's played frequently enough over the course of the film to last anyone a lifetime, and I certainly don't want to hear it sung by the shrill, ear-piercing choir that belts it out over the end titles. Jennifer Jones and William Holden are passable, but really anybody could have played these parts. Jones' role is horribly written--her character is incredibly inconsistent, and it seems as if whenever her character is required to make a decision about something, the screenwriters flipped a coin to decide what that decision would be.People will undoubtedly tell me I'm taking this film too seriously, that I'm unromantic, etc. But I loved All That Heaven Allows, released the same year and just as cornball in its own way, except that Douglas Sirk is able to turn melodrama into an art form, whereas Henry King (director of Love) is not.I'm usually able to enjoy bad melodrama, but in this case I was just bored.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Han Su Ying is Chinese","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankly I met real Han Su Ying before and seeing her portrayed by an American actress which has no resemblance of anything Chinese makes my head spin while I am watching this movie Why can't Hollywood get Nancy Kwan instead .... at least its more true to the story...cos for goodness sake...Dr Han Su Ying is Chinese I know cos I have meet her in personand looking at the whole cast....so few Asian faces in a movie about a Asian love story makes me wonder too I think the acting is good but without real Asian faces in a Asian love story makes the plot so corny and a whole load of Baloneyits just like another movie I know of ' THE CONQUEROR' imagine my eyes pop out when I see John Wayne as Genghis Khan!!!!!and to make matter worst ....how on earth can a man born an bred in MONGOLIAN STEPPES come up with a Alabama southern accent??? !! and a cheap imitation of anything AsianGood GriefI am not surprise that one day I will see Dr Martin Luther King Jr being played by One of the boys from the black and white minstrel showWould love to see thatand laugh the whole roof off !!!Cheers "},{"Title":"A decent love story but with some problems...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some problems 1) The man in the story is not a very nice guy. He never gives his lady love any gifts. He can't get a divorce from his wife (so he says). I wasn't convinced. To me, Holden's character comes across as a cad.2) Holden seems a bit detached from himself and his lover (Jennifer Jones).3) Jennifer is not very convincing as a half Chinese/half English woman. She is a decent actress but not convincing in this role. She said she was Chinese a lot but didn't act it.FYI The context of the movie The Communist Chinese are about to conquer the last major mainland city (Chunking) still owned by the KMT (who then fled to Taiwan). The approaching victory of the Communists is making everyone in Hong Kong very nervous. At the time there was a real question as to whether the Red Army would invade British owned Hong Kong (they didn't). The movie ends with the start of the Korean war. This means the movie is set in the years 1947 through 1950.On a very minor side note, part of the film takes place in Macao. This is a small city owned by the Portuguese who will turn it over to the Chinese government at the end of 1999. Macao was famous for two things casinos and prostitutes. "},{"Title":"not a many-splendored movie","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Billed as one of the great movie romances, this saccharine piece of tat teams otherwise watchable actors William Holden and Jennifer Jones in a confused love story (she's a Eurasian, he's a war reporter).  The title song is one of the classics, of course, but shame about the film it is attached to.  The patience of this viewer sapped very early on when I realised that I couldn't have cared less about the characters, and when I began to wonder why I had thought up to this point that Ms Jones could act (well, she could in 'A Farewell to Arms' and 'Portrait of Jennie', even in 'The Towering Inferno', but this ...?).I'm something of a romantic but this isn't romance, it is artery-clogging stodge.  Certainly the worst 'classic' film I have ever seen. "}]