[{"Title":"Only the subject matter of this film is dated.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"57 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We have moved far beyond this tentative foray into a forbidden area-drug addiction-for the 1950s.  As such, the film may seem dated. The Man with the Golden Arm served its function is peeling back a layer of the underside of society, an eye-opener to a Southern country boy in 1955 when I first viewed this film in the theater. After some serious consideration about being too young, I was allowed to go. It was powerful and affecting then and still maintains some sharp, painful moments of the soul stripped naked.  As a movie depicting the loneliness at the core of being, it succeeds.Filled with angst, Frank Sinatra, in his best role, creates a vulnerability that makes him sympathetic to the viewer. He conveys his helplessness and ineffectualness in a beautifully restrained performance. As a voice of common sense in the dead-end urban jungle, Kim Novak as Molly is quite good.  She is compassionate and yet stands on solid ground.  The interaction between Sinatra and Novak is really good.  Darren McGavin plays a slimy character and does it very well.  Eleanor Parker is superbly irritating and painfully insecure in her role of the pathetic Zosch, the crippled wife of Sinatra.  Arnold Stang is another unlikely survivor of the street. Regarded as pitiful and despicable, his character Sparrow provides tart comedic moments.  The music is almost the star of this film-brooding, frenetic, moody, poignant. Elmer Bernstein's score perfectly accentuates the tensions of Frankie Machine's spiritual weakness and physical need for heroin. Molly's theme is bittersweet and captures aurally what the film depicts visually. I know of no other soundtrack that effectively complements the tension and defeat within a man as effectively as does this one.  "},{"Title":"Do you think those bobbie soxers I'll really go for me?","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"49 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Mild Spoilers) Frankie Machine had been dealt a bad hand in life. A card dealer at an illegal gambling den in his Chicago neighborhood he was busted when the joint was raided by the cops and given six months in jail. While behind bars Frankie was treated for his heroin addiction at the prisons hospital and learned how to play the drums as part of his rehabilitation program. Now out of prison and back in his old neighborhood Frankie is trying to put his life back together by getting a union card in the Musicians Union and then a job as a drummer in a band and put his old life behind him but instead it catches up with Frankie in no time at all in The Man with the Golden Arm. Otto Preminger's ground-breaking 1955 film about heroin addiction with Frank Sinatra giving the performance of his life as the drug addicted card sharp Frankie Machine, the Man with the Golden Arm. Frankie tries to getaway from the life that he lead but has this monkey or, better yet, gorilla on his back that just won't let him. Soild performances by the entire supporting cast starting with Frankie's friend Sparrow, Arnold Stang. Sparrows attempt to get Frankie back on his feet by shoplifting a suit of clothes for him ends up putting him and Frankie in the slammer, and almost back to prison, until his former boss at the gambling den Schwiefka bailed him out. There's Frankie's psychically as well as emotionally crippled wife Zosch, Eleanor Parker, who sees that her hold on Frankie is slipping and is slowly driven to madness murder and suicide. There's Frankie's drug dealer Louie, with Darren McGavin in one of his first acting roles, who's hold on Frankie is only good as long as he stays addicted and Louie goes out of his way to make sure that he does. There's the owner of the gambling joint that Frankie works at as it's top card dealer Schwiefka, Robert Strauss, who like Louie goes out of his way to get Frankie back to work for him even though if he's arrested again Frankie's hopes for a new and better life will go down the drain. And then there's Frankie's next-door neighbor and friend Molly, Kim Novak,who goes to almost impossible lengths to get him over his addiction by locking him up in her apartment. It's there that he goes Cold Turkey and almost ends up dying trying to kick the habit in one of the most harrowing sequence ever put on film.A no holds barred movie with explosive performances by everyone involved makes The Man with the Golden Arm one of the great classics of realism in motion pictures coming out of the 1950's. "},{"Title":"C'mon, One Hustler To Another.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man With a Golden Arm was one of a trio of great films around that same time that dealt with drug addiction. The other two were Monkey On My Back and A Hatful of Rain. But I think of the three this one is the best.Maybe if Otto Preminger had shot the thing in the real Chicago instead of those obvious studio sets the film might have been better yet. Who knows, maybe Preminger couldn't get enough money to pay for the location. It's the only flaw I find in the film.Frank Sinatra is a heroin addicted card dealer who was busted for covering for his boss Robert Strauss when the game was raided. He took the cure while in jail and wants a new life as a jazz drummer. But a whole lot of people are conspiring against him.First Bob Strauss who wants him back dealing, especially because a couple of heavyweight gamblers are in town. He uses a few underhanded methods to get Sinatra's services back. Secondly Darren McGavin is the local dope dealer who wants Sinatra good and hooked as a customer again. And finally Eleanor Parker his clinging wife who's working a con game to beat all, just to keep him around.Frank Sinatra got a nomination for Best Actor for this film, but lost to Ernest Borgnine in Marty. Sinatra might have won for this one if he hadn't won for From Here to Eternity in the Supporting Actor category a few years back and that Marty was such an acclaimed film in that year. His scenes going through withdrawal locked up in Kim Novak's apartment will leave you shaken.Eleanor Parker does not get enough credit for her role. She's really something as the crazy scheming wife who wants Sinatra tied to her no matter what the cost. If she had not been nominated that same year for Interrupted Melody, she might have been nominated for this. 1955 marked the high point of her career. Darren McGavin got his first real notice as the very serpentine drug peddler. His performance is guaranteed to make your flesh crawl.Elmer Bernstein contributed a great jazz score to accentuate the general dinginess of the bleak Chicago neighborhood the characters live in. Not a place you'd want to bring up your family. "},{"Title":"A moving drama with golden performances","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always enjoyed Frank Sinatra's music, and just recently I wrote a term paper about his life story.  I've been fascinated by the life and legend of Ol' Blue Eyes.  However, I've never seen any of his movies.  So I wanted to see if his acting was as great as his singing.  Well...it was!  I was blown away by his performance in this movie!  He really does a tremendous job as recovering heroin addict Frankie Machine, who's trying to put his life back together and audition as a drummer for a local band.  Otto Preminger's direction is great as well.  I haven't seen any of his other movies.  I read his biography on the IMDB.  He seems like one of those directors who was sorely misunderstood, and people had conflicted thoughts about him.  Seems like the kind of person who appeals most to cult enthusiasts.  I haven't seen enough of his films to know for sure if he's really brilliant, but now I'm curious.  I want to see more of his films, because judging by his attempt with The Man with the Golden Arm this guy has talent.  I also loved the music for this movie.  The score definitely contains the kind of music that I'll remember if I ever happen to hear it again.  That's when you know you have a great score.The supporting performances are fine as well, including Darren McGavin as the local drug pusher, Eleanor Parker as Frankie's wheelchair-bound wife and Kim Novak as his lover.  It's interesting to see how filmmakers handled the subject of drug abuse, as opposed to modern attempts in films like Trainspotting and Requiem for a Dream.  Back in 1955, just mentioning the word drugs caused controversy, and if you watch the film they kept the subject on a very discreet level.  There's only one scene where Frankie is actually getting heroin injected into his arm, and they showed a close-up of the reaction of his face rather than showing the needle graphically poking into his veins.  But it delivered its message without making it feel watered-down.  In a powerful drama like this, with powerful performances and direction like this, you don't need graphic portrayals of drug abuse to keep the audience intrigued. The Man with the Golden Arm is a dramatic gem that all film buffs should check out.  It really is an amazing piece of work!My score  8 (out of 10)      "},{"Title":"Sinatra's finest","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Sinatra did so many excellent things in the world of entertainment that it's hard to single one out as the best.  If I had to name the best thing he ever did, though, it would be  his performance as Frankie Machine, the heroin- addicted musician and poker dealer who is saved, just barely, by the love of a good woman (played  by an exceptionally babelicious Kim Novak).  The cold-turkey scenes between Sinatra and Novak are terrifying and heartbreaking.  The movie is very nearly perfect, in fact, from Saul Bass's title graphics to the ground-breaking jazz score  by Elmer Bernstein.  It might not be the sort of thing anyone thinks of in regard to the 1950s, but it's a must-see nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Real life horror movie","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sinatra is thoroughly convincing as the addict in this grim horror story of what life is like for someone who has lost his soul to drugs. This is film noir made even more noir by the drab sets and lighting. We go through the terrifying experience of a man who is trying to escape from the monster he has placed on his own back.Elmer Bernstein's score is a mixture of jazz and symphony that makes the addict's frightful journey even more believable to the audience.This film opened the topic of drug addiction the way LOST WEEKEND broached the subject of alcoholism. At least people could talk about these addictions a little more freely. "},{"Title":"Solid Drama, & An Acting Triumph For Sinatra","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A solid drama to begin with, The Man With the Golden Arm is particularly worthwhile for Frank Sinatra's performance as Frankie Machine. The movie was well-conceived, and it would probably have been worth seeing with any decent lead, but Sinatra makes it even better. The story is interesting and at times compelling, as Frankie struggles against himself and his circumstances.The story is told from the viewpoint of its era, yet the basic elements are timeless enough that the story still holds up very well. The details of Frankie's situation are less important than the general themes of him battling his own desires while also contending against friends who simply want to use him for their own purposes.Sinatra was good at this kind of role, as a character with his own inner demons who must also face hostile surroundings. He channels his nervous energy into expressions and gestures that convey well what is going on inside him. The actor Sinatra deserves to be remembered for roles like this one and his roles in The Manchurian Candidate and From Here to Eternity, rather than for the insubstantial 'Rat Pack' features.The supporting cast have simpler roles, but they do their jobs satisfactorily. The story moves at a good pace, and it is complemented by an Elmer Bernstein score which, though sometimes jarring, is appropriate. The combination works well as a whole. "},{"Title":"A film about moving on.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved that this movie takes place on an imaginary block of an imaginary city. You could say the streets represents a state of mind just like the title ofChinatown did two decades later. Here degeneracy and addiction are thenorm. This place sucks you in and wont let go. It's here that Sinatra must face his demons when he returns home after getting clean at a rehab clinic. The film ends up being just as much about moving on from the past as it does about drug addiction. Sinatra's junky is a bit amorphous, we never really learn whether he grew up here or what led him to his addictions. However, the story is strong and told with a nice brisk pace. There are some real memorable moments (the Gamblingsequence, Frankie coming off smack, etc). Preminger's direction is great, some subtle camera work adds a lot to a number of scenes. Elmer Berstein's scoreand Saul Bass' titles perfectly set the mood. Overall, an endearing film you should check out.  "},{"Title":"Gripping study of addiction","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Otto Preminger's The Man with the Golden Arm is a reference to heroin addiction - something that must have been rather risky to film back in 1955, fifty years ago (the censors today STILL have a problem with drug content in films!).The lead role was originally offered to Marlon Brando, then snatched by Frank Sinatra before Brando could respond. Sinatra convincingly portrays a pro card dealer and ex-heroin addict who returns home to the city only to find himself battling the demons of temptation.Preminger is one of my favorite directors (his Anatomy of a Murder starring James Stewart is a brilliant and revolutionary courtroom drama). Preminger pretty much helped change the face of cinema back in the '50s - Anatomy of a Murder was extremely controversial when it came out due to both its plot and content (references to rape, women's panties, seduction, etc.) and The Man with the Golden Arm deals with a topic that is equally volatile.However, Preminger pulls it off without becoming exploitative. This is like a forerunner to The Panic in Needle Park (1971) and bears more than a few similarities in terms of general motifs to the classic Billy Wilder movie Lost Weekend, starring Ray Milland. These three films in particular are probably the best movies about alcoholism predating the 1980s and still remain relevant today. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the '50s","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is easily one of the best movies of the 1950s. Otto Preminger directed only four or five really good movies and this is one of them. Frank Sinatra gives his best performance and the music score by Elmer Bernstein is dynamite. From the opening titles (by Saul Bass) to the hysteria of drug addict Frank going cold turkey, this is a riveting movie! With Kim Novak (giving a very good performance), Eleanor Parker (giving a very bad performance) as well as Darren McGavin as the reptilian pusher and Arnold Stang as Frank's grifter pal. Beware of bad prints this movie is in the public domain so some copies are pretty rough. "}{"Title":"An Incredibly Important Movie and a MUST For ALL Serious Film Buffs & Historians!","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're under 70, there's probably no way you can remember how controversial and cutting edge MAN WITH The GOLDEN ARM was when it was released in 1955. Fortunately, my parents were very liberal in permitting me to see films and even took me to see it just after turning Eight. WOW! What a tremendous impact it had on me. It was the first Grown-up film that made me realize there was more to cinema than just Sci-Fi/Horror, Westerns and Kids' movies! Mainstream cinema had never touched the subjects of drug addiction and heroin withdrawal, which were considered taboo topics, even at the dinner table, let alone as the focus of a movie to be shown in public! The MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America) refused to give its seal of approval to GOLDEN ARM, forcing Producer/Director Otto Preminger and Distributor United Artists to release it without the MPAA's seal. This, of course, contributed greatly to both the films commercial and critical success! It also opened the door to new ways of making, distributing and classifying films.Before my recent third viewing, I had only seen it once at age 8, mentioned above, and again, in my late teens (Perhaps the 10th Anniversary Re-Release?). Despite some of the production elements and dialog that do date the film considerably, the last half of GOLDEN ARM had me in a headlock. The acting, Bernstein music, photography and editing all contribute to the mood of the movie, precisely as Otto Preminger intended! The scene where Machine(Sinatra) undergoes withdrawal pains is still unbelievably hard-hitting today.In general, Sinatra's performance is quite surprising. His Oscar nomination was very well deserved. When you consider this performance in conjunction with Sinatra's role in MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE and From Here to Eternity, you begin to appreciate just how underrated OLD BLUE EYES was as an actor! 9*STARS*.....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA!Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are most welcome! KissEnglishPasto@Yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Fleabag settings via Hollywood, given a glossy coat and melodramatic treatment...","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Otto Preminger makes a valiant attempt to interject some real feeling into this adaptation of Nelson Algren's novel, but the material is ultimately far too false and the film fails to come off. Frank Sinatra plays Frankie, an ace card-dealer and poker-player coming out of a six-month stay in an institution to kick his drug habit; in the interim, he's become a good drummer and hopes to land a job with a band, but troubles with his invalid wife and the low-life neighborhood characters set him out on the precipice once again. Preminger can't seem to eke out a realistic scenario within these studio back streets, and Elmer Bernstein's blaring music undermines the nuances with Prestige! and Importance! Sinatra manages some hard-knock looks of concern and hopelessness, but his well-intentioned Frankie is a distressing creation (and, with all that talk about the bobbysoxers turning out for him, he's an uncomfortable sketch of the real Frankie when he was down-and-out several years prior). Glamorous Kim Novak, cast as the local working girl, is perhaps too Park Avenue for these squalid settings, however this is one of Novak's best, most subtle performances and she carries a great many scenes in the second-half. Eleanor Parker's role as Frankie's wheelchair-bound spouse is something else altogether; played on the verge of hysteria, it's a stunning portrait of a parasitic woman on the edge, needling, needy and yet aggressive. Parker appears to relish this outré role (and chews up a few scenes in the bargain)--and her big exit scene is a beauty--but in the context of this film, the performance is too hyperbolic. It's indicative of much of the writing, which walks a fine line between human drama and soap opera. This effort, pumped up for big effects, crosses that line too many times, finishing up wilted and unsatisfying. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Let's have a bad old time","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is 50's drama in the Elia Kazan mold; spelled with an over-sized D and with its conscience turned up extra loud. You could stub your toe on its moral message. The cast of characters is a bunch of trapped lowlifes. And the scenario is deliberately tawdry in the hopes of scaring up some verite'. It made me wonder why realism usually means I have to spend so much time with irritating, loathsome characters like Sasha, Vy, Frankie, & that annoying stooge with the ball cap. I wanted them all lined up and shot after just a few minutes.It's not as modern as it thinks or postures. It's more of a packaged-product than a movie; they designed the crap out of the production to give the appearance of thought, depth and modernity, but all that effort would have been better spent on questioning what drama was and what it might be. As soon as the pitiful girlfriend shows up in a wheelchair you know you're in for an old fashioned, heavy-handed run through the machinery. It's Laura Wingfield all over. Unaware that a wheelchair makes her stock nearly worthless in a 1950's slum, she's also the world's biggest, most neurotic drag. It's really sad that film-noir gave way to this unsubtle, over-produced schlock.All that and an overpresent Elmer Bernstein score that leaves no room for the characters to breathe. No dramatic development occurs without an orchestra slapping the sh*it out of viewers.A ridiculous movie without a shred of nuance. "},{"Title":"Strange Brew","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rather than go on location and make a realistic film about drug addiction in the Windy City, contrarian director Otto Preminger decided to go the opposite way and make his movie appear as artificial as possible, thus flying in the face of the fashion set by men like Kazan, Huston and Zinnemann, who were making their pictures all over the world. Nelson Algren, on whose novel the movie is based, went on record as despising it. What, one wonders, was Preminger up to, and why did he do the movie this way?The sets in the film are so minimal as to suggest a Mr. Magoo cartoon. Louie, the drug pusher, is attired as to resemble the sort of gangster the artists at Mad magazine used to draw. Arnold Stang, wonderful comedian that he was, seems out of place in a serious picture like this, and his very appearance, topped off by an exaggerated and over-sized baseball cap, elicits laughter. Robert Strauss, another actor best known for humorous roles, is likewise out of place, as his large, heavily jowled face and Runyonesque delivery of lines seems more appropriate to a Jerry Lewis movie. Against all this, stars Frank Sinatra, Kim Novak and Eleanor Parker have to work overtime to just keep the viewer from snickering. Sinatra is jittery and manic throughout, suggesting a man ill at ease with himself, hence wholly appropriate for the role of a drug addict. Miss Novak, plant-like and sublimely deadpan, is sympathetic and seems a product of the artfully dingy slums she graces in the film. Parker is pure Hollywood and very hard-working as the crippled and crafty Zosch. She is never convincing, but then neither is the film.I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone interested in a realistic depiction of the lives of drug addicts in America. The Caligari sets alone make it unbelievable. Preminger may have been aiming for a dream effect, as the cardboard backgrounds give the proceedings the surreal feeling of a nightmare operetta, perhaps harking back to Preminger's early days in Vienna. "},{"Title":"Why not to make a book into a movie","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man with the Golden Arm (the movie) is a decent career vehicle for Frank Sinatra, but fails abysmally as a good adaptation of a fantastic book. You always hear about how books are changed when they are made into films- things are cut out, dumbed down, etc. Well, you can't even say they changed anything with the movie- they just told a completely different story. The characters and setting are the same sure- but not the ambiguous characterization, the depth of the men and women of Polish Chicago in the book. As for the setting, it's become merely a play stage, complete with the unnecessary supporting role players walking all too busilly down the claustrophobic, interior exterior streets. The movie is a dumbed-down, completely different take on Frankie Machine and drug addiction. When this happens, Zosh, Frankie, Sparrow, all lose their psychological edge. Frankie's drumming, a modest dream in the book, becomes his full passion in the movie (probably because Sinatra is a musician). And drug addiction is treated as shlock, exploitavely. The acting is decent, especially the snakelike Louie, who is more menacing in the movie than the book. But it's just a shame this kind of movie can be heralded as a classic alongside the book it is based upon, the real story of Frankie Machine. The movie just goes to show Hollywood can' get anything right without dumbing it down and adding a happy ending. In this case, they just changed it completely, cheapening an important and realistic story into Hollywood fluff. I'm sure as hell biased because I read the book first, so I can't really treat the movie honestly by knowing how good the book is. I actually thought about turning the movie off (and I never do that), just so I wouldn't get its silly plot confused with the beauty of the book. But this is an overrated film, and while it's not so bad, the book should come first, as it was the first. And it should have remained the only story of Division Street and Frankie Machine. "},{"Title":"The Monkey Never Dies","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man With The Golden Arm is a disturbing drama about one man's battle against heroin addiction. It depicts very effectively some of the powerful forces around him which make it so difficult for him to break his habit and also shows the levels of despair and disillusionment that he experiences as he discovers that he's completely powerless to avoid the loss of his dreams and aspirations.This movie is widely credited as being the first Hollywood production to tackle the issue of drug addiction and at the time of its release was considered to be both challenging and controversial. It certainly defied the censorship standards of the time and although it obviously looks dated now, it's still clear to see just how fascinating and shocking it must have seemed to audiences in the mid 1950s.Ex-criminal and drug addict Frankie Machine (Frank Sinatra) returns to his Chicago neighbourhood after serving a six month sentence during which he successfully managed to get the monkey off his back. The new Frankie is full of good intentions as he plans to stay clean and make a career for himself as a jazz drummer. Soon it becomes clear, however, that his plans conflict with the interests of some of the people around him.Frankie was responsible for the car accident in which his wheelchair bound wife Zosh (Eleanor Parker) had been seriously injured and ever since she'd played on his feelings of guilt to get him to do whatever she wanted. She opposes his ambition to become a musician and would prefer him to return to his old job as a dealer in illegal poker games run by a guy called Zero Schwiefka (Robert Strauss). Frankie's skill as a dealer had been so admired that he'd become widely known as The Man With The Golden Arm.After having made an appointment with a music agent, Frankie decides he needs a new suit and his loyal sidekick Sparrow (Arnold Stang) quickly acquires one for him. When he meets Schwiefka again, Frankie tells him that he has no desire to return to dealing cards and in retaliation Schwiefka informs the police that Frankie and Sparrow had stolen the suit. Both men then end up in a cell until Schwiefka bails them out subject to Frankie's agreement to go back into dealing.Things become difficult for Frankie when his agent fails to call him about an audition and money is needed to pay Zosh's medical bills. It's at this point that his old drug dealer Louis Fomorowski (Darren McGavin) offers him a fix and Frankie finds it impossible to resist. Louis triumphantly tells him that the monkey never dies and once again Frankie finds himself in the grip of his addiction.Life just gets progressively worse for Frankie from that point on as he finds himself compelled to deal for Schwiefka and when he makes an error in a particularly important game involving a couple of professional gamblers, gets beaten up by one of them. He fails an audition with a band because he's suffering from withdrawal symptoms and when Louis dies in suspicious circumstances, becomes the prime suspect. Even more torment follows when he goes into hiding and with the help of his ex-girlfriend Molly (Kim Novak) suffers more excruciating agonies when he goes cold turkey. The way in which his innocence is eventually established provides further evidence of Zosh's deceitful and controlling nature.Frank Sinatra gives an extraordinary performance as the junkie who's surrounded by a bunch of predators who all want to manipulate him for their own individual reasons. His character is a man who's trapped by his addiction but also by a group of people who are only concerned about using his skills or weakness for their own profit. Sinatra plays the role of the victim in situations which are sometimes poignant or distressing and creditably never sinks in to sentimentality or self pity.The supporting cast are also good with Darren McGavin standing out as the creepy pusher who's so confident in his beliefs about addict behaviour that he can comfortably bide his time until his prey inevitably turn to him in desperation at a point when they'll be ready to pay any price to satisfy their cravings.The success that this film achieved with the public and the critics provided a fitting reward for the courage shown by Otto Preminger in tackling a subject which, at the time, was taboo and challenging the censors in the process. The design of Saul Bass' opening title sequence is typical of the originality and quality that he showed in his work on a number of movies and Elmer Bernstein's theme from The Man With The Golden Arm is still one of the most distinctive and well known pieces of music in cinema history. This movie is definitely a film of its time but also merits the classic status that it's acquired in the years since its initial release. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly powerful after all this time, thanks to Frank","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Sinatra took this role, chewed it up with the rest of the scenery and - spat it out HIS way. TMWTGA is stagey, the ending is trite, some of the scenes need a little more cutting, but that's all. It's great entertainment from start to finish, and while you watch it you realise that Sinatra, that long-dead MOR crooner, had junkies, gangster card games and the whole US urban hustle thing in his blood - he didn't learn it from an acting coach. There are all sorts of directorial touches to keep you amused, and the (non-dated) soundtrack cooks all the way. The marathon card game beat Goodfellas, Sopranos, etc. by forty years! So it wasn't faithful to the book? What movie is? And I can't imagine it being remembered if Brando had been let loose on it; the cold turkey scenes would have been embarrassing, instead of edgy, convincing and moving with Sinatra. No-one else has mentioned the seedy, lazy, cynical cops - absolutely spot on! And Eleanor Parker would have driven *me* to smack. "},{"Title":"While far from perfect, Sinatra proves he could really act.","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When some see The Man With the Golden Arm today, they may find the film a big quaint. After all, some aspects of addiction are sanitized--everyone looks so middle-class, clean and white plus you never even heard WHICH drug he's using--though it would appear to be heroin. But, if you put it in context, this was a tough as nails and cutting edge film in 1955. And, for many reasons, it's well worth seeing.The film begins with Frankie (Frank Sinatra) returning to his home turf after a stay in the hospital. Exactly why and the rest of his back story comes out in a natural way through the course of the film. Apparently, he's an addict and when into rehab. However, there are many forces that seem to be pushing him to return to the addicted lifestyle, as Frankie foolishly returns to his old haunts. Two hoods (Darren McGavin and Robert Strauss) want him to return to gambling--and getting him hooked on the drugs once again will ensure this. He also has a very needy wife who is in a wheelchair--and you eventually learn that he only married her out of guilt--guilt because his driving resulted in her being hurt in an accident. What's to happen to Frankie?! There are two main reasons the film works so well. The film is very well written and often surprises you with its violence and dark mood. Also, I really marveled at Sinatra's performance--probably the best of his career. Seeing him go through withdrawal was painful but exceptionally well done. Folks familiar with his lightweight fare such as Guys and Dolls or Oceans 11 would be best to remember that he also appeared in some really gritty films like Suddenly, The Manchurian Candidate and The Detective--and he really could act. Overall, one of the best films about addition of its age--comparable in quality to the exceptional Days of Wine and Roses and well worth seeing. The only negative was the soundtrack--which was too often too loud and too repetitive--making it very invasive. "},{"Title":" The monkey on your back is bad, but the Monster in your soul is lethal ","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you've never been addicted to anything, you'll have no point of reference to the topic of this movie. The film is one from the classic age of Black and White. It's called  The Man with the Golden Arm  and directed by Otto Premingger. To date it's one of his finest works and that includes the main actor. Frank Sinatra plays Frankie Machine, a splendid card dealer and mechanic. Surviving a stint in a federal prison, he learned, with help, he could overcome a heroin addiction. Now out, he returns home to begin a new life. There to greet him is 'Zosch' (Eleanor Parker) his crippled wife who clings to Frankie for emotional support and believes he owes her. Frankie is also met by Molly (Kim Novak) his former girl, Schwiefka (Robert Strauss) his former boss and Louie (Darren McGavin) his former pusher. Together they are a motley group, but each needs Frankie for their own ends and he in turn needs them. A former junkie, Frankie believes he can work legitimately, earn enough money, cure his wife and leave town to begin a new life. However, each has a price tag and Frankie knows that changing his trade is easier than changing his past. The movie is solid Sinatra. His acting is superior, the cast enhances his role and the end result is a stark, bleak, but gusty Classic story for anyone addicted to movies. Easilly recommended. **** "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking Melodrama About Narcotics Addiction","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Moon Is Blue director Otto Preminger tackled even more taboo subject matter in his controversial 1955 release The Man with the Golden Arm. Whereas he had incensed the Motion Picture Association of America with his use of the words virgin and mistress in his mild 1953 comedy The Moon Is Blue, Preminger went far beyond what any filmmaker had attempted with The Man with the Golden Arm since director Dick Powell made his law and order epic To the Ends of the Earth (1946) about thwarting the international narcotics trafficking. Based on Nelson Algren's novel that won the 1950 National Book Award, this gritty, uncompromising, 119-minute, black & white melodrama deals with heroin addiction. Initially, when Preminger's film came out, the Motion Picture Association of America would not issue its seal of approval because the filmmakers depicted addiction to narcotics. This groundbreaking film qualified as the first major motion picture to handle narcotics from the dope fiend's perspective and actually showed the paraphernalia that junkies wielded to shoot up. The Production Code stipulated that filmmakers must refrain from showing characters using illicit narcotics. Nevertheless, United Artists released this unique Frank Sinatra picture and it grossed over $4-million dollars. The critical and commercial success of The Man with the Golden Arm eviscerated the Production Code. As a result, the MPAA amended the Code so that filmmakers could delve into other taboo subjects, such as drug abuse, kidnapping, abortion and prostitution. The film received three Academy Award nominations. Oscar nominations went to Sinatra for Best Acting, Joseph C. Wright and Darrell Silvera for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Black-and-White and Elmer Bernstein for Best Music, Scoring of a Dramatic or Comedy Picture. Indeed, Elmer Bernstein made a name for himself with his jazzy score. The producers had considered casting Marlon Brando in the title role, but Sinatra beat Brando to the punch. Eleanor Parker, Kim Novak, Arnold Stang, Darren McGavin, and Robert Strauss co-starred with Ole Blue Eyes. McGavin was particularly memorable as a sleazy heroin dealer, while Eleanor Parker played the protagonist's wife with a dark, deep secret of her own that comes as quite a shock. The Man with the Golden Arm refers to protagonist Frankie Machine's ability to manipulate a deck of cards. Frankie deals cards for Zero Schwiefka (Robert Strauss of Stalag 17) but he has been out of Chicago for the last six months in a federal narcotics hospital recovering from heroin addiction. Not only has Frankie licked the habit, but he also has learned how to play the drums and plans to embark of a music career. Optimistic as Frank is about his future, he finds himself facing his past all over again when he returns to his old stomping grounds. Schwiefka wants him to deal for him again, and Nifty Louie Fomorowski (Darren McGavin of Counter-Attack) tries to induce him to resume his heroin usage. Meanwhile, Frankie comes home to his invalid, wheel-chair bound wife, Zosh (Eleanor Parker of Escape from Fort Bravo), who manipulates him with guilt. Frankie was drunk when he had a car accident and Zosh wound up in a wheel chair. Frankie shows up with high hopes and a drum set, but Zosh sees no future for him as a musician and urges to go back to work for Schwiefka. Frankie plans to visit a music promoting and one of his own friends, Sparrow (Arnold Stang of My Sister Eileen), shoplifts a business suit from a department store for Frankie. After Frankie refuses to work for Schwiefka because he is going to see musical agent Harry Lane (Will Wright of The Wild One), Schwiefka turns both Frank and Sparrow into the police. Meanwhile, Schwiefka gets Brach's Department Store to drop the shoplifting charges. The suit was worth $37.00. Frankie agrees to resume dealing for Schweifka and the hustler bails him out. Not long afterward, despite his resolution to shun heroin use, Frankie breaks down and pays Louie the $2.00 for a fix. Eventually, Frankie meets Harry Lane, and Lane warns him that if he is catches Frankie shooting up that he will have nothing to do with him. What poor Frankie doesn't know is that Zosh has recovered her ability to walk, but she uses his guilt about the accident to hold on to him. Zosh is also jealous of her downstairs neighbor, Molly Novotny (Kim Novak of Picnic), Frankie's former sweetheart, who hustles drinks at a nearby strip bar called the Safari Club. When Zosh complains about headaches that Frankie gives her when practicing on his drums, Frankie moves them downstairs into Molly's apartment. Schwiefka and Louie are planning a big poker game with Sam Markette (George E. Stone of Guys and Dolls) and Williams (George Mathews of Gunfight at the O.K. Corral), two big-time gamblers who have heard about Frankie and his legendary 'golden arm.' Schwiefka and Louie persuade a reluctant Frankie to deal for $250. After an early winning streak, Frankie starts losing, and he cannot reverse his bad luck. In fact, Frankie spends about two days dealing. Exhausted, his nerves shot and desperate for a fix, our hero falls apart on the second day, and Markette and Williams catch him cheating. Louie refuses to give Frankie a fix, so Frankie knocks him out and ransacks his apartment for the heroin.Preminger pulls no punches in The Man with the Golden Arm, and the film is pretty disillusioning. None of the characters are remotely sympathetic. Essentially, they are either hustlers or hustled. Sinatra gives another dynamite performance as does McGavin and Parker. To be sure, The Man with the Golden Arm has lost much of its impact in the intervening 50 or more years, but it still ranks as a landmark film. "}{"Title":"tour-de-force from Sinatra, and sharp direction, mark this as worth seeing","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man with the Golden Arm was one of the first films to have as its main topic (and, in some respects, the message) the tragedy of heroin addiction. It's nowhere near a great film, but its importance lies in Otto Preminger's dedication to making it feel real and on the edge of melodrama and naturalism. What I liked is that it's not so much an expose of junkies (if you want the best expose of that read Naked Lunch, if you can get through it anyway, besides the point), but the nature of the urban environment Frankie Machine lives. He expects after he gets out of prison for dealing to go on the straight and narrow, to become a drummer in a band and make it legit as a musician. But he has his crippled wife Zosch, who can't work and needs money and often complains, and then there's the old neighborhood- he can't escape seeing Louie (Darren McGavin), who is still doing back-room card games and, yes, pushing dope. Like Mean Streets, it's hard to escape the minutia unless you leave.But then again, it's hard for Frankie Machine not to try and operate naturally in this urban quarter. It's just that he can't escape the temptation of junk (when he's booked on a phony theft charge with his friend, he sees a junkie freaking out, and it puts back the fear of going back on into his clean self). And personifying Frankie is Sinatra, and I can't see anyone else who could've played him, even original choice Brando. He fits into the neighborhood, and seems like the kind of guy who should be a step ahead of the game. But there's also a vulnerability to Sinatra that he pulls out wonderfully, and by the time we see him going 'cold turkey' in Molly's apartment, it's believable even if it's not the kind of thing those from 'my' generation would think of heroin (i.e. Trainspotting and certainly Requiem for a Dream). If for nothing else, you want to watch the movie to see what happens to Sinatra as this character.The flaws, however, come in some of the other performances, though it's a little tricky. Eleanor Parker seems to be overacting for a good portion of the movie, fooling Frankie that she's really crippled when in reality she can walk and is fooling him for one reason or another. But then it becomes clearer as it goes along- she's supposed to be nuts, and nuts with jealousy, and on that level it starts to get better. Meanwhile, Kim Novak is good, though not Vertigo-worthy, as the possible girl in the side but more like the voice of reason in the story. Then there's a Detective Bendar, who might be one of the most one-note characters/performances, ever. And also Sparrow, Frankie's nerdy friend, and the characters of Louie and Schiefka, and they're all played as one might expect them to (actually, McGavin is better than OK). As far as casting other talent around Sinatra, Preminger doesn't do all that great. And, frankly, some scenes kind of fall flat.But there's a lot of fascination in the Man with the Golden Arm, and not just as some dated piece of sociological interest. It works as compelling drama, and as a message piece conveyed without being preachy or campy. It's a genuine article, just not exceptional. "},{"Title":"A daring film for 1955, long but strong.  Sinatra's best dramatic performance.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *** Spoiler in fifth paragraph *** This was an amazingly frank (uh-huh, uh-huh) picture for 1955. Otto Preminger and Carlyle Productions took a chance by making it, the Motion Picture Association of America balked at certifying a film that openly shows a junky jabbing a syringe full of heroin into his arm. Frank Sinatra took a chance both on playing an addicted musician and at falling flat on his face in a role that required at least twice as much acting as he'd ever done. All in all these gambles paid off, the movie is a classic, though it's not perfect.Nelson Algren's novel may be great, but it has far too much going on to fit comfortably into a two hour movie 'The Man with the Golden Arm' is 119 minutes and often feels much longer. However, in my opinion it's not just Frankie Machine (Sinatra) that makes the film but the other characters and their sub-plots, all involving Frankie. Ultimately it's not just Frankie who has the addiction, everyone and everything seems to be dependent on him and he feels it keenly. When the pressure gets to be too much the drums start pounding on the soundtrack and Frankie steps across the street with his well-dressed friend Louie.It's an exaggeration to say that Frank Sinatra's music career was ever really in the doldrums, but in the early 50's he was in limbo between his days touring with big bands and the Las Vegas era. 'From Here to Eternity' established him as a serious actor and his career as a singer rebounded as well, but 'The Man with the Golden Arm' was still a significant challenge, the whole show sinks or swims with his performance. He pulls it off with such skill that for several minutes at a time I forgot I was watching Frank Sinatra, he must have known junky musicians and exploited that knowledge to the utmost.Set side by side with Billy Wilder's masterpiece 'The Lost Weekend' there is more emphasis on the sociological causes of addiction in 'The Man with the Golden Arm.' Whereas Don Birnem (Ray Milland in 'The Lost Weekend') seems to struggle mostly against himself, Frankie Machine is beset by external forces and he takes refuge in the needle. Neither approach is wholly right or wrong, mostly because addiction is impossible to fully explain, but it seems like this film might have benefited from a little more insight into Frankie's internal struggle.*** Spoiler *** One of the problems I have with this film is the clichéd reliance on quitting cold turkey. I realize that 'The Man with the Golden Arm' was probably setting the trend rather than following it but that doesn't make it any better. In the beginning of the movie Frankie has to all appearances kicked his habit with the help of a doctor and a treatment facility of some sort. Naturally the drama of the film requires that he backslide, but I found the All-American ideal that a man has to face his problems alone (or maybe with the help of a good woman) out of place here. Going cold turkey and riding off into the sunset with Kim Novak seemed too unrealistic. The end of 'The Lost Weekend' was similar but in my opinion was a little less rosy. "},{"Title":"50's Cool","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the crash of the opening theme, The Man With the Golden Arm is classic 1950's entertainment. No subtlety here, Frank comes home from prison with a monkey on his back and goes right back to the old neighborhood, where the old scumbags still lurk. This is a tale of his dark ride with all of his emotional baggage intact. The performances are all a bit overripe, but that's part of the fun of watching. Darren McGavin and Arnold Stang are unforgettable, and almost steal the show. This and The Manchurian Candidate are the two greatest Chairman of the Board films, in my humble opinion. Don't miss either one of them. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film; groovy soundtrack.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A dark and painful look at the perils of drug addiction, Sinatra is wonderful in this film.  Just watching his frenzied writhing and screaming and destructive rage near the end of the film is enough to make anyone think twice about trying heroin; maybe they should show this to kids in health class instead of the mindless drivel we are compelled to endure year after year.It's the story of a man who is simply trying to make a new, clean life for himself after being in prison, trying to rid himself of his drug habit and his job of dealing cards in illegal gambling operations, who is pulled down, pulled back into the muck by the evils of human nature.  He is being taken advantage of by his employers, the drug dealers, and even his enigmatic, crafty-yet-stupid wife. Even if you didn't like the film itself, it's worth seeing just for the soundtrack.  It's all heavy, swinging jazz with large drum and brass sections.  This, with its groovy, yet slightly sinister sound, helps set the mood, along with the grinning, snaky drug and card dealers, who always seem to hover like vultures around Frankie Machine.I recommend this to anyone -- especially if you like film noir, zoot suits, fedoras, or jazz.   "},{"Title":"Great book, great movie, great soundtrack","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great book, great movie, great soundtrack. Frank Sinatra shows in this movie that when he wanted to put the effort in, he could act. The ending is a bit schmaltzy, but for the time it's understandable the studio wanted a happy ending. The graphic nature of the heroin addiction (groundbreaking for the period) is a plus. Add the terrific soundtrack and you've got one of the great American movies. "},{"Title":"I Played My Drum For Him","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heroin, repression, lies, lust, claustrophobia and jazz long before Trainspotting, this was how you made an expressionistic film about drug addiction.  Still stylishly evocative, thanks to Preminger's direction and Bernstein's pounding score, the adaptation of Nelson Algren's novel stands out for its grotesques, not least of which is its title character -- Preminger's narrative pacing never flags, but he somehow manages to linger on a number of minor characters whose weird, ruined lives cling to a patchwork dignity, and the effect is pitched somewhere between the social justice aims of On the Waterfront and the voyeurism of Touch of Evil. Sinatra's performance, sweaty with vulnerability, is among his best.  The supporting cast is also extremely good, but it's the urgent soundtrack and anxious camera, constantly tracking over a Caligari-skewed slice of the bowery that remain in memory. "},{"Title":"A tragic story about a mans struggle with drug addiction","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This great movie brought out into the open the horrors of heroin addiction. It captured the struggle of a man, Frankie Machine, with a monkey on his back.  Frank Sinatra did his homework, well. The acting is superb, the score is first rate and the actors all gave above average performances. Frank gave one of his best performances.  This movie has much to offer.  "},{"Title":"One of the most brilliant soundtracks to a film ever made.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great story.  Gritty 50's melodrama played very well by Sinatra and Novak. Great comedic performance by Arnold Stang who definitely deserved more attention after this film.Also contains one of the most brilliant soundtracks to a film ever made. Sinister accompaniment to Frankie Machine's spiraling demise, it plays so well as the unrelenting monkey on his back appears again and again.Great lingo, too.  Very happy the word lush is used to describe an alcoholic.  Very cool.Great cinema.  An underappreciated piece of American genius. "},{"Title":"More to It Than Sinatra","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No need to repeat the plot. The film was cutting edge in 1955, when just the topic of hard drugs was considered unfit for public consumption by the Hollywood Production Code. But then, Preminger was known for challenging the Code and shrewdly played up the horrific withdrawal scenes that apparently provided enough redeeming social value to satisfy the censors. Besides, Hollywood was seeking new adult directions in the face of growing inroads from television. However, seeing the movie again after so many years, I have to say it looks dated and flawed in ways that weren't apparent at the time.Now I'm no fan of Sinatra's. His gangland associations that helped pull strings behind the Hollywood scene have always bothered me. However, his nicely modulated performance in a role that could easily have gone over the top remains the movie's strong point. Not so, Parker's ultra-shrill Zosch that was panned even at the time. But the glaring miscasting comes from Stang, Merande, and Kinskey, all known for their comical characters instead of their dramatic skills. Stang in particular was identified as the stooge for Milton Berle's brand of broad comedy on his old show, and seems an especially questionable choice. I suspect someone in production figured they were needed to lighten the unrelenting grimness of the plot. Nonetheless, their presence suggests a Damon Runyon movie like Guys and Dolls (also 1955), instead of a bleak urban landscape. The skidrow set now looks artificial and overdone especially the carefully placed street litter. I'm not against expressionistic sets contrived to capture a particular mood. But contrast that grubby street with the well-scrubbed players who are supposed to be its denizens, keeping in mind that 1950's Hollywood had its opinion of what might offend audiences. These may seem like small things, but they do affect the film's shelf life. Then too, the ending looks particularly contrived in tidy 50's fashion where every loose end turns out happily. Also, contrast that with the suitably ambiguous ending of the much superior 50's drug addiction film, A Hatful of Rain (1957).Those scenes that do stand up, in my little book, are the poker-playing dramatics. They're just seamy enough to be persuasive, especially the dust-up with that totally convincing mug George Mathews. It also helps that these are scenes without the wobbly presence of either Parker or Novak. It's also hard to overestimate the broad appeal of Bernstein's pulsating score, even at a time when R&R and Elvis were exploding on the music scene. It's a brilliantly distinctive beat that perfectly captures the movie's drivingly obsessive theme. Anyway, Preminger is to be saluted for challenging the censors by raising the taboo topic for audiences to ponder, even if the film now looks unfortunately dated. "},{"Title":"Incomparable","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am fifteen years old and have seen thirty-three of Sinatra's films (not counting videos of TV shows and documentaries) and have been unimpressed by only two of them. ''Till the Clouds Roll By, and The Miracle of the Bells don't really count, however, considering that in the first all he does is sing a magnificent Ol' Man River, and in the latter he's not half bad-only the picture is pathetic. My favorite records, radio shows, TV shows, and movies concerning Sinatra change virtually every day-everything taking on a different connotation at each viewing and occasionally seeming the best thing he ever did and occasionally the worst until the cycle comes around again, but there are a couple things that are beyond comparison. When it comes to movies, The Man with the Golden Arm heads that list. Everybody who knows anything about Sinatra knows he thought this was his best-ever performance; he was Oscar-nominated; it was the first serious look at drug addiction; etc.,etc. The jazz score is unforgettable, Kim Novak's likable despite a ludicrous accent, Eleanor Parker is annoying and waaaay too dramatic, the turtle-like Arnold Stang is amusing the first time but more embarrassing every time out, and Darren McGavin makes a wonderfully slimy drug dealer, the sets are unconvincing - at first glance it seems a peculiar mixed bag tossed together by the great Otto Preminger with an off-center charm. Then you come to Sinatra. Like everything else in his life - other than music - reports of his acting are alway divided in half. Directors like Fred Zinnemann, Frank Capra, Billy Wilder, Stanley Kramer, Martin Scorsese, Peter Bogdanovich, and Otto Preminger, all agreed that had Sinatra worked as hard on his films as he did on singing, he'd have been among the greatest actors in the world - if not THE greatest. Humphrey Bogart even said,This guy has the most natural acting talent I've ever seen. Not bad for a man who never took an acting lesson in his life, was at the same time producing the discography that would make him the greatest singer of the 20th Century, and did almost all his scenes in one take. In direct conflict with all of this are those other reviews and biographies that sniff haughtily about what a lousy actor was this Mr.Sinatra, and how many bad movies he made. The question will never be answered to everyone's satisfaction because controversy was among Sinatra's greatest assets, and both arguments were in a sense playing into his hand. In any case, at this time, in this role, Sinatra is magnificent. A reviewer said in the late fifties,Sinatra may not be the greatest actor in the world, but there is none more fascinating to watch. No matter what Sinatra is doing in a film, it's hard to take your eyes off him. This, of course, is a charisma, that I've only seen in a handful of other people-Orson Welles, Richard Burton, Marlon Brando, Montgomery Clift-perhaps James Cagney. There's no real definition for it and it often makes it hard to figure out whether you're really enjoying a performance or just spellbound, but that quality on display here is what makes the movie. Sinatra is downright riveting, real, intense - transcending decades and thousands of paper-doll pop stars with something called quality. Like it or not, this is a one-man show with a few character actors hanging around in the background. He covers every emotion with remarkable subtlety, from sweet, lonely tenderness with Kim Novak to the terrifying shock of Frank Sinatra (Frank Sinatra!) whimpering and screaming in the agony of cold turkey. Sinatra was right - this is his best performance. No question. I was eight when Frank Sinatra died. I wasn't around for all the years of bobby-soxers and ''Anchors Aweigh,'' Mr. Ava Gardner and ''From Here to Eternity, albums with lamp posts and ''swingin' lovers, Kennedy, Vegas, ring-a- ding ding. Basie and Mia and Reagan and concerts from Madison Square Garden to South Africa to the White House to the Sands. I can't say I like Sinatra because I heard him at the Paramount or because I hear September of My Years autobiographically-the usual excuses. And my excuse? When I was eleven I watched a movie called On the Town... "}{"Title":"This film is a classic!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like your films to pull your emotions out of you, if you like your films with a guy you can root for, and relate to, if you like your films in black and white, you gotta see this film! Watch it from start to finish, because you don't want to miss a beat. It is sometimes slow, and it makes you wonder when something is going to happen, then when the plot begins to unfold, you will be on the edge of your seat! I know I was! My Mother told me about this film as our family had some of the same things going on in it as the film does. We loved Frankie, who plays the lead convincingly. What ever you think about Frank Sinatra, put that aside, in the film, he is skinny and he doesn't sing, so keep an open mind. For the era it was made in, it tells a story that is still being told today in homes all across the nation, and quite possibly the world. Please watch, if you like older films, give this one a try. "},{"Title":"excellent view of the realities of heroin addicts","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A truly excellent look at the world and the realities of being a heroin addict. The movie is one that will hit much too close to home to those who were involved in the drug culture and have knowledge of what being(or being around) a heroin addict really is. Good movie, which will never truly be outdated. Excellent performances by all involved and the minimalist set is Preminger's way of showing how bleak a JUNKIE'S world can become. Worth a look--an education of sorts. The golden arm is a worried look at the truth of the underground life of pain a junkie lives in. "},{"Title":"An exceptional film about drug addiction and the downward spiral it can cause","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Sinatra has one of his best roles as a reformed heroin addict coming back to his Chicago neighborhood after an extensive stay in a clinic. He plans to stay off the drug and find work as a drummer, but he can't avoid running into his old friends. He had been arrested originally not for any drug-related charge, but because he was caught dealing in an illegal poker game. His skill at poker has earned him the nickname of The Man with the Golden Arm, and the men who run the game, one of them being his former heroin connection, want him to deal again. Meanwhile, Frank has to take care of a woman whom he injured in a car accident, Zosch (Eleanor Parker), and make up with his old girlfriend, Molly (Kim Novak). The film is great at putting us in Sinatra's mental state. When he feels sure of himself at the beginning of the film, I felt good for him. But, when a promised phone call doesn't come one day, he descends into depression and goes back on the smack. Later, when he finally gets to audition, he arrives completely strung out. His embarrassment when he can't play the correct beat is devastating. He had such big dreams, and the other musicians don't even pay him a bit of attention as he rushes out of the room. The film moves quickly and it shows Frank's drug problem in a realistic light without turning into a social message picture. The actors are uniformly fine. Elmer Bernstein's score is one of the best of its time. The only thing I don't like about the film is the ending.SPOILERSAlthough I really like the character of Zosch and Parker is very good in the film, they could have done a little more to fill in her backstory. The ending is a little too pat. While there is surely pathos that will remain with the characters after the film closes, Zosch's death ties up all the loose ends a bit too neatly. Frank is free to love Molly and he won't go to jail. Also, his dealer is dead, so at least the immediate threat is gone. Well, I guess in Hollywood there's always a desire to tie everything up in a neat little package. It harms the film a little, but, as it stands, it's still one of the best and most adult movies about drug addiction I can think of. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Dazzling Kim Novak","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Framk Sintara is splendid in this film, and duly was recognized for his fine acting. Eleanor Parker always professional stands out in this film as well. Can anyone ever recall a performance Ms. Parker was not superb? The real surprise here is the starring role of Ms. Kim Novak on loan from her studio Columbia up the street from RKO where this movie was filmed. Otto Preminger directs the Star so well here and Kim Novak one of the movie industry great beauties displays an accomplished acting style. If there is any Star whose work deems reappraisal it is Kim Novak! Preminger and Novak would go on to form a life long friendship of mutual respect. Too bad they never made another movie. One touted for them was The Hustler but that went to Paul Newman and Piper Laurie. "},{"Title":"A morality play","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the best word to describe this film is stylish. Preminger's directorial choices were so strong and so well done. The lighting, the camera work, the scenery, the music.I am a fan of Kim Novak, and she does not disappoint in this film. She is the angel on our protagonist's (Sinatra's) shoulder while Darren McGavin is the devil. She does not know exactly what to do to help Frankie escape his self-made hell of addiction, but she loves him for the man he could be and offers whatever it takes to help him. McGavin, on the other hand, has the talent of knowing exactly how to mine the weaknesses of a man and beautifully personifies evil.The other actors in this film turned in excellent performances. All are somewhat one dimensional, but the screenplay has them written that way. My only criticisms would be aimed at the screenplay, because it is written like a morality play where there are only black and white values, But the other elements of the film--like the music--support that choice, so the result is still an excellent film.Sinatra's portrayal of an addict comes across as fairly realistic, within the context of the fifties and the simplistic ideas of drugs at the time. It was ironic that he has a line where he wonders about his appeal to bobbysoxer's, because in real life Sinatra was their king. When you consider that this film was released the same year as Guys and Dolls, he had one great year in 1955. And he had proved that he was not an acting lightweight. Debates about his best acting performance are based upon opinion, but I like him in The Manchurian Candidate even more.I really enjoyed all the actors in this film and I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Sleeper Film","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This sleeper film is great classic.Starring singer frank Sinatra as Frankie machineAlso starring Eleanor parker as Frankie's wife.Kim novak play molly.Beautiful as always is Kim.Considered controversial in it's portrayal of addiction upon it's release in 1955.Shot in black and white.Produced and directed by Otto Preminger.This movie shows how one individual struggles to change his life situation.How his past nearly destroys his future.As this film show we can overcome our demons and let someone help us on our life pathway to recovery.This film is available on DVD and VHS.I really think frank Sinatra was and still is unrated as an actor.watch these following films,Manchurian candidate,from here to eternity,lady in cement,and a little gem of a film Suddenly.Hope my review helped. "},{"Title":"Sinatra's performance was amazing!","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Date August.26, 2012 -First Time Watch- Frankie Machine (Sinatra) returns home after six months in rehab, determined to not fall back into all ways. But his wife, Zosh (a complete psychopath if you ask me) and his card buddies continue to try to bring him back down and get hooked again. This is one of the first movies to address drug addiction and the writers did a real job presenting it. The movie itself is like a six or seven but what boosted it up to a nine for me was Sinatra's performance. He was outstanding! He played a drug addict so good and the scene when he's in Molly's apartment quitting cold turkey is just so raw. It was like what you expected a person to be going through with drawls. I'm really surprised Sinatra didn't win the Oscar for this, he was nominated but it went to Ernest Borgnine for 'Marty'. I haven't seen 'Marty' yet but I find it hard that Borgnine was able to beat Sinatra's performance in this. I read that Sinatra firmly believed that this movie was more deserving of the Oscar then his role of Maggio in 'From Here to Eternity' and honestly I can see why he said it. The movie was very solid and very worth wild watching.9/10 "},{"Title":"Sinatra as heroin addict","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Sinatra is The Man with the Golden Arm in this 1955 Otto Preminger film that also stars Eleanor Parker, Darrin McGavin, Kim Novak, and Arnold Stang. Sinatra plays Frankie Machine, a heroin addict who is treated during a six month prison stay and comes home determined to start a new life as a musician.Trying to follow the advice of his doctor, he refuses his old job, that of a card dealer. However, it doesn't take long for the old pulls on him to take root. His wife Zosch, is in a wheelchair due to an accident caused by Frankie, and she's extremely clingy and needy. His girlfriend Molly (Novak) is with someone else and isn't sure she wants to be involved with him again. Louie (McGavin) is constantly on him to buy a fix, and Schwiefka (Robert Strauss), his old boss, is desperate for him to work as a dealer. Frankie fairly quickly starts using again.The setting of this film couldn't possibly be more depressing - a seedy, dirty, old neighborhood peopled with weirdos, drug dealers, and criminal types. In the midst of this, Frankie's wife plays on his guilt for the accident, and then he has to face up to the fact that he went back to his addiction.Frank Sinatra is great as the downtrodden, pathetic Frankie who wants to get a job playing the drums and takes a detour. The supporting cast is marvelous with the exception of the miscast Eleanor Parker. Parker is simply not low-class enough for the role of Zosch -- her acting is very good as always, but she's too well-spoken. This would have been an excellent role for Coleen Gray who could have captured the necessary quality beautifully.Without giving away the ending, I had a problem with it - how the truth of the situation was learned is not explained.Films about drug use in later years were much more graphic and hard-hitting. Drugs in the '50s were not as mainstream as they became, and actually, they're hardly mentioned in the movie. I'm sure this was a difficult subject to handle in 1955, and given that, Preminger did an excellent job. "},{"Title":"An Early, Yet Serious, Look at Drug Addiction","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A strung-out junkie (Frank Sinatra) deals with daily demoralizing drug addiction while crippled wife (Eleanor Parker) and card sharks continue to pull him down.While this is not the first film to deal with drugs, it is probably the first to deal with them in a very serious manner. Reefer Madness and Cocaine Fiends, for example, can be written off as humorous nostalgia. This film, on the other hand, is decades ahead of Trainspotting and Requiem For a Dream. (Did you even know heroin addiction was prominent in the 1950s?) Variety called the film a gripping, fascinating film, expertly produced and directed and performed with marked conviction by Frank Sinatra as the drug slave. I agree for the most part, though I really did not enjoy Sinatra's acting as much as many others did, I think. Otto Preminger is a first-rate director, and I hope this film gets the respect it deserves over the long run (I found the 50th anniversary release to be not nearly cleaned up enough).While the focus is heroin and addiction, one could also make a case about this film being about love. Frankie's wife brings him down, encourages him to go back to his old habits, turns him away from his dreams. Molly (Kim Novak) does just the opposite. Divorce and adultery are hardly ever positive topics, but in this film you almost hope that Frankie goes that route. "},{"Title":"Addiction Comes in Several Varieties","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Sinatra helms a cast of some of the nastiest self-serving bums, bastards and burnouts you'll ever come across. As the recently-detoxed card dealer Frankie, Sinatra walks from rehab straight back into the belly of the beast, flaunting his sparkling new outlook on life before a block full of characters who know better than to trust any style of clean. At its core, this is a damning glimpse into the coal-black heart of addiction and withdrawal that doesn't limit itself strictly to drug use. While the most striking scenes are undoubtedly zoned in on Frankie's habit, particularly the brutal cold turkey scenes near the finale, in the supporting cast there's an equally poignant message about the similarities you'll find in the overuse of any intoxicating experience, whether it be heroin, gambling or love itself. An impressively fresh, open-minded picture that's less concerned with painting the drugs themselves in a poor light than it is the weak-willed men and women who overuse them. My only major complaint is that it could've used a bit of fat-trimming, as its run time is on the long side. "}{"Title":"Depiction of junkie trying to kick is superb, as is the writing","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though this movie is obviously on the set of some sound stage, the acting and the writing are superior. The clingy wife who is faking her injury is done superbly by Eleanor Parker, and Kim Novak is really great as the caring ex-girlfriend of Frank Sinatra. I think those stories may be true about the two, as that kind of chemistry can't be faked. And of course, the 'cold turkey' scenes are fantastic.And true to what has to happen to get someone off of heroin, he feels a great hunger for sugar. (Of course, this reminds you of the dealer's 'addiction' for candy that he had to kick. Could it be that he was also addicted to heroin first?) The sidekick is hilarious as he puts black shoe polish on a dog he is trying to sell. His wisecracks are superb and handled with great timing. The seediness of the environment really makes you wonder why he came back at all. Or why any criminal returns to his home environment. Because that's where he's tempted to return to the horrors of his past.You can't help but think that he will, with Kim's help, get those drums back and make a career. fantastic movie, and wouldn't it be great to have a contemporary movie, equally well written in which someone kicks cocaine or meth or whatever the drug du jour is. I hear it's alcohol.Check this movie out for the time in our history when we were grown-ups with grown-up writing and not on the way down as a nation. "},{"Title":"Sinatra gives a knock out, and Preminger shows again why he's a master","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man with the Golden Arm (1955)Otto Preminger's highly dramatic, elaborately controlled filming of Nelson Algren's famous novel. Who's Nelson Algren? Yes, exactly. At the time, in the early 1950s, he was on track to be a Hemingway kind of writer, and after this book and then the movie, his fame gradually evaporated. But Preminger was working a huge and controversial theme (heroin addiction) by a big name writer using the biggest (biggest) of stars, Frank Sinatra, at the height of his powers.And it's an amazing event, the movie. It's set in Chicago, but you never see the city. Only a tightly choreographed block where all the action--drinking, gambling, shooting up, and cold sweats. This might be the biggest restraint on the film, the decision to make a kind of stage performance out of it all, which is odd because it isn't based on a play, but on a sprawling novel. On the other hand, this level of control allowed for really beautiful filming. The takes are often very long, which is demanding on the actors and the cameraman equally, and the focus and camera movement are planned and executed with unusual intelligence. Even a simple scene where Sinatra's character Frankie is talking for a while to friend and bar worker, Kim Novak, who is just listening, the sharp focus is on Novak, and we see her cool reaction to his thoughts rather than Sinatra's own face as he talks. A subtle move, very deliberate, and even if you don't quite notice it, it's absorbed by the viewer and adds to the depth of the story, little by little.Of course, the cardplaying scenes are key to the plot, even if a bit well used in the movies. More important are the scenes of Frankie (yes, Sinatra, the singer with records in every hi-fi cabinet) shooting heroin. And then beating it cold turkey. Even that, in a way, doesn't give away the plot. But it's the thing to watch for. Novak is a curious kind of actress, always underplaying her expressions, and with a solidity that lacks, thankfully, the sultriness of certain other 1950s blondes. Novak would go on from here to the now legendary role in Hitchcock's 1958 Vertigo. She didn't have a prolific career (and she is still with us, unlike the rest of the cast and crew), so this is a good intro to her work. Sinatra of course is known for other things, but his acting is uncompromising, and he makes the movie. If you haven't seen it, it's as good an entry into serious, stylized 1950s drama there is. "},{"Title":"Very well made and gripping drama from Ol' Blue Eyes","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning One time heroin addict Frankie Machine (Frank Sinatra) gets out of prison to his bumbling jailbird partner Sparrow (Arnold Stang), needy cripple of a wife Zosch (Eleanor Parker) and bit on the side Molly (Kim Novak.) He's trying to make it big as a drummer in a band, but until his big break comes along he's stuck doing the only other thing he was any good at other than being a junkie- dealing cards in high stakes games. And try as he might, even prison hasn't cured him of his addiction to the devil's drug- causing him to lie to and deceive all those around him and driving him to desperate measures to feed his habit. His yearning to come off it is his only motivation towards a happy ending.When people think of Frank Sinatra they generally think of classic high pitched songs like Under My Skin, New York New York and It Had to Be You. But lest anyone forget he was actually a renowned actor too and, if his performance in the acclaimed From Here to Eternity wasn't enough, he will also be remembered for this cutting edge drama, dealing with what was at the time the ultra taboo subject of drug abuse.The film is often listed as one of the first to feature graphic heroin use (probably the reason behind the 15 certificate) in a time when it was a subject that was still very much pushed underground. In his portrayal of the main protagonist, Sinatra is fine, perfectly conveying the despair, desperation and sincerity of a man losing every second chance that is being given to him. His cold turkey scene is much more intense than Ewan McGregor's in Trainspotting. The first co-star to make an impression is Parker as Machine's demanding, needy cripple of a wife, using her husband's guilt and sense of duty to all the effect she can. Novak as his secret lover still manages some strong moments but is less of a star than Parker. Stang does his usual comic relief thing, as the bumbling sidekick who trails the leading man around with his waspy New York accent.Director Otto Preminger does allow the pace to drag a bit sometimes but this is still a powerfully absorbing film all the way, with plenty of unexpected twists and turns and which should be admired for being one of the first films to bring such a grim subject so powerfully to life. **** "},{"Title":"Thanks to European film directors for progress.","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What the essential message of this film from Otto Preminger is that Hollywood needs to be more progressive. Such progressive film making is a European tradition imported by the likes of Otto Preminger and Billy Wilder.Frank Sinatra's character in the film, Frankie Machine is at odds with his blue eyes image, which is that of sophisticated rat-pack member. As such it might take a tad of imagination to think of Sinatra playing a drug addict. But, he pulls it off very well indeed. No doubt in part to Premiger's exceptional European-cinema style of direction. This said, Sinatra no doubt witnessed heroin addiction in the world of showbiz to be able to play a drug addict like a method actor might do.Kim Novak is excellent as a support in the film. She illustrates a woman's strength so well! However, it is a shame that drug addicts in movie-world are stereotyped as men. In the real world it is well documented that children and women are just as susceptible to drug addiction, albeit perhaps for differing reasons.In all a groundbreaking film for Holloywood "},{"Title":"Dated but still powerful","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although dated in some ways, the man with the golden arm still packs a powerful punch. Yes, it is melodramatic and rather too stagey for modern tastes and there is a lot of scenery chewing from some of the actors, but this piece still has a level of intensity and integrity beyond what most films can achieve this days. Frank Sinatra, giving perhaps his finest performance, is magisterial throughout as Frankie Mahine, but it is in the druggy scenes where he is most convincing. Other characters are less well defined particularly Sinatra's 'comical' sidekick Sparrow, obviously thrown in to lighten the mood of what otherwise would be an overly bleak film. He is however merely an annoyance and detracts from the intensity more than anything. The script is probably rather too in love with its own metaphorical cleverness. The 'golden arm' angle refers not only to Machine's drumming ability and his love of injecting himself with heroin but his gifts as a card dealer. Incidentally it is hard to see what about Sinatra would make him so highly prized as a dealer; dealing cards is hardly a difficult activity. It suspect that he is a 'dealer' only because the writer wish to play on the card dealer/drug dealer ambiguity. Again, perhaps the theme of dependency is rather overplayed with the women in Machine's life all exhibiting some sort of co-dependent behaviour. Kim Novak has a parasitic boyfriend she cannot leave and Eleanor Parker (in a hysterical performance) is dependent on the sympathy she receives from an accident which apparently left her wheelchair bound. The ending is rather contrived too and obviously designed merely to bring the strands together but that should not deter the viewer from checking this remarkable film out. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary for its time!","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" But quite dated today. Otto Preminger made this movie without the certificate of approval that was needed then. It was enormously courageous and risky as he could have lost his investment and future.The film is not true to the wonderful book and is unfortunately hollywoodized.Frank Sinatra (and I've never been a fan) playing Frankie Machine, is astonishing in his performance. One forgets it is Frank up there, the level of realism he brings to the role of a jonesing drug addict has to be seen to be believed.Kim Novak, eternally gorgeous and talented, does not disappoint in the role of the devoted outsider, always there for Frankie.Supporting roles, particularly a young, handsome and talented Darrin Mc Gavin, are faultless.Eleanor Parker, playing Frankie's wife, is hopelessly inept. She swings from irritating to melodramatic and is far too over the top. A forgettable performance.The stagey, cheap settings are appalling, as if a firm gust of wind would blow the whole tacky painted cardboards over the horizon. Almost laughable at times in their tawdry cheapness.The music was irritating, poundingly so at times. As if each nuance of the script (example when Louie is getting Frankie his fix out of a drawer) had to be underscored at a high decibel level.7 out of 10. Sinatra truly deserved his Oscar nomination. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The Battle Within A Man For Control Of His Own Fate.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just getting released from a six month drug rehabilitation program and having served his time for dealing cards in illegal gambling card games, Frankie Machine (Frank Sinatra) has high hopes for going clean and finding a new life as a big band drummer. However upon returning to his old crime-ridden Chicago neighborhood, he soon finds the pressure mounting from those around him, including his wheelchair-ridden wife Zosch (Eleanor Parker), to return to the old money-making Dealer lifestyle that first got him started on the path of self-destruction that is being an heroin addict.It's very rare that a film has so many great character performances as this one does. Frank Sinatra is superb as Frankie Machine, and realistically portrays the symptoms of a drug addict going through withdrawal arguably better than anyone else had ever been done before him. Sinatra seems to possess a keen understanding and awareness of his character here and expresses the constant battle for control over his own life that is forever going on inside the heart of the man that is Frankie Machine. Parker as his crippled wife Zosch wants to possess Frankie forever, to have him deal to make good money so as to take care of her and pay her ever-mounting medical bills. She seems terrified by anything she sees as a threat to her control over him, such as the freedom the life of a drummer might offer, or anything that might change the status quo between them.Onlooker Molly (Kim Novak), a girl who lives in the same building and seems to possess real, strong genuine feelings for Frankie, having no desire to control him but only to help him proves the best thing Frankie has going for him in the world if he can just stay straight long enough to wake up and realize it. Darren McGavin as the heroin drug peddler Louie however is always there just waiting in the wings knowing just the right buttons to push, just the thing to say, to get a former addict to revert back to that old habit, one profitable to Louie but deadly for the addict.The setting too seems to take on a life of its own, constantly dark, gritty, seedy and crime-ridden with nowhere near enough positive things to look forward to in life, a place where it's all too easy to escape via a bottle or drugs, a quick fix that's truly no fix at all but only works to keep one in the dark away from the daylight and all the bright prospects the world might have to offer. It's a neat touch that when Frankie is on the right track, the setting always seems brighter than when he's headed down the wrong road. While some argue it is a bit dated, to me this is a gritty film featuring a realistic inner war within a man for control over his own fate, one that features very strong character performances by all involved. Given that, THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM gets my highest possible recommendation. "},{"Title":"A real insightful peek into an addict's life!","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie about 12 years ago and I can still remember it as if I just saw it recently. That is how much this movie has affected me.Considering this is a movie from the 50's I think it was ahead of its time. It surprised me as in how it maintains its integrity in this subject some might have considered taboo back then. Very realistic in showing the tumultuous and heartwretching journey that an addict chooses to embark on. One can only imagine how the audiences were affected by the realism of this movie back in those days.I personally think is was one of Frank Sinatra's top five performances in the big screen.When others are discussing movies dealing with Mental Illness and/or addiction I always recommend The Man with the Golden Arm as one of the top five to watch. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Grim","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lots of scenes and dialogue are flat-out goofy, but when you add it all up, i.e. Machine's daily cycle from depressing walkup to depressing bar to depressing burlesque hall to depressing smoke-filled poker games and back home again, you get a weird sense that somebody, somewhere is trying to give a faithful depiction of the junkie's life circa-1955. Whether it's Sinatra, who obviously would have bumped up against this type of character growing up in Hoboken and working in numerous bands, or Preminger, who uses the soundtrack and the Frankie-Zosch subtext to slip the addict's interior worldview past the Hays Code cage, you get a good companion piece to On the Waterfront, which was filmed almost exactly the same time. Sort of a faux-realist work that leaves you realistically wondering how deep the drug culture is embedded in American life. "},{"Title":"Great Jazz score!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great little ground-breaking movie (in 1955) about an important subject.I wasn't expecting much from Sinatra's performance and was pleasantly surprised by it. Loved Kim Novak! She was gorgeous!Loved the jazz score by Elmer Bernstein! As great as that by Lazlo Schifrin for Bullitt! I am very surprised it doesn't seem available on CD (if anyone knows about the soundtrack's availability on any other format, they should post it here somewhere!).Preminger's direction was, as usual, borderline flawless.Haven't read Nelson Algren's novel nor have any idea how faithful the screenplay was to it. The subplot of Frankie as a hot card dealer was a bit of a surprise, too, as were a few other things. But see for yourself. It's very much worth seeing... "}{"Title":"excellent view of the realities of heroin addicts","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A truly excellent look at the world and the realities of being a heroin addict. The movie is one that will hit much too close to home to those who were involved in the drug culture and have knowledge of what being(or being around) a heroin addict really is. Good movie, which will never truly be outdated. Excellent performances by all involved and the minimalist set is Preminger's way of showing how bleak a JUNKIE'S world can become. Worth a look--an education of sorts. The golden arm is a worried look at the truth of the underground life of pain a junkie lives in. "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A simply wonderful film. One of Frank's best. Sinatra's great in all his films, but this is the one that showed he could really act. I recently found a copy for $4 in a record's story bargin bin, and am very glad I found it. Many critic's claim that the film is dated, but I find it just as powerful now as it ever was.  "},{"Title":"The agony of withdrawal","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 'crazies' that Sinatra's  character suffers at certain points in the movie ARE suffered by long-time, heavy addicts, but only with severe cases. It was supposed to show how drugs can hinder your personal  performance, as abuse of pot and tobacco make kids out of shape physically and mentally at just about everything they do. A bit more realistic than laughable early attempts like 'Reefer Madness', but it more resembles the modern inner-city narcotic problem than the situation of its time. In some ways, it was a film ahead of its time... "},{"Title":"Sinatra is not an actor","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has dated.....and dated badly. The fact that the whole movie is made in the studio doesn't help. (Frank Sinatra did not like working on location). It has the feel of an old Play of the Week about it. The thing that sinks this from the very beginning is the terrible acting of Frank Sinatra. I got the feeling he was really trying----but you can act----or you cant act. Frank Sinatra was a great singer. But..he could not act. Kim Novak is very good in this, cautionary tale about drug addiction. In its day....The Man With The Golden Arm caused quite a stir....indeed it was one of the very first films to tackle this subject. The Lost Weekend starring Ray Milland, made a few years earlier is about alcoholism. It is vastly superior to this movie. "},{"Title":"The heavy-hand of Otto","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a shame that this adaptation of Nelson Algren's classic Chicago novel, one of the first to deal with drug-addiction, is so obviously studio-bound. Even by 1955, the year it was made, a number of more adventurous directors were going to real locations. Perhaps it was Sinatra, notoriously antsy when it came to being too far away from Hollywood or Vegas, who insisted that Preminger shoot the story on those phony sound-stage interiors which passed once for real city streets. Sam Leavitt, the cinematographer, seems to have over-lit many of these studio sets as if he was afraid of being too dark and depressing. Another minus, but much lauded in its time, is Elmer Bernstein's heavy handed big-band score which often only punctuates what is obvious. Sinatra really tries, working hard, committed to making the role seem both real and sympathetic. The primary failure of this film can only be blamed on that most vastly over-rated of directors, Otto Preminger, whose gift for self-promotion and controversy can no longer disguise the fact that at heart he was a rather mediocre director. Too bad someone like old-timer Raoul Walsh couldn't have directed this. "},{"Title":"Frank Sinatra in his best performance in one of Otto Preminger's many masterpieces.","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen this film since 1971, but then it made e such an impression, that it stuck for life, and I felt no need to see it again, as the memory of it was sharp enough. Just for curiosity, I decided to renew its acquaintance after 44 years just to see what would happen, - and the impact was repeated and as good as new. This is probably the best junkie film ever made, in its naturalistic and actually horrific realism, with Frank Sinatra (100 years just the other day) in his best performance in the lead as the junkie with a crippled wife in a wheel- chair (Eleanor Parker, splendid acting on her part too,) and Kim Novak as the saving angel - it stands clear from the beginning that only she can save him, and she does, in also one of her best performances, actually better than in Vertigo. The triumph however is the direction combined with the music by Elmer Bernstein. It's asphalt jungle music all the way, hard and merciless in its ruthlessly importuning rough disharmonics and nightmare style (with a few exceptions for a change), and Sinatra is even convincing as a failed drummer. Otto Preminger stands for the direction, one of many original films of his, and they are many, but this black-and-white social documentary naturalistic gutter nightmare is perhaps the one most sticking out - you recognize much of this half slum humdrum environment as he returns to it in Porgy and Bess three years later. In brief, it's a triumph of a film, completely naked in shocking social realism with as perfectly convincing and natural performances as in any Italian neo-realistic masterpiece. It was a perfectly enjoyable nightmare to see it again after 44 years to observe it had lost nothing of its timeless actuality - this could happen to you. "},{"Title":"Acting like acting used to be...and Otto Preminger makes great movies!","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a fantastic, truly seminal movie at the time it was released, as it dealt with taboo subject matter (heroin addiction) deemed unsuitable by the Review Board and certainly outside 1955's Father Knows Best squeaky-clean societal norms and standards.As I watch TMWTGA for the dozenth time and note some of the career risks that were taken by the actors, I am beginning to question if Otto Preminger ever made a bad movie....because it seems that he always got the very best performances out of his actors. It also seems many of his movies pushed boundaries and challenged societal assertions and beliefs.How so? Well, in Preminger's In Harm's Way...Preminger introduces audiences to the somewhat risqué idea that not only is casual, non- committed sex OK in polite society, it happens quite frequently between consenting unmarried adults (operating in the harsh circumstances and environs of WWII warfare). In Harm's Way also included an incredibly controversial forcible-rape sequence, both violent and nasty, which results in both the attacker and the victim's committing suicide to avoid public condemnation and consequences.Or, in Preminger's The Moon is Blue.....where two men are pursuing one woman, not for marriage, but for sex.In The Man with the Golden Arm, moviegoers got a firsthand taste of what it really means to be an addict; the unmitigated cravings, the self-deceptions, the pains of withdrawal, the unavoidable destruction of relationships and loved ones, etc. Although Sinatra was magnificent in this movie, so was Eleanor Parker, along with great performances by Arthur Strang, and notably, Darin McGavin, who creates an especially nasty, reprehensible drug pusher who knows exactly how to pull the strings and make the addict Sinatra dance.Although films aren't Black and White anymore, and the 1950's won't ever return, the concepts and characters in this movie still exist in full force here in present-day 2014. Just peer down a dark side-street, out behind the bowling alley, or in the parking lot of your closest seedy motel. You can find the same set of REAL players revolving around money and drugs on a corner of Your Town, USA, or any place where desperation and shattered dreams are laid bare, and pain is mitigated via the needle, the pill, the puff, or the snort. "},{"Title":"The Man with th Golden Arm","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a unique film whose story and origin marked the evolution of Frank Sinatra as an entertainer and elevated the status of its director, Otto Preminger, one of the most respected masters in Hollywood in the golden years. The Man with the Golden Arm is based on the controversial novel of the same name by Nelson Algren who had already tried previously to take his work to the silver screen. His attempt came to naught owing to its tough storyline and the harshness of some parts. The text by Algren was regarded by some literary critics as a pessimist, negative novel, rating it as a bitter, squalid chronicle of a heroin addict who goes back to his area after six months rehabilitation. When the first draft of the story was submitted, the text failed to get past the censors, arguing that the hyper-realistic recreation of heroin addiction was excessive for a movie filmed in Hollywood. John Garfield had bought the rights to the book, but owing to his decease he could not take the novel to the cinema. That's where Otto Preminger came in, interested in directing and producing the cinematographic adaptation of the novel by Algren. Preminger acquired the rights to the work and through his own producer Otto Preminger Films he started production of the film in association with Carlyle Productions with whom he had produced his previous film, Carmen Jones (1954) and with whom he would stay until 1960, the year in which Preminger shot the wonderful Exodus. United Artists agreed to distribute the film, lending the right amount of trust and seriousness required to successfully complete a production of this magnitude.After winning an Oscar for his supporting role in From here to Eternity (1953), Frank Sinatra fell into a deep depression owing to problems with his voice and the termination of his contracts with several musical producers. The star was not having a good time of it and he needed a shot in the arm, something to drive him forward, motivating him to shine again as brightly as in days of yore. At that time Sinatra was married to Ava Gardner and she was the one who spurred him on to prepare the role of Frankie Machine, a role which would help him re-emerge and hit the heights again. With Sinatra leading the cast, the name of the actresses who would accompany him throughout the film was yet to be decided, his disabled wife and his understanding lover. Otto Preminger chose two actresses with strong characters, very attractive and effective, namely Eleanor Parker, who had just triumphed in the amazing The Naked Jungle and Kim Novak, the star of Picnic.Frank Sinatra plays the part of Frankie Machine, a former drug addict who returns to his beloved Chicago after spending a spell at a detox center. Frankie comes back with one set idea to join a jazz band as a percussionist. The doctors who treated him congratulated him on his progress and even Frankie himself is proud to have kicked the habit. His good friend Sparrow (Arnold Stang) celebrates his return and spurs him on to dedicate himself to jazz professionally, helping him in all he can. Sparrow will remain by his side, spurring him on so Frankie is happy. At the other end of the spectrum is Zosch Machine (Eleanor Parker), Frankie's bitter wife, confined to a wheelchair because of an accident. Zosch tries to convince Frankie to give up his musical dreams and devote himself to a more profitable occupation such as going back to his former profession as a high-stake poker croupier (hence the title, the golden arm dealing out the cards). Frankie still thinks his future lies in jazz and not in cards and he bitterly comments on the total lack of communication between him and his wife.Frankie is still dreaming about becoming the drummer with a big jazz band and during his efforts he re-encounters a former flame Molly (Kim Novak). To turn up for an audition he asks his friend Sparrow to get him a suit and good old Sparrow gets it roughly and readily, stealing it in the hope he won't be found out. Unluckily for them both, not everyone agrees that Frankie should be professionally dedicated to music and the police soon find out about the theft and Frankie and Sparrow end up in jail. His former employer Schwiefka (Robert Strauss), the organizer of underground poker games, takes advantage of the situation and offers to pay his bail if he works for him on a major poker game he is organizing. The Man with the Golden Arm, (Frankie's nickname as a croupier) has no other choice but to accept unless he wants his dreams to vanish overnight. After working days and nights long enveloped in smoke and alcohol, surrounded by characters of dubious morality, Frankie starts feeling the need to take heroin again and he doesn't feel confident of his skills unless he is under the influence of drugs. Beside himself, he attacks an old acquaintance, the drugs dealer Louie (Darren McGavin) and then goes on the run. The dealer recovers from the attack and goes out to look for Frankie to get his revenge. In his quest he ends up at Frankie's apartment and by chance discovers that his wife, Zosch, has been faking disability all along, and the latter, having been revealed, is obliged to act, triggering a series of dramatic events which will force Frankie to go back to a detox center, overcoming his addiction by abstinence and suffering. "},{"Title":"This is the story of a man caught by his sordid past ! ! !","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The man with the Golden Arm is one of the few mainstream Hollywood films which launched a strong attack against drugs,gambling and petty criminals.It is based on a prize winning book by American writer Nelson Algren.He was a writer who was familiar with some of a decent society's despicable characters such as drug addicts,pimps,boxers, hoodlums etc.In Otto Preminger's film,it is Frank Sinatra's character Frankie Machine that portrays the eternal dilemma of a man caught between two extremes.His biggest task is to decide whether he would like to lead a sober life sans drugs or make friends with ruffians who seek to induce him to a life of crime.His Joie de Vivre and liberal spirit are so strong that neither his wife nor his girlfriend can hold a candle to him.This is proved by glancing at meek and submissive roles played by Eleanor Parker and Kim Novak.Watching this film,we draw the conclusion that petty criminals have a heavy price to pray as often they are unable to free themselves from the ghosts of their murky past. "},{"Title":"Sinatra Sizzles as Frankie Machine","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Call me a recent convert to Frank Sinatra, or shall I say his music-particularly since I've been viewing TCM's 10 year anniversary of his death as the featured May artist. After buying Frank's Nothing But The Best CD at a local Best Buy, another fan doing same suggested I see Man With The Golden Arm (oh, and buy Sinatra at the Sands!). TCM's showing of this classic was timed perfectly for me.Frank as Frankie machine is one of those film noir's that hit you straight at the undercurrent of life. A great jazzy soundtrack provides the grounding and serves to tie together this man's struggles. And boy does this guy have struggles; life has hammered him with more than he can handle. In the midst of all of this, Frankie displays a heart and soul along with a will to fight that not even he can comprehend. I've also become a Kim Novack fan (probably because of Hitchcock's Vertigo); she is tremendous in this film-both visually and artistically. This movie cuts hard and deep, moves along at a great pace particularly given it's content, and has tremendous atmosphere. I've now just realized that Frank Sinatra was more than one of the greatest of the great standard's era singers. A great performance from Frank, and a movie that hits on all cylinders of emotion and redemption. "}{"Title":"Frank Deserved Best Actor","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all I am a huge Sinatra fan everything, music, movies, books. I've seen him live, have music from 1939 to 1994. I've seen all his films. Frank was an exceptional actor considering he had no training as an actor. People say he didn't have enough depth to his acting. In this film you see plenty of it, he gave 100 percent of himself here. This is one of the films where you can say I'm not seeing Frank Sinatra up there There are a few more films where he does this, Suddenly, The Joker is Wild Kings Go Forth. I wont list everything, but this film especially shows Sinatra the actor. I know he was great in From Here to Eternity and did win an Oscar, it's a crime that he didn't win Best Actor for Golden Arm. When I look on IMDb at the Oscars and who was nominated in 1955 for Best Actor, I can't help feeling he was robbed. But maybe I'm biased, but then again Frank Sinatra thought he deserved Best Actor too. "},{"Title":"The Life as seen by  a genuine Auteur","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Otto Preminger was one of the great maverick film directors.Like John Huston he was a character from one of his own movies,like Mr Huston he was a wonderful ham who slipped in and out of performance at random but the final product of his labours was unmistakably his own. With a few exceptions films are now made by corporations,not individuals,and as a result are usually highly-polished packages,a product in much the same way as a golf ball,a tin of dog food or a motor car is a product.The involvement of human beings in the process is almost incidental.Such is the appetite for the product that there appears no end to the line of well-finished,glossy,superficially entertaining but ultimately empty films that flood the countless TV channels and movie outlets.There is no time for a man like Mr Preminger to stand a little apart from the torrent of product and craft a personal work of art. Of course there has always been the Art for art's sake - money for Christ's sake ethos in film-making,but now Ars Gratia Artis has,in all but name ,been consigned to history's cutting-room floor. Today Otto Preminger would be lucky to get a job delivering pizzas in Hollywood. Half a century ago,having made the hugely influential,Laura,Where the sidewalk ends and The moon is blue,he set about filming Nelson Algren's controversial novel The man with the golden arm in his eccentric and individualistic manner.Rather than take his camera out onto the streets he stayed in the studio and used stylised almost Expressionistic sets,quirky casting(Mr Frank Sinatra - hot from his success in From here to eternity,the young,inexperienced but breathtakingly beautiful Miss Kim Novak and Mr Arnold Stang,a man whose oddities were after his own heart)and a remarkable era - defining score by Elmer Bernstein featuring the cream of West Coast jazzmen. An Otto Preminger film was always an all-round experience ,to be considered as a whole rather than breaking it down into acting,directing,photography.What appeared on the screen was Preminger's vision,his creation and his interpretation of Algren's novel ,not a film of Algren's novel,any one of twenty competent Hollywood hacks coud have produced that. From the first hi-hat cymbal beat that accompanies Saul Bass's iconic title sequence we are drawn into Preminger's take on what is nowadays called The Life,in truth a murky area occupied by hustlers,junkies,cops,drug dealers,stone gamblers,jazz musicians,their women and hangers-on.The lines are blurred in The Life,and it's dog eats dog down there. The inhabitants circle each other like sharks,looking for a sign of weakness to be exploited.Frankie Machine(Mr Sinatra)a professional card dealer,ex-junkie and aspiring jazz drummer is a born victim.When things get tough he goes back to the needle.Although he kicks the habit by going cold turkey there are absolutely no guarantees that he won't go straight back on it further down the line. Mr Sinatra's depiction of an addict in the throes of withdrawal has divided the critics,but the fact of the matter is that even fifty years later most of us have probably never seen such a thing in real life so we don't know how accurate the portrayal is.When I first saw the film in the late 50s I was very impressed,watching it recently on video,it seemed ,to put it unkindly,hammy.Perhaps he is a victim of his own success as many actors subsequently doing cold turkey have,with the passing of the years,taken his performance and refined it somewhat. Arnold Stang is outstanding as Machine's pal Sparrow,a performance he exceeded only in It's a mad,mad,mad,mad world. Try and watch it on the big screen and view it as the cinematic vision of a true auteur,a giant amongst today's pygmies - Otto Preminger. "},{"Title":"Sinatra at his best","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched the film for the first time last night on TCM and thoroughly enjoyed it. It is definitely a period piece and is representative of the post WWII film noire period in American movies. I'd have to call this one a near miss that is well worthy of praise even though it never achieves the greatness that I'm guessing Sinatra hoped for.The host said afterwards that this was one movie in which Sinatra behaved himself by showing up on time and actually doing retakes.Some of Frank's cooperativeness might be attributed to the fact that Preminger was a tyrant on the set or the fact that he was trying to win another oscar.But this film must have been a disappointment to him because he really pulled out all the stops and delivered a great performance in a much more challenging roll than the wise cracking Maggio of FHTE.The sets were great. Every Room looked like Ralph Cramden's apartment after the electricity had been turned off. The street scenes with their gutters full of trash, the hideously ugly cars of the era and the small time hoods who infest the film make the city in which it is set a hopelessly grimy and dehumanizing place, as totally bereft of joy or hope as bombed out Berlin.Sinatra had ability as an actor. I don't know where he got his training but he was vastly superior to most Hollywood trained actors such as Gable and Cary Grant.And this film, in my opinion, should be seen immediately prior to viewing Some Came Running because the latter could be seen as a sequel, almost, to MWTGA. Imagine Machine drifting to a small town in Ohio to hook up with his long lost and more successful brother. Of course, Kim Novak was ditched somewhere along the way. And there's some BS about Hirsh (Sinatra's name in SCR) being a vet. But the similarities between Frank's character in both films are interesting, as is his portrayal of the alienated down on his luck loner which Frank eventually perfected with experience.Getting back to MWTGA, Eleanor Parker was a rip off of Blanche Dubois. And not a good one. Darin Macgavin never again had a role such as this where he played the heavy. Arnold Stang played Arnold Stang in the greatest role, also, of his career. But that is damning with faint praise since he didn't have much of a career.As for Kim Novak, she took a page out of Stang's book and played herselfa beautiful but vacuous dim wit. This is a role she reprised with Sinatra in Pal Joey or the Man with Golden Arm opens a night club. And with Bill Holden in Picnic.That is all she was capable of.Yes, the ending is contrived, but I liked it. I liked the fact that Stoush seemed willing to let Machine take the fall for her crime. Why wouldn't she? She was obviously demented and egocentric enough.And notice how, in a bow to 1955 sensibilities, the married Machine is NEVER seen in a clutch with Kim Novak. Had he been so, either he or she or both would have been killed off. That's the way it was done in those days.It's the actors whose faces I recognize but whose names are unkown to me who made the film. The way a great reportoiry group can make a play.The badass gambler who caught the Dealer cheating. The police detective. The old lady that lived next to Frankie and his wife. The people who hung in the dump of a bar Machine frequented.It's film noire and minamalist as hell, but, still, it reminds me of areas of 1955 Baltimore city. If you got out of the better areas of the city into the fringes where recent immigrants from Europe and Appalachia were forced to live in the only crummy places they could afford there were streets and bars and people who this film evoked.    "},{"Title":"Just shows how good Hollywood once was...","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought Anatomy of a Murder was a one-off. But Preminger was pushing the boundaries at least a few years before his greatest film with excellent social dramas like The Man with the Golden Arm. I really need to see the bulk of his work starting with films like Advise and Consent, Where the Sidewalk Ends, Angel Face and Bunny Lake is Missing. Before Kubrick and Cassavetes started pushing the boundaries of cinema, there was only Preminger to hold the fort and he did a pretty good job with The Man with the Golden Arm.Let me just go ahead and list the best things about this film in order of preference-1- Sinatra gives the performance of a life-time as Frankie Dealer Machine. To be sure, he appeared in better films like The Manchurian Candidate and From Here to Eternity but this still rates as pretty high on his list of achievements. He did good to fight for this role and snatch it from Brando.2- The withdrawal sequence has to be seen to be believed. I had seen Requiem for a Dream and Trainspotting and liked both. But, this is even more realistic. It really had me cringing!3- Otto Premingers direction is great. For one, he's great with B&W photography. His sets are designed beautifully. On location shooting in Chicago would not have been as good as the street scene we get in the controlled sets. He is also one of the best directors with music - on par with Kubrick, Hitchcock and Spielberg. I never found the score jarring. His photography and attention to detail is meticulous. Watch the scene with Eleanor Parker towards the end with the stairs. The entire one-take sequence was brilliant. You'll find lots of such brilliant long takes. Watch each frame - a master technician was at work.The only, and minor, weakness was the two ladies. Kim Novak was a bad actress and she just should not have gotten roles in films like this, Picnic and Vertigo. Eleanor Parker gives a very good performance but her story and relationship with Frankie is a gray area in the plot which should have been explained better. "},{"Title":"Good Acting, Daring Subject, But Otto Preminger's Glare is Intrusive","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Still somewhat Powerful Look-See at the Life of a Drug Addict. Frank Sinatra's sincere Performance is near Flawless and considering the Limitations of the Era was about All He Could Do.Sometimes the heavy handed Jazzy Score, meant to be Linked to the Underclass, is OK but borderline Pretentious. The Cast does a Good Job, more so for the Drug Dealers and the Gamblers,and the Women are Acceptable if Not that Special.Kim Novak doesn't Stretch much and is OK, but Nothing Exceptional (Her sweater emotes as much as She does), and Eleanor Parker manages a Difficult Role as the Film's other Addict. She is Addicted to Sinatra. The Cops are not shown in a very Good Light and that is Refreshing and Refrains from 1950's Preaching and Self-Righteousness.Then We have the Overrated Otto Preminger. He chooses to Film this Downbeat Story with a Backbeat of Highly Lit Sets. A Strip Club, a Seedy Bar, and most of the City Environment is so Bright and Glaring it is Disastrously Distracting in a Story that is about the Dark Side. There is just No Excuse for this Display and Preminger is to Blame.The Director must be Given Credit for at least Attempting some Daring Film Subjects and Explorations. It's just too Bad His Talent was very Limited and His Ego usually Overrode any Awareness His Movies delivered on Topical Considerations. He is an example of an Awkward AuteurOverall, Worth a Watch for Sinatra's Performance and for its place in Helping to Erode the Code. Above Average all around, but Hampered by a Director that was too Self-Involved to Speak about anything Outside His Pride. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to believe this movie did not get censorship approval. No where in the film do the characters mention what drug was involved or that drugs were even being used. Really the story teaches a morality lesson and that should be applauded.Frank Sinatra performed very well in Golden Arm. He make good use of subtlety and facial gestures. I did not not the melodramatic performance of Eleanor Parker, although I liked her last bit just before the film ended. The music is too intrusive throughout much of the film and that really messes up the flow of the story in places. But overall pretty decent. "},{"Title":"A great fifties melodrama","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Recent, there was an Otto Preminger retrospective at the American Cinematheque to support a recent biography written about him. The great director is noted to push the envelope and quite fearless when it came to causing controversy.In 1955, he cast Frank Sinatra, then the most famous singer/actor of this time period, as a card dealer/heroin addict star. Known for cigarettes, booze and broads, this is arguably his best performance. This predates stories of many music stars dabbling with illegal drugs, though it was certainly used, particularly in the jazz circles which Sinatra was loosely part of.Filmed on a studio set, it simply does not have the population the poor part of town, but as most of this narrative is done indoors, it can be forgiven.Eleanore Parker pretends to be a lame cripple, reinforcing Sinatra's guilt and an uneasy relationship with his wife. Kim Novak has the more nurturing role, even with a lush boyfriend who has no visible means of support.Cast as the oily pusher, Darren McGavin is very good as the actual bad guy. However, one wonders, where's the rest of his clients? Why does Sinatra appear to be the only one who needs a fix. Junkies flock to other junkies, that's what I've seen in real life and there's always more than one connection.Suspending that part of disbelief, for the time it was made, the characters are very well drawn out. One very good moment has Sinatra and Novak standing in front of a store window imagining what the store dummies would say.Then, as necessary for this type of film, the withdrawal scene. Again, one has to take into context the time is was made.I actually recommend it, both for what it is and for what it isn't. Preminger could be just as good as Billy Wilder's, the director who has his bigger successes and failures at the same tine.This is one of Preminger's best. "},{"Title":"Otto Preminger is the Antichrist","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very sad.  When this movie was made, Nelson Algren (author of the original novel which became the first winner of the National Book Award) expressed his displeasure with Preminger's treatment.  He disassociated himself from the work.  In an era when someone had the guts to make a movie as progressive and realistic with as shocking an ending as The Childrens' Hour, this movie dodges the real point of this film.The ending is trite.  One of the biggest points is also missed in that Sophie, Frankie's wife, holds on to him through the pervasive guilt he feels over her incapacitation from an injury sustained in an auto accident when he was driving.  She spends the entire book in a wheelchair and turning the knife in Frankie's psyche.  It is suggested that she is no longer incapacitated, but realizes that it is the only way she can hold onto Frankie.  SHE NEVER GETS OUT OF THE CHAIR IN THE BOOK.  This is Hollywood at its worst.Frank Sinatra's performance is good.  Preminger seems to attract good talent but neverless puts up a piece that is wooden and methodical at best, and a bastardization of a good story at its worst.  What a shame. "},{"Title":"Otto's Golden Arm Interesting character's roles","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An '50's Otto Preminger directed this film of the goings on in a small part of Brooklyn, New York. A great David Ryon character piece wonderfully starring Frank Sinatra and Kim Novak. Sinatra plays 'Frankie', a just released ex-junkie from prison who wishes to change his life as a outlaw poker dealer that is living in a loveless marriage out of pity tending his paralyzed wife, very desperately and creepily played by Joan Fontaine. Joan Fontaine's unbalanced wife character is actually not paralyzed and uses heavy guilt to manipulate Sinatra for her sick sycophantic affections. Frankie' wants and has some tenuous contacts to change his sad work situation into his new occupation as big band drummer. He gets entangled with his old neighborhood hoods consisting of bookies, thieves, pushers, junkies and all round dark people. He finally moves away and starts a new beneficial life with the lovely Kim Novak. Ms Novak looks like one of the many Marilyn Monroe actress clones often cast in the '50's due to Marilyn's great film successes. "},{"Title":"Frank Sinatra plays Frankie Machine,an heroin addict,who is married to a crippled woman who pressures him to stay with her,while he's in love with another woman (Kim Novak).","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Sinatra is wonderful in this film, as well as Pal Joey.Sinatra reportedly visited an rehab center for drug abusers to help him with his role as Frankie Machine.There are a lot of jazz numbers,and unfortunately, none of Sinatra's. "}{"Title":"An Edgy Gangland Drama With Subjective, Lashing and Pulsating Psychological Depth","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man with the Golden Arm, Otto Preminger's controversial, panoramic crime drama, plays itself out among the mental descriptions of its living and architectural occupants, in rhythmic, lashing arrangement. Opening the film, a closeup from within a bar of Frankie looking in through the window, already tells us to the prominence that the protagonist's subjective experience will grasp. Pulled in the direction of increasingly slighter spaces, the film shuts itself off, as the local gangster's long-drawn-out poker game shuts itself from the daylight, bolts itself in, as Sinatra's Frankie Machine has himself locked in a room in the celebrated scene of his harrowing struggle to overcome his habit. In delving into the shapes and faces of its jazzy urban haven, the visual traffic in The Man with the Golden Arm characterizes skewed psychological circumstances, forming an overpowering environment, as maintained by the recurring tracking shots into closeups of Frankie's eyes.The grace of this fiery drama, striking as early as the exciting opening crane shot, displays the command over the perceptible world that studio production allows. The wonderfully dilapidated urban sets define an independent place with no beginnings or ends, an indeterminate state, the sort that in reality hardly last as long as this skid row seems to before being gentrified or leveled. The flair of certain performances, particularly Robert Strauss's as the wonderfully named underworld gambling boss Schwiefka and Arnold Stang as Frankie's trusty four-eyed lapdog, becomes this fiery surreal feature pleasingly. The premise of drug addiction, Sinatra's powerhouse performance, Elmer Bernstein's infectious, forceful jazz score and Saul Bass's famous, influential and controversial opening sequence centering on the animated paper cut-out of a heroin addict's arm ensured that, in its era, The Man with the Golden Arm presses forward upon the cause for realism in the still reticent Hollywood. It is impressionistic and subjective, as I say, but its intent, its force and its spirit are much closer to home.What absorbs me the most in this film is its aspect as a gangster film. It has the illegal card games, short cons, the fights, the guns, the double-crosses, characters on the lam, a femme fatale, a stunningly sexy gun moll, the shady nightclubs and urban landscape, but it does more than exploit this environment for entertainment. Really, it is the perfect environment, and genre, in which to tell this story, a crime-ridden urban borough where it's all too comfortable to escape through a bottle or two, or three, or four, or drugs, a transient dose that really just functions to keep one in obscurity from any enlightenment and all the clear scenarios the world could bid. "},{"Title":"Before there was Trainspotting...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I decided, on a whim, to watch this and Trainspotting one after the other (though it wasn't my first time seeing either), and the similarities were there (though the stories themselves were quite different). But one thing that puts Trainspotting above this film is the charisma of the film, the story, the characters. This film lacks much of that charisma. The characters in Trainspotting evoke little sympathy, but these characters evoke little emotion at all. It's not one of Frankie's better roles (see High Society...), and not one of Kim Novak's either (See Vertigo or Of Human Bondage). Eleanor Parker was *beyond* annoying (to give her credit it wasn't completely her fault, her character was annoying as hell, but she did whine *way* too much...) In fact, though Darren McGavin was quite good as the pusher, the only real standout here was Arnold Stang as the 'not all there' Sparrow, who I thought was really quite excellent in a difficult role to get right.Much of the problems with this film is it's much too long, a problem not too uncommon with Otto Preminger's work. It was 2 hours but really should have been no more than 1h45 at most. Many of the scenes could have been cut down (such as the scenes where Frankie kicks in Kim Novak's apt., reminiscent of Renton's kick scene in Trainspotting which was also much too long and trite), other scenes could have been cut altogther. And the characters never seemed to have any emotion, especially Frankie who seems to be always apathetic, even when dying for a fix.As an aside one fun game to play is to find all the lines Ministry sampled for 'Just One Fix'Overall This film was alright, but really lacked intensity and passion, emotion and the harrow of addiction. It was hinted at, and overdramatized at times, but it never really shown through (probably because I was too busy yawning through those scenes...) That charisma and intensity is what Trainspotting does manage to convey, which is why it's a much better film. But the cast, though they have all played better roles, is still a good one, and that saves the film somewhat. 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Bit Too Dated And Melodramatic","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's now impossible to mention cinema featuring junkies without speaking of TRAINSPOTTING the cult Brit flick from the mid 1990s . Before Danny Boyle's film came along I guess people thought of THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM when they spoke of the abstract misery of drug addiction Obviously you can't compare the two since rules of what you can feature on screen have changed over the decades , but it's impossible not to notice how dated this movie is . First of all it's painfully obvious that Otto Preminger has shot the entire film inside a studio , the myriad of scenes where people walk along unconvincing studio sidewalks makes the movie feel like a cheap film noir B movie and the very melodramatic plot twists ( Believe me you'll know what I'm talking about when you see them ) reinforce this feeling . I also have a problem that it's never suggested that Frankie Machine brought all these troubles to his own doorstep by volunteering to become a drug addict , something that TRAINSPOTTING blatantly mentions . How can a junkie be a victim of anything when they volunteered to become an addict ?But lets not be too negative and cynical since we are talking about 1950s cinema . Frank Sinatra does manage to make Frankie Machine a not unlikable anti hero while Elmer Bernstein's big band score is memorable . It's just that THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM comes across as rather twee and dated in the twenty first century  "},{"Title":"Excellent Novel + Bad Director + Hollywood = Awful Movie, as usual.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The original novel is one of the classics of American literature and it's a shame the film bears so little resemblance to it. The soundtrack is good but the acting is a joke and the directing is utterly unremarkable. Perhaps it has some historical significance due to the subject matter but it's just a shame Mr. Preminger doesn't get beyond the Reffer Madness mentality. As for what's left of the story  simplistic cliche ridden melodrama of the fall asleep from boredom variety (except you don't because the music is a pleasure to listen to) Don't bother with the movie, read the book by Nelson Algren instead. "}]