[{"Title":"A sci-fi classic!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie a hundred times while growing up and I've seen it at least a hundred more times as an adult! Great story. To me it's the greatest big bug movie ever made. Interesting side story of the effects of the nutrient on humans, also. I fell in love with Mara Corday after the first time I saw this as a young child and I still think she was one of the great beauties of the screen. I think the main reason the film holds up today is the special effects are still quite impressive and there is nothing that todays audience would find hokey or cheesy. The only thing that Bugs me is the sound effect of the tarantula growling as it attacks. But thats just nit-picking. Its also fun spotting a young Clint Eastwood. Great sci-fi and great entertainment! A film viewing must! "},{"Title":"The second best 1950's big bug movie !","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one has a special place in my memories ! I grew up in New Mexico near the desert, and whenever they showed this one on the late night science fiction Saturday night TV thriller show, I was afraid to walk to school and back on Monday! As I have grown up over the last forty years, I have come to appreciate it as a well crafted science fiction near classic! Jack Arnold directed many good sci-fi movies in the 1950's, but there is no doubt this was the creepiest! Next to the superior THEM, released the year before (at a different studio), this UNIVERSAL STUDIOS chiller was , for my money, the second best of the giant bug movies of that decade! You will never look at the desert the same way again. Actress MARA CORDAY impressed me so much in this one, that I named one of my daughters after her! JOHN AGAR gave a great performance, and this one led to him doing a string of more horror and sci-fi movies for the next decade or two! It helped that they used a real Tarantula (named TOMORROW), instead of a fake one, and Clifford Stine's special effects will convince you that spider is really 100 feet tall! Another plus is Henry Mancini wrote some of the music score! So, I recommend this one to all those that hate creepy crawlers of any kind! Get out the can of RAID! But, you had better make it a really big can !!!Signed, Baron Beast "},{"Title":"Desert Bloom","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As someone who'll kill a common house spider on sight, and as a resident of one of the the cooler regions of the United States, I try to watch the fifties sci-fi movie Tarantula whenever it's on. Maybe I do it as therapy. I dunno. Or maybe I'm trying to convince myself that it really is better living in a city that has been known to have blizzards in April. Whatever. But enough about me. This Jack Arnold-directed movie was made for the old Universal-International at a time that studio wasn't nearly the behemoth it is today. But U-I, or rather its management, wanted to be big, and were aiming to grow. Kind of like the eight-legged creature in this film.The movie is set in an Arizona desert town whose handsome young Dr. John Agar is trying to solve the mysterious death of a man from a condition known as acromegaly (or acromegalia, as it's called in the film). His quest takes him to the laboratory of research scientist Leo G. Carroll, who, though outwardly polite, clearly doesn't want to be bothered. He doesn't want his beautiful young assistant, Mara Corday, to be bothered, either, least of all by the romantic Dr. Agar. As luck would have it, Carroll and his former associate and friend,--let's call him the acromegaly man, and leave it at that--were working on a nutrient that they hoped would cure world hunger. To make a long story short, one of the creatures they were experimenting on, a tarantula already the size of a Volkswagon, escaped from the lab when the acromegaly man set it on fire, as he had gone mad. He also injected Dr. Carroll with the formula that would in time give him acromegaly, too. Some friend.In a brief period of time the spider has grown to the size of a house, then an office building. He's either very shrewd or very lucky to avoid being spotted, feasting mostly on ranchers and men in remote areas where he won't be seen by others. Guns are useless against the big guy. Dynamite can't kill him, either. He just ambles on right through it. The Air Force has to be called in. I won't tell you any more because I don't want to spoil the ending for you. As big bug movies go, this one's near the top of my list. It's very well photographed, and the life of the small town is presented with just enough credibility so that even when the story gets a tad weird, the people seem real. I especially liked Nestor Paiva's extremely (to put it mildly) aggressive performance as the sheriff. Forceful as he is, he's never obnoxious, just assertive. Mara Corday doesn't have much to do but look pretty, which she does superbly. The late John Agar is quite good as the town doctor. No, this isn't George C. Scott we're talking about, but Agar is competent. Also, there's something about his looks, the eyes and cheekbones especially, that give him an alien, almost unreal aspect. It's a perfect face for a fifties sci-fi hero. Slightly android. Leo G. Carroll is his usual diffident self, and he does make a convincing scientist. There's something about Carroll's manner and delivery of dialog that makes you want to hear more. I wish he'd have more to say and more to do, and not just in this movie, in all the movies he appeared in. This isn't exactly a star vehicle for him, but his role is substantial, and in a way it's his low-key underacting that keeps the movie anchored in something that resembles reality. Put a more flamboyant type in the part, a Rathbone or a Lugosi, and the film would be over the top. "},{"Title":"A Good Edition To The DVD Sci-Fi Ultimate Package","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those films which starts off with a bang, slows down with a big lull in the middle section, and then finishes strong.Kudos to the special-effects people to make the giant tarantula scenes look pretty good, even by today's standards some 50 years after this was made. Many times, the huge spider looks real while it's crawling down the road. I would like to have seen one or two more scenes of it in that middle section which would have kept viewers on edge throughout the film. Instead, it got a bit talky in spots.Anyway, it still entertained and it was fun for me to see Leo G. Carroll, a guy I saw each week growing up watching Topper on television. Carroll played, by far, the most interesting character in this movie.The acting was good in here, too, once again above '50s sci-fi standards. It was one of the better entries in the recently-released Sci-Fi Ultimate DVD set, offered at Best Buy. A pretty good transfer, too. "},{"Title":"Top-of-the-Line Universal-Int'l Sci-Fi Thriller!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a top-of-the-line Sci-Fi thriller from the studio that did 'em best in the 1950s - Universal-International. Produced by William Alland (who also produced Creature From the Black Lagoon and It Came From Outer Space, and directed by Jack Arnold (who directed those films) it has an intelligent script and good acting all the way around. Arnold does a great job of building suspense as he cleverly keeps the titular monster mostly off-screen for the first 2/3 of the film until it's simply too big to hide. And then --- watch out, folks! As in many another sci-fi story, the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and if there's a villain of the piece, it's the Nuclear Age - the spider of the title is merely doing it's natural thing searching for food. Except that, thanks to Leo G. Carroll's well-meaning experiments (to increase the world's supply of food), this is one BIG spider with an equally BIG appetite! Universal's special effects department just about out-did themselves here - the matte work is almost flawless (check out Leo G. Carroll's house after the spider's visit), and the make-up department did excellent work as well. This is one of the best of it's kind, and great fun on a rainy Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"An overlooked classic!!!!!","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great horror movie. The story is excellent and the pace is swift and entertaining. The special effects are convincing, and so is the acting. Universal studios did a good job with there early monster movies, like THE LAND UNKNOWN and THE DEADLY MANTIS. Very good horror movie that I highly recommend.  4/5. "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia, anyone?","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Only slightly less classic than Them! Tarantula still manages to stand on its own as a strong entry in the Giant Bug movies of the 50s. Technically, its not a bug movie as tarantulas are arachnids and not insects, but movie-going audiences of the 50s didn't care. They just wanted to see big ugly bugs crushing everything in their path, and this film certainly delivers in that respect.Taciturn scientist Leo G. Carroll is a man bent on finding a cure for world hunger. He invents a serum which enlarges whatever animal or insect (or arachnid) it is injected into. Unfortunately, when injected into a human, it causes acromegalia, a disorder marked by progressive enlargement of the head, face, hands, feet, and thorax, due to the excessive secretion of growth hormone. When one of Leo's human guinea pigs comes looking for revenge, he not only destroys the lab and injects the doctor with his own serum, but he shatters the glass cage of a puppy-sized tarantula, which quickly scurries out into the night.Enter Mara Corday and John Agar. Mara Corday is the new lab assistant for Leo, and John Agar is the country doctor who takes an interest in the dark haired beauty. But there's not much time for romance as the tarantula, now roughly the size of the Goodyear blimp, begins terrorizing the desert. Farm animals are munched upon, and so too are human victims who are found in pools of venom, their bodies literally filled with enough poison to kill ten more men besides. Leo G. Carroll slowly turns into the Elephant Man, the giant spider peeks through the window at Mara in her nightie and Clint Eastwood shows up at films end to fire napalm at the eight legged menace. Forget about Earth vs. The Spider and whatever you do, avoid The Giant Spider Invasion at all costs. This is the definitive Giant Spider film. It's smart and fast and well acted, and the spider itself is pretty cool looking, considering the fact that no furry robotic arachnids were constructed for this film, but instead film footage of a real tarantula was blown up and rear projected. It looks pretty good, considering the time. If you liked Them! you'll definitely want to check this one out as well. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Sci-Fi","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Desert Rock, Arizona, a disfigured man is found dead and identified by Professor Gerald Deemer (Leo G. Carroll) as his assistant and friend Dr. Eric Jacobs, who would suffer from acromegalia. The country doctor Matt Hastings (John Agar) is puzzled with the mysterious disease and decides to investigate further about acromegalia. Professor Deemer omits that Dr. Eric Jacobs and Dr. Paul Lund were researching with him a nutrient to increase the food supply in the world and they have been affected by the experiment. Soon Paul Lund, who has also been affected and is mad, breaks and sets the laboratory on fire and a huge tarantula escapes.Meanwhile, the gorgeous Stephanie Steve Clayton (Mara Corday) arrives in town to work with Dr. Jacobs, and Dr. Hastings drives her to Professor Deemer's house in the desert. She is hired by Deemer and she finds that he is sick. When cattle bones are found in a farm, Hastings collects material and flies to a laboratory, where he learns that the sample is of tarantula's venom. But the scientist does not believe that one tarantula could ever produce such quantity of venom. The doctor returns to Desert Rock sure that the species is part of Prof. Deemer's experiment and the locals are threatened by the dangerous tarantula.Tarantula is a typical sci-fi of the 50's and a surprisingly good film. The screenplay is very well written and the movie is supported by good direction, performances, cinematography and special effects. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Tarântula! (Tarantula!) "},{"Title":"Fun monster movie with serious undercurrent...","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ostensibly a quickie b-flick targeted at matinée audiences, Tarantula certainly isn't High Art but it does take a refreshingly serious tack on its story. Mad scientist in small desert town experiments with growth serum, accidentally unleashing one humongous spider on the terrified locals. Very nice atmosphere, decent special effects, not-bad performances. John Agar is the stalwart hero, and of course he's coupled with a pretty girl prone to screaming (Mara Corday as Stephanie, whom Agar affectionately calls 'Steve'). Probably more fun today for nostalgic adults than modern preteens, and certainly not as gripping as Them!, but still a well-enough produced creep-show. Look fast for Clint Eastwood in an uncredited bit. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Tarantula  First Impressions","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was eight when I saw Tarantula on the not-so-big screen.  My youthful fear of death led me to a greater concern for the disease caused by the nutrient than by a very large spider.  It contains a classic moment found in many 50's big monster movies.  Two guys are left behind in a car (which, of course, is in bad need of a tune-up and won't start) with a couple of puny rifles.  They, of course, provide an evening meal for the spider.  This was probably most people's first exposure to napalm as well.   "}{"Title":"Above Average Example of the Genre.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Professor Deemer (Leo G. Carrol) and two of his colleagues have holed up in a lab out in the desert where they are experimenting with a new non-organic nutrient that will feed the world as its population explodes. The experiment goes awry -- don't they all? -- and Deemer's colleagues both contract a fulminating pituitary disorder, acromegalia, that distorts their features and then kills them. Before he dies, enraged, one of the colleagues gives the unconscious Professor Deemer a shot of his own medicine.When the corpses begin to show up, the small-town doctor, John Agar, is prompted to visit the lab out of curiosity. It is about this same time that Carrol's beautiful young assistant, Mara Corday, arrives. The young doc and the lab assistant fall for each other.This nutrient -- I hope you're following this -- this nutrient promotes dramatic growth in organisms. In one day a baby rat is the size of a bunny rabbit. Imagine what this will do for the world's cattle supply! One cow would fill up the barn and eat nothing but this non-organic nutrient fluid! Oh, by the way, the professor's prediction about population growth was a little off the mark. He predicted that by 2000 the planet would be host to something more than three and a half billion people. It's now 2007 and we are just shy of six billion. The best estimate is that in another 50 years we'll have doubled that figure. Someone place a long-distance call to Thomas Malthus and tell him he was right after all.Well, see, most of the experimental organisms were destroyed in a fire, but one managed to escape. It could have been a guinea pig but if it had, there would be no picture. No -- it was a tarantula the size of a foot stool. The wretched thing hobbles about secretly in the desert, making a nuisance of itself by eating cattle, horses, and people. Before you know it -- and, more important, before Agar, Corday, the local sheriff, and the US Air Force know it, the spider is the size of Shea Stadium and is crunching whole houses beneath it. (The now gruesomely disfigured professor is hoist by his own petard.) Tommy guns don't stop it. It doesn't even pause when a load of dynamite is exploded under its cephalothorax.Only an infallible super hero could save us now. And here he comes. Clint Eastwood, leading a pack of jets, demolishes the lumbering creature just as it is about to attack the town of Desert Rock. Well, we knew Mara Corday would survive anyway, because she was later to appear in Sudden Impact with Clint, many years later, as a waitress.The movie is made on a low budget and it has no ambitions beyond inspiring fear and wonder at the special effects, which look a bit shoddy to today's audiences used to CGIs. It has no lesson to teach us, unlike, say, The Day the Earth Stood Still, but its very cheesiness lends it a charm that's lacking in multimillion-dollar f/x extravaganzas like The War of the Worlds. It's comforting to see a small-town doctor who makes house calls. The vistas of empty desert enchant the eye. And if the characters are stereotypical, well, stereotypes exist for a reason. They are fixed points in a changing and unpredictable universe. We sort of like our doctors to be humanists and one of the crowd, and we like our professors thoughtful and quirky, and the sheriff hard-headed, realistic, and given to derisive laughter when he hears an implausible tale.There's a scene in which John Agar and Mara Corday are driving in the doc's nifty 1950s Ford convertible through the empty desert, and he shares with her his sense of awe at living in a landscape like this. Everything that has ever walked or crawled has left its mark in this desert. . . . She asks him to pull over and stop. They sit on a rock and chat in the middle of this vast void. The scene only lasts a few minutes, but for those few minutes we could wish we were part of that couple, innocent, capable of inspiration, still able to look at emptiness and recognize beauty in it. My guess is that the location for this scene is now part of a strip mall and the vacant lots sparkle with bent soda cans and styrofoam. Would that we were at three and a half billion and there were room enough left for wonder at a natural landscape.It's a simple, unpretentious movie made for adults as well as kids. You'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Can all mankind escape the terror of its dread embrace.......","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Professor Gerald Deemer has been working on a special nutrient that will help offset a predicted food shortage, the serum he has created escalates growth in his lab animals at an alarmingly quick rate. Deemer quickly loses control of the experiment and during a fight at his lab a fire breaks out and a Tarantula that is already 50 sizes bigger than it should be, escapes, and soon all species are on the menu!Tarantula is a big personal fave of mine from this particular genre, so I make no apologies for my uncontrolled bias. The film opens with a facially malformed man running through the desert until he collapses, and from then on in we are treated to a story involving acromegaly (a disease that causes gigantism), and a gigantic tarantula eating everything that gets in its path, its pure sci-fi/horror hokum for sure. However, Tarantula has that knack of spinning the story with only minor glimpses of the spider until we are positively sensing the dread that is about to be unleashed. Using a real spider inserted onto the screened landscape, and then having it crawling over smartly moulded miniature sets, really adds to the creepy fun unfolding. Directed by genre hero Jack Arnold, and starring stoic actors like John Agar & Leo G Carroll, Tarantula is 80 minutes of pure genre entertainment. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Big, and Misunderstood","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mara comes to us in this one as a nieve post Grad Student, hoping to work for the scientists that she so admires. Men who throw caution to the wind, have no concept of the damage that could be caused, in order to help a world that could possibly run out of food in the next 300 years or so. Two men and a student go to work to conquer this problem, and as men do they find the answer they are looking for, but some where along the way the forgot the question. Our star, yes,  the tarantula, is set free in a munitant vs man fight. terry is then free to reek havoc over the miles sournding this tiny town, some call it looking for supper. until he comes home to her house that he was born in. all the attempts to distroy him fail, until Clint appears, yes the man with no name is in this film!, and they ...well you watch the film to find out. remember, this is a '50 flick, and should be judged on its merits alone. you wouldn't compare the kitty hawk to the space shuttle now would you? so, have fun and enjoy, this is a good flick, fater all it spawned two others, food of the gods, and prophacy. not bad for a B movie.May The Creaturs Be With You. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Them!, but if you liked Them! you'll probably like this one","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula is obviously an attempt by Universal to cash in on the commercial success of Them!...or maybe the giant insect runs amok movie was an idea whose time had come. Anyway, the design sense isn't in the same league as Them!, and the cast isn't as strong, but to its credit Taratula! has enough original elements to stand as a solid bit of sci-fi monster movie making.It seems to me that John Agar was better in this movie than he was in his previous role in Revenge Of the Creature. I don't for a moment think that a Ken Doll actor type like Agar is believable in the role of a small town country doctor...but he's just sharper and more human somehow. Maybe it was the director, maybe it was the nature of his part. Nestor Paiva (another Creature and Mole People alumnus) surprised me with his part as an American country sheriff - I didn't expect the level of energy he put into his lines and how well he moved from Latino accent to western American boom. And Leo Caroll was the Gene Hackman of his day. You're not sure why you find him so interesting, you just do. His characters are almost always diffident and utterly civilized, but he improves any scene he is in somehow with his utter class, even when he's acting behind a big rubber mask. The story is pretty decent, though the structure is a little weird. As Bill Warren points out, Universal seemed to hate incorporating flashbacks in the movies they made at the time, and so the sequence of events seems a little odd and less compelling than it ought to be. The struggle and fire in the lab seems to come too soon, and really should have been shown as a flashback. Another problem the arachnid is simply too big to be really compelling - it seems to me that it should have been the size of, say, a semi truck, not the size of an office building. Bigger is not necessarily scarier. Them creeped the viewer out with dozens of bus-sized ants, not one ant the size of King King. The biggest problem is actually in the ending - four Air Force jets shows up and napalm the beast from the air, and the movie just stops dead with the creature's destruction.Rather than the epic feel of Them, the ending feels more like a Warner Brother's Roadrunner cartoon.Still, there are lots of things to enjoy about this one. "},{"Title":"excellent science fiction adventure","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the story of a giant spider, told with the craft so often seen in older movies.We have the mad scientist, who is quite a three dimensional character, who causes gigantic mutations in animals. A fire destroys all but one, a tarantula that grows to immense size.People are prey to this arachnid. There are many scary scenes. Two men camping out are assailed, and there is the famous scene with the jeep. When the military fail to stop the spider, the commander leaves two men behind in a jeep which won't start. Apparently, it was serviced by a Louisville mechanic.Clint Eastwood makes an appearance at the end, as a pilot.But Agar, Carroll, and a stunningly beautiful Corday are the stars of this show.There are thrills, logical sequences of events, and identifiable characters which makes this greatly entertaining. It is action packed, mixed in with good drama. "},{"Title":"Creepy Crawly on the loose!","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this film, which was one of the best of the giant, mutated one-thing-or-another movies. Two of my favorites of the 1950 B-movies, John Agar and Nestor Paiva starred with Mara Corday(who is very beautiful). Hank Patterson was great as Josh the hotel clerk, who provided comic relief. Clint Eastwood has a small part at the end of the film as the fighter squadron leader. The effects by Clifford Stine are classic and Jack Arnold again proves his worth as director(before moving on to the Brady Bunch in the 1960s). Leo Carroll is superb as Professor Deemer, who develops a formula for a growth serum. It is this serum(with uses an atomic isotope)that produces rapid growth in all the lab animals,including the Tarantula. The acting is very good, the movie has a nice pace and the effects for their time are top-notch. This is one 1950s sci-fi film to see! "},{"Title":"top of the line old creeper","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am in in the process of rewatching vintage movies. I find some less than I remembered, such as The Thing From Another World, which now seems talky and slow. I find others to be better than I remembered. Tarantula is one of these. Tarantula is a superbly crafted B shocker from Universal-International back in its science fiction heyday during the fifties. Director Jack Arnold did not have a flashy style, but was excellent at building suspense and brings off the terror scenes with panache. The script is intelligent and logical, with any holes minor. The special effects are convincing, with a real spider blown up to gargantuan proportions. The tarantula scuttles about like the real tarantula it is and this certainly aids in the illusion. The scenes with the skeletal remains of cattle and sheep are still extremely creepy.And the cast does very well. John Agar is the stolid, stalwart, hero, both likable and intelligent. Mara Corday matches him as a graduate student and is strikingly beautiful. Their romance is plausible and less of a drawback than is usual in films of this era. The smaller parts are all convincingly portrayed, with Nestor Paiva and Hank Patterson standouts as the sheriff and the town character respectively. A very young Clint Eastwood pops up at the climax as a pilot destroying the monster. Best of all is Leo G Carroll as the scientist whose well-meaning experiments go sour and lead to all the destruction. One of the top character actors from the thirties through the sixties, his low-key delivery always projecting utter conviction, Carroll here firmly grounds all the scientific extrapolations. The concept of creating a nutrient to grow more food or to feed humans directly without food makes sense.The movie is slowly paced during the first half, but the speculative script, with its touches of poetry about the desert, and the subplot of the sudden deaths from acromegalia, as well as a couple of subtle, creepy appearances by the rapidly growing spider, holds the interest until the giant tarantula goes on the rampage during the second half. The scenes of terrified horses and cowering humans filmed from above from a spider's eye view are, I think, the first use of subjective camera during a monster's attack and presage the use of this technique in later slasher movies. I found the scene in which the two old prospectors are attacked and flee in panic, with one, obviously near seventy, falling again and again, with his old friend refusing to leave him behind and returning three times to help him, to die with him in the end, especially well done and affecting.All in all, with Them the best of the big bug movies, and a giant tarantula is a hell of a lot scarier than giant ants. "},{"Title":"Great 50's Monster Movie","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great fun here in this 50's monster movie, with a giant Tarantula (who'd have guessed) as star of the movie. John Agar is a small-town doctor faced with people suffering from a strange disease, and all signs pointing to the research lab outside of town, where they perfom tests on animals so that they grow... and grow... and grow really quickly. It got something to do with being able to feed the planet, but who cares! Back to the action Agar gets help from a young beautiful female scientist, the sheriff and finally the army to kill the huge spider (we're talking like 100 meters high here). The special effects are better then you would expect and the movie doesn't go on too long. Just great! 8/10. "},{"Title":"This is a classic sci-fi horror monster flick from the 50's about a giant tarantula that terrorizes a rural desert community.","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favorite classic sci-fi horror flicks of all time. My dad and I have watched it probably about 200 times. The somewhat cheesy acting of John agar combined with the more serious tone of Leo g Carroll makes for an awesome satisfying blend. The characters and the plot in itself make for a great watch as a scientist (Carroll) named professor Deemer is using some kind of serum to grow animals in his lab that have grown well above their usual size and grow at a faster pace. Of course the tarantula is injected with this and escapes as one of Deemer's students who injected himself with it for some reason and is totally mutated fights with Deemer and knocks him out and injects him with the serum then dies. Deemerwakes up and slowly becomes mutated throughout the flick. Of course there is also a love interest between a woman who is staying at Deemer's lab as a student (Corday) and the main hero (Agar) who ends up saving her from the tarantula who kills Deemer towards the end by knocking down his house. Many random deaths ensue as the spider wreaks havoc until finally the Air Force comes in and destroys the monster after several attempts including sticks of dynamite are used to try and kill the monster. One aspect of the movie that makes all the more better is that the seemingly evil professor actually is a tragic character who didn't mean for his colleagues to suffer from the serum and didn't want all of this to happen and just wanted to increase growth of animals and food. Overall the plot and acting is great for a movie of this type/genre and of this decade of horror movies and goes down as one of my favorites and one that I would recommend for any people who love classic horror/sci-fi flicks and are looking for an entertaining watch. "},{"Title":"Things are about to get hairy.....","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being something of an arachnophobe, this film scared me terrifically when I was a child. I saw it again on DVD a couple of days ago, and was surprised to see how well it holds up. The spider is genuinely effective and creepy. Arnold is very underrated as a director -he gives the film an eerie quality lacking in most of its contemporaries. Obviously inspired by Them, it does not disgrace its source. I liked John Agar's performance; I understand Universal Pictures, to whom he was under contract, kept him in sci-fi monster movies when his pool-mates Rock Hudson and co went on to Stardom. A shame, because on this evidence he could have made it, too.The script's references to Acromegalia are interesting, too. Not least as an unfortunate victim of the disease, Rondo Hatton, was a well-known contract-player on the Universal lot in the 1940s. Makes me wonder if he was the inspiration for this plot point.Also - anyone notice the lift from the Dunwich Horror? The investigators surveying the aftermath of the trail of destruction? My own feeling is that Arnold, or somebody involved with the creation of his films, was into Lovecraft. Creature From The Black Lagoon appears to be inspired by The Deep Ones. At least to me.All in all, highly recommended example of a fifties monster flick. "}{"Title":"A classic giant monster film of the 1950s.","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The renowned director Jack Arnold was truly on fire during this period, also turning out such favourites as It Came from Outer Space, Creature from the Black Lagoon, and The Incredible Shrinking Man. This is another solid effort from him and Universal-International; it's intelligent, it's spooky, and it builds to a very big finish.The likable John Agar stars as Matt Hastings, a doctor in the small town of Desert Rock who discovers that the scientific experiments conducted by Gerald Deemer (Leo G. Carroll) have had devastating consequences. Out of the best of intentions, Deemer and his associates have been fooling with a growth formula intended for use in helping a world with too many people and not enough food. The result is a tarantula that grows to MANY times its normal size, and terrorizes the California desert and chows down on any unlucky human (or animal) that it finds.Films such as Tarantula may not be for all tastes. Admittedly, it doesn't have that much great tarantula action, but the screenplay, by Robert M. Fresco and Martin Berkeley (based on a story by Arnold and Fresco) is sharp enough, interesting enough, and sometimes amusing enough, to just draw the viewer right in. Arnold parcels the thrills out carefully, tantalizing us a bit at a time until the climax when the enormous tarantula is about to reach Desert Rock and the frantic humans are trying to figure out how to destroy it. One of the most intriguing aspects to the screenplay is the effect that the formula has on human beings.The visual effects are quite good for this sort of thing, but the makeup by Bud Westmore is no less noteworthy. The cinematography by George Robinson is first rate as is the rousing music score by Herman Stein. The acting is extremely engaging from all concerned, with Mara Corday both lovely and appealing as the leading lady who's got brains to match her beauty. The under-rated Carroll is one of those actors to whom you want to listen when he speaks; he carries that kind of authority. Nestor Paiva has an irresistible presence as the jovial sheriff. And be sure to wait for the brief appearance by a certain gravelly voiced, squinty eyed movie legend, in one of his earliest feature film roles.This is just plain fun, and worth watching if you, like this viewer, are a big fan of the many genre productions of the 1950s.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unsafe Labratory Practices Unleash Giant Monster","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most of the 50s monster movies played upon the fears of science out of control, with nuclear radiation the usual culprit, but some films opted for more daring notions of doom. The fear of science unleashing devastation on humanity in the form of food nutrients must have seemed far-fetched back in 1955, but it is quite relevant today as lab-created food products and bioengineering become ever more common. The backstory of this movie starts with a group of 3 scientists experimenting with a potential breakthrough in nutrition. From this interesting premise, the research gets crazy in a hurry.Science in 50s B movies....where do you begin? Half the fun of watching these movies is for the the sheer insanity of the scientists, not only in their behavior, but in their theories. Tarantula features some amazingly oddball science (all taken quite seriously of course) and gives us a close look at unsafe laboratory practices in action. Here's a sample of some of the fun--Dangerous and unknown drugs are quickly tested on humans, and if the scientist is that perfect combination of being both enlightened and foolish, he will use himself as the test. --Scientists physically fighting in the lab. Did this not get covered in Chemistry 101? Never throw beakers full of unknown chemicals at each other or the lab animals! --Handling the serum. The scientists treat an open beaker of the serum as if it is is super deadly, but once it is in a syringe they are completely nonchalant. --Giant, easy to read clipboard charts! But shouldn't they at least record weights and measurements at each injection phase in addition to date? --They never seem to realize that they created a growth serum, instead of a nutritional serum...pay attention to your hypothesis! --Tasting unknown goo from a puddle on the ground. He did not just do that! Yes, he did. --The hideous mutation of the scientists is really creepy. --Also not to be missed, as in most of the B monster movies of this era, is a little educational film about the giant creature in question (in this case tarantulas). In addition to the science fun, this movie features a sweet and innocent romance between a newly-arrived lab assistant Stephanie 'Steve' Clayton (Mara Corday) and the local doctor Matt Hastings (John Agar). Mara Corday is one of the more capable B sci-fi movie women of the 50s. She is not easily dominated by alpha males and she commands respect from men. In most sci-fi movies of this period, the alpha male dominates the female, breaking down her professional surface until it cracks and her repressed feminine side re-emerges. Marda Corday manages to be fully feminine, yet composed and competent. John Agar plays the young, confident, capable, and likable country doctor. Somehow John Agar manages to play a character like this and make him believable and real. Oh yeah, there is a giant tarantula too. It rampages around the desert for a while before being killed by jets and napalm. The special effects look okay and the monster is certainly aggressive. Tarantula is a fun movie and one of the top monster movies of the 50s. I love it for the weird science. "},{"Title":"Classic example of a 1950s science runs amuck movie.","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tarantula is a classic example of a 1950s science runs amuck movie. It's a fairly simple movie and plot with all the characteristics of a sci fi, horror movie from the 50s. Nothing very special or unique about it but the film is still a lot of fun to watch. It's has the excitement and dramatic scenes that would have made this a great drive in movie or late night show. As long as you don't take things too seriously, just sit back and relax, it can be a nice reminder of the past that is still interesting to todays viewer. If you liked watching other sci fi, horror movies made in the early to mid 50s, you will also enjoy this one. I don't think you will be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Arachnid Awry","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jack Arnold's outstanding direction and fine Clifford Stine effects (with few glitches) propel this big bug chiller. The plot of Leo G. Carroll's scientific endeavor to cure world hunger by creating a serum that enlarges animals also causes acromegaly in humans (if self-injected), inevitably causes title creature to escape in the Arizona desert. Not too much happens in the first hour, but then Arnold kicks it into high gear with 3 superb set-pieces The first night-time attack on the horses, the return to the creator's mansion, peeping at a pajama-clad Mara Corday, and the daylight highway scene. Using a magnified real tarantula works out better than the prior year's Them of giant model-ants, the musical score and cinematography are also impressive. Raymond Bailey appears in an interesting school sequence as a professor showing a film on the eight-legged creature, which became a cliche in most of these 1950s horrors. Lead John Agar is adequate as the doctor, and final sequence disappoints, devoid of music, and no real attack on the town, but that large black nightmare towering over sands and telephone poles is memorable. "},{"Title":"GOOD BYE TO FRANKENSTEIN, DRACULA, THE WOLF MAN AND THE REST","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film marked Universal's shift from their classic horror films to the then popular giant monster on the loose genre.  This also began the trilogy of films directed by Jack Arnold that included The Deadly Mantis and The Monolith Monsters.  I really enjoyed the film and it kept you at the edge of your seat from beginning to end.  The disfigured scientists at the beginning had all the elements of the classic Universal films while the tarantula itself was very much inspired by Them. The films that came out in this era pretty much played on humanity's fears about the atom and what fooling around with something that man was just beginning to understand was doing our Earth.  All in all, this is a good film and I really enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"One of Universal's finest.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After Creature From the Black Lagoon, this is the best of Universal's monster movies of the 1950's, and the best giant bug movie of the 1950's after Them!The movie includes haunting desert locations and good special effects.  The giant tarantula especially looks impressive.  Good performances from the cast which includes British actor Leo J Carroll (The Man From U.N.C.L.E.), who was responsible for the tarantula to grow so huge.  A young Clint Eastwood is responsible for the tarantula's death.  If you are a fan of giant bug movies like me, this is a must.Rating 4 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Post-surrealistic masterpiece of the classical genius Arnold","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When the lyric's responssibles of maybe the cult-movie par excellence, The Rocky Horror Picture Show (Jim Sharman, 1975) included a homage line to the unforgetable Leo G. Carroll as the perfect shelleyan father of a proteic creature, that wasn`t precesily a childish self-indulgence Actually not the best, neither the most philosophical between the Jack Arnold's splendid fantasies -perhaps that honour is more comfortable over The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957), Tarantula compensates its abrupt, disonant ending with an amazingly oniric tone that it would allowed -if it did'nt- to the more prestigious brains of the European Surrealisms, from Lèger to Buñuel or even Magritte.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Fun","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great sci-fi movie with very passable special fx, a good cast and tight directing. Love It! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Giant Bug Movies Ever Made","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Leo G. Carroll (best known from t.v.'s Topper and Man from Uncle) experiments with artificial food, making animals grow rapidly larger.  Unfortunately it causes acromegaly in humans, like his lab assistant.   Deformed and crazy the lab assistant trashes the lab and releases the giant and still growing Tarantula who goes for a walk in the desert.  John Agar and his girlfriend try to help the slowly dying and becoming more deformed professor in stopping the creature before it reaches the town.  Watch for a cameo by a then unknown Clint Eastwood.The special effects are way above average for this kind of thing.  By today's standards of course they are cheesy.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Prof. Deemer would have to work a LOT harder nowadays","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold's Tarantula is mostly your typical '50s sci-fi flick, this time focusing on a typical member of the family Theraphosidae* whom a scientist is using as a test subject in a series of experiments aimed at increasing the world's food supply the experiments involve making animals grow really quickly. Sure enough, the arachnid gets loose, and so there's an eight-legged, 100-foot killing machine stomping through the desert, devouring anyone in its way.The professor mentions that the world population was growing by about 25 million every year. Nowadays it's closer to 80 million every year (about the population of Egypt or Germany). The professor predicted a world population of 3.6 billion in the year 2000, while in reality it reached 6 billion the previous year, and reached 7 billion last year. It's predicted to be 9 billion by 2050. Meanwhile, resources are drying up. The professor would have to work a lot harder nowadays (preferably without releasing a giant spider).OK, too much analysis. It's mostly the usual, fun sci-fi/horror flick from the era. Starring John Agar (Shirley Temple's first husband), Mara Corday (the October 1958 Playboy centerfold), Leo G. Carroll (Mr. Waverly on The Man from U.N.C.L.E.), Raymond Bailey (Mr. Drysdale on The Beverly Hillbillies) and an uncredited Clint Eastwood.*That's the taxonomic family to which tarantulas belong. "}{"Title":"A Great monster movie sci-fi classic!!","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1950's was a decade that saw a dramatic change in movies. Monster movies of the 1950's entertained, thrilled, and scared viewers, with very little monster movies being made now the 1950's is the perfect decade if you want to see monster movies. Tarantula is a 1955 classic, directed by Jack Arnold. Jack Arnold was a very famous movie maker in the monster movie genre, his movie are still recognised today by man viewers. Tarantula has a very multifaceted but interesting storyline. It involves experiments with food shortage, and the outcome is a Tarantula growing up to 100ft high. Tarantula is a very good monster movie classic with an attention grabbing storyline, and characters that the viewers will get drawn into straight away, witty dialogue always ensues in this movie. The special effects, for its time, were amazing. "},{"Title":"Where's Rondo when you need him?","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Filmed by Jack Arnold, the man who brought us the insuperable Incredible Shrinking Man (which also featured a 'giant' spider) Tarantula is undoubtedly one of the better B-movie sci-fi/horror flicks of the 50s. John Agar is the clean cut hero here, and he makes quite a likable leading man even though he tends to be one step behind the giant spider at all times. Subject matter aside, the story has to be accepted as the kiddie fodder it is intended to be, otherwise you'll be wondering how a spider roughly the size of the Empire State building manages to keep itself hidden from the townsfolk (of whom there are suspiciously few judging from the final scene &#150; about 6 or 7 I'd say) as it zips about stripping the flesh from cattle and farmers alike and leaving large puddles of venom at the scenes of its crime. It has to be said, though, that, more than half a century after it was filmed, the scenes featuring the oversize arachnid hold up remarkably well.Beneath all the 'fun' monster scenes there is an underlying 'serious' message trying to make itself heard &#150; largely through a sub-plot concerning Leo G. Carroll's earnest but misguided scientist who finds himself suffering from an accelerated case of acromegalia as a result of being injected by a former disgruntled colleague already inflicted with the disease. Carroll's pretty good, but it's a shame poor Rondo Hatton died back in '51 &#150; he would have been perfect for the part. "},{"Title":"TARANTULA (Jack Arnold, 1955) ***","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the most fondly remembered of the 'giant monster' films popularized by THEM! (1954) and, in hindsight, still ranks among the best of its type. I had first watched it on late-night Italian TV in my early teens and recall being somewhat let down; I was more receptive towards the film on a secondary viewing &#150; since it's clearly a notch above the other titles in the Classic Sci-Fi Ultimate Collection set (save, obviously, for THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN 1957).Anyway, the film echoes THEM! (which is the superior effort, by the way) in several aspects, but is sufficiently different to stand on its own merits. Actually, it's a logical extension of the earlier film &#150; because even if we have only one mutant monster here (not necessarily a budgetary imposition), it's an insect species that's far deadlier than the ants seen in THEM! Besides, even if the resultant growth in size is man-made, it's the product of an experiment involving a genuine concern for mankind's future (the creation of synthetic food, which would eliminate the problem of famine facing Earth's ever-growing population); the fault, then, lies in man's own impatience at achieving his goal! An original subtext to the central narrative &#150; and which, as Leslie Halliwell opined, is perhaps even scarier than the idea of an over-sized spider &#150; is the fact that the experiment is eventually conducted on human beings, causing acute acromegaly (shown via amusingly exaggerated make-up)! The cast of TARANTULA may not be as prestigious as that of THEM!, but it's certainly agreeable regular Universal hero John Agar (who's always a doctor of some kind in this type of flick) and his sidekick Nestor Paiva (here in a bigger part than usual as the sheriff); we also get a sexy heroine in Mara Corday (she later did similar duties in two other 'giant monster' pictures, namely THE GIANT CLAW 1957 and THE BLACK SCORPION 1957), and ever-reliable character actor Leo G. Carroll as the misguided &#150; and eventually deformed &#150; scientist.While the special effects of the rampaging spider seem variable at this juncture (although rather better than I recalled them), they were probably considered state-of-the-art back then. Even so, perhaps the film's best sequence is the one where the monster attacks the doctor's house and lab, crushing them under its weight; the image of the giant spider's eyes peering into Corday's window is still creepily effective (and must have given 1955 audiences veritable nightmares!). The satisfying climax (featuring a bit by a very young pre-stardom Clint Eastwood) first sees Agar, the authorities and the townsfolk unite in an attempt to deal with the arachnid their own way &#150; but, when this fails, they call a nearby military base for help (whose speedy intervention, an obvious plug to the resourcefulness of the U.S. Air Force, proves infinitely more successful). "},{"Title":"Fun, but far from my favorite 50s big bug movie","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula is a good time for fans of vintage science fiction but its far from the classic its reputed to be in some circles. Those expecting a masterpiece on the level of Arnold's later The Incredible Shrinking Man or something as consistently entertaining as his earlier The Creature From the Black Lagoon will be severely disappointed. The film is rather overrated by many monster movie fans. The main problem is that the exposition is far too long. It takes a good hour or so to actually get to the giant tarantula, during which were treated to a clichéd love story between John Agar and Mara Corday.Once the film gets to the army battling the giant tarantula, its a good amount of fun and even creates some tension. Also, Leo G. Carroll's character is one of the more interesting ones in 50s science fiction. Plus, the special effects are for the most part convincing. Still, it takes far too long to get to the good stuff. The story leading up to the actual battle isn't unbearable, but its dull and predictable. Tarantula is fun, but don't expect too much. (5/10) "},{"Title":"(Too) Brilliant horror for 1955 seven - year - old","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula was the first movie in my sheltered youth to scare me so much I could hardly sleep for months. I saw it on the big screen in 1955 at the age of seven, and it wasn't the spider that frightened me nearly as much as the face of the mad scientist (Leo) as it slowly turned grotesque. I couldn't believe the bravery of the incredibly beautiful new assistant who tried to be of help as the deformed features of her employer became more and more twisted ( what magnificent eyebrows he grew). I was so frightened by his face (not to mention the twisted cracked head of his male assistant who died in the desert at the beginning) that when the now giant spider arrived back at the original house and looked in on his former master through the window . . . I remember thinking that I had no idea who would win the ensuing battle between creator and created.......how could a spider, no matter how large, stand up to such a degree of pure deformity. This was the Elephant man....and I was seven years old and shocked into terror. Once the creature had destroyed the scientist, I knew that dynamite couldn't stop it,(of course I'd seen an ad on TV where the spider walked through the dynamited road) and I doubted that anything could. My God, how big would it eventually get. Thank God for Clint and those fire bombin' jet planes. After that I was deathly afraid to go to another horror film, but decided to try once again when The Blob came out. That one scared me so much that I had to wait till I was over 30 years old to see both Psycho and Alien.the end "},{"Title":"Classic Big-Insect Movie!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the quite curious giant-insect subgenre of the fifties, Tarantula is a true classic. At first, the very idea of John Agar appearing in a film like this would have most people rushing to change the channel...but with a supporting cast that includes Leo G. Carroll, Mara Corday, Nestor Paiva, and (unbelievably enough) Clint Eastwood, this is an excellent film. The plot involves scientist Carroll tinkering with a nutrition formula that of course--this IS a 50s film--includes a radioactive component. A giant tarantula escapes from his lab, and then proceeds to get REALLY big, causing the mysterious deaths of several people. It's John Agar to the rescue, ordering in Air Force jets, which (led by an unrecognizable Eastwood) drop napalm on the big arachnid. Great direction by Jack Arnold, an excellent script, good use of desert locations, and fine support from Corday and (especially) Carroll make this a top-notch film. Heck, even Agar isn't nearly as lifeless as he usually is. Near the top of 50s sci-fi movies. "},{"Title":"Marauding spider wreaks havoc? Not really...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A well-meaning doctor develops a serum meant to increase the world's food supply. He keeps several test subjects in a laboratory. The serum is making the subjects grow steadily larger... one subject, a tarantula in a glass enclosure, has grown to the size of a German shepherd dog after 22 days. But, one day the professor's assistants double-cross him and a fire breaks out in a fight. The glass enclosure housing the tarantula is smashed with a chair, and the spider quietly walks out of the enclosure and escapes from the burning lab into the desert.There's just one problem. The tarantula is still getting bigger... and bigger... and bigger. Before long it's practically as big as a football field. And just like any living creature, it needs to eat... it gets hungry. Well, if you're a tarantula spider the size of a football field, where do you go to find food? It's not like you can bring a club members' discount card to the local Horn & Hardart for a 25-ton bag of Purina Spider Chow (tm), right? This one decides to visit local cattle and horse ranches to sample the livestock... and the human ranchers keeping these livestock don't like that very much. But that's too bad for them-- to a spider acting on pure instinct, trying to feed itself, a human being a fraction of your size is just another kind of prey. And so the mayhem begins...For a 1950's horror movie, this is a classic. Although black-and-white, the photography is excellent, the effects in making the spider appear colossal are superb (for 1950's f/x technology), and the actors can actually-- gasp-- act! And the best part? PETA didn't picket the movie even though in the context of the storyline, the spider was as much a victim as all the people who got squashed trying to stop it. Moral of the story? If you want to create a growth serum to provide more food for the world... test it on fruits and vegetables. "},{"Title":"Wonderful 50's sci-fi/horror.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tarantula is a movie many people have seen on t.v. when they were kids during the 70's, & I find it to be as much fun now as I did back then. Tarantula was released to theaters in 1955 from Universal-International, & stars John Agar, Mara Corday, Leo G. Carroll, & Nestor Paiva. John & Nestor had done several sci-fi and horror flicks during this era, & this is a good one for both of them. Mara also had done a few sci-fi and horror movies during this era. And yes, there is a brief cameo by Clint Eastwood as a jet fighter pilot. Tarantula concerns one of Leo G. Carroll's experiments going out of control as he tries to find a way to develop a way to enlarge different animals for feeding the growing population in the future. The large tarantula is released by accident, & continues to grow to a towering height. The tarantula then hunts for prey in the countryside, & there are some creepy shots of the tarantula as it stalks its prey.  This is a low-budget film from the golden age of science fiction and horror movies, and it is also a lot of fun. It is true some of the special effects are not so special, but this was 1955 and ways to improve special effects were still developing. John Agar does a fine job acting, and so does the rest of the cast. Don't expect today's standards in movie quality! The quality of this movie is great in almost every way for this type of movie, and the era the movie was made.  "},{"Title":"Bullets and dynamite can't stop a giant tarantula!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent example of early 50s horror. This is a black & white thriller that lets your imagination fill in the gory details. The aftermath is there to fuel the fear of the over grown tarantula. Leo G. Carroll plays a professor experimenting with a synthetic food stuff with intent to feed the crowded earth in 2000. His experiments on animals cause them to mature in three to six days. A rat can grow to the size of a dog in about 12 days. Two assistants die after injecting themselves with the secret supplement. The professor is injected while fighting off one of his dying helpers that is setting fire to the lab. An oversized tarantula escapes the fire to terrorize the area.John Agar is the county doctor that leads in the destruction of the hairy legged menace. Mara Corday is the new assistant to the dying deformed professor. Character actors Nestor Paiva and Hank Patterson also star. And of note very brief screen time for unknown Clint Eastwood as a jet fighter pilot and Bing Russell as a deputy.I remember seeing this at the Saturday Kiddie Double Feature. My Milk Duds and Cherry Root Beer didn't last very long. Besides both hands were needed to hold on to the seat. This was pretty darn scary back then. Not to say it wouldn't scare a few grade schoolers today. Catch it on AMC or SFN and relive those days when we were frightened by an over grown anything. Bigger the scarier.  "},{"Title":"Not bad for the era of its release","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this film many times over the years since it was released, including its first theatrical run in 1955. Overall, it is above average for its genre and for the period in which it was made. The acting is passable, the story moves along well, and the effects are better than most of the schlock science fiction that was being churned out during the mid-1950's, although nowhere near the caliber of FORBIDDEN PLANET or THIS ISLAND, EARTH. (Note Fans of the latter will notice reuse of some of the sound track music themes from THIS ISLAND, EARTH, produced by the same studio a year earlier.)***SPOILERS AHEAD***The basis of the plot involves the efforts of two scientists to develop a growth nutrient using radioactive isotopes. The stated purpose of this effort is to increase the growth of food sources to supply the booming human population forecast for the future. The nutrient formula is very unstable, and produces unpredictable results when injected into experimental animals. Sometimes they grow at an astonishing rate, and sometimes they die. Successful giant animal subjects are being kept in cages in the laboratory.We now encounter the most major flaw in the plot. The scientists plan to test the formula on human subjects. One of them injects himself with the nutrient, and quickly becomes the monstrosity seen (in flashback)staggering through the desert and expiring at the opening of the film. What could be the purpose of such an experiment? To make humans grow larger? Doesn't this contradict the whole idea of increasing the food supply to feed an exploding world population?Before his demise, the doomed scientist from the opening sequence has returned to the lab, attacked his partner (Leo G. Carroll), and injected him with a dose of the nutrient. During their struggle, a fire is started in the lab (due to the shorting of a huge, unprotected electrical panel, this being a very unlikely and dangerous oversight on the part of the lab's builders) and many of the experimental animals perish or escape (including the tarantula of the films title). A very attractive woman (portrayed by science fiction mainstay Mara Corday) has been hired as a lab assistant, and arrives by bus in the small desert town. She has no means of transportation to the remote lab, and is offered a ride by the town's physician (John Agar). She introduces herself as Stephanie, but immediately states that her nickname is Steve. (Note This renaming of female characters using male nicknames was a curious and inexplicable practice in 1950's films, and was seen in many other films of the era. Could this have been the precursor of so many male-named women in the present day? But I digress...).Once she assumes her duties at the lab, Steve is instructed in the method of preparing the nutrient formula. There is another glaring flaw in the plot at this point. Since they are dealing with a dangerous radioactive substance, the scientist and assistant don protective gear (face masks and gloves), and the formula is prepared inside a shielded enclosure using remotely operated manipulators. A hypodermic syringe is filled with the substance using the same method. Then, unbelievably, the scientist opens a door in the enclosure, reaches in with his bare hand, picks up the hypodermic and carries it around (with an unprotected needle!) as if it were filled with tap water! Certainly, if the mixture were that hazardous, it would not be suitable for use on test subjects, and would be treated with much greater concern for safety in the lab.Meanwhile, out in the desert, the escaped tarantula continues to grow, and begins to attack area ranches in search of food. It devours several cattle and horses, and one of the ranchers as well. It leaves behind puddles of a white liquid, and this provides the vital clue to the local doctor and sheriff who are attempting to discover the source of the attacks. In another very implausible scene, the doctor (upon discovering a puddle of the liquid) sticks his bare finger into the unknown substance, smells it and then tastes it! One would think that a medical doctor with scientific training would be more cautious than to ingest something he finds in the middle of a pasture! He takes a sample of the liquid for analysis, and it is determined to be spider venom.The local constabulary is alerted, and soon comes face to face with the now gigantic spider, which is rampaging through the countryside eating everything it can catch (including the unfortunate, now misshapen scientist who created it). Of course, bullets and explosives have no effect on the creature, and the Air Force is finally called in to dispose of it. A minor continuity problem is present due to the use of stock footage of the Air Force jets (i.e., the planes shown taking off are not the same type shown during the attack). As has been stated before, the leader of the attacking jet squadron is portrayed by a young Clint Eastwood, barely recognizable behind his oxygen mask. The big spider is finally roasted to a crisp using napalm, and the world is once again safe from science run amock at the films conclusion.***END OF SPOILERS***The problems cited above are merely nagging details, and only a minor detraction from the overall effectiveness of the film. It remains entertaining and well paced, and if the problems are overlooked, it is worthwhile viewing for fans of science fiction. "}{"Title":"Great 1950s shocker!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jack Arnold´s Tarantula (1955) is a cynical comment on the growing nuclear menace of the post WW2-era. Worth to be seen for the social comment of these conflicting times, but also the F/X are well done Arnold used real spiders, directed them with air nozzles and copied the scenes into the ready film. Thanks God, there they had no soulless CGI in the 1950s, what saves a lot from the charm of this classic! The tarantula looks more like a dark shadow than a disgusting beast, so even faint-hearted persons will survive this movie without being traumatized! Interesting fact Young Clint Eastwood plays a bomber pilot who makes fire under the spider´s ass! "},{"Title":"Good-- for science fiction.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **May contain spoilers** As I am not a fan of science fiction in general, I am selective about the films of this genre which I do watch, and TARANTULA is one of the best because it is not the typical time/space travel.  Instead it is reflexive of true world problems-- coming overpopulation-- and the dilemma is to control an extremely powerful development for the positive use of mankind.  We can easily see the parallels with nuclear power, with the hydrogen bomb being the monster which can be let loose upon the world by modern science.  In the movie, of course, the monster takes the form of an 8-legged creature grown thousands of times normal size, living by instincts which compel it to seek cattle and people for food instead of insects.For science fiction to be worth watching, I think the *fiction* part of it must be cautiously limited, and this is why I care little for space travel movies and zooming around the galaxy.  TARANTULA upholds this requirement quite well.  The setting-- a small desert community where people generally know each other and each other's business-- is believable.  The reactions of the sheriff, the lab assistant, and the rancher to unexplained phenomenon are believable and expected.But the wide desert area covered by the doctor in his practice and by the sheriff in law enforcement leave a vast region for the escaped tarantula to grow to such a gigantic size without being sighted.  Since the entire action takes place in a few days, this does not become a glaring flaw, as an airplane from miles away could spot the creature, and the strange markings in the sand and waste discarded would be discovered by *someone* in a short time.  Still, the movie assumed the existence of a nutrient capable of producing such growth, but did not assume other nonscientific possibilities, so stopping the monster had to be done through means which were known.There are some logical questions in the progress of events.  First, why a tarantula as a test specimen?  A baby tarantula is no bigger than a gnat and crawls on its mother's thorax as one of a hundred.  The tarantula's age is posted as '22 days' on the chart, but perhaps that means the days since first injection-- how could the professor inject one the size of a gnat? The professor must be at least *slightly* mad to secretly carry on this experiment after his 2 associates are killed by the nutrient they developed. But does he really think all his giant specimens are killed in the fire in the laboratory?  There would have been some remains, especially since he was able to put out the fire before the entire house was burned.  If he did not find the remains of all of them, he was more mad than 'slightly.'  And he was more determined to have the credit for the amazing nutrient than he was concerned about the enormous risk if he knew, as he should have, that the tarantula-- at least-- had escaped.  Yet when his own acromigaly is so advanced he can no longer hide it, he appears to really believe that all his specimens had burned.  BTW, at the growth rate of the spider, which was almost too big for his glass cage at the lab scene, what was the professor going to do with him later that day?Then, since the doctor had analyzed the unusual substance as related to insect venon, he makes the right conclusion when the professor tells about the tarantula.  Bu then-- he flies 200 miles to confirm that conslusion with the state agricultural lab?  Wow! he is the only one who knows the truth about the creeping terror in that area and he is that far away and had not told anyone this?  Of course, he would not expect to be believed, I suppose, but near the end the Air Force seems to believe it and sends the napalm-carrying bombers.The movie is also rather 'cheesy' in the scene where the doctor and the lab assistant take a seat in the desert and say a few words about the desert hiding its secret from man.  The woman says, You make it sound so-- *creepy*.  I bet it took a lot of takes for them to keep their faces straight when they shot that one.   "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood's first kill","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorites from when I was young. I must have been only 8 when I saw it the first time. 30+ viewings later, it's still impressive. Sure, the spider can be seen through in spots. And the acting is spotty in spots. But everything else is top notch. Love that desert atmosphere. And Mara Corday. Yowsa! My 9 year old daughter just watched this recently with me and she loved it. Not as good as THEM!, but light years better than Beginning of the End. 7 out of 10. P.S.- You'll spot Clint only if you look for his patented squint.Push the button, Frank "},{"Title":"I hate spiders, but I like Tarantula.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The archetypal '50s big bug movie, Tarantula sees a rapidly growing spider&#x97;the result of an experiment involving nutrients and radioactive isotopes&#x97;escaping from a laboratory to crawl around the countryside devouring cattle and the occasional rancher. Eventually, the eight-legged horror reaches such massive proportions that the air-force is called in to prevent it from trashing the town of Desert Rock.John Agar plays town doctor Matt Hastings, the first to suspect that it is an over-sized arachnid that is causing the trouble; Mara Corday is Hastings' love interest, beautiful lab assistant Stephanie 'Steve' Clayton; Leo G. Carroll is over a barrel as Professor Gerald Deemer, who winds up hideously disfigured by his own experiment; and Clint Eastwood saves the day as a plucky U.S. fighter pilot, his face mostly hidden behind a breathing mask, although his squint is unmistakable.Matters get very silly at times, especially with the humongous, hairy spider somehow managing to wander around the desert unseen (at one point, it peers into Mara's bedroom, the woman blissfully unaware of the huge eyes and mandibles at her window), but the hokey nature of the plot only adds to the overall enjoyment. Excellent special effects (for the day) and solid performances also go to qualify Tarantula as a must-see sci-fi/horror classic. "},{"Title":"AcroMan...","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold was undoubtedly one of the very best of the 50s sci-fi directors; and, like his eventual successor, John Carpenter, he toiled tirelessly in the Fantasy Field. Consequently, he covered (as has Carpenter) a lot of ground. In TARANTULA!, decades prior to David Cronenberg's reimagining of THE FLY, Arnold gives us scientist Leo G. Carroll as an AcroMan- part bug, part human. As a kid reading FAMOUS MONSTERS OF FILMLAND, I would pause and stare at the black and white photos of Carroll in mid-transformation. When I finally saw the movie on television, many years later, I wasn't disappointed I'd seen lots of transformations in horror and sci-fi movies prior to that one, but there was- and still IS- something that strikes a nerve about it. Long live the AcroMan! "},{"Title":"Radioactive isotopes are at it again","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story is typical of its time and not interesting at all atomic science goes wrong, humanity is revealed to be small and helpless in the face of forces it does not comprehend. It's funny how everything on the human end of horror is what we jeer at in bad slasher movies; the slow and lumbering threat fails to convince, and that is painfully underscored by having victims trip and fall over, cars that don't start, etc.The monster end is of some (limited) appeal. A real spider was used, it helps a great deal.The way it is incorporated into the human landscape is mostly good imposing shots of beast and desert, both of equal stature and balanced; perspective play for tension - 'big' humans in the foreground, 'small' spider in the background, and reversed; pov camera from the spider's mouth for the kills.The product of haywire technology is destroyed by even more haywire, destructive technology; napalm. The town solemnly watches as the creature is engulfed in flames. In about ten years time, the town would be a Vietnamese village. "},{"Title":"Good, not great, but worth viewing.","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those films which you see the poster, hear the gist of it and think, yeeeeahhh! because you already have an idea of what enjoyment you'll find in the film. The plot of the film is pretty predictable science + nature = disaster. That's a somewhat common theme in other films too. A real tarantula is used to portray the monster (with occasional use of animatronics). Using trick photography and miniature sets at times this is achieved. This works well as tarantulas are creepy and unnerving even as nature intended so seeing one portrayed so massively really works. Even by today's CGI standards it looks unnerving.The characters aren't really important here but they fill their roles satisfactorily. The story could do with a little more and the writing too. Just a touch more to flesh out the story and such.I recommend this mainly to those who like spider-based films (e.g. Eight Legged Freaks, Arachnophobia, etc) and fans of big creatures vs. man films. "},{"Title":"Better Than Your Usual Creature Feature Offering","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My only real criticism of this movie (just to get it out of the way) is that it seemed to try to hold together two plot elements rather than one - and the two didn't fit together all that well (and one wasn't really necessary and I was less than clear on why it was included.) Let's talk about that first.It was a little disconcerting to watch a movie called Tarantula and yet in the opening scene to see what looked at first glance to be a primitive cave-man type of creature come stumbling across the desert in his pajamas! It got my attention, yes, but it also made me start out confused by what was going on here. Wasn't this supposed to be about spiders? The man, as it turns out, was stricken with a mysterious condition that caused his face and hands to enlarge and mutate, but the town's doctor (John Agar) was baffled, because this condition is usually a chronic one lasting for years before it kills, whereas the man who died had been perfectly normal just a few days before. This leads Agar's Dr. Hastings to the laboratory of Professor Deemer (Leo G. Carroll), for whom the man had worked and who was experimenting with a new type of nutrient that caused rapid and abnormal growth in animals. That, of course, ties the spider part of the story in, as a tarantula was one of the animals being injected with the nutrient. The movie becomes basically the fight against this behemoth of a spider that's wreaking death and destruction across this part of Arizona.Having a person (and eventually Prof. Deemer) injected with the nutrient and become deformed wasn't really necessary. But if you set that aside, you have a better than average film - actually pretty good for this genre. The special effects were quite well done for the era. The gigantic spider was well photographed, and even though it was clearly a normal spider superimposed on a background landscape, it actually worked pretty well. Agar was a busy enough actor in his day, and you can see why. His performance was really quite decent, Carroll's makeup - once his deformity began - was startling without being as hideous as the man in the opening scene, and the final battle against the giant tarantula as it approached the town was pretty well portrayed. It's a fun 50's creature feature. (7/10) "},{"Title":"B-flick rates a C","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This tacky film attempts to exploit mankind's fear of large, hairy spiders but only succeeds in boring us with a hackneyed plot line, wooden dialogue, and way too much filler between appearances of the arachnoid.John Agar and Mara Corday make a fashionable couple but you never sense anyone's home in either one of them. Corday's got the curves and the clothes but never rises above being cardboard. And Agar? All suave superficiality. The giantism angle showed promise. But the movie is opaque as to why two people's faces get so distorted. How's that related?Run, if you see this one crawling toward your cable channel. Eeeewww! "},{"Title":" The Future is in our hands, what we do with it ,   is expected ","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Atomic Age began with the splitting of the Atom in 1945. With it arrived both the Good and of course the foolish. In the movies, anyone with a good imagination could write a story of perplexing possibilities. Robert M. Fresco for instance wrote one called  Tarantula  which was directed by Jack Arnold. The film starred John Agar as Dr. Matt Hastings, a country doctor, who happens upon a victim of Prof. Gerald Deemer (Leo G. Carroll) who has been experimenting with a Radio-Active substance capable of enlarging both live animals and humans. Among his other subjects is a spider which has been given the drug. Unfortunately, the tarantula escapes and becomes a gigantic menace to both man and beast. The movie is exciting enough, providing you were growing up in the 1950's and visiting the local drive-in theater. With attractive Mara Corday playing an attractive lab Stephanie Clayton, the creature-feature is made for screams, candy and pop-corn fun. If you'll look closely, you can catch a very young Clint Eastwood playing a Jet-Pilot. All-in-all a good monster movie for the whole family. **** "}{"Title":"Expect something that's fiercer, more cruel and deadly than anything that ever walked on earth","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can imagine the boardroom of a 1950s movie studio. The producers are listening to film pitches from prospective screenwriters. Robert Fresco and Martin Berkerley, having just outlined their ideas for a high-brow Shakespearian masterpiece, find their ideas met with indifference. As the pair are ushered to their feet by studio security, one screenwriter attempts a last-ditch bid for employment. I've got an idea giant insects! Better yet, a giant spider. We'll make a film about a mega tarantula that stalks the landscape and periodically chows down on the townsfolk. There'll be a beautiful woman, too, and we'll make her a biologist, because I've never seen that before. And the spider? It'll be big. Bigger than a Buick!As expected, the producers are intrigued by this no-nonsense movie pitch; it's been many days since the studio last greenlighted a giant creepie-crawlie B-movie. One producer, somewhat suspiciously, asks if this movie will be intellectual at all. God no! replies the screenwriter, there'll be some half-baked commentary on the benefits and evils of scientific progress, but, really, it's all about slow- footed farmers being eaten by a giant spider. Maybe, if there's time, we can fit in some existentialism... (noticing the producer narrow his eyebrows) ...but not this time, of course. That'll have to wait until Jack Arnold's later movie, 'The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957).'And thus was born 'Tarantula (1955),' the epitome of a film whereby what you see is exactly what you get. As far as 1950s creature-features go, this is certainly one of the best I've seen. Clifford Stine's photographic effects are marvellous whether dog-sized or mountain- sized, the film's titular creature is absolutely convincing as it stalks the desert landscape in pursuit of prey, drooling puddles of sticky venom onto the dirt. The main actors are solid, particularly Leo G. Carroll as the tragic, determined Professor Deemer, and Mara Corday as his pretty, youthful biologist apprentice. The harsh, dry American landscape is unnerving in its minimalism; one can't understand how such a mammoth creature could keep itself hidden, yet there is also a sense that the desert does not so readily yield its secrets. "},{"Title":"Spider , men.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula is a good entertaining movie,but it does not cut,however,Arnold's true masterpiece The incredible shrinking man .Nothing in this film,in spite of the giant spider ,comes close to the scene of the fight between shrunk Grant Williams and the spider in the cellar .Nothing comes close to the scene of the insect/man caught on a cobweb in Kurt Neumann's the fly either.Pr Deemer's face is even more frightening than the star-animal itself.Leo G.Carroll is really the stand-out of the movie,easily outshining the bland pair of soon-to-be-lovers (the female part is almost pointless ).Tatantula ,despite all the reservations expressed,is a movie which deserves to be watched,because arachnophobia is something we all have inside us,in a latent state. "},{"Title":"When will silly scientists learn not to test new formulas on insects!?","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I'm not the biggest fan of fifties big bug movies; but 'Them!' is something of a favourite of mine, and Tarantula isn't too far away from the quality of that classic film. The main thing I don't like about this sort of film is the fact that a lot of them are essentially the same - i.e. an insect grows to incredible size and terrorises everyone. Naturally, Tarantula follows that same sort of formula; but this one has more about it, and it's also great fun to watch. There's a thin plot surrounding the huge tarantula, and that has something to with a new synthetic formula that can nourish life forms without the need for food. The scientists doing the experiments have tested this new formula on a tarantula, and after a fight at the lab - the giant bug escapes to wreak havoc across the Arizona desert! The film is very 'American', and most of the central characters are the upstanding citizens that you would expect to find in fifties USA. The special effects are what really stand out about this film; these days, a film like this would features a load of trashy CGI, but here they've (obviously) used a normal tarantula together with miniature sets, and while the effects aren't too realistic; they work well and give the film a certain amount of charm, which is lacking in many modern films. It's not hard to see where the plot is going, but that's not a big problem as its fun getting to the end, and sub-plots involving a rare disease and several disfigured scientists add to the intrigue nicely. Overall, this film hasn't made me a fan of fifties big bug movies - but it's a very good example of one, and comes highly recommended! "},{"Title":"In  Jack  Arnold's  Line","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always wondered if director Jack Arnold could have raised higher should he have been able to work with big budget products and top stars casts. Arnold was a very smart filmmaker with a most direct and plain style that gave us such B classic films in different genres as The Creature from the Black Lagoon and The Incredible Shrinking Man in the horror/sci-fi line, No name on the Bullet (Audie Murphy's best western no doubt) and even the fine comedy The Mouse That Roared (Peter Sellers was not a top star then). Who knows? Tarantula is just another of Arnold's little B horror gems of the 50's, a most simple movie about insects turning huge to terrorize people, in this case the spider in the title. The film is interesting and enjoyable for fans of the genre (guilty!) and I remember it really scared me a lot when I saw it as a kid.Though they would have never run for an Oscar John Agar, Mara Corday and Leo G. Carroll where very good in the main roles in a kind of film that was not about acting but about special effects and horrifying situations (just think for a second what it would be like to be chased by a hungry building size tarantula spider!).All in all, Tarantula stands as a good piece in the B horror genre released by an intelligent director. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable 50's giant monster on the loose sci-fi/horror romp","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kindly scientist Leo G. Carroll creates a remarkable special nutrient which makes animals grow to alarmingly large sizes at an accelerated rate. A giant spider escapes from Carroll's lab and goes on the rampage. It's up to Carroll, affable country doctor John Agar and spunky, fetching lab assistant Mara Corday to figure out a way to stop the over-sized killer arachnid before things get too out of hand. Capably directed by 50's sci-fi/horror master Jack Arnold, with a bright, witty script by Robert M. Fresco and Martin Berkley, a steady pace, a booming, ominous score by Henry Mancini, lively and engaging performances from a solid and charming cast (Nestor Paiva is especially strong as the cranky no-nonsense sheriff while a then unknown Clint Eastwood has a nice cameo towards the end as a jet fighter pilot), nifty special effects, sharp, moody photography by George Robinson, a splendidly spooky atmosphere (the strikingly stark panoramic shots of the bleak, arid, desolate desert landscape have a wonderfully eerie feel to them), fine make-up by Bud Westmore, and several rousing sequences with the titanic tarantula wreaking havoc, this vintage 50's creature feature kick overall rates as a great deal of straightforward and unpretentious monster movie fun. "},{"Title":"Best Science Fiction giant spider film!","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula is an absolute 50's Sci-Fi Classic! Well directed by Jack Arnold who also gave us 50's Sci-Fi Classic like It Came From Outer Space (1953), Creature From The Black Lagoon (1954), This Island Earth (1955), Revenge Of The Creature (1955), The Incredible Shrinking (1957), Monster On The Campus (1958). Tarantula is about a Professor named Gerald Deemer (Leo G. Carroll) who is working on a nutrient that causes animals to grow large. A radioactive isotope is what holds the nutrient together & triggers it. Among the Giant Hampsters, Rabbits & Rats there is a Giant Tarantula about as big as a dog that escapes after the professor has a fight with one of his assistants that was injected with the nutrient & becomes deformed. This Tarantula grows bigger & bigger from the injections which included the radioactive isotope which is what makes the tarantula so big. It ends up getting 100 Feet Tall & terrorizes the Arizona Country Side. Dr. Matt Hastings (John Agar) famous for 50's & 60's B Sci-Fi Films like (Revenge Of The Creature '55, The Mole People '56, Daughter Of Dr. Jekyll '57, The Brain From Planet Arous '57, Attack Of The Puppet People '58, Invisible Invaders '59, Hand Of Death '62, Journey To The Seventh Planet '62, Women Of The Prehistoric Planet '66, Zontar, The Thing From Venus '66 (Remake) (TV) & Curse Of The Swamp Creature '66 (TV).) eventually finds out about the tarantula having visiting local farmers with The Sheriff Jack Andrews (Nestor Paiva) with Cattle stripped down to the bone & puddles of white liquid which is the Tarantula's Venom. Stephanie Clayton (Mara Corday) also famous for 50's Sci-Fi also was a Playboy Playmate in Oct. 1958 Issue of Playboy also was a famous 50's Pin-Up Model. Helps Deemer with his experiments & meets Agar's character of course they have a likeness for each other. I am not gonna say what happens to the Tarantula of they destroy it or not. See it it is a must for 50's Sci-Fi Giant Creature Feature Fans! In my top list of top 50's Sci-Fi Giant Creature Features, this only includes small Creatures that have grown larger from some sort of radioactive material. 1. It Came From Beneath The Sea (1955), 2. The Black Scorpion (1957), 3. Tarantula (1955), 4. Beginning Of The End (1957) & 5. Them! (1954) Those are my top 5 so. "},{"Title":"Fun Film","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula (1955) *** (out of 4) A screwy Professor (Leo G. Carroll) creates a formula that turns various animals and insects into one hundred times their normal size but a tarantula breaks loose from the laboratory and goes on a rampage. It's up to a doctor (John Agar) and the Professor's assistant (Mara Corday) to try and find a way to kill the creature. This classic from Universal is certainly one of the best of the genre as it remains fun from the start to the finish. What really makes this film so fun are the special effects, which still hold up quite well today. The spider is obviously fake but the shots still look very good including a great sequence where the spider chases two men through the desert. The reasonings behind the spider growing is rather dumb but then again none of these films ever came up with a well researched theory. Agar makes for a fun leading man and delivers a fine performance as does Carroll. I really wasn't too impressed with Corday as I felt she didn't add anything to the film. The special effects, make up wise, are also very good especially the look of the Professor at the end of the film. In the end, there's nothing overly special about this film but if you're a fan of those giant bug movies then this is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Classic 1950's Giant Bug Movie!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I personally think that Tarantula is the best of the 1950's sci-fi movies featuring a giant bug that goes on a killing rampage. Although there were many good films of this genre (The Giant Mantis, Black Scorpion, Them, The Beginning of the End, just to name a few) Tarantula has some genuinely good special effects and an interesting story line.John Agar is at the top of his game in his portrayal of the likable small town doctor, Matt Hastings. Mara Corday is at the height of her great beauty in this picture, and she is also very good as Stephanie Steve Clayton, the young biology student who comes to the small desert town to study at the house/clinic of Professor Deemer (Leo G. Carroll). I like the fact that even though this movie was made in the mid-fifties, Mara's character is a strong, educated woman, something you didn't always see in the movies of that decade.You have the requisite mad scientist, a lab experiment gone terribly wrong, and of course, the tarantula, which was a real spider, not some goofy concoction that Hollywood sometimes came up back before computers could create special effects.If you like the classic 1950 drive in sci-fi thrillers then you will love this movie. They don't get any better than this! "},{"Title":"they should remake this and THEM!","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An absolute belter of a B movie and super special effects for its day.Having seen it on The Sci-fi Channel here recently and introducing the concept of classic B movies to my son, we have agreed that there should be remakes of these brilliant sci-fi films of the 50s, with all the FX quality nowadays. OK Eight Legged Freaks was fun and thats all- but this is serious stuff. Perhaps Roalnd Emmerich should take a bow and grab the bull by the horns.When will the DVD be released? With THEM in my collection ,Tarantula would make an excellent addition to all sci-fi buffs and movie lovers alike.John Agar( Mr Shirley Temple) makes a useful hero and our Clint- well no one else can shoot napalm like him!  "},{"Title":"What's for dinner tonight?","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tarantula is special for a lot of reasons. It's not just one of those 50s sci-fi films with giant monsters and questionable acting. Tarantula is, take or leave a few poorer scenes, a pretty good film directed by Jack Arnold, director of other sci-fi classics such as Creature of the Black Lagoon and The Incredible Shrinking Man. Tarantula has often been likened to Them!, the giant ant movie made only one year earlier, but Jack Arnold denies Them! was an influence. And not just because here we have one spider doesn't exactly equal several giant ants. In most 50 sci-fis giant creatures were the result of nuclear tests and in many movies nothing more but an allegory if you bear in mind that these movies were made in the McCarthy era, it's not difficult to see who the evil animals (or aliens) attacking good honest Americans were supposed to depict. Yes, kids, if we can get those Martians off our soil, we can sure handle the evil communists. Tarantula's tarantula isn't gigantic because of a nuclear test going haywire, nor is the spider a KGB spy. The person we'll have to blame for this monster, is a professor who wanted to make sure your children's children would have something to eat. After all, the more people will walk on this planet, the less food there'll be per person or something along those lines. The solution is simple make sure the animals grow in size. Now I can understand why he wanted to create bigger rabbits, but why the heck a giant tarantula? For a reason I won't reveal (but the answer does contain deformed faces - as predicted in the opening shot of the film) the tarantula, growing in size by the hour, manages to get loose and kill a few animals and even people (a nice example of painful irony).Allright, so it's special, but is Tarantula a good film? Yes, the acting is not bad and the special effects deserve some praise a few scenes aside, the effects are quite convincing. Nearly fifty years later the film is bound to lose some of its credibility, but overall it's a very decent piece of cinema. Not as good or known as The Incredible Shrinking Man or Creature of the Black Lagoon, but well worth your time. "}{"Title":"Post-deconstructionist fabulousness","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Agar is Matt, Mara Corday is Steve, and Leo G. Carroll is Prof. Deemer - you'll notice the lack of overt feminine terminology. A sign of the flick, and the times - a 50's giant bug movie, but one of the classics of the genre, especially when it comes to sublimating the feminine in the insect, and disguising the feminine human as a man. Steve couldn't be more feminine if she tried, even in those tight little business suits, but woman is left to the giant destroying spider. (Not to mention, when you inject the feminine into a man Prof. Deemer he mutates into a monster. TOO perfect. A PERFECT symbiosis of 50's atomic scare, metaphor on Cartesian scientific approach, and the need to sublimate the feminine in the masculine. It couldn't scream post-modernism more if it tried. Run, run immediately to rent this movie, and then Run, Run immediately to your computers to write those graduate theses on post-modern nuclear otherness and alterity - you'll only be about the 500th to do so. Grin. A great B-flick.  "},{"Title":"Jumpin Jupiter","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What happens when a scientist experimenting with an isotope that speeds growth and magnifies size in animals accidentally unleashes one of his experimental boarders into the desert?  Why a giant tarantula begins to devour and destroy cattle, horses, people, towns, and everything lying in its wake is the answer of course.  Leo G. Carroll plays the mad, cold scientist who has been injected with his own drug by one of his dying-human guinea pig co-workers.  John Agar plays a local doctor out to find the truth about a man's death only to stumble upon the truth behind this terrifying, terrorizing arachnid.  The film is suspenseful, largely in part to the wonderful use of the desert as the setting.  Some scenes in particular are very well-staged, including the first revelation that whatever is out there is carnivorous, as the camera shows several cattle skeletons picked cleanly and lying in pools of venom.  Another good scene involves the tarantula on the trail of two desert bums.  The ending is a bit of a let-down, but the movie is nonetheless very engaging. "},{"Title":"A good horror movie from the 50s","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When we take into consideration that the movie is 45 years old and had quite a limited budget, it is a good movie. The FX was outstanding back then, acting is average, but by the aim of this movie that shouldn't need as much consideration as if with others. After all, it's all about the spider.Jack Arnold gave a bunch of later people food for thought on how a horror movie should be done. "},{"Title":"One of the best big bug films of the 50s","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist develops a liquid that makes animals grow to enormous sizes. Of course a tarantula escapes and keeps growing, and growing, and GROWING... The science in the film is more than a little dubious and the comic relief is pretty wretched (but brief) yet it's still one of the best big bug films of its era. The movie moves fairly quickly, the special effects are (for the era) pretty good, the close-ups of the tarantula are not pleasant, the film is pretty exciting and never boring.John Agar looks handsome and rock solid as the hero, but J. Carroll Naish (as the scientist) is wooden and seems very embarrassed about being in this (great make-up though). Also the cameo of Clint Eastwood at the end is amusing. No great shakes but worth seeing for the special effects. "},{"Title":"Tarantula","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went into Tarantula without some of the expectations that I've had from other classics giant monster movies and it took me by surprise. I dug the characters being the doctor, professor, sheriff, and the main lead actress named Steve. Yes you heard that right her name was Steve. Anyway, the movie has a great premise and really takes its time to develop with good filler scenes before it gets to the meat and potatoes about the giant tarantula. The tarantula scenes gave me the heebie jeebies knowing that it was a real spider with zoomed in shots. Tarantula coming out a year later after Them! might have outdone it which I'm surprised to admit, it's a must see. "},{"Title":"I may be just a country doctor but I know what I know.","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A giant tarantula is terrorizing Arizona. It's not radiation causing it this time; it's scientist Leo G. Carroll experimenting with nutrients that help growth. Local doctor John Agar teams up with gorgeous Mara Corday to try and stop the gigantic spider. Effectively directed by the great Jack Arnold. OK special effects. Nice script gives Agar some good dialogue. Veteran Carroll is solid as the scientist who caused all the trouble and gruesomely pays for it. Corday, who would be a Playboy Playmate a few years after this, was a pretty good actress despite always being cast in roles that required her to be nothing more than pretty (Science or no science, a girl's got to get her hair done). It's a classic giant bug movie from a time when that concept could still be done seriously. Fans of '50s sci-fi and horror should like it. "},{"Title":"Good old classic sci-fi horror fun from Jack Arnold.","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The police chief of a tiny town in a rocky desert - Desert Rock! - is confronted with a mysterious death. The local, handsome, all-American doctor gets into a conflict over the cause of death with a professor who does research in a beautiful house, some twenty miles out of town. The viewer finds out what's going on pretty soon, but it takes a good while before everything falls into place for the doctor and the good town's people and police. In between, Matt has fun with 'Steve', something wreaks havoc among the livestock and some town folk and the professor turns into a monster...Back in the day, the scenes with the tarantula must have been quite impressive on a big screen. These days, they're good fun to watch, in combination, and the corny (dated) bio-sci-fi story with some romance and some horror does the rest. Even 'King Kong' comes to mind, especially when the spider peeks into the bedroom window of 'Steve', but it doesn't fall in love, it's hungry...A small 7 out of 10; classic in a way, but not great, to be honest. "},{"Title":"Jumbo Size Spider.","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold directed this science fiction horror yarn that stars John Agar as Dr. Matt Hastings, who is investigating a mysterious death of a man who was suffering from a disfiguring disease. He worked at the Arizona lab of Professor Gerald Deemer(played by Leo G. Carroll) who was working on growth hormones to increase the food supply of a growing human population. Unfortunately, they were working with a tarantula that outgrew its enclosure and escaped after a fire. Now it is terrorizing the countryside, killing cattle, before it turns its attentions on people... Rather silly film has an unlikely premise and inadequate giant spider F/X, though the acting is fine, and film well-paced. Look for a young Clint Eastwood as the fighter pilot napalming the tarantula at the fiery climax! "},{"Title":"Who spiked the nutrient?","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The title says it all. Tarantula is about an artificially enhanced big specimen of arachnid that got loose from a government laboratory having been fed on a new nutrient that has increased his size a hundred fold. He's also got an appetite to match and the little desert creatures he fed on before just won't cut it for the big guy.The cause of all this is scientist Leo G. Carroll who got some of his own concoction and had some growth issues of his own, the kind Rondo Hatton had. Carroll did a good job as the well meaning scientist, but I'm sure he wished he was in another Hitchcock movie.John Agar and Mara Corday are the leads here and though his face is covered with gas mask, Clint Eastwood plays one of the pilots who finally do in the big bug.Tarantula is a reasonably decent Fifties science fiction movie with radioactivity the cause for the grief the Tarantula causes. "},{"Title":"Fangs for the memories","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Better than average giant creepy crawly monster movie from the 1950s. Instead of radioactivity from an atomic bomb, this nasty creature grows due to a serum invented by a nutty scientist (Carroll). Things start happening when the scientist's lab is trashed and his rapidly growing tarantula escapes. Pretty soon, it's eating cattle and horses and then humans. A young medical doctor (Agar) and the mad scientist's new assistant (Corday) struggle to find a way to deal with this hairy killer, which eventually is the size of a small mountain, with fangs to match. The story is well played, the desert photography terrific, and the special effects not bad for the period. And no endless stock footage of tanks or artillery! There are some shots of jet fighters, but they are not over-used. The lovely Miss Corday is the biggest reason for watching this. "}{"Title":"A Can of Raid just won't Do","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No need to recap the plot. It's going to take a really big can of Raid to rid the desert of this over-sized arachnid. Then too, check out the professor's face problem. It definitely looks like he's devolving back to pre-historic times, with brows big enough to hide a herd of woolly mammoths. He's sure no Clark Gable or even Jon Agar. Speaking of Agar, his high-fashion sweetie Steve (Corday) steps off the bus like she's dressed for tea with the queen. It's sure not the way my family dressed for a bus ride. Maybe there was an outfit left over from a big A- production. Still and all, it's a fine drive-in cast not too heavy in the acting department.And what drive-in fun it is. That spider may move in super slow-motion, but the special effects are better than most of these creature epics. True, things get a little talky at times, especially when people stand around and the prof gets rolling. But when that ugly spider-maw bends down to pick the bones clean, you could hear shrieks all over my 1950's drive-in. No doubt about it, director Arnold really knew how to get the most out of these fun features, as his credits demonstrate. And happily this is one of them. "},{"Title":"Dump em all!","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** In his attempt to increase the food supply for the human race biology professor Dr. Gerald Deemer, Leo G. Carroll, created this super atomic nutrient that if ingested can makes animal species like chicken cattle and sheep as much as a dozen times bigger then they already are. This in Dr.Deemer's mind will in the near future help the human race, in at the time being 2 billion people in 1955, from starving to death by the time the 21th century rolls around where it's expected by Dr. Deemer to almost double, to 3.5 billion, in size! Looking back at the brilliant Dr.Deemer's calculations he was way off by as much as a cool 100% in that by the year 2000 the human population was over 6 billion strong and the world's food supply was more then enough, with the exception of a number of third world countries, to feed it!Dr. Deemer also greatly miscalculated the effect that his so-called wounder nutrient would have on humans too in that instead of making them bigger and stronger they like himself and his two assistants Eric Jacobs & Paul Lund, both played by Eddie Parker, when injected with it turned into Acromegaly effected looking mutants like the late actor who played The Creeper Rondon Hatton! In fact it was Paul Lund in revenge for being used by Dr. Deemer as one of his experiments who after burning down the professor's laboratory gave him a doses of his own medicine, his super atomic nutrient, as well as released the monster tarantula spider that was to cause death and destruction in and around the sleepy town of Desert Rock throughout the entire movie!It's Dr. Matt Hastings, John Agar, who first smells a rat, a giant one, in what Dr. Deemer is really up to. Not for once believing that Deemer's assistant Dr. Eric Jacobs died of Acromegaly since the illness takes years to develop and kill its victim and in Jacobs case it took only four days! Dr. Hastings and Deemer's new assistant Stephanie Clayton, Mara Cornay, who replaced the missing Paul Lund, who died in Dr. Deemer's laboratory fire that he started, soon find out that the good doctor professor has completely gone nuts not only in his half-baked experiments but in the fact that his Acromegaly is slowly turning him into what looks like the Hunchback of Notre Dame!Meanwhile the giant tarantula is causing havoc all across the western desert as it grows from the size of a good sized German Shepherd to, by the time the movie is over, become as big as the entire town of Desert Rock! Among the tarantula's many victims is its creator Dr.Deemer himself who ends up being eaten alive by the giant insect when it wrecked his house with a scared to death Stephanie escaping by the skin of her teeth before the roof caved in!***Spoilers*** With all hope gone to stop the giant spider it's decided to call in the USAF as a last resort and pray that this time around the spider will finally meet its match. Lead by jet fighter squadron leader Maj.Clint Eastwood, playing himself, the taking out of the giant tarantula was a piece of cake with the fighter jets, after they failed to put the big bug down with their rockets, unloaded on Maj. Eastwood's orders their napalm canisters and just a few minutes later the giant spider became toast as well as motion picture history! "},{"Title":"Clint doesn't cop big spiders","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientific experiments to develop a synthetic nutrient to combat expected world famine go awry when a test spider is accidentally released into the surrounds of sleepy Desert Rock. Local GP and biology intern combine to speculate and gesticulate while the local livestock are literally losing their skins to the ever-increasing behemoth, by this stage, in scale with a two storey country comfort.Reasonably intelligent B-grade science fiction opus that benefits from some committed performances, and effective narrative, pace and direction. Leading man John Agar is no stranger to the genre, and deals with the successive calamities with consummate ease, while his leading lady Mara Corday, is even more familiar with giant mutated creatures, but still seems surprised when the Goodyear blimp sized tarantula sticks its head through the window to watch her prepare for night-night. Leo G.Carroll plays his character with conviction, while corpulent, easy-going sheriff Nestor Paiva waddles amiably into most scenes, showing appropriate concern and presence. And, the piece de resistance, Clint Eastwood in one of his earliest pictures, shows a glimpse of things to come as he pilots an attack plane.While the special effects look dated, it must be said that the techniques employed are very good (i.e. seamless looking) for an era in which many of the methods used to depict gigantism were being pioneered. The score is suspenseful, and the cinematography clear and professionally framed &#x96; it's no amateur experiment, just a product of the mid fifties and a superior predecessor of many of the contemporary big bug movies and well worth the time. "},{"Title":"One of the two classic giant spider movie from the '50s","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie and Earth vs the Spider may be considered to be the two classic giant spider movies of the '50s. Both still holds up today as movies of decent production value.A scientist in a little town conceives a serum that enlarges animals to help feed the population of the future, but he's also testing this serum on humans. One of his human test subjects comes back for revenge and during the altercation, a tarantula treated with the serum escapes, and continues to grow in the desert. Now grown to giant proportion, the tarantula terrorizes the town.Special effect is pretty effective for a '50s sci-fi and tarantula looks convincing while rampaging around the town. The good of this movie in my opinion is Mara Corday. She looks awfully good as the assistant to the evil doctor.There's not much of a plot to this movie, and you have to accept it as what it is - a giant bug movie. But for what it is, it's one of the better ones made and can be recommended for viewing. "},{"Title":"Almost false advertising, but it is enjoyable","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I ought to begin this one with a disclaimer. You see, the title is misleading. Yes, there is a tarantula in this. With that said, for a short, 77 minute film, it's not in it much. If that is what you're mainly looking for, this may not be your best bet. However, if that fact does not bother you, this is good stuff. For one thing, Arnold(who I'm growing increasingly interested in the work of, with this and especially The Incredible Shrinking Man) does a great job at making the monster sympathetic. There is next to no xenophobia or sexism in this... not only that, the latter quality is openly mocked in this! Very impressive. Like aforementioned other movie by this director, it is also actually *about* something(instead of merely footage of people running away from creatures that are considerably larger than they are); in this case, the subject is overpopulation and what we will do for food, an issue that enormously important today; yes, it's only grown more relevant. The writing isn't bad. We get funny, clever and natural dialog. The characters are credible, well-developed and the two leads have chemistry. FX are nice enough, if they are basic by today's standards. The make-up is rather well-done. We get beautiful shots of nature, and the editing and cinematography are solid. A bit of tension is built skillfully, and this doesn't show anything it shouldn't. It has a fairly effective opening. There is some mildly graphic violence in this. The DVD comes with a German dub. I recommend this to fans of 50's sci-fi horror flicks. 7/10 "},{"Title":"No blood! No sign of a struggle! The bones just stripped clean like peeling a banana!","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A couple of well-intentioned scientists set out to solve the Earth's food shortage problems by developing a new, revolutionary growth formula. They inject the usual rats and guinea pigs to test their formula with remarkable success. But for some reason known only to the screenwriters, the scientists also test their formula on a tarantula. A fire in the lab destroys all of the animals with the exception of the tarantula that escapes unnoticed into the desert. Unnoticed, that is, until ranchers start reporting the unusual deaths of a number of their herds. But the now giant tarantula has a taste for more than just cattle. Can the arachnid be stopped before the whole town of Desert Rock is wiped out? I'm going to echo what most others have written about Tarantula &#x96; of the many giant bug movies churned out during the 50s, Tarantula is probably only second to Them as far as the best goes. Good acting, good locations, and good cinematography are keys to the film's success. Jack Arnold is another of those keys. He was about as good as anyone working in horror/sci-fi at the time. His snappy, well-paced direction are a real asset to the film. As far as big bug special effects in films from the 50s, Tarantula is easily one of the best. The effects in this film are often compared with Burt I. Gordon's Earth vs. the Spider made a couple years later. As far as I'm concerned, there's really no comparison. Sure, there's at least one or two times where the tarantula seems to be walking on air, but overall, it's a job well done by some talented people. And I so much prefer it to any of that lifeless CGI that would be used today. For what it's worth, a very strong 7/10 seems about right to me. "},{"Title":"I never saw anything like it! No footprints! No blood! No sign of a struggle! The bones just stripped clean like peeling a banana!","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist is working on a solution to world hunger with an experimental nutrient that causes accelerated growth and giantism. His assistants are accidentally killed when they inject themselves with this nutrient and a similarly treated spider escapes from the lab. The local country doctor and the scientist's delightful assistant investigate a rash of animal and human deaths in the desert and its connection to the scientist's experiments.Tarantula is a film that I've wanted to see for a long time, partly because of its reference in The Rocky Horror Picture Show's title song, and partly because I really enjoy these old mutated monster science fiction horror pictures. I was not disappointed.The story is simple but entertaining, the acting is as good as can be expected, Marla Corday is charming and beautiful, John Agar is a good clean cut and strong hero, the special effects are decent enough and the pacing keeps the movie running along fast enough that it never gets boring. I don't really have anything to complain about with this one.It is not my favorite of the big mutated bug monsters (that honor would go to Gordon Douglas' 1954 film Them!), but it is entertaining nonetheless and well worth watching for fans of science fiction horror films from the 1950's. "},{"Title":"A classic big bug movie!","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie last night for the first time and I loved it a lot. To me, it is one of the better bug movies of it's time. No CGI or computers back then; it was all done with creative tools and a lot of handwork.In this case, they used a real spider and cleverly made use of lighting and projections (I think) to make the spider look bigger then usual.Because, if you haven't guessed yet, this movie is about a tarantula that escapes from a laboratory and grows to a huge size, terrorizing the country and it's inhabitants.Most of the movie, however, you don't see the spider in question. There's also a nifty background story going on about a professor who's trying to create a radio-active nutrient that will solve the world's limited food supply. I won't go into detail, but this adds to the movie.The acting is good. I have a soft spot for the actors and actresses of the old black-and-white movies. In this film, the cast does a wonderful job once again to deliver a believable and likable performance.Tarantula is a classic giant monster movie. A must-see for the fans! "},{"Title":"A fish-man creature? Done that. Giant ants? Done that. Aliens! Nah.","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How about a GIANT TARANTULA!Now tarantulas are pretty scary in the first place, and they're big enough. I'd be running if I saw a normal sized one. But one that stands a whopping 100 feet tall? That's damn horrifying.Essentially, this movie involves a mad scientist and an experiment that's gone wrong - that is to say, an assistant who resembles Bub from Day of the Dead sets fire to the lab, therefore resulting in the burning of a cute possum-sized rat and a guinea pig as big as a...well, pig. Poor little guys. Anywhoo, glass is smashed in the process and ipso-facto, and a super-sized Tarantula strides out the door looking for trouble. Of course, we know it'll get bigger.While all this is going on, the hot new science chick is in town and is picked up by our young man who inevitably will save her in one way or another. A few cattle skeletons, a dead farmer and an upturned truck later, our hero finds several puddles of what looks like milk. But further analysis reveals it is venom - tarantula venom. Ah, the plot thickens.Now this movie has one scene that I enjoyed immensely. I enjoyed the while thing immensely, but this scene just took the cake - said critter returns to it's place of escape and treats it like a badly made doll house. Of course, our heroine and now-badly-disfigured scientist are inside. The creature slowly ambles up to the house where our heroine affectionately called Steve is brushing her hair. And he takes a peek inside. Hey, even spiders gets lonely. Maybe because he realizes he can never be with her, our eight-legged friend tears the house apart. As you do.Now this is an incredibly enjoyable 50's sci-fi classic, I loved it and will return to it on many nights when I feel like watching Leo G. Carrol. And it has a big spider! "},{"Title":"Tarantula","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Working on a nutrient experiment that could both grow a food supply large enough to feed an ever growing global populace(while also hoping to perfect a nutrient that would keep humans from needing food), a rare disease called acromegaly(causes the pituitary gland to malfunction causing facial, neck, hands & feet distortions resulting in suffocation and death towards humans, most of the time over many years after receiving it)is found in a corpse in the desert near the town of Desert Rock. Professor Gerald Deemer(Leo G Carroll), a nutrient biologist,is the remaining member of a trio working on the experiment, whose colleague and understudy(both way too eager to see if they had perfected their experiment)die from acromegaly. The understudy, Paul, revolting against his professor, causes serious damage to their lab while getting his mad revenge by injecting Deemer with their created nutrient. While a fire kills most of the caged animals being experimented on, a tarantula escapes, growing daily in size. On a murderous rampage through the desert, sucking human and cattle dry to the bones, country doctor Matt Hastings(John Agar), Desert Rock sheriff Jack Andrews(Nestor Paiva)and Deemer's new understudy Stephanie Steve Clayton(the lovely Mara Corday)will find themselves in great danger as it leaves puddles of venom as a reminder of where it's been(..including rock slides which nearly kill Matt and Steve). During the film we, along with Steve, watch as Deemer slowly succumbs to acromegaly attacking his body at an alarming rate. We also watch as the gigantic tarantula scours the desert downing power lines, hovering over screaming human victims with little room to escape, and on the prowl for it's next meal.I guess, many will watch a creature feature such as this one for chuckles and kicks. I admired the effects for a '55 film. At the very least, the story's premise was intelligent and thoughtful..the whole idea that these scientists, thinking about the future and how to thwart starvation and hunger, with their experiments, as always was the case when man attempts to solve the problems we face, ending with tragic consequences. I felt that Deemer seems singled out as a villain, because of his dogged secrecy regarding understudy Paul(..and his colleague's fate as well), but his overall intentions are good, and perhaps success would've been imminent had his partners been more patient. The effects of the tarantula are flawed, but I admired such effort and there are some nifty scenes such as one where the spider attacks Deemer's home, and another where it knocks over a power pole with sparks flying. If you want to nit-pick, there's room to scrutinize, but I thought this B-movie effort from the great director Jack Arnold was lots of fun. Agar was always a charming and handsome lead, very likable and Mara Corday his equal, as the typical screaming woman running for her life as the tarantula draws near. I think Carroll fits the bill nicely as a scientist who means well, but holds a responsibility for telling the authorities of what had transpired, opting instead to pursuing a breakthrough with his limited time left, receiving his grim fate, often handed down to characters who weren't completely honest when they should've been. "}{"Title":"Along with Them, THE granddaddy of all mutated monsters!","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic 50's monster mayhem, directed by the always-reliable Jack Arnold (Creature from the Black Lagoon, The Incredibly Shrinking Man) and revolving on a &#150; duh &#150; giant tarantula on the loose in the Arizona desert. The critter grew to an enormous size because two overly obsessive scientists thought it would be a great idea to experiment with the possibilities of a rare & wicked disease called Acromagelia, or however you spell that. Following an incident in the lab, the already infected tarantula test-species simply walks out of the door and continues to grow a lot more whilst feeding on cattle and the occasional desert traveler. Now it's up to the local doctor and the scientist's assistant (a woman going by the name of Steve) to save the world&#133; And, also, our fate lies in the hands of a very young Clint Eastwood. It takes a little while before the tough gets going, but once the hairy arachnid tasted blood, Tarantula is an exciting and suspenseful creature-feature. One of the very first in its kind, actually, if not THE first (alongside the 1954 landmark Them). It's really impressive how convincingly big & scary you can make a normal sized spider appear by only using simple camera tricks and miniature set pieces. Whenever the humongous beast crawls through the desert and over a hill, the film is uniquely atmospheric and creepy. Arnold is a talented enough director to use scenery to the fullest and the mini-landscapes look very real. Guaranteed Sci-Fi/horror fun. "},{"Title":"Clint was killing things back in the 50s","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  World hunger. It was a problem then, as it is today.  Everyone has a solution, from population control to (I suppose) ODing on Jenny Craig food.  However, no solution that has crossed anyone's mind is that of making our meat animals bigger.  However, that is the movie's answer to world hunger, or the director's attempt to cash in on the bigger-than-life rage of the time.Tarantula stars Leo G. Carroll as an old fool scientist growing large guinea pigs and rabbits in his lab for the purpose of growing the food supply.  This is nice, but why did he have to experiment on a tarantula?  Weren't there other better, easier to handle animals available?  A squid, perhaps?  Maybe there just weren't any puffins around to mutate, either.  Regardless, his one redeeming feature is that he takes on Mara Corday as an intern.  At least he has an eye for the ladies, and a smart one at that.However, the movie runs itself off the road by having John Agar as its hero.  Agar, who by sheer force of will makes Al Gore look joyously animated, is the small town doctor who is trying to figure out why a couple of guys drop dead from a growth disease.  It's a wonder he has any time to do this, since he flies a plane, flirts with Miss Corday, and rambles on woodenly about whatnot.Fortunately, before you can fling yourself onto a pile of No-Pest strips, Clint Eastwood and the Air Force come to the rescue to save the day and napalm the big critter into the hereafter.  I guess a giant newspaper wasn't enough.Sterno says bring a can of Raid to Tarantula.  "},{"Title":"A fine example of 1950's science-fiction","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jack Arnold's sure hand evokes that distinctive desert atmosphere while overlaying it with a monster-on-the-loose story that says a lot about American society during those paranoid Cold War years. Eerie scenes of the spider coming over the crests of hills create the kind of memorable images that somehow conjure up a whole era, a whole genre.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining, But By No Means Good","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spider escapes from an isolated desert laboratory experimenting in giantism and grows to tremendous size as it wreaks havoc on the local inhabitants.There are really only two things going for this film one, a small uncredited role by Clint Eastwood that few if anyone will catch. And two, the fact the female lead calls herself Steve. I just think that is the greatest nickname for a woman I ever heard.Beyond that, it is what you expect. A tarantula in the background with terrorized people in the foreground. Director Jack Arnold uses the same tarantula (I assume) twice, also in Incredible Shrinking Man... "},{"Title":"universal killer spider flick","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is gem of 1950s monster on the loss it stars john agar as Dr Matt hastings and Leo g. Carroll professor deemer who creates a serum he injects a tarantula which grows into a hundred foot and kills live stock. It ends with the tarantula being burned by napalm being drooped from a jet the pilot is played by Clint Eastwood.One thing about this movie its slow not that much spider action until near the end and when Matt and Steve are driving in the car they don't notice that a 10 foot spider is chasing them. The spider is real and just blown up on the screen which makes it a little dogey.Its one of the best giant monster movies to come out of the 50s "},{"Title":"Better than average 1950s horror...","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" TARANTULA is certainly not a particularly believable film--after all, it's about a giant killer spider! So, if you can't accept this sort of premise, just skip the film--and most 1950s horror films, as such ideas are pretty much par for the course during this era! However, providing you can suspend disbelief, it's well worth seeing and is a bit better than the average film of the era.The film begins with the discovery of a corpse that baffles the police. While they THINK they know who it is, his face is so badly distorted they aren't positive about the identification. Although the professor (Leo G. Carroll) has identified this as his co-researcher, they have the Doctor (John Agar) examine the body as well. Carroll announces that his friend died from acromegalia (I have always heard it referred to as acromegaly--I think the movie got this wrong). Agar is stumped, as this is a progressive disease and the distortions (and gigantism) caused by the disease take a very long time--not practically overnight, as Carroll asserts. But the cops are pretty content to accept Carroll's version and the case is closed.Well, it turns out that the weird anomalies were caused by a drug that the guy injected into himself! And, for that matter, so did another of their assistants. Why they exactly did this is never quite clear, as it's a concoction they've been working on to deal with starvation and increasing the size of food crops. As for Carroll he isn't stupid enough to do this himself, but in an odd twist the crazed research assistant (now sporting the same mask used in ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE) attacks Carroll--injecting him as well as destroying the lab. Because the formula takes time to have an effect on humans, Carroll is okay for the time being.As for his research, almost all the research animals are gone--burned in a fire caused by the crazed assistant. However, a large tarantula (because of the injection) escapes and continues to grow. Eventually, it's larger than a house and rather nasty--stripping animals and people to the bone as it eats them. An entomologist (Raymond Bailey--'Mr. Drysdale' without his toupee) talks to Agar about tarantulas and explains that this is how tarantulas eat--stripping the meat off bones. However, in reality they NEVER, EVER eat their prey life this. All spiders inject their prey with digestive juices that turn the poor creature's innards to slush--after which, the spider slurps the insides out--leaving the shell of the creature. Boy did the movie get this wrong.Later, the spider does a ton of damage and the puny humans try to stop it with no success. Electricity, dynamite and bullets have no effect and the spiders is about to eat the town when, suddenly, Clint Eastwood and some other pilots come to the rescue with napalm! And, very abruptly (too abruptly) the thing dies and the credits roll.The film gets kudos for excellent special effects for the spider and a story that is quite enjoyable fun. Negatives are the who stripping victims of their flesh as well as the amazing abruptness of the ending. Not great but good and worth a look. "},{"Title":"If you don't like spiders, you will love this thriller!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Leo G. Caroll as Professor Gerald Deemer develops a growth formula that was not supposed to be exposed to spiders. Unfortunately, an already scary tarantula eats it for dinner and watch out. This 1955 film has some pretty impressive special effects and is well acted to boot. I understand that a young Clint Eastwood can be seen in a jet plane near the end of the movie. Well worth seeing!!!  "},{"Title":"OK but not as good as remembered","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tarantula is often thought of as one of the better giant bug sci-fi flicks of the 50's, and that very well may be true. However, truth is, it really isn't that great of a movie (but is by no means as bad as many other sci-fi films of the era).The plot is routine giant bug - strange things happen, lots of talking with a few quick shots of the creature thrown in, and the last act which is all monster (and pretty short in length).Only thing is, in Tarantula there is a LOT of talk. A REAL lot. And almost all of it is dull.They throw in a very pretty girl scientist to try to make viewers not fall asleep, as well as a few deformed people. But truthfully the entire first hour of this movie is almost nothing but gabbing.When the giant monster finally does his thing in the film's last act, there are some genuinely cool FX shots. But the final destruction of the creature (not really a spoiler, you had to know they are going to kill it) happens so fast towards the end, you can't help but feel very disappointed.There are a few unintentionally funny moments, such as when the music swells to a bombastic level when a deformed character lifts his head and you see his face. You also can't help but laugh as the bug peers through a window at the girl getting ready for bed. Who knew Tarantulas were so horny? The tarantula itself is pretty cool though, although the ending, however quick, is brutal and you end up feeling sorry for the thing. After all, it's not his fault. And the filmmakers give him a cool roar to help him out.Best way to watch this one is to fast forward all the non-spider scenes, because they really don't matter. Not too bad a movie, although the dull sequences aren't going to make anyone probably want to re-watch it.It's a shame all the good old giant bug movies ended with the creature's demise. A Tarantula vs. The Deadly Mantis sequel had potential! "},{"Title":"Don't step on it, it may be John Agar!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, here we go again.......a great 50's sci fi film directed by the sci-fi auteur Jack Arnold.......and they put John Agar in it!!!  What a loser he was.....just the pits.  BUT, the film is one of those that you learn to love if you love this genre of low budget, black and whites with less than perfect special effects.  Weren't they great??.... and this is another to be put on your list of must-sees.  John Agar aside, we still have Mara Corday, that mainstay of 50's cheapos who was so ill-used;  Leo G. Carroll, on the downslide; and Nestor Paiva, always a familiar face and good support.  The storyline deal with growth hormones and a giant spider and acromegaly (which they call acromegalia in the film)and ends as you would expect but is fun along the way.  The special effects are no better or no worse than those in all 50's movies and are the charm of this type of film.  Put this one up there with Black Scorpion, It Came from Outer Space and Them(the best of all).  It may be an acquired taste but you gotta' love it, despite John Agar and his pompous ass attitude and ham acting.   "},{"Title":"Hissing","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whereas THEM! is a mystery with some elaborate planning for a very noirish science fiction prophecy, everything following it decides to fall in the mainstream field.  Thus, of the 50s science-fiction only three examples are worth your time for analysis; the aforementioned THEM!, The War of the Worlds, and Forbidden Planet.Tarantula bears much in common with 20 Million Miles to Earth in its overall story mechanics, except it tries infusing the mystery elements of THEM!  No success here, only an embarrassment.  When the titular creature cannot even put on a performance like the Ymir, you know you have problems.Perhaps the only noteworthy point is the creation of the Tarantula's hiss/roar.  While sound design in the 50s was primitive at best, perhaps science fiction did the job of helping bring our ears up to speed at the movies.Overall, the start of the copy-offs.  They only get worse from here.  1 out of 5. "}{"Title":"Just Fair Entertainment.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film as a child and recall it being moderately frightening, but when viewed recently as an adult, the scare-factor was zilch. This is the result of the unconvincing special effects and script dynamics; for example, the spider attack scenes appear too late in the film and are totally lame - at the end of each attack scene, the camera angle shifts to the spider´s perspective as it descends upon it´s victims with pincher-jaws.  Unfortunately, the jaws are never shown touching the victims, much less multilation or devouring. Contrast this with the classic attack scene in ¨The Black Scorpion¨(1957), where a giant scorpion stings a telephone pole lineman to death with it´s deadly tail.  The special effects in this scene so artfully crafted that one can rapidly and deeply suspend disbelief for a quick thrill.  Not so with anything in ¨Tarantula¨, nothing thrilling at all, even the climatic battle scene was a letdown. This lack of any thrilling experience left a bland taste, although I did enjoy Leo G. Carroll´s performance as The Professor, the only redeeming feature of the film. I wasn´t nearly as impressed with this film as movie critic, Leonard Maltin, who gave it 3 stars.  I give it 2 stars, just fair entertainment.  In the final analysis, ¨Tarantula¨lacks spunk. "},{"Title":"so so","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  so so flick is very cheesy and a cheesy looking spider still it was fairly watchable with decent acting but a bit too talky for it's own good it has an exciting finale and it was kinda suspenseful still this is your typical cheesy bug flick that is good with a bag of popcorn in hand the directing in general is good just a couple of shots that are pretty stupid the characters are fairly amiable lots of white stuff here not gore really the dialog had some cheesy lines but it was still decent the characters were interesting but this is just too slow paced  i give this a ** out of 5 worth a watch on cable   "},{"Title":"Chroma-Keyed Knees","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A presumedly brilliant scientist, in trying to make a more fortified feed-grain, develops a certain sclerodermatic condition, eventually becoming an acromegalic mess.  Oh yes, and there's an escaped giant, hairy spider that crawls about the desert wreaking havoc in a Southwestern American desert.1950's Substandard FX technology notwithstanding, this Universal release has some interesting moments (Hit the ground, incoming flying truck!). And what's with those invisible spider joints; you can see right through the monster's knees.  Hey, isn't that the professor from Gilligan's Island?  "},{"Title":"Not the worst BEM ever, but don't get your hopes up.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The major flaw with this film, other than John Agar (not one of his better efforts), is the Tarantula, which kind of puts the kibosh on the whole Terror thing. It's merely a superimposed spider, shot large on desert backgrounds. Not only can one see through the spider, but one can often see the demarcation of the table it's walking on (part of its legs just disappear), and its shadow casts strangely on grass, etc. I know it's supposed to be 100' of Terror, but it  sometimes looks more like a skimpy 40' of Angst as they couldn't keep its size and perspective consistent.Another flaw, and a biggie, is that in real life, these critters are almost as fragile as eggs. Not only would a stack of dynamite blow it across Route 66, but a shotgun blast in the kisser should have brought the film to a screeching halt as Mr. T would be brought to his, uh, knees. Of course, creatures are designed to be a certain shape and size and one has to ignore the physiological absurdity of a 10-story spider not collapsing in on itself or such films wouldn't exist at all. That said, for a superimposed spider, sometimes it ain't bad. The site of a truck flying through the air was impressive (though I don't know of any spider that hurls its prey); and the goopy puddles of spider venom around the skeletal remains was creepy, but that's about it. How Mara could miss Mr. T looking through her bedroom window, ala King Kong, as she strolls through her bedroom is beyond belief.The two kings of the genre remain THEM and Black Scorpion (also with the jump-suited Mara Corday) while the best spider movie is, legs down, Arachnophobia.  "},{"Title":"Bad, but very funny","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  &#145;Tarantula' is a stupid and predictable movie that is simply a lot of fun to watch. It is fun to watch the same way an Ed Wood movie is fun to watch, the more stupid it gets the funnier it gets. That this is no comedy says something about how bad the movie actually is, although it has some good points. The story involves a genetic manipulated tarantula as big as a house, a professor (Leo G. Carroll) who created the thing but starts losing his mind, his assistant Stephanie (Mara Corday) who expects something is wrong and a doctor named Matt Hastings (John Agar), the hero, who falls in love with the assistant. Yes, it follows a formula and will not change its path once. Everything that will happen can be guessed after the first minutes. This does not always make a bad movie, here it really does. But I must admit again, the worse it gets the more entertaining it gets as well.Like I said there are real positive points as well. The tarantula is a nice creation. It is obvious that a real tarantula is filmed and the footage is put into the scene. Sometimes it so obvious it gets a laugh. But at times it really looks pretty good, even scary in a way. Another thing I really admired was the relationship between Stephanie and Matt. The movie is pretty daring, especially in its dialogue. Of course I mean daring for the time it was made. It has the same kind of dialogue as the much better &#145;The Big Sleep'. It does not literally say what it means but we understand. These scenes are funny when they are meant to be funny. Those are likable aspects on their own. As a whole the movie is bad and funny, and therefore probably not for most audiences. If you can watch a bad movie and laugh at it, trying to make the best of it, you might like &#145;Tarantula'.Another nice reason to see this movie is a very short appearance of Clint Eastwood. To be honest, for me it was the only reason to see this movie and I got a little more. "}]