[{"Title":"Well you gotta do SOMETHIN'.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"144 out of 181 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm getting really sick of people on here saying this film is not relevant today, because kids don't face the same problems, blah blah... when these are ADULTS saying this, who wouldn't know the first thing about the problems kids face today because they aren't one. Well I'm 16 and I can say that this film is every bit as involving and affecting as it was the day it came out. I mean, name one thing in Rebel that isn't a part of teen life now. Drag racing that's the only thing.But anyway, the movie. I'm a hard-core film buff and have seem many many many many movies in my 16 years. Only two of them have accurately depicted teen life Rebel Without a Cause and a beautiful Japanese anime film called Whisper of the Heart. Rebel on a whole is a bit exaggerated, but it's only fitting - a teen exaggerates everything that happens to them. In fact, some of the images and themes - kids and adults seem to be speaking different languages, a group of outcasts living in a secluded house - would be right at home in a Bunuel film. That house of outcasts in particular is very touching...I think all teens would want to live away from the real world once in a awhile.The three principal characters are all like people I know. Sal Mineo as the troubled kid who wants nothing more than a friend. Natalie Wood as the girl who just goes along with what other people do because she wants to fit in. And of course, the ultra-cool James Dean as the kid who may have a rough-and-tumble exterior, but who is really a big softie at heart. Dean was a bit of a revelation to me. I'd never seen one of his movies before, so I assumed that, like Marilyn Monroe, it was the image that people grieved over and not the talent. Boy was I wrong. The guy could act. When he howls You're tearing me apart! at the beginning, you know what you're in store for.The depiction of the parents also must have been a revelation for 1955 audiences. Juvenile delinquents had been (and are continuing to be) depicted as either overall bad seeds or having abusive parents. This film was the first to acknowledge that something as simple as a lack of communication and an unwillingness to pay attention to your child can do just as much damage.Nicholas Ray's direction was also excellent. Besides coming up with the idea for Jim's red jacket to make him stick out more you have Plato's mismatched socks, and I was also surprised by the frequently-titled camera. I didn't know they did that back then! It certainly added more to the disjointed feeling and wasn't just there for style purposes like todays movies.The only point at which the film falters is the pat resolution between Jim and his parents at the end. But the ending is great otherwise, with a wonderfully framed shot of the observatory, proving Jim's theory that the world will end at dawn. "},{"Title":"Just so far ahead of its time....","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"106 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film bears watching once every 5 years or so. It is astonishing on many levels, not least of which is the exploration of the underbelly of the happy suburban post-war years in middle class America.Yes, we all rave about the beautiful and sadly short lived life of James Dean who died before this movie opened. To die also in a manner highlit in this movie - he was co-incidentally a promo for it. Fast driving and fast cars. Poor James.What I enjoy most though in all of it is the afore-mentioned exploration of hitherto fairly underdeveloped film themes in the America of the fifties. For one, there is the underlying homosexual element to the Sal Mineo character and his obsession with James. And here James is allowed to indulge and return this love, not overtly, but it is there, the tolerance and acknowledgment of it.The character of Judy, played by Natalie Wood is also of tremendous interest. Here there is an incestuous component in her relationship to her father. It seems to me that the father is terrified of his attraction to his gorgeous daughter and keeps pushing her away to the degree that at one point he slaps her as she tries to kiss him. She escapes from home at every chance seeking male attention from wherever she can get it.James' parents are a little overblown and too quickly resolved at the end. But the appearance of an emasculated Jim Backus (he wears an apron in case we don't quite get it!) is a sight for sore eyes. A little dated in the world of today but so far ahead of its time in 1955.9 out 10. Satisfying on many levels. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but still extraordinary","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"89 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was quite impressed with _Rebel Without a Cause_. I expected it to be quite standard, having only gathered its reputation because of the tragedy surrounding James Deans' death. Fortunately, it stood up on its own quite well. Its superficial situations are somewhat dated, which was inevitable, but its themes remain potent after many decades.The major theme is the burgeoning relationship between adults and their teenage children. All three of the main characters are at different stages in this process. Jim (James Dean) is surprisingly at the earliest stage of this. His mother is pretty distanced and unresponsive already, but he still seems to communicate well with his father (Jim Backus, who is amazing. His character's relationship with his wife also provides an interesting view into 1950s gender politics; in one scene, Backus is wearing a cooking apron, which is very obviously meant for a woman). Judy (Natalie Wood, whom I didn't even recognize here) is almost completely rejected by her father, who feels that her affection is out of place in her teenage years. Worst of all is Plato, both of whose parents have left him alone in the world. He tries desperately to make Jim and Judy his parents (although from this vantage point in time, Plato seems resoundingly sexually attracted to Jim, and he sees Judy as a threat to their relationship. Although the writer/director has denied that forever, no human being can watch it nowadays without that thought constantly crossing their mind).The reason that I say this film is flawed lies in the actions of Plato near the end of the film. I felt his escalating insanity was kind of a cop-out. Instead of actually delving into Plato's true character and motives by having intelligent and realistic dialogue and actions, he is just made to go batty, wherein he spouts off his thoughts as if he were some eight year old or man-child. Plato may have been sycophantic throughout the film, but he was anything but a moron. His actions provide an easy way for the director/writer to answer all questions about his character, and then to facilitate an ending which is tragic, but more than a little contrived.Despite what I feel is a cop-out ending, _Rebel Without a Cause remains a thoroughly powerful film. I liked it, and I'll never forget it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree with most of the reviewers.  This movie is just as powerful as it was 44 years ago.  Inside the cheesy braggadocio of an angry gangster is a confused kid.  I can't think of a single person that did not feel alienated as a teenager.  James Dean represents what every teenager would want to be. Individualistic  has a set of values and sticks to them Brave  engages in activities most of us would never consider (esp. chicky run) Kind  caring to Plato and JudyJames Dean is perfect in his role as Jim Stark.  More is said in this movie through gestures than words.  One lift of his eyebrow, one syllable can say so much.  When he does speak, you know that he believes what he is saying. The shot of Jim rolling out of the speeding car is amazing.  I can think of few modern action films that have had me riveted to the seat as I was during the switchblade fight.Natalie Wood is superb in her role as well.  Judy is looking for attention that isn't there.  This is perfectly summed up when she says I love somebody, all this time I was looking for someone to love me, but now I love somebody.  She desperately looks for acceptance and acknowledgment in the wrong places because her father does not want to see her as a young woman.Even though Dennis Hopper's role is rather small, you can see that he knows what he is doing.  He portrays in my mind, someone easily pushed around when he tries to fit in.  He seems different than the rest of Buzz' gang and even looks more boyish.  He timidly tries to interject a comment in front of Buzz and is just brushed off.I don't think that this movie is strictly an us versus them type of scenario.  Trying to take care of Plato and to protect him, Jim realizes that being a parent is not as straightforward as he thought.  His parents are more than just caricatures of the nagging wife and emasculated husband. Everyone in the film is confused about how they fit in to the big picture. The movie is simply told in the self centered manner any teenager would view it as.  This can account for the sequences which many would see as over the top.  I think the central theme of the cosmos presented in the planetarium show demonstrates how teenagers view themselves as the center of the universe.  Thus all the scenes concerning each of the three teens conflicts are equally dramatic. "},{"Title":"First American Teenager","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"43 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  East of Eden and Giant are both great, don't get me wrong.  But this is the James Dean that set the archetype for not only the cool Fifties American teenager but perhaps every teenager since.  Dean has his white t-shirt, sleeve rolled up for his smokes.  He has his red jacket and blue jeans, he's ready to drag and he's ready to fight.  From the first moment we see Dean, drunk on a school night, busted by the cops, he's amazingly both personally secretive and universally accessible at once.  He's hurt, lonely and looking for kicks - and no one understands him except, maybe, just maybe, that one person in the audience...Sure, this movie has it's faults.  The parents are cartoonish, some of the kids are hip in only a stilted sense and a lot of the movie is unrealistic.  There's something disturbingly hokey and amateurish in this portrayal of a typical American town with it's typical American high school. Yet, Dean, Mineo and Wood put on performances that let the viewer suspend reality all the way through..each of these three put on the performance of their lives!Sal Mineo plays a mousey misfit named Plato (whose homosexuality is thinly veiled).  Natalie Wood plays a young women named Judy, part of the in-crowd, who deep down is at wit's end.  Both of these characters are amazingly believable, even fifty years later.  Mineo's never been as enigmatic or as compelling as he is here as Plato.  Then there's Wood - as cynical and alone in her world as Judy feels, we realize quickly she likes James Dean, she needs James Dean - and Dean can dig her.In retrospect, it's not surprising that the jacketed juvenile delinquent that Dean plays here would become a role model for both young gay men and young straight men alike. He's comfortable being intimate with Plato, his words, his expressions are all too much, too overly emotional (for a straight man).  But, the kids, the town itself, quickly learn Dean's no pushover.  He yells, he fights and he's afraid of nothing that other people are afraid of - staring down death is just a way for him to kill time. But, he's afraid, something just isn't right with his life. And most importantly, even if he never really does connect with this typical town filled with typical people, Dean does indeed connect - to anyone whose ever been young - and alone..... "},{"Title":"The  most emotional of films...","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"66 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark (James Dean) is a lonely desperate teenager, who supposedly hasn't a friend in the world when we first see him lying drunk in an L.A gutter... But his personality is such that within a twenty-four-hour period he makes friends with Plato (Sal Mineo) and Judy (Natalie Wood), two misunderstood teenagers completely different from each other and himself...Every tempestuous young boy who considers himself friendless, confused, and aimless, can easily identify with Jim... For the youth of the middle 1950's, Dean's screen image was a symbol of loneliness, anger, and frustration...Jim's appealing characteristics are his sincerity, his warmth toward Judy, his concern for his friend Plato (whom no one else likes) his protectiveness, his shyness, his bravery, his good looks, his tender way of kissing, and his desperate need to be loved...Jim is a troubled new student in a high school in Los Angeles, who is not only willing to reveal that he loves his father, but also has the capacity to cry - which he does often... His one bad characteristic is his violent nature, but at least his fury is not directed at Judy or his friend Plato... He meets these two in jail, where he has been taken on a drunk and disorderly charge...Jim and Julie have an immediate connection, and Plato warns them against Julie's boyfriend, Buzz... Buzz and his gang slash the tires of Jim's cars and a fight ensues... The boys decide to settle their differences by having a 'chicken run.' Each will drive a stolen car toward the brink of a cliff, and the first to jump before the automobile lunges over will be a coward...In the 1950s, the two basic ways that youth could rebel seemed to be through acts of violence and delinquency and through gathering into groups and being directed by a group leader... Richard Brooks' Blackboard Jungle vividly described that situation...As teenagers we liked being called 'rebels.' At that age we weren't out to destroy the 'system,' but like Jim we wanted the 'system' to become more sensitive to our needs, to apologize for being careless, and to make us part of the existing order...At that age we recognized Jim's failure to communicate with his parents, and the way he mumbled when he thought no one was listening and started his sentences over, louder and clearer... He was our ideal... Everything he said was so right, so clever, so cool...When the unfriendly Judy calls him a YoYo and runs off to join her friends, he says softly, I love you, too. When the now friendly Judy asks him why he kissed her on the forehead, he says simply I felt like it. When Buzz asks him if he knows what a chickie run is, he fibs, That's all I ever do. When Plato asks him if he can keep his jacket, Jim exclaims, Well, what do you think?At that age Nicholas Ray's teenagers were hopelessly confused, seeking advice and getting no answers... Their confusion was symbolized by Plato's mismatched socks... Jim, Judy, and Plato pretend to be a family unit based on a mutual trust and understanding, the only structure which can combat the cosmic emptiness of 'man alone.''Rebel Without a Cause' is the first film to suggest that juvenile violence is not necessarily bred in the poor neighborhoods... It is the disenchanted cry of youth, neglected by their parents, and alienated from the adult world...Judy sobs that her father stops kissing her when she was sixteen, and causes her pain when he labels her a 'dirty tramp.' Plato is lost and in despair because his absent, divorced parents have left him completely in the care of a black housekeeper... During questioning, he asserts Nobody can help me.In watching 'Rebel Without a Cause,' we can see the desperate father-son relationship, the need to be loved and understood as an individual... That is why 'Rebel Without a Cause' is the best of the alienated-youth films of the period, and the most emotional of films...Dean's death in an automobile accident in 1955 was a crippling blow to one of the most characteristic elements of fifties cinema... "},{"Title":"My favorite Nick Ray film","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"46 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nicholas Ray may be the most distinctive American director of the 1950s, and certainly the most deeply romantic.  His career was marked by indiosyncratic stories about characters driven by deep internal conflicts, inward violence and outward sexual confusion.  Rebel Without A Cause is the film where all of his themes meet, and slightly edges out Johnny Guitar and In A Lonely Place as my favorite Ray film.Some people will certainly find the dialogue here to be rather stilted, and the performances melodramatic.  I won't argue.  Ray's films in general opposed 'realism' (that most unreal of artistic concepts) in favor of the mythic.What's particularly satisfying about the film is its cohesiveness, binding together its many disparate events and characters with highly parallel themes and motifs.  All of its central characters seem caught in psychosexual conflicts rife with familial gender conflict.  Jim (James Dean) is caught between a weakling, effeminated father and a domineering but inneffectual mother.  Judy (Natalie Wood) and her father are seperated by his uncomfortable relation to her sexuality.  Plato (Sal Mineo), worst of all, is a practical orphan, who suffers all the more for his just under the surface homosexuality. (It's interesting to note here that Plato may be Hollywood's first sympathetic of a gay character.)  All of them are driven by internal demons springing from these conflicts.As usual, Ray is a remarkably sensitive photographer.  And here he proves himself a master of color.  There are too many beautiful scenes to mention here, but the planetarium scene (with the recorded voiceover about human loneliness) beginning of the 'chickie run' are both stunning.The film seems divided between claustrophobic nightmares and utopian fantasies.  The skewed camera angles of Jim's scenes with his parents contrast with the heavenly dream of teenage paradise in the abandoned house. The staircase motif seems to mark several of these transitions.In any case, this is a stunning film by a consummate artist, and should certainly be viewed apart from the distorting lens of the James Dean myth. Dean, for his part, is remarkable here, although, as I stated above, the performances here are in a style far removed from what today's audiences are accustomed to.It's quite silly to say, as several people have here, that this film's themes are 'dated'.  They seem to be the constant themes of youth idealism vs. cynicism, the turmoil of sexual awakening, the desire to fit in, and the internal violence that constantly threatens to become external.  To say that these no longer apply because these kids have never heard of ecstasy or the crips is like saying that Hamlet no longer rings true because nobody swordfights anymore.My one complaint about this film is with the title.  Certainly quite dramatic, it sounds more like a marketing tagline than any kind of description of the goings on of this film.  Jim seems less like a rebel than a young man caught in an inescapable turmoil, and his reaction to the final tragedy belies his lack of a cause.  But this is a minor complaint, and I can recommend this film without reservation. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie of 1950's","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"43 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean is an unbelievable actor. Basically his whole career consists of only three movies he acted in just right before his tragic death. Yet still, almost 50 years later people recognize his name and face. He's an icon of the 1950's and in the same line with Marilyn Monroe or Elvis Presley. That's simply miraculous, movie history knows no other example of anything like it. I personally consider Jimmy as one of my favorite actors too. Of course he is a sensational talent and maybe it's partly because he really had only three big performances so no one ever saw him actually doing something wrong, choosing a bad role or whatever. I personally think that James Dean would have been nearly as big if Rebel without a cause was his only movie. His devoted, stylish and touching larger-than-life performance as Jim Stark is just startling experience to watch. Legendary Rebel without a cause is a timeless drama and in many ways it's far from being old fashioned. It's moving, beautiful and incredibly impressive, the best movie of its decade and one of the best movies ever made. Period. 10/10. "},{"Title":"James Dean Cult-Classic about misunderstood teens in 1950s","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"42 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brilliant cast of well-known Hollywood icons in hard-hitting treatment of story that focuses on the hopelessness exhibited by many middle-class teenagers who were too young to recall the pains of WWII, but saw daily reminders of the threat of the bomb, as well as inequities around them.James Dean stands out as the troubled kid whose parents keep moving to escape their community's effects of their son's strange behavior. Equally great are the performances of Natalie Wood as a wanna-be-bad-girl who is hurt by her parents' implications that she is a tramp; and the child-like Sal Mineo, who lives in a mansion with a maid, but feels the pains of neglect from never-present parents.The trio first meet at a police station, where they all see a well-meaning officer who is genuinely interested in getting these troubled kids back on the right track rather than throwing the book at them. He does seem to reach James Dean, who seeks help after getting into more trouble.The relationship between the James Dean character and that of Sal Mineo is somewhat elusive. At times a more than friendly association is suggested, then the appearance of Natalie Wood makes it look like an odd threesome. 1950s America was definitely unprepared for any spelling out of suggested terms, so for nearly 50 years now anyone's guess as to what was going on here is as good as the next.The supporting cast include Jim Backus as James Dean's well-to-do yet wimpish and henpecked father as well as a young Dennis Hopper as a member of a greaser gang. The parade of big name stars in itself is eye-candy of the highest caliber! References to scientific findings are still awe-inspiring today. Showing young college students' reactions to film footage during a lecture shows that humans can't fully grasp the insignificance of earthly life compared to the vastness of the universe. Carefully watch the final scene as the end credits are shown, when this point is driven home.Rebel Without A Cause is one of the great classics with a sociological impact that has seldom been reached by any film, and likely never surpassed. This film is a ceaseless source of discussions. I recommend this film also for high school History, Sociology or Language Arts classes. "},{"Title":"A Classic; the Best-ever Film about Adolescence","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Contains spoilersFilms about juvenile delinquency were not new in 1955, but earlier films on the subject, such as 'Angels with Dirty Faces' from the late thirties, and even others from the same period, such as 'Blackboard Jungle' which also came out in 1955, had tended to locate the problem among the urban poor of the slums. 'Rebel Without a Cause' is different in that it focuses on delinquency among the teenagers of an affluent middle-class community.The film starts with a teenage boy named Jim Stark being arrested by the police for being drunk and disorderly and taken to the police station. His parents have recently moved to the area, and he is depressed because his parents move house frequently and he finds it difficult to make new friends. The school which he attends is dominated by a culture of swaggering masculine bravado and aggression. A premium is placed on displays of physical courage and on proving one's worth by fighting; the worst insult in this society is 'chicken'. Boys are expected to fit in with the prevailing ethos in order to gain the respect of their peers and to stand a chance of getting a girlfriend. Although Jim longs for friendship and acceptance, he is also skeptical of this ethos, which makes him something of an outsider. He quarrels with Buzz, the leader of the 'in-crowd', who accuses him of being a 'chicken'. Jim feels forced to prove his courage against Buzz, first in a knife-fight, and then in a 'Chickie Run', a ritualised test of nerve which involves driving stolen cars as close as possible to the edge of a cliff before jumping out. During the latter Buzz is killed when he is unable to escape from his car in time; it is Jim's feelings of guilt arising from this incident, and the desire of Buzz's friends for revenge, which provoke the film's tragic climax. Although much of the comment about this film has concentrated on the charismatic figure of Dean, the film is not just about Jim. It has at its heart a triangular relationship between Jim and two other teenagers, Judy and Plato, all of whom can be seen as a rebels- 'without a cause' in the sense that they are not motivated by any political or social ideal, but also 'with a cause' in the sense that there is a reason why they act as they do. Nevertheless, in each case the cause of their revolt is subtly different. Each has been brought up in a different way. Jim's parents are kindly and liberal, but are too indulgent. His father, in particular, is well-meaning but weak, unable to provide his son with intelligent advice or with a role-model of manliness. Plato (whose real name is John, but who prefers to be called by his nickname, which suggests his intellectual nature) is a strange, lonely boy. Our first view of him is at the police station, where he has been arrested for shooting some puppies. We do not learn any more about this incident, but what we hear is enough to suggest that Plato is emotionally disturbed. Plato's parents are separated; he never sees his father and his mother is frequently absent, leaving him to be brought up by an elderly maidservant. The shy, bookish Plato makes no attempt to fit in with the other students, who look down on him, but he sees Jim as a fellow-outsider and befriends him. I felt that there were hints that Plato is sexually attracted to Jim and jealous of his growing friendship with Judy, but in the moral climate of the fifties these hints could not be fully developed. (If my theory is correct, Plato's nickname may also have ironic overtones, Plato being the philosopher who advocated sexless 'platonic' love between males).Whereas Jim's parents are over-liberal and Plato's absent, Judy's are cold and authoritarian. Unlike the boys, she starts off as a member of the 'in-crowd', as she is Buzz's girlfriend, but after Buzz's death a romance develops between Jim and herself. The main theme of the film is the choice between the desire to conform to accepted values and the desire to rebel by finding one's own individual ones, a choice that seems particularly acute in one's teenage years. The film suggests that this choice is more complex than might be thought. Although the students are rebellious in the sense that they scorn the more peaceful values of adult life, they are also deeply conformist in the sense that they will tolerate no deviation from their own values. Jim, Judy and Plato can be seen as rebels against not only the older generation but also against the values of their contemporaries. Even Buzz, as much as Jim or Plato, can be seen as a victim of the students' system of values. A more attractive side to his character is shown in the scenes before the fateful 'chickie run' where he and Jim discover a respect, even a liking for one another; certainly, neither wishes any harm to befall the other, but for reasons of honour neither feels able to withdraw from their ritual duel.Throughout the film there is an atmosphere of heightened emotion- it has not one, but two, emotional climaxes, the 'chickie run' and the final scene where Jim, Judy and Plato are hiding in the planetarium from Buzz's friends and from the police. It is a film that needs fine acting, both to convey this emotional atmosphere and to do justice to its ambitious theme. Fortunately, all three leads are equal to the task. Sal Mineo as Plato and Natalie Wood as Judy are both good, but James Dean is better than good, making the anguished figure of Jim come vividly alive. Although Dean was twenty-four at the time, several years older than the supposed age of his character, he was brilliant at portraying a tormented adolescent. It is strange that he did not receive a 'Best Actor' Oscar nomination. He was, of course, nominated for his role in 'East of Eden'. (Is there a rule which prevents the same actor from being nominated twice in one year?) Some of the supporting cast are also excellent, particularly Jim Backus as Jim's weak but well-meaning father, and Corey Allen, who resists the temptation to play Buzz simply as an arrogant hooligan. 'Rebel Without a Cause' is, in my view, one of the best films of the fifties and probably the best-ever film about adolescence and 'coming of age'. I am surprised it has not made your top 250 films and that it was not nominated for 'Best Picture'. 10/10.  "}{"Title":"Don't call me chicken...","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"27 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The teenage years are a confusing time for anyone. You start to act different, think different, and realize that you are growing up and there is nothing you can do about it. For Jim Stark this is more than he can handle.Nicholas Ray's classic Rebel Without a Cause is a look into the life of Jim Stark (James Dean) and his attempt to try and figure out what he wants to do with his life. Should he try to become an adult or should he enjoy what little time he has left and cut loose?The movie opens with Jim after he has had a few too many drinks. After being taken to the police station his parents are brought in to help find out what he did and why he did it. His parents (Jim Backus and Ann Doran) are torn over what to do with him. The father is understanding but the mother wants him to learn his lesson and make sure it does not happen again. Their fighting is tearing him apart!.Also at the station is Judy (Natalie Wood) and John Plato Crawford (Sal Mineo). Jim offers his coat to Plato but he refuses. It was just a kind gesture, but given Plato's emotional state, it is a justified response.The next day is Jim's first day at his new school. He leaves the house in a good mood, telling his parents how this might be it for him. After meeting Judy, who appears to be unfazed by the incident she had in the police station, Jim is off to school where he learns of a field trip for that afternoon to the planetarium.It is hear where he encounters Buzz, the leader of the cool crowd. After slashing Jim's tires, it's examination time, or a little knife fight. No jabbing, just sticking. Jim almost loses it but keeps his cool. Buzz challenges Jim to a chicee race at the bluffs. Jim accepts having no idea what that is.The events that follow are like a wild goose chase for Jim and his new friends. They go everywhere from the bluffs, to an abandoned mansion, and the planetarium. It's a wonderfully written script using great dialogue between Jim and his parents. The camera work is also a magnificent display, using great angles and unique shots. Ray had the perfect vision of what he wanted his film to look like.Color is often used to showcase significance or symbolize a certain aspect of the film. Jim's red jacket, Judy's red coat in the beginning, and Buzz and all his cronies where black leather coats.Dean's performance is remarkable. It is a shame he was only featured in 3 films, none the less, he is one of America's icons. He symbolizes what every guy wants to be. He is not the only good performer. Backus gives a tremendous performance as the father, the understanding, somewhat lenient parent of Jim Stark. Wood and Mineo both received Oscar nominations and both were well deserved.As mentioned earlier, these are the most confusing years for a teenager. One scene that says it perfectly is after the knife incident when Jim comes home. He walks up the stairs to find what appears to be his mother in an apron cleaning up. It turns out to be his father cleaning up the food he spilled for his wife who is a little under the weather. They both laugh and Jim tells him to leave the food so she can see it. The father doesn't understand and Jim just keeps telling him to. He gets flustered and walks away. He stutters and just can't give a straight answer to his father. This is a perfect comparison to much of Jim's life. He does something but cannot explain it.Rebel Without a Cause is a classic from the 1950's. A movie that to this day is a perfect example of how each new generation is as rebellious as the one before it. "},{"Title":"Indelible James Dean","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With short, slicked-back hair, blue eyes and thick red lips, and dressed in a white T-shirt, blue jeans, and bright red jacket, James Dean creates a lasting visual impression as youthful Jim Stark, the prototype high school outsider, alone and troubled. Dean's on-screen persona, together with his vivid, intense performance, overwhelms all other elements in this film about 1950s teenage confusion and angst.Newly arrived in town, Jim Stark finds himself trapped in a typically hostile high school, and confronted by an in-crowd of leather-jacketed hoods with names like Buzz, Crunch, and Goon. They challenge Jim's honor by calling him chicken. What to do? Jim asks his weak, mealy-mouthed father (well played by Jim Backus). But his father is no help. Indeed, the film conveys a grim view of adults self-indulgent, weak, insensitive, unobservant, and inept.Then there's Plato (Sal Mineo), the high school kid who has always been alone, with no apparent father or mother. In Jim Stark, Plato has finally found a friend. Eventually, another student joins Jim and Plato. Judy (Natalie Wood) changes her caddy behavior toward Jim after an event changes her life. But it's still a hostile world, and the bond that these three young people form, as substitute family, is fleeting, en route to a poignant ending.The film's characters and thematic tone are representative of a Cold War era in America when the threat of nuclear annihilation hovered over everyone and everything like the sword of Damocles. And thus, the story's astronomy motif amplifies a sense of loneliness, insignificance, isolation, and helplessness, so characteristic of the 1950s.There are things about this film I do not care for. The compressed widescreen projection in CinemaScope is annoying. The music, which varies from jazz to rhythm and blues to nondescript noise, is too loud and too manipulative. And there's something vaguely contradictory about a macho James Dean in the role of Jim Stark, whom bullies pick on.But none of these irritations can diminish the thematic depth of the story. Nor can they diminish the overpowering presence of James Dean, the actor, the perfect Hollywood symbol of youthful cool, whom actors subsequently looked to as a model of acting excellence and cinematic charisma. "},{"Title":"I think I missed something here","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of all the classic movies I've seen, I'd have to say Rebel Without a Cause is the most overrated.  James Dean is a good actor, but honestly, aside from him, everyone else is over the top.Let me first list a few things that seemed completely implausible to me The people in James Dean's new town hate him immediately, without him even doing anything.  A highschooler gets his shirt caught in a car door, flies screaming off the edge of a cliff to a explosive firey death, and no one cares.  These first two problems wouldn't be that bad if the movie didn't appear to be going for an element of realism.  If the whole thing was played as little surreal, or as some sort of social black comedy, I could accept these events, but I'm pretty sure that's not the case.The character of Plato is atrocious, both acting wise and thematically wise. And yet he becomes the focal point of the movie.  My biggest problem is that the themes are literally batted over the audience's head.  It becomes immediately clear that James Dean is serving as a replacement father figure for Plato.  Plato has mentioned he has no father and no friends, it just becomes very obvious.  Does he really need to say things like yeah, I'm hoping we can go on fishing trips like my dad used to take me on.  I refuse to believe audiences were that dumb in the 1950s.  (as an aside, the person who argued that Plato was gay, I agree that this is intentional, how else would he be so attracted to James Dean after only knowing him 3 seconds and the movie does get some points for slyly tackling a taboo thing like that). However, I desperately wanted Plato to fall victim to a flail of gunfire by the final scene.Maybe my hopes were too high, It could be that all the themes in this movie have been re-done in more audience-trusting fashion.  Still, James Dean was a much better teen idol than we have nowadays. "},{"Title":"Overrated. Unrealistic","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I got the DVD of Rebel without a cause from a shady joint near the port area of Chennai, India. Expecting that I'd laid my hands on a gold mine, both appreciated by critics and loved by the audiences, I started viewing the film with lots of expectations. No, I did not expect Dean to excel in the 'rebel' role. Having seen him in Giant, I was more or less sure about his limitations as an actor. Good looking, suave, lots of charisma to drive the young women mad, Dean sure had his own positive traits. But acting? A veritable no no.. he was just an icon, an image which might not have sustained beyond the peripheral level had we not lost him to time so early. Death made him a hero, and even today a below average film like Rebel without a cause is viewed with very high expectations Coming to the film, I found 'Rebel without a cause' juvenile in script and in execution. Characters are true to life, but have been played badly, in fact, so badly that they appear coming right out of comic books than American small towns. Natalie Wood, in a similar role in West Side Story appeared much more sensible and mature, like a character in flesh and blood, something which we do not normally associate with musicals. Was it that she wanted to do proper justice to Maria , something she had failed in portraying Lina? The biggest shocker is James Dean. His acting is comparable to C grade heroes of Indian cinema. I could have imagined Jeetendra and Salman Khan acting in this manner, but Dean? Anyway, I had the experience of watching Giant where Dean was comprehensively overshadowed by Rock Hudson , not a great actor himself, hence, had to adjust to the Americanism and halo surrounding the star.Nicholas Ray may be a good director, I don't know. But apart from the action sequences, nothing impresses you. The family squabbles are like scenes emerging out of South Indian 'masala' films, smeared with sentimentalism and having almost no pointer at logic at all. Script and screenplay does not really help. In effect, it appears like a lolly pop / chocolate effort at creating something which could have really been a great film, a film which could have been a real poignant representative of its times. "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, so obviously ppl thought this was a good movie in 1955.I pity the fools who still think so... Its absolute rubbish.The story is just ... ridiculous. The characters are absurd caricatures - but this film is not meant to satirise, im sure its meant to be a serious drama isn't it?Dean and others, are too old for their parts. People say Dean is great in this film, and well, maybe he did play his part as well as he possibly could've. His character is meant to be 16 or 17 or so. But Dean was a 24 year old man when he made this film. Seeing him agonise and throw little tantrums like a 4 year old boy... its pathetic.Natalie Wood is gorgeous, but the early scenes at the police station where she is crying and whining are very unconvincing. It sets a bad precedent for the film... and for the rest of it, you feel like cringing every time one of these badly acted emotional scenes comes along.It may've been good for its time, but, really, its drivel.It must've just been hype about Dean's death that has over-inflated the reputation of this film. "},{"Title":"An astoundingly fine movie","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is another one of those movies I knew I would eventually get around to seeing, but was in no hurry to do so. I figured I knew who James Dean was (having seen East of Eden a long time ago). I knew how he died. Yet another quasi- mythical actor persona. So I figured, OK a teenage coming-of-age movie with a dreamy-eyed actor version of Elvis. Ho hum.Wow, was I wrong. This is a really excellent movie, one of the top twenty or so I have ever seen. It is enormously more than just a teenage coming-of-age movie.It's understandable that all the reviews I have read of it here focus on the teenage aspect. After all, with three striking young stars, Dean, Wood, and Mineo, and a plot centered on teenagers and their parents, what else would you expect? And certainly there are many excellent pieces of dialog, plot, acting, and direction about teenagers, their angst, their self-serious self-involvement, their sexual awakenings, their striving to fit in, their parental difficulties. All of these things are really good. But there is more.The movie transcends that with its existential aspects. Who lives? asks Judy upon first meeting Jim. The planetarium show evokes the age old human questions, does anybody out there care? Is this all? The show at the planetarium emphasizes the death of the sun and the end of life on earth -- and who will care? Plato (love that name) is really scared, and Jim reaches out to him. When they are about to start the chicken race, Buzz and Jim have a conversation and Buzz says, we have to do something. On one level, that's an evocation of teenage life, but on a deeper level it's an existential statement about all human beings. Teenagers are taken as a symbol for everyone.There is the wonderful symbol of putting a coat around someone. You are cold, I will warm you. This is a recurrent theme, and a human answer to the existential dilemma.There are other symbols I love in this movie, like the recurring use of the color red, and the mismatched socks.I loved the secondary characters, especially the policeman, Jim's parents, his grandmother, and Judy's father (loved seeing William Hopper in a role away from Perry Mason). The opening ten minutes are really good. I loved the layout in the police station, and the sometimes understated interviews with the three main characters. The movie is full of wonderful little details, like Judy's compact in that opening sequence. A bit later we see that inside Plato's locker is a picture of Alan Ladd (so I've been told; I really didn't notice it that carefully). This movie was filmed right after the success of Shane, in which Ladd starred as a powerful mentor or father figure. Plato desperately wanted such a person in his life.James Dean is really impressive. I've read Dean actually improvised several great little touches in the movie. Improvising was encouraged by the director, Ray. In the opening scene in the police station, he imitates a police siren. Later on when the three of them are exploring the abandoned mansion, as they approach the swimming pool they are discussing children. I forget exactly what he says, but Dean imitates Mr. Magoo (the cartoon character) and says something about kids. That's especially ironic, as Jim Backus was the voice of Mr. Magoo! Also, in the opening scene while the credits are rolling, he is playing with a mechanical monkey toy (and wrapping it in a blanket - there's that symbol again); this was improvisation. I've read that at first the plan was for that opening sequence to be much more violent, a sort of teenage gang war. I'm glad they dropped that.Also impressive was Sal Mineo. Wow. Only Natalie Wood as Judy disappointed me a bit. I think the character she plays is realistic, but somehow I wanted something more. On the whole though, the three leads are superb. Apparently the studio was first considering - get this - the two main roles to be filled by Tab Hunter and Jane Mansfield (!!)If you have any qualms about this movie because it's just another teenage juvenile delinquent movie, put that aside. I'm glad I did.- henry "},{"Title":"Dreamy-tragic teen angst...","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A wallow decent, 'nice' high school kids heading down the wrong track, due to peer-pressure and parental misguidance. This had a strong impact with audiences in 1955--yet most likely with 12 or 13-year olds, not with the type of older teenagers portrayed on-screen. It looks like a prepubescent's idea of what grown-up teen-life is like, its troubles forged with romantic sturm and drang. There are strong moments, especially when focusing on the students' home lives (Jim Backus is particularly effective as James Dean's spineless father), but the j.d. stuff (knife fights, chicken races, etc.) is awfully rote. Sal Mineo's character of a moony-eyed juvenile with absentee parents is a writer's conceit his gooey, over-the-top sincerity borders on caricature. James Dean and Natalie Wood are somewhat better, but are they really attuned to these directionless young people? There's so much movie-magazine gloss sticking to the surface, it's difficult to tell. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Certain Characters Ruin It, Disappointing.","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, what I thought was going to be a movie about James Dean being a total rebel turned out to be a movie filled with completely mental teenagers.Let me get started. The character Plato is introduced in the first scene in the police station where all of the other main characters are introduced as well. But instead of being held there for being out too late or for a bit of drunkenness, it is discovered that he killed some puppies. This should already be a red flag for his character. And when asked about why he did it, he responds with I don't know. Except you can tell that he little douchebag is lying, you know that he has some dark reason hidden on the inside on why he killed those puppies. From the beginning of the movie you know that he is going to be a little douchebag. The next day comes and he meets James Dean's character. For some reason, he becomes so attached to his character for no reason at all, later saying I hope he takes me hunting and fishing, because I don't know how, and I know he'll teach me. like James Dean is his dad or something. What a weirdo. Then later when he realizes that James Dean is in danger he grabs a gun. RED FLAG. We can tell that no good is going to come out of this. When he falls asleep at the abandoned mansion James Dean and the character Judy go to another room to make out or some crap. Then when the stereotype greasers come to beat him and James Dean up, he freaks out and pulls out his gun and almost kills one of the greasers and almost kills James Dean. He then goes into a trance like condition where he acts like a baby and complains about not having a mommy or daddy while running from the police. He ends up dead. Good. Screw Plato. This all takes place in ONE DAY. In ONE DAY he becomes this attached to another person. COME ON.Then there is the character Judy. Judy meets James Dean on the first day of school and treats him like fat people do to salad to fit in with her boyfriend Buzz and his stereotype greaser friends. So then later at the Chicken race ,or whatever it is called, Buzz dies by having his jacket caught in the door before he can jump out. So what does Judy do about her now dead boyfriend? Mourn? Cry her eyes out? Nope! She barely appears sad about it and then moves on straight to James Dean within AN HOUR of Buzz's death. Dear Buzz, Sorry, but I don't really care about your death because James Dean is here. From Judy. P.S. Screw you. Later in the movie, which is only like a couple hours later in the story of the film, Judy literally tells James Dean that she is in love with him. Really? She literally just met in him earlier that day. And she is in love with him? It makes no sense at all really, I do not like her at all. I wish that James Dean could carry this movie on his own, but I just don't like his character that much. I thought he would be more of a rebel, but he just acts more like a rebel when he tries to fit in with the rebel crowd.I'm sorry, I just thought this movie was really disappointing for me. "},{"Title":"You're tearing me apart!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like any film that strives to be current, Rebel Without a Cause has inevitably become dated since its release over fifty years ago. Therefore, you have to make allowances for this and take it in the context of its time. Those willing to do so will recognize the film as a substantial offering, especially for a film about young people.Certain aspects of the plot may be dated but the emotions are timeless. Each of the teens is looking for something different from their parents. Jim is hounded by the question of what it takes to be a man but gets no help from his hen-pecked father. Judy justifiably feels unloved due to her father's suddenly frigid demeanor. Plato, meanwhile, doesn't even have his parents around at all, therefore he feels lonely and abandoned. These problems (and a multitude of others) haven't vanished in the time since this film was released.The direction by Nicholas Ray brings this story to life and shows some interesting touches along the way. The opening credits with Jim drunkenly messing around with a toy monkey is just one memorable scene. The 'chickie run' scene is perhaps the film's most memorable set-piece.The movie also benefits from a legendary performance from James Dean, who didn't even live long enough to see the film hit theatres. His performance here is angst-ridden and filled with nuance. Perhaps his best scene is the one in which he confronts his parents when he returns from the chicken run. Puzzlingly, though, he never got an Oscar nomination while both Mineo & Wood did. Mineo was certainly deserving but to me Wood's performance was nothing particularly special. Also notable was Jim Backus who turned in a fine performance as Jim's father.The film contains a wealth of deeper meaning and, depending on who you ask, possibly some taboo-defying sexual undertones. After seeing the film a few times I'm no longer so sure about the supposed homosexual subtext of Jim & Plato's friendship; that may be more of a by-product of their respective issues stemming from missing or ineffective father figures. Judy's relationship to her father is also not without sexual undertones but, again, this may be a by-product of the issue at hand; that is, her father's lack of overt affection as she blossoms into maturity. Regardless of whether or not any of this was the intent of the film-makers they were nevertheless daring to present such provocative material while the production code was still in effect.All in all, a fine film that is deservedly lauded as a classic decades later. Check it out but be sure to put yourself in a fifties state of mind. "},{"Title":"A Square Studio Production","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Teen angst as a commercially viable cinema commodity was non-existent in 1955. Enter this film and Blackboard Jungle (the same year). Both were hugely successful and a new genre was born.This is not the better of the two movies. It has not dated well and most of it seems stagy and melodramatic. The slick production also seems to detract rather than add to the anxiety and most of the characters are overly defined. What's needed here is more impromptu and less prompting.The teens seem choreographed rather than the wild wanderers they represent and the film relies way too much on dialog and not enough on the essential energy of youth. The plot is amazingly anachronistic and the whole thing is half-baked. The symbolism is a saturation of stereotypes (drinking MILK from the bottle, the apron on Daddy, a teen girl KISSING her father, don't call me chicken, and atomic age references like the big bang and the end of the world).Overall it is a good try hampered by the square studio production (dig that crazy music on the car radio). The film has built its reputation on the young stars and starting a trend for the teens. It is a movie made by grown-ups with grown-up sensibilities and doesn't have a clue about the cause. "}{"Title":"not my favorite Nick Ray film by far, but it's worth viewing as a essential from the 50s","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I put quotations around the words essential in that one line because, really, I'm not totally sure what essential means really when it comes to seeing films from that decade. The general consensus- on which one might dub a film like Rebel Without a Cause overrated- is that this film is THE film on teenage angst and dislocation from the adults of the period, and that it's essential because of James Dean, or that it might be considered director Nicholas Ray's best film. For me though, essential is a very subjective term, and one person's essential being this film is another one's essential being Bigger Than Life or In a Lonely Place, films that get some notice in the film circles but not enough when placed against a film like the one here. It's the kind of picture I end up recommending, but not exactly under the terminology of how I would find it to be essential or not, because I don't really. It's not a sort of seminal, staggeringly entertaining and artistically satisfying work about being an outsider in the 50s like On the Waterfront or even one most people wouldn't think of like Ikiru. From a historical perspective, however, and for the significance of James Dean, it is worth a viewing, at least once, if you want to know at least what the industry leaned towards in the 50s.Now, on to the actual film- it's the story of Jim Stark, who is disaffected and with a sort of glow about him (if glow is the word, maybe just, um, malaise), and its more of a reflection on his parents (Jim Backus, who is actually quite good here, and Ann Doran as his mother) than on society as a whole. Not that society doesn't have a part in Jim's emotional downward spiral. He's a kid who ends up getting connected to violence ('Don't call me chicken' is coined famously, and maybe unintentionally amusingly, by Dean in this film), and all the while Dean plays him very calmly and coolly, with his big emotional bursts strong and piercing. But as I've yet to see his other two big cinematic roles in East of Eden or Giant, I can't compare one to the other or not. On its own, his turn today almost borders on being too melodramatic, even too stuck in the period (Brando, as mentioned before, had the 'normalcy of detachment and cool' down to a T unlike Dean here who is good if not great). He's followed along by compelling supporting work by Sal Mineo and Natalie Wood, as equally disaffected youth, but in different ways that end up clinging the three of them together.The story, as much as it tries to, isn't really as convincing as it tries to be, and unfortunately to me doesn't hold up like it should. The convincing bits are still there, and some scenes are revelatory into the little things about teenagers, like the trip inside the planetarium- no matter how tough they think they are or act or anything, they can still be amazed by some things, the unknown that is. And the fight that happens after-wards- along with the 'chickie' drag race at night that leads to a tragic turn of events- are classic Ray-directed moments. But the classically trained style of film-making by Ray, with the level of subversion still there under the surface of the immediate context, isn't as fulfilling when given to the story and characters and acting. Some characters are just outright silly or so one-dimensional that you can't believe someone like Dean's character would have to deal with them at all. Even an emotionally complex scene like the it's tearing me apart speech doesn't hit quite as hard as it might have in 1955. By the end of it all, I knew Rebel Without a Cause was worth viewing, but as an immediate masterwork of the Hollywood system? I'm not really sure on that, and certainly not if one's talking about essentials from the director. B+ "},{"Title":"James Dean, the icon eponym","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Growing up can be a time of epic but simultaneously pointless inner turmoil. Jim Stark (played naturally by James Dean) is a troubled youth, moved from town to town by his parents, the dictatorial mother Carol (Ann Doran) and her gutless husband Frank (Jim Backus). On the first night of their move Jim gets wasted and finds himself hauled to the police station, where he meets Ray Fremick (Edward Platt), a mentorial figure, which quickly influences Jim's mindset. Even the best intentions to behave are fraught with risks, as wildboy Buzz and his school gang don't intend to make the new kids stay easy...An unspeakably influential and prototypical movie Rebel without a cause is at times a captivating experience, but nonetheless were it not for the unsurmountable screen presence of James Dean it should have never been anything more than a B-movie outing. Nonetheless James Dean imprints himself on viewers from the word go with movement and facial expression, which seem way ahead of his time. Capable of selling even the most corny lines with some pizazz it is no wonder why the actor gained such cult status given his measly amount of film credits. The beginning of the movie seems also infinitely better scripted and acted by the whole crew, while Jim's and Ray's first encounter is absolutely riveting stuff. Nonetheless the mood of the movie quickly dissipates into cardboard characterisation, implausibilities (pronouncing love after several hours of a relationship) and idiosyncrasies, which make it hard for you to really accept the movie as groundbreaking or meaningful. In the end it feels well-meant, but badly written.The whole Plato character (Sal Mineo) - a rich kid, who hardly has contact with either parents, incessantly feels as if poorly portrayed and scripted. Given he is key to the drama of the final third of the movie Rebel Without a Cause fails to keep up the tone set out in the first act. The whole rebellion thing is covered by a very thin layer of build-up, making it an initially well-thought out concept, but one that fails to make a sale. After hitting a couple of notes right the whole affair rings fake and overly orchestrated.Nonetheless he experience of experiencing James Dean is sole reason, why the movie is worth a decent, if not overtly critical, look. "},{"Title":"An Uncomprosing Film That Takes The Side Of Its Rebels","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause contains James Deans' most influential performance. He plays the deeply tormented teen Jim Stark, who cannot stand living in a superficial society that refuses to show him any love. Of course, Jim's social criticisms are as true to life today as they were when the film was originally released. This is what maintains the film's elemental power. Writer/director Nicholas Ray shows how sometimes rebellious teens understand the world better than their clueless parents.Nicolas Ray's use of color is nothing short of spectacular. Each character is dressed in clothes that express their heartfelt emotions. Jim's immortal red jacket is the perfect symbol of his fragile nerves and restless heart, which spends the entire movie searching for love and acceptance.As is the case with his other two films, East of Eden and Giant, James Dean is the movie. He posses the rarest of acting gifts - you simply can't take your eyes off of him. How many young actors today can even hope to have the same affect on audiences? "},{"Title":"A Tale Of Three Misfits","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In his three film trilogy James Dean worked with three of the best directors around, George Stevens in Giant, Elia Kazan in East of Eden, and Nicholas Ray for Rebel Without A Cause. The first two films came from the inspiration of two of the best American writers of the last century, Edna Ferber and John Steinbeck. But in Rebel Without A Cause the inspiration was director Nicholas Ray himself who wrote was nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Story for the screen.The Fifties was certainly the era for those rebel type films, but Rebel Without A Cause is unique because it deals with these bored upper middle class kids. It's as different a film as The Wild One with Marlon Brando and those working class biker types or the urban school kids of The Blackboard Jungle as you can get. The problems of this crowd just don't seem as serious as those in the other two films.But because of the quality performances of James Dean, Natalie Wood, and Sal Mineo you do sort of feel for these kids. Dean is a misfit like he was in East of Eden, in fact his parents have just moved because of trouble he'd gotten into in his previous school. Unlike in East of Eden where Dean had this almost godlike father in Raymond Massey who he felt he couldn't measure up to, in Rebel Without A Cause he's dealing with Jim Backus who's an ineffectual henpecked sort with Ann Doran and her mother, Virginia Brissac. Dean himself was raised by an aunt and uncle in Indiana so he could identify with both Cal Trask and Jim Stark. Come to think of it you could include Jett Rink in there as well.Natalie Wood also has father problems, William Hopper who just doesn't know how to deal with the fact that 'daddy's little girl' is blossoming into womanhood. Her mother, Rochelle Hudson, is one of those who looks like she's suffering a permanent headache and has abandoned the family ship to dear old dad. It's more an absence of mother and Hopper trying to do both roles which he just can't handle.But Dean and Wood have parents. Sal Mineo is being raised by the maid in his very wealthy home. He's got all the material things, but he's a rather geeky kid who just doesn't fit in. He's also experiencing latent homosexuality in an age where that was the worst thing on the planet to be and no visible gay community to tell you it wasn't. By the way Marietta Canty as the maid is outstanding in this film, she's miles away from the maid roles of Louise Beavers and Hattie McDaniel.So these three find each other and find a gang of kids who race their expensive automobiles against each other for speed and against each other for daring in the famous 'chicken run' scene. When the gang leader Corey Allen is killed racing against Dean, he becomes a kind of martyr to them and trouble brews for our three misfits. Both Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo were nominated for Best Supporting Actress and Best Supporting Actor. Wood lost to Jo Van Fleet from that other James Dean classic East of Eden and Mineo lost to Jack Lemmon in Mr. Roberts. As for Dean he was up that year posthumously for East of Eden.It wasn't only James Dean's tragic death that made him a legend. He was getting acclaim for his performance in East of Eden when he was killed on September 30, 1955. His stunning impact came after his death as fans were mesmerized by the promise of things to come in Rebel Without A Cause which came out about four weeks later and with Giant which Dean had just wrapped shooting on. This dead actor had film fans talking everywhere right up to the Oscars of 1957 ceremony where he was nominated for 1956's Giant. If ever a player left the scene with fans begging for more it was James Dean.Seen today over 50 years later Rebel Without A Cause still remains the ultimate film in teen angst. I think it's destined to be so for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Miscast without a cause","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Between all the new stuff I like watching a real classic once in a while. Sometimes I really enjoy them. I liked Casablanca a lot and loved North by Northwest. Even though they're old and some lines seem out of time and some plot points seem too obvious cause they were copied hundreds of times, they have a certain flair that makes them watchable. In the case of Rebel without a cause, I fear, this wasn't the case. People in their Mid- Twenties play characters who go to High School. James Dean was a grown up man but acts like a 13 year old through out the movie. It was so ridiculous, I thought at first Wait, was this supposed to be a parody? The only character that wasn't miscast was Plato. It just didn't fit. But that wasn't the only problem. Take for example the scene after the chicken run. Judy's boyfriend just died in a car accident, but then Jim gives her back her make-up mirror and she's happy again. Come on! I'm not willing to believe that people were so stupid back in the 50ies. And it wasn't just James Dean's rebel that had no cause. Hardly anything that anybody did in this movie had any kind of reason at all. It was anarchy, and you could argue that that was the point of the movie, but I consider that lack of motivation for the character's actions were indeed a failure in the attempted psychological approach. It was overdone, and the casting problems made this entire picture hard to cope with. To me it seemed like a B-movie, not a classic in any way. "},{"Title":"Ya...wuteva!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without A Cause is a well-told coming-of-age story that puts the spotlight on the lives of the lost, overwhelmed, and ex-communicated youth of the 1950's.  Entwined in a web of maturity, conformity, social-acceptance, rejection, love and friendship, this film provides a vivid picture of teenage anger, rebellion and the difficult task of proving one's self to society's obscure ideals and morals.The plot is simple; Jim Stark is the new kid in town who's stuck in a desperate search for a sense of self-worth and acceptance, but can never find it because he and his family is always on the move due to Jim's troubles with school and the law.  But with a new town he hopes to find a new beginning and gain the love and approval from his suburban middle-class family, make some solid friends, somehow escape his life of restlessness and rebellion and maybe settle down and fit in.  But in the life of Jim Stark, settling down and fitting in is not an option.Not until he proves himself to his peers.  So once again, his character and courage is tested with knife-fights to chickie runs, leaving one to wonder, is this a promising beginning or the end of the road for Jim Stark?James Dean stars as Jim Stark, a lost and confused character who's always tried, but has failed so many times to be the son his parents always wanted him to be.  Desperate for answers, he constantly questions everything around him as he tries to acquire love and acceptance from society and his parents, in order to somehow find meaning in his enigmatic life.  James Dean's performance is brilliant.  His intensity, his voice and his characterization help display the raw emotion behind the youthful mystery that is Jim Stark. Dean's emotional changes were precise, clear and understandable due to his voice, tone, and body language, which in turn, solidified the character. His understanding of method acting gave Dean his realism and originality, while his intimidating looks and slicked back hair give him that too cool for school persona.  At times, his monologues could not be understood due to his mumbling, but overall, his performance was top-notch throughout the entire movie.Rebel Without A Cause tells a wonderful and original story while skillfully portraying the constant struggle of today's youth trying to escape alienation.  The film's simple plot and showcase of teenage rebellion and estrangement help keep this film fresh for all ages.   Despite a few superficial characters flaws, like Judy (Natalie Wood) and Plato's (Sal Mineo) broad 2-dimensional acting, this movie is still worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The best AND WORST... Acting","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of all the young actors who were mesmerized and forever influenced by the appearance of Brando on the scene, none was more an admirer than James Dean, who copied all Marlon's mannerisms, but also his heart-breaking, lost boy vulnerability. Dean's passionate devotion to telling the truth, warts and all, is very much in evidence here, particularly in contrast to the falsity of others, foremost, the radio and cartoon-voice actor Jim Backus as Dad, who tries-- how he does!--but fails miserably to come anywhere near Dean's burning truthfulness and pain. Some of the other standard supporting actors are wooden, too, in the then Hollywood and Broadway tradition of just hitting the marks and saying the lines. Amazingly, however, once child-actress now adult Natalie Wood, who often fakes it, sometimes comes very close to what Dean did so naturally, while baby-faced Sal Mineo (never as good) holds his own. Bravo! Director Nicholas Ray had all these young actors, among them young Dennis Hopper, improvise at length and rehearse before shooting, and their work helps. It's a very flawed film, but some of it is first-rate. Ray at his best. Well worth a visit, if only as a brave attempt at telling the truth about American family values, unusual for its times. "},{"Title":"It is a film of beautiful, yet heart wrenching, metaphor.","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark(James Dean), a troubled young man, moves to a new town with his parents in hope of putting his past behind him. However, run ins with a local gang, a love interest in 'girl-next-door' Judy( Natalie Wood), a friendship with a disturbed young man (Sal Mineo), and an innocent game that results in death, spiral Jim further downward then he's ever been.Stewart Stern named his script after psychiatrist Robert Lindner's 1944 book, Rebel Without A Cause The Hypnoanalysis of a Criminal Psychopath, but the story is inspired by nothing other than loneliness, isolation, distrust, anger, rebellion, and hope. It is a film of beautiful, yet heart wrenching metaphor. The opening scene shows Jim, drunk, collapsing on a dirty street, amongst a pile of trash that has collected. It is a pitiful sight, yet next to Jim is a small toy monkey, an illustration of hope and childishness, beautifully juxtaposed with an image of utter defeat. When the characters in the film reach the breaking point, when they have lost any resemblance of innocence, of virtue, they resort to playing childish games in an old abandoned mansion, offering support and love and attention to one another that they could get no where else. A silly high school game results in death.The acting in Rebel Without a Cause is phenomenal, and the film's characters are brought to life with sensational performances. James Dean, who was killed in a tragic accident shortly before the film's release, gives a heart wrenching and honest performance as the film's lead character, who's really more of a frightened loner than a dangerous rebel. Dean plays the part very naturally. Natalie Wood plays Judy, the 'wanna-be-bad' girl with troubles of her own at home. Her performance is a great one because you can sense the aching and the desire her character suffers. Sal Mineo is also very noteworthy in his role as John Plato Crawford, a disturbed young boy who lives in a huge mansion but aches for a family. His presence at times is delightful and numerous, at other times, disturbing.Nicholas Ray directs this picture in an almost surreal way. Bright, sunny scenes outside are contrasted with cold, dark interior shots. The camera mirrors the story and the spirit of the film in quite a unique way. When we see Jim, drunk out of his mind, lying on the cold street, the camera stares unflinchingly, never looking away. When Jim argues with his parents in a particularity dynamic scene, the camera seems distorted, out of place. Even when our three main characters escape to their ultimate fantasy, alone with each other outside of everyone and everything else, they are shrouded in darkness.Rebel Without a Cause succeeds where a lot of troubled teen movies fall. It doesn't show young people as helpless, neglected, and powerless against every immorality shoved into their face, but instead, it shows them as humans, suffering as humans do. Jim, Judy, Plato are troubled kids yes, they also multi-dimensional human beings.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Giant in a midget's movie.","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE has become a national treasure due to its deceased star. I'm here to prove that the title itself is a misnomer and that the movie's status has been conflated with its star's talents; movie itself is dated, embarrassing, out-of-touch and very, very gay. And not in that fabulooouus way either.Teen Jim Stark (23-year-old James Dean) is a new kid in a rough town. His parents have moved many times due to him getting into trouble. Unfortunately, this new town - Los Angeles - seems like the same old story when Jim encounters the local teen thugs and falls into all sorts of trouble involving knife fights, stolen cars and wearing his dress pants too high.Jim also finds two kinds of love the generic puritanical kind with Judy (Natalie Wood), who falls for him two days after her boyfriend goes off a cliff - on the rebound much?; and that other kind of love that dares not speaketh its name in 1950's movies. One word Plato. Sal Mineo plays outcast Plato like his pants are on fire and only Jimmy Dean's wet lips can put them out.Jim is challenged by the local gang, led by Buzz (Corey Allen, with his pompadour set on stun), to drive a stolen car off a cliff and leap out at the last minute. When Buzz dies in this stunt, Jim wants to report it to the Man (Edward Platt - The Chief from GET SMART - here playing, uh, The Chief) but Jim's parents (Jim Backus aka Thurston Howell III, and Ann Doran) don't want him to get involved, which sends Jim into a hissy fit - his parents raise him to be principled yet don't display principles themselves - and precipitates that infamous scene where Jim wails, You're tearing me apart!Let's face it, inculcated hordes It looks a lot like Jim Stark is no rebel (he wants to follow societal protocol by going to the police - Lord knows, he looks exactly like one of them with his skinny tie, white shirt and slicked back hair), and he's got quite a cause (to report the stolen car that went off a cliff and killed a greaser boy-man). Thus the movie title that young punks and old aficionados have been adopting as their ethos or thesis over the past half-century - is moot.Though it has informed a wealth of cultural media (GREASE, HAPPY DAYS, BACK TO THE FUTURE), remove the aura of its star, and it is ridiculous, padded with poorly-staged fight scenes, tiresome love-talk, laughable acting, watery motivations, intrusive soundtrack, and Sal Mineo in the most overtly gay-but-not-called-gay performance of the 1950s. To enjoy REBEL, separate James Dean's Brando-esque firebrand performance from the movie; it is an entity all its own, overwhelming the melodramatic theatrical styles of all the other principals. Dennis Hopper would cite Dean as the best actor he ever worked with.The iconic Griffith Park Observatory features in key scenes. It is here Jim encounters Buzz's gang (featuring 16-year-old Dennis Hopper, and Natalie Wood almost strangling in her pointy bra) and partakes of a knife fight so exciting I nearly woke up. Meanwhile, Sal Mineo cheers on Jim, looking like he's ten.Natalie Wood's character Judy is supposedly from a callous family environment. And the best the filmmakers can come up with to illustrate this is her father slapping her for trying to hug him. William Hopper (no relation to Dennis) is Judy's father; he's not drunk, not mean, not even mirroring social mores - just giving Judy an excuse to be discontent at home. Or maybe he's also latently gay and can't stand the touch of a woman. So that's why Judy's out on the streets running with gangs and wearing those pointy bras! Plato is a rudderless, troubled youth - but the tragedy of his backstory and his unconscious search for a mentor/father figure in Jim Stark is only apparent in the dialogue of his black slave (Marietta Canty - listed as family maid but no one's foolin' anyone). Hollywood at the time called gay characters troubled (code for latent or repressed); they were damaged goods that needed to be eradicated, rightly or wrongly. Witness Plato's fate gunned down by police (admittedly by mistake, but again - no one's foolin' anyone).In one scene, Plato and Jim playfully chase Judy around a deserted mansion. Gaily. I mean, Jim is chasing her to cultivate Panty, but what is Plato going to do if he catches her? They do catch her, in a group snuggle that ends up in a kind of threeway pieta. It's truly disturbing how Jim doesn't discourage Plato's unwarranted closeness when he's with his chick. Are they're readying themselves for a threesome, with Dean the man entering both Judy and Plato?... You're tearing me apart!REBEL is the out-of-touch grownups' version of troubled youth. The writers (Stewart Stern, Irving Shulman and director Nicholas Ray) couldn't even conjure compelling reasons for the teens to be rebels. Put 'em in leather and pompadours and make them wanna have The Sex - that oughta scare the grown ups! Film World, re-view REBEL and ask yourself whether it stands up to modern scrutiny Plato lying on the floor and falling asleep, sooo tired after chasing Judy; or hiding from thugs with knives - when he's armed with a gun; Judy asking Jim Is this what love is? after knowing him two days (Try chiseling off that pointy bra and we'll find out?); the childish blocking of the final police standoff; the unnecessary confusion over Jim's red jacket in the final killing scene&#x85; I beg you, stop calling REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE a classic, without any cause to do so-- You're tearing me apart!--Poffy The Cucumber "},{"Title":"WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?!!!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	What are you talking about(this is to one of the commenters)?  Kids are the same way today!!  I watched a movie made in the 1970's about trouble teenagers and it was exactly the same type thing 20 years earlier in Rebel Without A Cause.  On the 1970's movie called Over The Edge there were the same type of scenes in Rebel Without A Cause such as kids shooting at police officers, kids getting into fights with weapons, kids doing drugs, kids talking back to their parents and getting slapped in the face, kids running away, kids not understanding that they will be able to look back when they are adults and say, How stupid of me? 	The same type of thing happens today such as shootings, but the only difference is that it's being reported more often.  Don't think because you see something on the TV in the 1950's, doesn't mean it doesn't happen today.  Did you know back in Aristotle's time(this was way before the birth of Christ) that said this, Young people don't respect their elders anymore.  Guess what?  People say the SAME thing today-thousands of years later!!! 	Here's another bit of proof.  Al Capone, a notorious gangster from the 1920's did more killings than any gang members today!  The gangs in the past commited real haneous acts like they do today.  The only differences are the clothing, goatees, the earrings and the measuring in terms of years.  Like my mom says when telling me that people have acted the same way throughout history, Same dance, just a different tune "}{"Title":"An original and classic film","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of director Nick Ray's best works, including a powerful performance from the iconic James Dean -- this is one for the ages. Ray plies his usual technique of layering different character's relationships, compiling a group of what you might call love triangles -- family units and the artificial family unit made up by Jim (Dean), Judy (Natalie Wood) and Plato (Sal Mineo).I have a feeling this film can be looked at in many different ways. It has historical significance because it is one of Dean's only performances and because it was the film that more than any other inspired the huge wave of Juvenile Delinquent films that were produced throughout the 1950s. But I think the film has plenty of quality to stand on its own aside from its historical significance. The performances of the 3 principals are outstanding, including Wood's who I usually do not like. I've never seen Mineo better, or in a more interesting role. Dean is just blistering with erotic negativity, from the infamous early scenes in the courthouse (you're tearing me apart!) to his half-hearted attempts to win the friendship of the local clique and his eventual half-hearted attempt to defeat their leader in a chicken run. The character performances are all very well done as well, with Corey Allen's as his romantic rival and chicken run opponent and Jim Backus' turn as his emasculated father being the standouts. Ray's direction was never better, with plenty of visual clues along the way to tell us about the characters' identity and their transformations. For example, in one early scene in the cop station, Ray manipulates his actors and camera so that we have all 3 principals in one film frame, separated by glass partitions, telling the audience that these 3 will be our principal characters but also emphasizing that at this point they do not know each other. The direction in the chicken run scene is some of the best you will ever see anywhere on film, with Ray letting us into the interior of the participants' cars and then giving us a shot from a distance of the lights coming on, then we get that famous exhilarating shot of Wood standing between the cars and waving, her dress and shirt flying in the cars' tailwind.The film is literally packed with classic directorial touches like this. It's a national treasure. "},{"Title":"A bombshell at the time - dated and hysterical today.","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A teenage boy (Jim Stark played by James Dean) seem fated to get in to trouble and his family have to keep moving hoping that he will grow up and settle down. This proves to be a futile hope as things slide from bad to worse one fateful night.Despite the sometimes over-the-top script and acting, there is something very special about James Dean on screen. However three films are not enough to judge him as an actor. Two of which are basically the same part.Acting wise he was very Brando-lite, but more than that he had the vulnerable look and the fashion haircut. Not tall - barely 5'6 - but well proportioned and without an once of fat. A fashion trend-setter. The red jacket he wears here is worth several times his salary for making the film.Sadly Dean's role as the world's first teenager is rather spoilt by the fact that he is - in fact - 24. Not even a particularly young looking 24 at that! Strangely co-star Natalie Wood (Judy Hopper) is closer to the real age of her teenage character and yet - side by side - they look of a similar age. Her middle aged bomb-proof hairstyle making her look older than her years.Best acting is actually Sal Mineo (Plato) as the homosexual hanger-on and social misfit, fresh from a psychiatrist's couch. More sad than bad. Despite what happens later.I am not going to take this script seriously. Nor should you. Wood would need to be a psychopath to behave like she does on the big night. How strange it seems to Europeans to see children driving and having their own car! So incredibly convenient for storming out the house after a chewing-the-curtains drama queen session with your folks.Sad to think that all three of the above came to tragic early ends. Such is the fickle candle of life. Wood went on to West Side Story, which despite its fame didn't really take her in to orbit. Never scoring her great role. Here she works well with Dean because he is trying too hard while she is trying too little to compensate. "},{"Title":"Success Without a Cause (contains spoilers)","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh wow, if there ever was a legend, this movie is it... until youactually watch it.  Granted, I am not 15 anymore, and this is almost50 years old -this much credit should be given.  But apart from that,the story is lame and so are the characters.  Two kids die in oneday, but it all ends in a happy ending and everyone marches off theset laughing, even Jim's parents.  Judy gets over her boyfriend'sdeath and finds true love within a couple of hours, Plato is apathetic whiner who wants to play Mama and Papa with hisclassmates, and Jim is wiser than everyone around him...  Comeon!  If the action were broken down over a week or so, there wouldhave been a possible tension, you know, the classical risingaction / climax / falling action pattern.   I must have missed the 'violence' people talk about, and thatyellow apron over the suit is frankly ridiculous (that's different fromfunny).  Jim's parents must be one kinky couple behind closeddoor to stay together despite their differences, especially given thedistribution of power within the couple. "},{"Title":"No","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really excited about this one because of how iconic James Dean is and because I had never seen something with him in it before, and honestly, I was disappointed. I was really annoyed throughout the entire movie. I read a little bit more about the movie afterward and it enlightened me to the film's strengths that gave it classic status, which helped a little bit, but I can't ignore the fact that this was a really annoying movie.I don't usually pay too much attention to film titles, but this one truly says it all. Bunch of angry suburban kids causing mischief for no reason, essentially. I get that there was an element of emotional neglect from adults, which fueled their teenage debauchery, but it played out like a bunch of spoiled white kids messing everything up for everyone else because they didn't know how to deal with their problems. It's a real issue, this painful separation between generations, but this movie was so melodramatic about it. I hate to compare negatives (because a negative is a negative and that's that), but there are a multitude of other more important, more devastatingly horrible issues out there. I don't expect every movie to tackle an societal problem, I get that some movies are just fun, but if they wanted to make a drama about a problem, they should have picked something else. I just didn't care. I didn't feel bad for these kids.It was so dramatic, the story was weak, a vessel for the studio to make money off of Dean more than anything. That's like every Zac Efron movie. Not much substance, but with an exceptionally attractive male displaying both strength and sensitivity- it's a formula to make profit. That's why I'm surprised this is a classic. Seems like something a 1950s Teen Nick might put out for a quick buck or something. The story-telling was bizarre, also. They tried to do some kind of let's get this story started and fill in the blanks of his past later, which I've seen work many times, but it just didn't work here. I felt like I came into a movie halfway through, too many details merely implied, too many rapid jumps in story/relationships, just made it frustratingly mysterious for no reason. Pacing was so strange. Starts out ominous and tense, then after bad things happen, it gets light-hearted and silly.The only things I really enjoyed were the aesthetics, and I'm not sure how much credit they should get for that considering the ~aesthetics~ I enjoyed so much were just how things looked back then. I also did see the spark that has made James Dean so legendary despite his short career/life. His acting was over-the-top, in my opinion, at some points, but he really did have something about him that was fascinating.Such a bizarre film to me. By the time it was over I had more questions than I had answers and that is enormously frustrating. I really, really didn't like it but I'm so confused that I didn't enjoy such a widely beloved film so I might try to give it a viewing again but I highly doubt it.5/10 Bye love you "},{"Title":"James Dean.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray directed this popular and influential film that stars James Dean as Jim Stark, who has just moved to a new town, and tries to make a good impression on his high schoolmates, but they prove reluctant, and instead challenge him to a switchblade fight, then a chicken run with their cars. Natalie Wood plays Judy, who comes over to Jim's side, and they fall in love. Sal Mineo plays their friend nicknamed Plato, who idolizes them, which leads to near-tragic consequences. Jim Backus & Ann Doran play Jim's baffled parents, and William Hopper plays Judy's disinterested father. Good direction and acting compensate for sometimes cornball & overly stylized story that nonetheless appealed to its generation. "},{"Title":"Youth's driving furor leading to an existentialistic dead-end ...","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause, this title alone evokes the immediate image of James Dean as Jim Stark, in his iconic red leather jacket, Natalie Wood raising her arms to give the signal of one of the most heart-pounding deadly games ever featured on-screen, and the sad angel-face of Plato, Sal Mineo, in a role with a powerful ambiguity&#x85; still, the movie is and will be forever associated with James Dean, and its key word  rebellion.Rebellion&#x85; what a vague word, meaning everything and nothing in the same time. A rebellion implies an oppressive system to rebel against, and the construction of a social conscience from that oppression. But in Rebel Without a Cause, there's no oppression other than a sort of peer pressure that makes everyone question his or her status in society. The film features three central characters played by actors who're not here anymore to provide any insights, but from what we know, they all have Family models' issues. Jim is explicit about his, his father lacks the authority that could have guided him to be a real man. In a moment that flirts with ridiculousness, his father wears an apron so laughable that I waited for Jim to take it off. Jim is his own guide because his old man can't. Jim can't count on his parents, Judy can't have the love she wants from her father, as for Plato, he doesn't have parents anymore.The race incident will provide more insights about Jim's existential problems. The unforgettable moment of the film where Buzz (Corey Allen) goes over the cliff is even sadder because it's pointless. Buzz was the most likely guy to befriend Jim, but he had to play his tough-guy part. Why? Why do we have to do this?' asks Jim, Buzz' reply echoes Marlon Brando's iconic answer to the What are you rebelling against? in The Wild One. Jim and his friends belong to a generation that was too young to fight in the War, that didn't have any standard for bravery and courage. One decade before, people fought and proved their value, all these kids in Rebel are the expression of anger toward a society that can't teach them proper values and is almost careless about them. One underrated scene highlights this aspect; I'm talking of the interesting moment in the planetarium when a very dark view on the end of the Earth is exposed to the kids, as if they needed more pessimism.The Earth will not be missed, no one will, and everything is centered on the present. How many times Jim hears that he'll forget about this or that in ten years, as if it mattered, and the resonance is even more tragic considering Dean's fate. This is what the heart-breaking argument with the parents concluding with Jim asking his father to stand up for him is the highlight of the film. Jim knows that he can't lie to himself and need to prove his real value. Chicken is the worst insult one could take for a generation that grew up under the shadow of the Greatest Generation, and as Stark says, it's all about honor, about proving something. It's interesting that the breakdown with his parents could have worked as a climactic scene, the part where he almost strangles his father is incredibly modern in its violence and really made my heart pound. But then oddly, the film takes another direction and focus on Plato's character. This is not to diminish the importance of his character, but Stark is such a bigger-than-life antihero that Plato's problem seemed to belong to another film and kind of added too much dramatic weight on a plot that was already captivating. Not to mention the romance with Natalie Wood that seemed a bit too forced for a film with such intelligence. I really enjoyed Rebel Without a Cause but the last act of the film didn't add much to whatever was shown before stood for. So to really appreciate the relevance and modernity of Rebel Without a Cause, the first act is enough, and the confrontations between Jim Stark and his parents are more powerful than any other with the gang.Take his spontaneous cry in the commissariat You're tearing me apart, shouted on his parents' incredulous faces. James Dean embodies something that no other movies could express, but that's not to say that the film succeeded in that, it's like the spirit of the film has been secretly kept by James Dean, and he played the role with an appealing immaturity that made his character, with his nasal voice, his mannerisms, and unforgettable look, one of the most defining of American Cinema. James Dean died one month before the film's release taking with him the secret beneath the character, and contributing to forge a real legend. As an alibi, I guess that maybe the iconic status of the film undermined any attempt to rationalize the message behind. And that's probably the 'deliberate' flaw of Nicholas Ray's film, it reminded me of Dennis Hopper's Easy Rider, and as a fitting coincidence, Hopper played in both of them. Both movies are great in their own way but we never know the underlined messages behind some scenes or the powerful statements it tries to communicate, yet it's totally impossible to deny their cultural significance, iconic status and impacts on audiences (the film was one of the first to be admitted in the National Film Registry in 1990). Maybe that's the secret of their appeal, they don't try to have a message but to show a slice of youth's life in a certain era, and convey the malaise endured by the most underestimated demographic category. The title itself sounds as a recognition of the movie's own limits, there is no cause then no point, but there is a rebellion. "},{"Title":"Most great actors develop over time.James Dean was already there.","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of everyone who has ever had success in Hollywood,what percentage of them could have done just three films,have their lives cut short,and still be talked about more than 50 years later.Who knows? My guess would be not a very high percentage.Most actors,even the likes of DeNiro and Pacino need time to develop and three films just wouldn't have been enough to get them there.Amazingly,James Dean was already there,and you needn't even watch all three films to get the proof of this.Rebel Without a Cause is all you need.If you are a student of acting,it would serve you well to watch this film.Who knows? You could be that next James Dean for which Hollywood has long been searching for. "},{"Title":"A Classic High School Drama That is a Must See","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The high school drama Rebel Without a Cause is directed by Nicholas Ray and stars James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo. The film takes place in a modern day small town and high school.The film starts out with a young man, Jim Stark (Dean), in a police station. He was brought in for being publicly intoxicated. Also in the police station is a young girl, Judy (Wood), who is telling a police officer about how her father hates her and all she is trying to do is try to make him like her. The third important character in the room is a young man, who likes to be called Plato (Mineo), who was brought in for killing some puppies. Jim Stark is new in town and he moves around often because he frequently gets into fights. On the first day of school he tries to make friends with Judy but Judy kind of ignores him for her group of tough guy friends. Jim tries to become friends with the tough guys but instead they decide to start picking on him and cause a fight. That is when Jim defends his honor...The screenplay for this film was quite unique, it is rare to see such a turn in a high school drama like the one in this film. I mean this in a very good way, I'm not saying that I did not like the turn. Each of the three main characters were quite interesting and detailed. Jim Stark was a cool, mysterious guy that I really wanted to understand, Judy was a girl who tried to be cool on the outside just to make her feel better about how her family life was quite terrible, and Plato was a twisted boy who just wanted love. It is not very often that there are such strong written characters in a high school drama today. A great script that lead to an iconic film.The direction for this film was good, not great. Ray was able to get some solid performances from his actors, actually iconic performances from his actors that make this film still talked about today. I just thought that a few of the shots he chose were quite strange. One in particular is when Jim is laying upside down and the camera is upside down and then the camera flips to right side up but when it shows a shot of Jim again he is still upside down. I thought the shot would have been quite good if he flipped over as well but because the fact that he didn't was strange for me. Towards the end of the film I think he did a real good job making it intense and building up the suspense. Ray is definitely an adequate director and this film is the highlight of his career.The acting for this film was very good all around. James Dean gave an iconic performance as the lead being extremely cool, suave, and mysterious all at once. He was the guy that guys wanted to be like and girls wanted to be with. Natalie Wood earned an Oscar nomination for her role which was well deserved. She played cool when she was out with the tough guys but when she was at home or the police station she was weak and vulnerable. Sal Mineo as well earned an Oscar nomination and was great as the mentally tormented boy who really just wanted to have parents that loved him. Iconic performances from the whole cast.Overall I give this film a 7/10 and I would recommend this to anyone who likes high school dramas, great characters, and an interesting plot. "},{"Title":"My pick for Nick Ray's best film","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film resonated with me hugely as a young teenager, so I was wondering how I would find it a few years on. While I'm hardly over the hill yet (hello, the big 2-0!), I have grown up, faced and overcome a few of life's issues. The good news is Rebel hasn't dated one bit. It's a stunning masterpiece from Nicholas Ray-- maybe his best film? From the simple yet brilliantly constructed opening sequence that seamlessly introduces and connects the fate of the three central protagonists, Ray never misses a beat. Ray deals with some really interesting, universal themes here. It's not just a film for angsty teens, it's for everyone. It deals with loneliness, the family unit, challenged masculinity (the ineffectual father who wears the apron)and suggests deep underlying problems in the picture-perfect 50's household (Ray would explore this further in Bigger Than Life). Ultimately it's the realization that parents don't hold all the answers that makes the film so poignant to me. We are all just human beings.No-one used 'Scope better than Nicholas Ray, and his compositions show the possibilities of space and framing. James Dean's heightened emotionalism, acting with his hands and contortions of his body, is mesmerising. Some may call Natalie Wood's first scene exaggerated and over-acted, but she gives a perfect portrayal of a how a teenage girl dramatises everything. And it is important to her.The film has never been more relevant- we are very much looking for sincerity in this new Atomic age!. "},{"Title":"If these were the good old days. . .","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My rating after watching it this evening 10 ! I had videotaped this 1955 classic of American pop culture more than 10 years ago when we lived near WLS-TV, Chicago.  The station had edited and fitted it for a late-night time slot in the early 90's.  I may be wrong but I don't think any bleeps were made in the soundtrack which is so (!) different for 99.9% of the comparable films being made nowadays.  Some may think it is hopelessly dated but valid points must be made in its favor.  The latest cultural buzzword as to horrendous school violence has been bullying; the kids in this film are doing it and subjecting the vulnerable school misfits to it, then as now.  REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE does not present a realistic scenario as to youth alienation in the few days that transpire in the movie's plot.  However, the trio of sympathetic High School students are still walking the halls with different names, nicknames, and doctored ID cards.  Many people have a faulty stereotype that hot-rod cruising and vandalism were not tolerated or evidenced during the Eisenhower era in America;  this movie disproves that as well as the dictum that divorce broke up families only during the liberal '60's.  Materialistic parents still try to pay off their teenage offspring with money instead of straightforward integrity and quality time;  the role of the family is also being assailed in this movie way ahead of the feminist critique that followed the decade of the '50's.  Post-war America didn't go to hell in a handbasket due to Boomers coming of age in 1962, I beg your pardon.  Society had come a bit unglued after the WW II veterans came home from Europe and Japan.  Our culture, as reflected in this 1955 classic, had become a pressure-cooker for troubled youth already in the good old I like Ike era. "}{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definition of rebel 1.To act in or show disobedience 2. To feel or exhibit anger or revulsion. Drag racing, alcohol consumptions, running away from home all define rebellious things. Three teenagers with different backgrounds but in general have the same family issues come together while doing some of those rebellious actions. Jim Stark (James Dean), Judy (Natalie Wood) Plato (Sal Mineo) are the stars of this movie. They worked very well together. What made this film so great was the storyline because it seemed real. Three different characters who are different but yet the same because they all have the same problems, they are all crying out for help. This happens in everyday life which made the movie not just a flick. It had enough depth, but not too much where it would be confusing.No wonder why James Dean was such an icon of the 50s. He is not only good looking but a great actor. He was dramatic, charming and played a great rebel. Natalie Wood did well also. She did great playing a teenager girl just wanting a more affectionate family. Sal Mineo had one of the best performances in the film though. He played a lonely, lost teenage boy so well. He will definitely make the viewer feel his sadness. This is a movie icon of the 50s era. It is a great film and highly recommended to see.  "},{"Title":"excellent!!!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel without a cause is in no doubt an awesome movie!!! This movies main star is stars James Dean (Jim). Its for the most part about a bunch of gangster like teenage kids that are classified as punks and trouble makers, as we all are; it just kinda come with the territory. This movie accuratly displays the rebelion of teenagers, and their desire and longer to just fit it. In the film Jims family (James Dean) moves to another state...and has to just start over somewhat. Jim feels very very alone, and will do just about anything to fit in with the rest of the crowd. The opening scene of the movie shows Jim lying on the street, nearly passed out. Shortly after he is seen in a police station totally intoxicated, walking around like a crazy drunk. Police men try to tame him and get him to sit down, but nothing will stop him. He continues to yell out random things, and is nearly tripping over himself. Throughout the movie the producer continues to show the differention between parents and their teenagers. Their longing to undertand them, and the things that not only tear them apart, but that bring them together. Im going to stop right here cause I definetly do not want to spoil the film for anyone..but I will say this..... EVERYONE NEEDS TO SEE THIS MOVIE!! It is just such a classic, and the charisma of Dean and the unexplainable attration to him is just phenominal and draws you into his character. This movie was just funny, and totally entertaining, and Is a must see for all ages and generations. "},{"Title":"Teen angst in the 1950's","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel without a cause was about the trouble that people seem to face in their teenage years.  It gave examples of teens not fitting in, peer pressure, young love, and desperation.  Although this could seem like the typical views of teens and teen angst, many can relate to this 1950's depiction of teenage struggle. The movie begins with a drunken Jim Stark (James Dean) lying in the gutter of a street.  He later ends up at the police station where Judy (Natalie Wood) and Plato (Sal Mineo), who he would later meet at school, are also being held.  Each of them has their own problems.  Jim's parents don't seem to notice that their frequent moves from city to city have an effect on Jim who seems not to have any friends.  He always tries to find answers to his questions by asking his father, but never receives a clear answer.  Judy doesn't receive the love and affection from her father that she once did.  He refuses to kiss her and calls her a `dirty tramp'.  She hangs out with the `rough crowd' at school who seem to take pleasure in knife fighting and chicken races.  Plato's parents are never at home and have a maid who looks after him.  He is rejected by his peers at school and instantly clings to Jim to try to become friends.  This movie also show how `young love' can have an affect on teens, although it seemed to be more like infatuation than real love. The movie shows more than just the problems that teens face at school; it shows problems with misunderstanding parents and lack of self-confidence.  I thought that the acting was really good from all the actors.  It was funny at times, but really dramatic when it needed to be.  I don't think that the movie is totally accurate with what today's teens have to face, but it did have certain points that many could identify with such as peer pressure and young love.  I would recommend seeing this movie at least once to see the portrayal of teen angst in the 1950's as well as the performance by James Dean.  "},{"Title":"Where Can I Get a Red Jacket Like That?","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	As much as a clich as `teen angst' is, `Rebel Without a Cause' does well defining what the phrase actually means. A young boy, confused, and alone in a new world without a friend; trying to fit in the best way he knows how. This one person changes his small town forever affecting multiple people in a multitude of ways.  	 	This movie is just what you might be doing if you were a teenager in the 1950's; hanging out with your friends, playing chicken up on the bluff, or having a good ol' knife fight in the parking lot. Except it's not you on the big screen, it's only fitting to have James Dean play the lead role. Dean is the epitome of misunderstood youth. You can just see it in his eyes and feel it in his performance. No one else could do the same job as well as Dean. 	 	This movie is extremely entertaining with a good balance of action and drama. It also strikes some chords deep within everyone. Everybody was a teenager at some point in their lives and can always remember the good old days. There's something true about the feelings of being lost and alienated when you're a teen. This movie depicts that aspect truthfully, how it really is. 	 	Deep messages about finding who you are, making relationships with real friends, and the turmoil of it all, are depicted truthfully in this 50's epic of teenagers run amok. Fans of 50's movies and anyone that was once a teen will love `Rebel Without a Cause'; especially because James Dean is in it. The guy's so cool; you can't help but like him. He's 10 times cooler than the Fonz. Wait&#133; maybe not.Overall Grade for `Rebel Without a Cause'      A   "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is about the angst and troubles that teens go through. Nicholas Ray does a terrific job of showing that all teens back in the 50's weren't exactly how society thought them to be. There were bullies, geeks and things weren't perfect. Though the movie was about kids in the 1950's, many teens today can still relate to some of the characters. A person could go to any school and pick out the groups or people portrayed in this movie. The geek would be the easiest to find, by himself and reading a book. The one who doesn't have the latest fashions or the best social skills. In Rebel Without a Cause, this stereotype is portrayed by the character John Plato Crawford (Sal Mineo). But in the movie, the viewers get to see behind the stereotype into why Plato is this way. He had no one. No friends, no parents, just his families house maid. But that was until he met Jim Stark, played by James Dean. He found some sort of friendship in Jim, but he wanted a father-son relationship more than anything. Jim Stark was the rebel. The one who didn't feel the need to follow the rules and mostly just wanted to prove himself to the kids at his new school. His family life was very unstable and his mother totally ruled over his and his fathers lives. He was angry with his father for not standing up to her and mad at his mother for being so controlling. In the very beginning of t he movie, Jim is at the police station after a night of drinking. HIs parents come and as they are arguing about what they will do about Jim, he screams, You're tearing me apart!. That line pretty much sums up how he felt about his family life and sets the tone for the movie. Also very early on in the movie, Jim meets Judy, played by Natalie Wood. There was automatic chemistry between them that the viewer can see. She also has family troubles, mostly just with her father. He does not think that she should show affection for him at all because of her age. But Jim is a comfort to her during the hard times The character development in this movie is great. The viewer really gets a feel for the characters and can relate to them in at least a small way if not a big way. Another amazing thing about this movie is the fact that the whole story happens within one crazy weekend. Rebel Without a Cause is timeless. Mainly because of the issues that it deals with and the fact that viewers will always be able to relate to it. "},{"Title":"Rusalka's fourth film review A requiem for three screen legends","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Out of all the teenage films that I've ever seen, this and West Side Story have been the two that have been embedded in my psyche for the longest time. I have been a fan of James Dean for many years, but it is only here where he finally allows his genius to shine through.  Sadly, though his star fizzled out before it could even begin to shine fully.  We'll never know what could have been, only that his was a talent that was taken too soon.Everything about this film is stunning from the acting to the camera angles, not to mention the stark use of color in different sequences.James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo make up a sort of fractured family, the castoffs whose normal families just don't understand.  If you look at it hard enough, there can be seen a sort of love between Jim (Dean) and Plato (Mineo).  Plato idolizes Jim and one wonders if he thinks of him as more than just a friend.  It is also interesting to note that the role of Plato was in fact probably the first homosexual character in a film, although director Nicholas Ray only allows glimpses and hints of it throughout the film.This is the film that elevated James Dean into the mythic legend category most stars can only dream of, and you have to admit that it is one of the most searing, provocative performances ever placed upon celluloid.  All three of the stars of Rebel Without A Cause died too young---and all will never be forgotten.My rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"The Cause that turns out to be Destiny","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel is beautifully shot movie and is deservingly called a ' classic' . It's more than a James Dean vehicle (although it is his best performance), no, it's much more than that. It's a meaningful dark story about taking things in your own hand vs. destiny, risks vs. cowardness, etc. Themes that are particularly portrayed in fifties movies, to name a few, The Fugitive Kind and A Streetcar named Desire (both with Marlon Brando by the way). In this period of movie making recurring elements come to surface in these pictures beautifully shot stylish settings, heavy thematic drama (it's the Tennessee Williams era!) and scenes that are powered by actors, much more than action (in the same period Film Noir offers a more entertaining fast-paced alternative). Sometimes it's more over-acting than acting to be honest... Dean's method acting is often very good, but if other actors can't stand up to his level, some scenes can be disturbingly out o balance. But, hey, what the hack, the story is great and you get father and son Hopper as a bonus!I don't know. These few words come repeatedly from the mouths of the 3 protagonists in this movie Plato (Mineo), Judy (Wood) and Jim (Dean). And those seemingly irrelevant words touch exactly the heart of this picture all three kids are searching souls and are somehow lost between being a teenager and becoming an adult.Now, how to choose as an adolescent if you have no or a bad example...Plato has no father, Judy has an uncaring father and Jim(bo) has a weak father; well, in fact you can state that they have no fathers at all! So at the end of the movie they start out their own little family, with Plato being the child. After this 'test' Jim gets his fathers coat...is this a token that means that Jim has entered the league of grown ups? If this is the case than the picture states that their is no escaping adulthood, no matter how much you rebel against it. In the end you will be defeated by societies morale and become one of them...there's no escaping. There's no era like the fifties that supports this feeling of no ' escaping'...unless your name is Jack Kerouac of course.Rating 4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A good timeless film but a little outdated in the scenes department.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean delivers a fine performance of a troubled teenager who is misunderstood by his parents and finds his outlet through drinking and hanging out with teenage gangs.  Natalie Wood also gives a convincing performance of a teenage girl who finds solace through Dean. The film portrays well the conflicting differences between the adults and the kids of its time in particular the impact of indifferences between parents on their children. Although the film stretches outside the boundary of social constraints to prove its point it does however manage to bring many sensitive questions to surface. This is a film which young people and adults could relate to and probably the reason behind its popularity and success. Ultimately the aim of this movie is to show adolescent kids in their true form; a need to fit in to society, a genuine understanding from parents and to acknowledge their human qualities of emotions, love and friendship. Even though the scenes may appear a bit outdated the story is timeless. "},{"Title":"James Dean is Jim Stark","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film begins when the three characters are in a police station,Jim Stark(Dean)has some behavior problems;Judy(Natalie Wood)an insecure young lady who felt abandoned by her father and similar to her is John or Plato(Sal Mineo) who desperate needs a father figure.The three of them meet again at school(who resembles a police station) they quickly formed an Alliance against incomprehension and adults. They are outcast a surrogate family.Rebel without a Cause was a great honest depiction of the so-called Generation gap-Adults against Youth and intolerance. The three character doesn't belong Anywhere but they want to fit.Dean became an Icon,a cult figure after this film was released,He against conformity .I had all his portraits hanging on my wall Why? He was a tortured,difficult but likeable actor,he takes himself seriously.A great scene is in that deserted mansion,where Judy,Plato and Jim stayed together  comforting each other,like a refuge in a incomprehensible world. It is not difficult at all to love a film like this.                           8/10 "},{"Title":"A Coat They Borrowed from James Dean","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean oozes with charisma. He was the hoodlum, the lost soul, everyone in my generation wanted to be, yet not be. The film is a somewhat dated but still profound portrayal of what it is like to try to live up to a perceived being. As Dean's character, Jim, tries all he can do to maintain who he is (which is basically anti-social), he exposes a tender side. The bad guys won't leave him alone and threaten his honor. As he wades through his family's ineffectual existence and unwillingness to see how troubled he is, he becomes more and more distance and introspective. Sal Mineo (Plato) comes into the picture. He is an outcast, too, but his is based on an internalized violence--that doesn't show through. Natalie Wood is the bad girl who departs from her connections to embrace the duo and make it a trio.All are good people, who, through circumstances, cannot be what they desire. The showing off, the chicken race, the line you gotta do something typifies a subculture that still exists today, be it in another incarnation. For a brief moment they try to have fun and imagine a different world--but a misunderstanding leads to death and further despair. I will always wonder what a career James Dean would have had, given more years to perfect his craft. "}{"Title":"Movie Music","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have a question regarding a scene in Rebel Without A Cause.I am looking for the name of a song that played on Jim Stark'scar radio the night of the chickee run. It was aired after themembers of the gang saw Jim Stark go in to the police station.It was dedicated to him by Buzz and meant to make him thinktwice about revealing any of the details of the crash. It isthe same song that was used in Little Red Riding Hood byWarner Bros. (Bugs Bunny). Can anyone help me? The movie was/isa classic representation of teen angst. "},{"Title":"A Must See Movie From the 50s","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean and Natalie Wood capture excellently the teenage perception that adults often rationalize away their integrity.  The scene where Dean walks in on Jim Backus (playing the father) in an apron captures with few words this often true phenomenon.TP "},{"Title":"After 44 years still not 'dated'...","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie may look dated, according to some people, but the problems the main characters have to cope with are real for a lot of young people even today. The trouble of a mother bossing her husband around and this way destroying the right atmosphere for a child to grow up in, is a motive used in quite a few movies and is still used in movies from this last decade.There are more motives in this movie, which the youth of today can surely identify themselves with. I think 'Rebel Without A Cause' is a great movie and James Dean gives a very good performance.   "},{"Title":"The film hasn't dated badly.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Contrary to popular belief, in my opinion the film hasn't dated badly because it provides an insight into teenage live of the 1950's as much now as it did then. It is a little naieve by today's standards, but it thrives on great dialogue, and in instances the lack of dialogue at all; the observed facial expressions are of tantamount importance if one is to appreciate the film. Mineo, Wood and Dean all shine. everyone everywhere should watch this film/  "},{"Title":"Not Just For 50's Nostalgia","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film really speaks to me. Every part of this has something to say. Dean's character seems to be saying To hell with respect for my elders! All they've done for me is create a terrible world for me to live in!Except at the end, when (Spoillers)he sees his dead friend lying on the ground. Here he seems to be sayingI'd better straighten up and fly right unless I wanna end up like him. This film is in color, which is nice for a 50's film, but the extravagant color merely seems to be lighting up all of the dark corners of the character's existences.Teen problems are different now, but I think all teens (like me) have something to gain from watching this film. It may make us realize that life is not as bad as it seems. After all, we could end up like Sal Mineo's Character. Do I sound cheesy here? I usually comment on cheesy b movies, but now that I'm commenting on a serious movie, I sound cheesy!This is a great movie to see no matter how you see it. In a theater or at home, by yourself or with someone you love, it doesn't matter. Just see it! "},{"Title":"Teenage Wasteland","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film about teen angst became an anthem for a generation. Ray infuses the film with raw energy and elicits notable performances. Of the three actors (Brando and Clift being the others) who popularized Method acting in the 1950s, Dean's acting now looks the most mannered (Cary Grant described Dean's acting as God-awful). However, Dean's goofiness is well suited to the role of a frustrated teenager and social unfit, making this the iconic performance of his brief career. The three stars of the film would all die young. Dean was dead at 24 by the time this film was released while Mineo would be stabbed in his 30's and Wood would drown in her 40's. "},{"Title":"liked it, hated it, loved it","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this film first came up I was 12, and therefore not allowed to see it But that scene of James Dean in the switchblade fight, and also of him with the red jacket, where the coolest I had ever seen. When I first had a chance to see it, it did not live up to my expectations. I saw it many years after when the first VHS players came out, and I hated the film, I thought Dean was artificial and overacting, too much method style. Seeing it the other day on TV, I realized what a great film it was. I could feel the intensity of Dean's drama, of being called a chicken, and how much that hurts a boy that wants to be accepted by the group. Also how he suffers for his father, dominated by his wife and not being able to help him when he needs advice. But most impressive of all is Natalie Wood, an insecure girl, rejected by her father. Nicholas Ray created a great film, visual, and profound. "},{"Title":"Rebel yell!","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I came to this landmark movie not having seen it before and not very long after seeing and frankly not caring for James Dean's performance in Giant. The fact of the matter though is that the film here is more Nicholas Ray's than Dean's and with the star's energies focused by a sympathetic director into an altogether more congenial role than Jett Rink in Giant, consequently my enjoyment of the movie soared.It would have been all too easy for the likes of Ray to dumb down his talent and vision in adapting to a film aimed fore-square at the burgeoning teen market but it's to his credit that he fully engages with subject and character and delivers a well-rounded end-product which to these eyes and ears crosses the generation gap better than the fictional protagonists manage here.That said the story does take some time to heat up and I found many of the scenes and situations in the first half somewhat unnatural and forced, with acting occasionally to match. Dean initially seems too old for his part especially in relation to the gang of juvenile delinquents who bedevil him but as the movie progresses to its long denouement at the abandoned mansion and planetarium, he comes into his own, showing convincing shades of expression winningly mixed with quirkiness (the humorous drown them like puppies remark a la Mr Magoo, Jim Backus' alter ego, for example). I still occasionally found fault in his performance particularly when called on to show distress, much preferring the subtlety, calmness and depth he shows especially in his scenes with the hero-worshipping young Sal Mineo and nascent girl-friend Natalie Wood as his confederates. Both of the latter are excellent in admittedly lesser roles and as has been said many times before it's very sad that the lives of all three leads were curtailed suddenly, long before their time.This youthful triangle at the epicentre of the film wholly dominates your attention and sometimes happily distracts scrutiny away from the less than menacing teenage gang who eventually seek out Jim, Judy and Plato and also the threesome's dysfunctional families too (the latter straight out of Happy Days!). The language employed by the youngsters could for me have been a little more contemporary with a bit more slang usage at the expense of an occasional speechifying tendency but in the dead quiet of the planetarium at the conclusion, Ray shows his mastery of control as the final tragedy is played out in near-darkness with his actors at last speaking quieter, shorter and altogether more telling lines.There's many a film with an exaggerated reputation in terms of its historical context and Rebel Without A Cause, its lustre propelled into the limelight by Dean's demise and his being latched onto by the young rock'n'roll generation as a symbol of rebellious youth, has a bigger cross to bear than most. Watching it now, well over 50 years on, I can definitely say however that I got it and while aspects of the film were hackneyed in the first place and have dated even more down the years, this is still a bold contemporary melodrama, worthy of its place in American cinema (some would say wider) history. "},{"Title":"You're tearing me apart!-best delivered line!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two years ago in my film appreciation class, my teacher brought up Rebel Without a Cause and how influential it was and how it broke down walls to reveal the trouble in the a teenager's life. James Dean gives the performance of a life time and truly broke everyone's heart with his untimely death. I can see why he was so loved now. I felt deep down though that this was a wrongly titled film. Because Jim, despite rebelling against the system, wasn't really a bad kid. He actually was a great one, he just needed someone to listen to him.One of the most heart breaking scenes in that movie for me was after the tragic drag race, Jim tries to tell his parents what happened, you'll have to watch the movie to understand. But he wants to do the right thing and his parents are telling him one thing and another, but refuse to listen on what had happened to him. I felt his pain when you feel like everyone wants to make you better, but no one understands what's wrong and won't listen to you.This is a fantastic movie that I feel should be on the top 250. It was one of the most influential movies that sparked a whole new generation and future as well on troubled youth. But a little warning, Rebel Without a Cause is by far the best teen rebellion movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first, I expected that the film was so famous only by James Dean death. However, the film resulted to be surprisingly good and interesting. Jim Stark (James Dean, superb) is a young boy with an obscure past that has come new to the city. There, he only wants to forget his mistakes and start a new life, far from problems. Unluckily, they will came after him as he knows the other guys of the city. Confused, without knowing what to do after the death of a friend, and with a more confused parent that does not solve his problems (spectacular acting of Frank Bachus); his situation become more desperate as he can only trust in his new friends, Platn (a bit crazy boy that has been abandoned by his parents, who only give him money) and Judy (that argues continuously with her parents). But things are not going to be better, as the problems of no-communicating will happen things to end in a tragic and sad ending. All the actors are very, very good (two nominations) in a very good direction which makes one of the best films ever, whom time does not pass, as it is as actual as it was. Maybe the little forced ending can result a bit worse than the rest of the film, but the result is spectacularly good. Recommended for anybody "}{"Title":"The 30 Greatest Films Ever Made, Continued","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As the story goes, during the filming of Rebel Without a Cause, specifically, the knife fight between Jim Stark and Buzz, they were using real knives. On set, Corey Allen, the actor playing Buzz, accidentally cut James Dean with the knife. Director Nicholas Ray yelled cut with prompted a furious Dean to scream Don't ever cut when something real is happening to me! It wasn't the only stunt-double less scene in the film - Dean also injured himself on camera in the scene where he punches the desk.It's the realness of Rebel that makes it so watchable, so ageless. I'm not sure there is a single generation of teenagers that doesn't identify with the scene where Dean half yells, half moans, You're tearing me apart! The entire film is shot at eye level. There are moments of dialog that so perfectly capture what its like to be a teenager that you want this film to be preserved for people to see in thousands of years to come.The protagonist of this film and its notoriously famous and over-parodied title is Jim Stark, aka James Dean who was killed in a car accident before the release of this film, and before he was nominated for Oscars for his other two films East of Eden and Giant. Jim is picked up in the opening credits of the film for being drunk. When his parents come to pick him up they are more or less fairly light on him and suggest they just move again. Jim, however, is hoping that for once his parents will punish him - it would show they at least CARED. At the police station he encounters a variety of interesting characters, including Judy (Natalie Wood), Plato (Sal Mineo) (who is in for killing a kitten) and a sympathetic cop named Ray Fremick (Edward Platt). Moving into the new school, Stark begins on a field trip to a planetarium where the lecturer's chief topic is man's insignificance in the universe. Great.From there he is joined by nervous Plato, who looks up to him for daring to shush the leather dressed Buzz, leader of a gang that includes, among others, Judy and a very young Dennis Hopper, credited as goon. Outside the planetarium, Jim encounters Buzz slashing his tires...which leads to a knife fight between the two...which leads to a very dangerous game of chicken... Can you see where this is going? After a sort of semi-climax, the film suddenly sort of calms down, and we watch the three apathetic teenagers Jim, Judy and Plato happily playing around in the set of Sunset Boulevard where Jim and Judy sort of semi-adopt poor Plato, who is in serious need of a mother and father figure. But if Mineo seemed more interested in Dean than just the father figure type that's no accident either...Mineo would later become an outspoken homosexual and admit he had a crush on Dean during filming. Indeed, many scenes it looks like his refraining to kiss Dean right on camera.But if these kids seem apathetic, perhaps its because the people and society who raised them are. It is the casual and disturbing actions of the cops at the end of the film that solidify the political statement, when reality hits them very hard.Countless arguments have been made back and forth on whether this film argued pro or anti conformist. On the pro side, some point out the scene where Jim is horrified to see his father in an apron, and suggest he wants his parents to conform to what the typical image of a parent is. However, I disagree with this. The scene at the end where the father says he will become who (Jim) wants him to be shows that he is so apathetic he doesn't even realize the real reason Jim is upset, or the more important issue at hand. Jim is the Rebel With a Cause, who sees the apathy of the adult world and refuses to conform to it, who sees the apathy and confusion of gangs like Buzz's who seem to rebel for no reason at all, and Stark refuses to conform to them either. Along the way he also, as many film-rebels rarely do, sticks up for the underdog Plato and makes a compelling father figure.The best scene comes when Buzz admits, shortly before the chicky race, that he likes Stark. Stark asks then why are we racing? Buzz's reply? Everybody does.Can anyone not like this film? Better question... can anyone not identify with some part of this film? I'm not sure the question can be answered but I might be able to answer it myself. And all it took was one screening. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the best teen movie of all time...","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Forget American Pie, The 10 Things I Hate About You, Can't Hardly Wait, and any other movie Hollywood makes that is supposed to be about teenagers. This movie captures the way it really feels to be young. Angst, loneliness, isolation, and akwardness are subjects rarely associated with teenagers in movies these days (at least, in a serious manner). Anyone who truly remembers high school will know that it wasn't always so pleasant and silly (to many people, it was just the opposite). James Dean's incredible acting and screen presence conveys this perfectly. He manages to be the embodiment of cool without seeming larger than life. Indeed, it is his flaws and vulnerability that ultimately makes him such a great character. The same is true of Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo. No one in this film is a clich, but a fully-fleshed human being who not only laughs and lusts, but also rages, cries, and shows fear and emotional depth.What amazes me the most about this film is that it is over 50 years old, and just as relevant today as it was in 1955. The best stories have always been timeless and this is certainly one of them... "},{"Title":"Dean ain't Marlon Brando, but he's great in his own right! A great film!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is a cop-out to view this film in light of the three main actors tragic deaths, that came well before their time. Sal Mineo, Natalie Wood and of course James Dean all seemed destined for great things, and this film truly showcases what phenomenal talent and dramatic prowess the three of them possessed. This film is a landmark movie in so many ways it is virtually impossible to cover all of its bases in one short review. What can be said about it? It was the first film to portray teenagers from well to do families as also being deeply unhappy. Prior to this movie, all movies that portrayed restless youth were always from the slums, which is why they were going against the law. Not in this movie - the neglect of Jim Stark's parents causes his unhappiness. What else can be said - this film features an absolutely phenomenal performance by dean - he was truly destined for stardom. Sal Mineo is outstanding as Jim best friend, Plato, who may or may not be a homosexual, as the film hints at. This film is a landmark in so many ways it really can't be expressed in words - you just have to see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Friends always keep their Promises","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Being picked up for drunkenness Jim Stark, James Dean,is at the police station where he meets, without any formal introduction, Judy and Plato, Natalie Wood & Sal Mineo, who would become bonded with him later in the movie to the point where their a family. A family that they've never had or have ever been a part of. Just having moved into town Jim is a bit nervous in that tomorrow would be his first day in school and wants to make an good impression on his fellow high school students. Jim didn't realize at the time but the next 36 or so hours he'd make an impression that everyone that he comes in contact with, at school and out as well as the movie audience, will never forget for the rest of their lives. In the case of Buzz ,Corey Allen,his involvement with Jim would be his last day on earth.Released just under a month (October 27, 1955) after James Dean's tragic death at the young and tender age of 24 in a car crash on September 30, 1955 the Nicholas Ray directed film Rebel Without a Cause impact on the youth of America, as well as the movie going public all over world, was like that of an 100 plus megaton hydrogen bomb. The movie exploded with such a wallop and left such an impact that it's effects has influenced movies about troubled youths has not let up at all for the last fifty or so years. Jims first day in school isn't exactly as smooth as he hoped it would be. Right off the bat he get's the school's bullies on his back by trying to get friendly with Judy, who turns out to be his neighbor, as he offers her a ride. At Dawson High School Jim mistakenly steps on the school's emblem, a no no, which infuriates a number of students. Going to the Griffeth Observatory with his fellow students for a lecture on the Universe Jim's clumsy attempt at humor, making sounds like a cow at the star sign of Turus, get's the same group of bullies so mad at him that they wait outside the auditorium just to pick a fight with Jim. At first trying to avoid trouble when Buzz, the leader of the gang of bullies, flatten his car tire Jim is then forced into a knife fight with him who he reluctantly, but decisively, beats. Jim who was trying to make an impression and friends at school only got the Buzz gang to attack him with Plato, who's picked on by every bully in Dawson High School, being the only friend he makes. Only because he's the only one who treats Plato with any kindness or understanding. Being challenged to go on a chicken run Jim, who never heard of it, tells Buzz that's all he does. Later that night it's the experienced Buzz, not the first timer Jim, who ends up dead at the bottom of the dangerous Millertown Bluff where the Chicken Run was held. An hysterical and heart-broken Judy seeks Jim out for understanding and someone to hold on to, as well as him being a replacement for her now dead boyfriend Buzz. It's then that Buzz's fellow gang members feel that Jim's going to go to the police to report what happened and implicate them. Jim does intend to go to the cops but to tell them that he was the other person involved in the chicken run. Not getting any support from his parents Mr & Mrs Stark, Jim Backus & Ann Doran, in the situation that he finds himself in Jim together with Judy and Plato hide out at a deserted mansion in the Hollywood Hills that was the friendless Plato's secret hideaway. It's at the mansion that Plato starts to feel that he's been deserted by his new family Jim & Judy when he's momently left alone by them and a number of the late Buzz's gang, who were looking for Jim to keep him from telling on them, attack him. It's then that Plato ends up shooting and wounding one of them Crunch, Frank Mazzola. With the local police now out looking to arrest Plato for shooting Crunch he runs into the Griffith Observertory with Jim and Judy running the police roadblock and dragnet to try to talk Plato into giving himself up before he ends up getting shot and killed.One of the best youth movie of all times Rebel without a Cause breaks away from to usual family stereotype in the movies and TV and shows real people with real emotions that shocked moviegoers back then and even now, over 50 years later. Watching it you realize how ahead of it's time it really was. None of the teenagers had any father figure, or in the case of Plato no father at all, in the movie so it wasn't surprising at all that Jim Judy and Plato bonded so well with each other because of that very fact. Tremendous and moving musical score as the movie builds itself up for it's unforgettable and at the same time sad ending. With dawn breaking out over the Hollywood Hills a new day had dawn for those in the movie that survived the violence of the night before. With that knowledge the future for them was starting to look a lot brighter despite the very depressing and sad ending. "},{"Title":"Movie With A Cause","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not being a big James Dean fan, I couldn't help but be curious when I saw the impressive new DVD release. The extras are informative, including different shots of scenes never utilized in the final film. I'd seen parts of the film over the years but I was surprised at how much I hadn't seen, but also how great these actors were. I feel starved with that fodder Hollywood throws at us now but this movie shows the art of acting at it's best. I came away with a better appreciation of Dean and of Sal Mineo. Natalie Wood is a girl you love to hate at the beginning of the film but in the end she's won you over and just simply love her. If you've never seen this movie or only saw a bad release of it, pick up the new release, it's a movie worth owning. "},{"Title":"a great classic","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel without a Cause perfectly captures that time in a teenagers life, when one feels that the entire world is against them. Jim Stark the main character is played brilliantly by James Dean, who when screaming out the line Your tearing me apart! never fails to break my heart. Even though there are those that would argue that this film isn't relevant in today's messed up society, I believe that it is all the more applicable as the generation gap between children and parents drift further apart. The two main characters other then Jim is the messed up yet caring Judy, who just wants to feel the love from her father that she used to. Plato, another troubled kid is teetering on the edge and the tragic consequences of the finale prove that we all can't be saved. What these teens wanted more then anything else was to belong, but to belong without having to change themselves. For one night they were a family and they felt true love and happiness, it was the world that had deserted them and it was their desperate longing to be needed and to need that kept them together. Rebel without a Cause is not a one-sided story, that places all the blame on the parents but rather explores all the avenues of reasons of the disaffected youth. This is an amazing film and it is no wonder that the film has stood the test of time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The film as psycho-drama","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    The stories that I have read over the past 31 years about the makingof Rebel Without a Cause are in some ways even more interesting thanthe movie itself and knowing them definitely makes watching the moviemore fun.  It seems each of the stories in one way or another relatesto the theme of Rebel working as a film because the project of makingRebel was quite similar or parallel to the story they were filming. Natalie Wood, for instance, read the script and immediately knew thatshe was Judy.  But she had been playing nice girls for so long that shecouldn't get anyone connected with the business to take her seriouslyabout her desire to play such a role.   You are a nice girl.  Judy isa juvenile delinquent.    Natalie Wood went out with a bunch of kids one night and gotarrested for something (possibly possession of alcoholic beverages whenunderage).  For her one phone call from the police station, she phonedher agent and said,  I've been arrested.  I am at the police station. Now, do I get the part?        According to the stories, Sal Mineo really did idolize JamesDean.   Nick Adams also got very close to James Dean but nobody couldbe sure if it was out of sincere admiration or out of a personal desireto advance his own career through connecting himself with the star. (Within a year after Dean's death, Nick Adams was attaching himself toDean's replacement with America's teenagers  Elvis Presley)  When theywere filming the switch blade knife fight scene just outside ofGriffith Observatory, Nick Adams prevented one of the female charactersfrom delivering her line of Buzz, look out!  He's got a chain! bypunching her in the stomach just as she was about to speak so that hecould deliver the line himself.   Ray, the director, warned Adams thatif he did that again, he'd be out of the film.   They filmed the sceneagain and this time Nick Adams kept his hands and feet to himself.  But Nick Adams was able to get in his own,  His clothes ought to becleaned and burned,  an adolescent witticism which James Dean thoughtwas so funny that he was saying it himself over and over both on andoff the set as he walked around with Adams.  Nick Adams, of course,later starred in a TV series with the ultimate Dean rip-off title ofThe Rebel.      As were some of the other young characters in the film,  CoreyAllen was a youth who was actually found out on the streets of the LosAngeles area.   In an interview with Corey Allen that I read during thesummer of 1971, Allen said that shortly before they filmed the chickyrace scene, he opened a van or truck and was quite surprised to find abunch of crash dummy bodies with his face on them.   That gave him theimpression of seeing a bunch of his own dead bodies.    The idea wasfor one  those dummies to be filmed in the car as it went over thebluff.  But a different scheme for filming the scene ended up beingused.      Dennis Hopper was there as a possible replacement for James Deansince Dean was considered both an artistic genius and a flake who mightdisappear from production at any minute.         While filming but during breaks  James Dean started doingimitations of Jim Backus as Mister Magoo.   Some said that he soundedmore like Mister Magoo than Jim Backus did.  When Plato is showing  Jimand Judy around the mansion, the three characters start role playing areal estate agent with a married couple.   In reference to Do you havechildren? and  What should be done about children?, James Dean asJim Stark as the husband does the Mister Magoo utterance of,  Ug. Drown them like puppies.      The production took on the atmosphere of director Nicholas Ray asthe trusted mentor of the bunch of talented but misfit youths making amovie in the form of psycho-drama.  In effect,  the movie director WASthe character played by Edward Platt (better known today in Americancultural literacy as the Chief in Get Smart).  So it was nocoincidence that they were both named Ray.         Another story I read in 1971 asserted that midway throughproduction, the studio was going to pull the plug on Rebel.  When theproducers told Nicholas Ray they were stopping production, Ray didn'tmiss a beat but instead responded,  Find.  Take me off salary.  Sellme the rights and I'll produce the film myself.     Taken aback, the producers said, Ah, we'll get back to you andstarted asking camera men and sound boom operators if they thought theRay project was any good.   Rebel is the best thing you have on thelot they said.       They were right. "},{"Title":"Still Packs a Punch","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean like Bruce Lee was a legend and a star in only a short span of time.  James Stark would represent the alienated teen who does feel at ease with the rest of the world.  Dean's performance is something that strikes a nerve with many teenagers as they could indentify with Jim Stark.  James Dean Showed here that he was everybit as good as Marlon Brando in regards as an actor.  James Dean like Jim Stark was an outsider who never felt loved or understood.  One example of his realistic acting is the scene where he punches the preceint desk which caused him to break a knuckle.Nicholas Ray's direction is surperb in guiding the young actors in their performances.  Nicholas Ray was also a Hollywood outsider and rebel who would be admired by French directors like Chabrol, Godard, and Truffalt.  The director did an excellent job in the depiction of gangs which is authicized by the fact that Ray rode with some L.A. gangs as research.  The scene in the abandon house with the trio talking about their life is wonerfully filmed.  Rebel Without A Cause(1955) has similar things in common with Nicholas Ray's Knock on Any Door(1947), and They Drive by Night(1949).  Nicholas Ray has an uncredited cameo at the end of the picture.Natalie Wood is terrific as a young teen who's searching for someone to love her.  This is one of the first films with Dennis Hopper who is memorable in his role as Goon.  Jim Backus is perfectly cast as a confused father who does not understand what it takes to be an effective parent.  Plato as played by Sal Mineo is a tragic figure who seems doom to the cruel fate that awaits him in the end.  Judy's father played by William Hopper is someone that you love to hate.  Its very spooky that anyone except for Dennis Hopper who had anything to do with Rebel Without a Cause(1955) is dead.The Chicken Run scene builds in suspense and is telling of the teen's take on life.  The teens are involve in the chicken run because there is nothing for them to look forward to except for death in a noble fashion.  The scenes with the trio reveal a lot about the teen's attidude towards the world around them.  The realism of the knife fight is enhanced by the fact that real switchblades were used with chainmail to protect the actors.  The scene where Jim Stark tells his father to stand up to his mother before trying to strangle him is priceless.  Rebel Without a Cause(1955) would provide an influence for numerous films from West Side Story(1961) to Out of the Blue(1980), and from The River's Edge(1987) to Boyz in the Hood(1991). "},{"Title":"The Best Portrayal Of Teenage Life Ever","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This 1955 classic starring James Dean is the greatest portrayal of teenage life to ever hit the big screen. First off, I hope everyone realizes how great of an actor James Dean truly was. They say that only the good die young...after viewing this movie, you will see that this statement couldn't be more true.Dean is Jim Stark, a rebellious youth who has been in just a little TOO much trouble. Finally, he moves to a new town, hoping to start a new life, but falls right back in to a rut. What follows is an exciting, dramatic movie including a legendary scene on the stair case. It is followed by one of the saddest endings, which turns out to be a heart-warming moment...'he gets cold.' I am a 13 year old kid who is facing serious problems at school and this movie helped put things in perspective. While I might not be up to racing cars off cliffs, I certainly have a lot of things that car racing can represent.Thank you WB and thank you James Dean. You will always be remembered for this wonderful masterpiece of film. "},{"Title":"Hard to believe this is a classic","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had high expectations for this classic and was sorely disappointed. The good Nice to see some not-over-the-top fight/scuffle scenes (in today's movies the fight scenes usually involve each participant receiving at least a dozen lethal blows). Nice to see some familiar faces (Maria, Thurston Howell, The Chief) in their (relative) youth.These tiny saving graces are greatly overwhelmed by the bad Ridiculous, unconvincing plot. Bad dialog. Caricaturesque characters. I can forgive the movie for not having stood the test of time (few movies from the 50s do), but hard to believe it was even considered a good movie at the time. I can only attribute the stratospheric stature of the film to the untimely death of James Dean. Purple Haze would have been a great song had Hendrix not died... but Rebel Without A Cause would be as forgotten as Curtain Call at Cactus Creek had James Dean lived to be 90. Or maybe even 30. "}{"Title":"Rebel Still Visceral and Moody After All These Years","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray's Rebel Without A Cause (1955) is probably the film most closely associated with James Dean's iconic persona as the volatile, yet soulful teenager with a chip on his shoulder. Dean is Jim Stark &#150; a young man who's hen-pecked by an overbearing mother (Ann Doran) and compromised in his reference of adult masculinity by a weak father figure (Jim Backus). Though it is suggested that Jim's relocation to a new school is the result of his wild run in with the law, the film begins on a night of drunken debauchery.While awaiting his family in the police station, Jim eyes fast girl, Judy (Natalie Wood), but takes an invested interest in a young man in whom he sees varying shades of his former self &#150; the self-destructive, Plato (Sal Mineo). Judy's association with greaser, Buzz (Corey Allen) ensures a volatile conflict between Buzz and Jim; and there are two. The first is a fight with switch blades outside the famed planetarium near Los Angeles. But, as this early attempt at asserting who's the leader of the pack is thwarted by police intervention, Buzz and Jim settle on another venue at another time; the justly celebrated game of chicken that has both men racing their automobiles towards a dangerous cliff. Given Dean's untimely death at the hands of the wheel, this sequence has particularly ominous significance for today's viewer. But in the film, at the last minute, good sense prevails and Jim bails out of his car. Buzz's sleeve gets caught on the door handle. He sails over the cliff and dies in a fiery explosion. From this point on, Jim spirals into an emotional whirlpool. He's distracted from total self destruction by Judy's kind and understanding way, their growing romantic affection for one another, and, Plato's looming and dangerous disdain for authority. Of course, you just know this is going to end badly.Like most sensationalist melodrama of the 1950s, Rebel is dated by today's standards. Its grasp on sexual politics and what it means to be a man, in a society that asks for conformity rather than self assertion, is an ominous precursor to the folly of wayward youth that was later embodied in such films as Blackboard Jungle and West Side Story. What the film does offer from the contemporary perspective, is a time capsule of 50s sensibilities that oddly enough, continue to resonate with teenagers and twenty-something's to this very day. This 2 disc edition of Rebel is a welcomed treat. Though the original single disc had a very nice looking transfer &#150; this newly minted DVD appears to have more subtle nuances in color fidelity, and, with the added treat of owing considerably less to film grain. Colors are rich, vibrant and bold. Blacks are solid and velvety deep. Whites are generally clean. Though there are some examples of fading between dissolves these are inherent shortcomings in all early Cinemascope productions and not the flaw of DVD mastering. The audio is a remix of the original magnetic six track that accompanied Rebel's roadshow engagement. It's remarkably bold and sonically stirring. Extras include a new documentary on the making of the film, as well as the original featurettes that were featured on the single disc, plus a James Dean bio that is very much a collector's item "},{"Title":"Quintessential 1950's melodrama","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE Aspect ratio 2.551 (CinemaScope)Sound format 4-track magnetic stereoA troubled teenager (James Dean) struggles to find his place in a new school, where he falls in love with a fellow student (Natalie Wood) and is forced into a confrontation with her bullying boyfriend (Corey Allen), leading to unexpected tragedy...Nicholas Ray's quintessential Fifties melodrama arrived during a sea-change in American cinema, at a time when the glossy fantasies made popular during wartime were becoming supplemented by tougher movies offering a realistic depiction of contemporary society (cf. THE NAKED CITY, BLACKBOARD JUNGLE, MARTY, EAST OF EDEN, etc.). Stewart Stern's coy script may seem a little dated now, but the drama still resonates with modern audiences, and there's a wealth of surprising subplots and subtexts, including Natalie Wood's impressive turn as an immature teenager who feels rejected by her father (William Hopper) because he refuses to indulge the kind of affections he lavished on her as a child, and Sal Mineo as the brittle interloper who keeps a picture of Alan Ladd in his school locker and develops an obvious crush on the dazzling new boy, played by Dean. A formidable young talent, Dean's signature red jacket affords him a visual prominence over his fellow actors, and he gauges the emotional honesty of each sequence with uncanny precision. Director Ray uses the scope frame in a wholly expressive manner, dividing his characters across the length and breadth of the panoramic screen and tilting the image at crucial dramatic moments. A-list production values, powerhouse supporting cast, including Jim Backus, Ann Doran, Edward Platt and Dennis Hopper. "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A really great movie. The subject seems banal teens in trouble, but the compassionate and poetic elaboration make this one of the greatest movies of all time. Every scene is memorable, classic, powerful, and  stands on its own, rather than leading up to something else.  Tired movie tricks are avoided. When Sal Mineo is shot, he doesn't have any last words. It is a very beautiful work of art, visually ravishing. It elevates human conflict and anguish to epic proportions.  The script is perfect, no superfluous words, and the  music is powerful too.  It is astonishing that such a movie should have been made before Leave it to Beaver.  The only thing I dislike is the patronizing title and some diagnostic pretensions (absent or feminine fathers are blamed). Sal Mineo steals the show with his lonely, aching, paranoid character. Dean is too old, making his tantrums almost comical. But these are minor flaws.  "},{"Title":" Rebel, the title says it all!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie Rebel Without a Cause is a microcosm of youth. It deals with the emotional burdens carried by young people who have a society around them that just don't understand them at all. Anyone who's been a teenager can identified with the feelings of disconnection and frustration portrayed by the characters. Rebel ,attempts for the first time to portray teens as they really are, deeply disturbed and searching desperately for a connection. These are the universal malaise of teenagers and young adults. The fact is that no one takes you seriously, but expects a lot of from you nonetheless. This movie is timeless. The first real teen angst movie that was ever made. The success of Rebel, has in my opinion never been matched in any teen movie since. Possibly only closely rivaled by films such as Fast Times at Ridgemont High. This movie was a very provocative one for it's times. The 1950's where a very conventional time, and this movie's contents where very controversial. The subject matter in this movie is best termed as dark. It deals with subjects such as depression, neglect, violent and suicidal tendencies etc, which where possibly taboo subjects at the time, especially in regards to teenagers. The acting was superb. James Dean especially, followed by excellent performances by Natalie Wood, and Sal Menio, and good performances by he rest of the supporting cast too. It's amazing how James Dean is still a youth icon 50 years after his death. His looks and personality have a timeless quality, and his early death only enhanced the allure, and mystery surrounding him. Rebel Without a Cause is a great dramatic movie, with excellent writing and cinematography, rivaled only by the sensitivity of the performances. Its worth a watch and I give it a thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Yet another example of why Hollywood before 1960's was terrible.","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a huge movie fan and am very picky about the movies I watch. Not to sound like a snob, but I more and more find myself staying away from the big budget blockbusters that Hollywood produces at the rate of a Chinese factory because they're getting more and more vapid. I'm no film hipster and can enjoy an occasional blockbuster, but suspending my disbelief is getting harder and harder. The same thing can be said just about any Hollywood movie I've seen that's been made before 1960's. Once in a while I give a chance to some cult classic made in the 1950's just to see it for myself and I end up incredibly disappointed every single time. The style in which the movies were made back then just absolutely crushes my soul. It's as if they were made for 10-year olds by 12-year olds who were trying to teach them some wisdom that they thought they had. The plot of this film is ridiculous, the conflicts are unimportant, trivial things blown out completely out of proportion, the directing is horrible, the acting is terrible (seems to be straight from an acting class at your local adult education program). The whole movie is incredibly naive in every single way and entirely not believable. Everything is overplayed, people don't act anywhere close to how people act in real life and the dialogue is plain stupid. The lines are pompous, simplistic and aimed to squeeze cheap emotion out of the audience who the authors clearly think are stuck at the 3rd grade level.I understand that some of the themes this film brings up were revolutionary for 1955, but everything about the way it was made is amateurish at best. It's like watching some of your not particularly bright friends try to shoot something important with their camcorder. I've seen better acting, directing and writing in many modern film school shorts. This might really be the last time I'll give a film of that era a chance. I watched this on the plane so had time to waste and even then I hesitated. The curiosity of having heard so much about it and its top billed star, James Dean got the better of me, but I will never know how I managed to finish watching it. Almost turned it off on numerous occasions. I also have a very hard time seeing how anyone watching it today can pretend that this is a great movie. I may have enjoyed it back then or now... if I were 12. "},{"Title":"The love that dare not speak its name","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Forget the script and the story, as the real agenda in this film is of gay love. Sal Mineo is straining at the leash with his love for James Dean. Equally James Dean is doing all he can to avoid showing his affection for Sal. Feel a bit sorry for Natalie Wood as it is quite obvious that she is totally out of it, a mere ornament, and she knows it. But of course in the 1950's when this picture was made anything openly gay was worse than treason. Only have to do some internet research to discover that in real life both Sal and James were gays and the body language of them both in this film is further proof of it. Sal is far prettier than anyone else in the picture! This film is not bad though dated and somewhat nonsensical especially as apart from Sal who looks the part of a 16 year old the other main players look and behave far too old for the mid teenagers they are meant to be portraying. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A film about teenage angst if there ever was one","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause is a timeless film, because it can apply to the modern-day as much as it applied to the 50s when it was released. Young people today feel alienated from the societies they live in and I think that Jim Stark is the best spokesperson for them.All of the characters come from dysfunctional families and it is easy to sympathise and pity them. Jim's father is constantly emasculated by his wife, Judith's father is controlling and possessive and Plato is raised by a nanny.Although, I do think at times the characters are a little annoying. Jim is whiny and Plato is clingy.Read my full review here http//goo.gl/dhknVW "},{"Title":"An engrossing and fascinating character drama concerning the rising tide of teenage delinquency","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Taking its name but seemingly nothing else from the 1944 book by the psychiatrist Robert M. Lindner, this is an engrossing and fascinating character drama concerning the rising tide of teenage delinquency. Although it is certainly not as shocking as it was 60 years ago, the theme of teenage rebellion is nevertheless a timeless one. It has an excellent script by Stewart Stern and Irving Shulman based on a story by Nicholas Ray, whose direction is superb. The emotional scenes are sensitively handled and a great atmosphere of tension is present for much of the film, particularly the knife fight scene. The film takes the then unusual tact of attributing some of the blame for the teenagers' behaviour to their parents and their flawed parenting style. In those days, it was more common to shift the blame to something irrelevant such as the comic book industry in the case of Seduction of the Innocent by Fredric Wertham. There is a subtle but amusing jab at this ridiculous theory in the film.The film stars James Dean in a brilliant performance as the 17-year-old Jim Stark, the archetypal troubled, rebellious teenager. At the beginning of the film, he is arrested for plain drunkenness and explains to a sympathetic police officer named Ray Fremick that he has problems at home. His father Frank is a good, well-meaning man but he is weak-willed and henpecked by both his wife Carol and his mother. Jim compares his home life to both a zoo and circus in quick succession and claims that his parents are tearing him apart with their constant arguing about him. Frank tries to be Jim's friend when he really needs a father figure. Jim resents the fact that his mother always uses him as an excuse for things going wrong for the family, which she does not realise only serves to exacerbate his bad behaviour. It's a vicious circle, really.John Plato Crawford is one of the most interesting characters that I have come across in a 1950s film. Played very well by a 16-year-old Sal Mineo who was deservedly nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar, we are told that he shoots puppies with his mother's gun. He's not a very well adjusted boy. His father left when he was very young and his unseen mother would rather spend money on trips to Hawaii than on the therapy sessions which he clearly needs. The unnamed maid is the closest thing that he has to a mother and she refers to him as my boy at one point. He has no friends and quickly becomes very attached to Jim, describing him as his best friend even though they've barely exchanged 100 words. The film has a very effective gay subtext as it it strongly implied that Plato has a major crush on Jim. During his first visit to Jim's house, Plato looked as if he really wanted to kiss him. Another hint, subtle by 1950s standards, as to Plato's sexuality is the fact that he has a picture of Alan Ladd in his locker. Other scenes suggest that Plato views Jim as a father figure. I think that this was added in order to obscure the gay subtext. Alternatively, it could mean that he was trying to deny his sexuality even to himself.The 16-year-old Natalie Wood, who successfully broke free of her image as a cute child star with this film, is very good as Judy but her performance is not quite on the same level as in some of her later films. Like Jim and Plato, Judy acts out because of problems with her parents. She fears that her father does not love her because she is no longer a little girl. She wears bright red lipstick and dresses in clothes that she knows that her father will not like in order to provoke a reaction, which it does as he calls her a dirty tramp. She is initially dismissive of Jim while in the company of her so-called friends but later apologises to him, claiming that the culprit was peer pressure. The two realise that they are kindred spirits and begin to develop feelings for each other. The two of them and Plato become a family of a sort but it is soon ripped apart. Jim, Plato and Judy are not alone in feeling as if they are in a malaise. Buzz Gunderson tells Jim that he and his friends have Chickie Races as You gotta do something, now don't you? That says it all, really. The sequences at the Griffith Observatory were beautifully shot and suitably taut. Although I did see the film's conclusion coming, it was executed very well and that has always been the most important thing for me.The film has a very strong supporting cast in roles of varying size Jim Backus and Ann Doran as Jim's parents, Corey Allen as Buzz Gunderson, Edward Platt as Ray Fremick, Frank Mazzola as Crunch, Dennis Hopper as Goon, William Hopper (Hedda's son but no relation to Dennis) as Judy's father and Ian Wolfe as Dr. Minton. It has been claimed that the film's cast were the subject of a curse. While I do not believe in such things, it is worth mentioning that all three of its stars died young under tragic circumstances Dean was killed in a car crash in 1955 at 24 (a month before the film was released), Mineo was murdered in 1976 at 37 and Wood drowned in 1981 at 43. Furthermore, Nick Adams, who played Chick, died of a drug overdose in 1968 at 36. Conversely, Doran lived to be 89 and Virginia Brissac, who played Grandma Stark, lived to be a whopping 96 years old. The curse obviously forgot about them.Overall, this is an excellent film which manages to be both of its time and timeless. "},{"Title":"Dean is the Rebel.","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause (1955) Dir Nicholas Ray / Cast James Dean, Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo, Jim Backus, Ann Doran Courageous teen thriller about communication. James Dean plays Jim Stark, a troubled teenager who always seems to on the wrong side of the law. His confusion and rebellion stems from a father who fails to stand up for himself, and an overbearing mother and grandmother. He eventually becomes the target of a school gang, which escalates into a knife fight. He is admired by a kid named Plato who fancies his ability to face these bullies. Eventually he is challenged to a race towards a cliff and whoever bailed first was considered a chicken. Stark survives but the gang leader plummets with his car to his death. This leaves Stark a marked individual with nowhere to turn. Powerfully written teen film directed with insight by Nicholas Ray who makes great use of an abandoned mansion where a riveting climax occurs. Dean embodies the role of a teenager plagued by wrong choices yet a desire for positive opportunity. Natalie Wood as Judy, the girlfriend of the deceased gangster, desires affection at home but is drawn to Stark. Sal Mineo as Plato has no parents and befriends Stark until he is faced with no other choice than to draw a gun. Jim Backus and Ann Doran play Stark's complicated parents. Powerful film about the cause for parents to raise their children against rebellion. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Dated, But Still With A Relevance","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I suppose that it goes without saying that any movie about teenagers in the 1950's is going to be dated by now. The world has changed, society has changed, culture has changed. So, without any doubt, there are going to be aspects of Rebel Without A Cause that seem to have little relevance to modern society, and I suppose a few things that might even seem quaint, if I could use that word. But, on the other hand, you could also say that teenagers are teenagers - in any generation. They have trouble fitting into the ways of their parents, they establish their own social norms and their own cliques, and pity the teenager who doesn't quite fit into the in group. We hear a lot about that today. Kids who are ignored, pushed aside, bullied, tormented - often with tragic results for them and for others. And it's always been that way. There are always kids who just have trouble being part of the group. This movie points out that it was happening in the 1950's just as much as it happens today.Rebel Without A Cause is probably best known today as the only film in which James Dean - who died in a car accident about a month before it was released - received top billing. Dean's performance was excellent. As Jim Stark, he plays a teen with a troubled home life, and who's contemptuous of his father (Jim Backus) - a classic example of what would at one time have been called a hen-pecked husband, under the control of both his wife and his mother, who don't get along with each other. From his first appearance in the opening scenes (being picked up for drunkenness) we know that trouble is going to follow him. An outcast at the new high school he attends, he bonds with fellow outcast Plato (Sal Mineo). What follows is a series of tragic events as Jim and Plato struggle (but largely fail) to gain the acceptance of their peers.In addition to Dean and Mineo, Natalie Wood starred in this as Judy, a sort-of romantic interest to Jim who's troubled in her own way by a less than satisfactory home life, and a very distant relationship with her father.Yes, it's dated. And most of what happens (the two primary tragic events notwithstanding) seems pretty tame by the standards of what we hear about today. But the last part of the movie, in which Plato gets a gun and essentially goes insane, has a certain resonance even 50 years later. (7/10) "}{"Title":"James Dean is the Movie","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is notable for being one of the few James Dean ever got to do. Which is most certainly too bad, since he gives an excellent performance. His training at The Actor's Studio most certainly provided him with the chops to deliver a very emotional and nuanced performance.Natalie Wood co-stars as a girl who gets off on violence. You can see the sheer joy in her face as Dean and another boy face off in a knife fight. And, she's thrilled to be the flag girl at a near-suicidal death race. And so, when she sees that Dean has engaged in violence himself, she immediately latches on to him.Nicholas Ray was always an interesting director. And, he wrote the story for this too. He directed what I consider the best-overall story about Jesus, King of Kings. And so, here he does very well too.The story takes many interesting turns as it works its way to its ending. But, in the end, it's James Dean who is front and center here. His performance needs to be watched if you are a film fan.******* (7 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Mostly good, but not great","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's mostly good, but there's a couple of things keeping me from calling it great. It does some things right, like successfully portraying an angsty teenage who isn't understood and making you care about him. That's the big thing that makes this movie good. Unfortunately it is dragged down a bit by some other things. Number one the romance. It doesn't work, at least in my opinion. Their young and dumb, so I'm not complaining about their chemistry, which was fine, or rash decisions. I'm complaining about how this chick is just fine with hooking up with someone else maybe a day after her boyfriend died. I don't know, that just doesn't seem right to me. Number two Plato. He was really annoying and irritating. He was fine up until the end where he completely lost it for no reason. Then he became unbearable and I for one can say I didn't care in the slightest when he died. Besides that, good movie. Definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"Teenagers Will Always Be Teenagers","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The main topic and message this movie is trying to give is a very universal theme; teenagers. Its been almost 7 decades since this movie has been shot and what the movie is trying to convey can still be applied to our day and that is, the problem with being a teenager. The problem with not knowing where you belong and where you should be.Time Stark and his fellow friends each represent this problem. However, the movie's main concern isn't this problem. In my opinion, the movie's main concern is how parents lead to this problem and lack in bonding with their teenager to fix this problem.The movie does a great job in showing reckless teenagers, but does an even better job showing the more reckless parents. Society should question themselves here. Why are teenagers having these problems? What is the core of the problem? The answer is easy; family. In the end of the movie this is what I understand and I believe that it is a great message to give. So one factor that makes this movie successful is the main theme and message it gives. There are other factors also; like the acting of the main characters and especially Tim Stark. However, without going onto further detail with the other factors of why the movie is good, I want to also mention why I dropped 4 stars out of the movie.The movie is definitely saying something but it loses one star from the lack of ability to combine effective music with the scenes. It loses the second star from the inefficient acting ability of the background actors. Next, it loses the third star from some unneeded scenes that just took up time. For example, the scene with Tim's parents and his dialogs with his father were very lengthy. Lastly, it loses the fourth star because of lack of emotion in the movie. The movie could have raised its standards with the use of more emotional scenes. After all, teenage years are one of the most emotional years of a human's lifetime. Therefore, it can be said that it is a sufficient movie with a nice little message that could have been conveyed better. "},{"Title":"Rebel without a clip . . .","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" . . . whether it's FRUITVALE STATION or Hispanic 13-year-olds with Airsoft toys, it's been known since the 1950s that California cops are the most trigger-happy in America. REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE was one of the first serious efforts to disarm a law enforcement culture running amok in the Golden State, with the goal of substituting little billy clubs--like the London bobbies carry--for their misused fire power. From today's headlines to yesteryear's scandals, we all know that REBEL's plea fell upon deaf ears. When young actress\Kidnapee Patty Hearst was thought to be fair game, Cal's boys in blue did their best to burn her alive Joan-of-Arc style, with their tear gas bazookas. When an LAPD shooter offs a kid, he gets a couple vacation days. Guess what? The child is DEAD FOREVER--they don't have nine lives, like cats! How could any peace officer see REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE, and still tote a loaded pistol around everywhere he goes? Sal Mineo as Plato tried to die for your sins here in 1955, but you keep killing him over and over again. For shame! "},{"Title":"You can wake up now, the universe has ended","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray's Rebel Without A Cause stars James Dean as Jim Stark, a young man who clashes with his parents and classmates. Dean would die in a car accident four weeks prior to the film's release, lending a mythic resonance to his portrayal of a troubled teenager.A companion-piece to Ray's Bigger Than Life (1956), Rebel Without A Cause (1955) share's the latter film's voluptuous qualities. Ray's colours zap the eyes-balls, his emotions grand, his music pounding, the film's melodrama unashamedly bombastic. Elsewhere Ray's favourite preoccupations pop up the existential malaise simmering beneath 1950s suburbia, castrated males who wish to affirm themselves, striking uses of the colour red (recalling his Johnny Guitar), lonely characters who find each other etc etc. Amplifying the film's alienation are Ray's sets, which include an abandoned mansion and a vast planetarium, in which lecturers speak of man's insignificance even as teens jostle for attention and adoration.Ray's films are oft about sensitive loners. Here he gives us three characters &#x96; Jim, Judy and Plato &#x96; who must negotiate strained familial circumstances. Plato's without parents, Judy's shown little affection by her dad and Jim views his father, who is unwilling to stand up to an overbearing wife, as being emasculated. All three struggle with prescribed gender roles, until the film ends with a climax in which the trio mix strength and sensitivity to form their own working family unit.The film's attempts at psychoanalysis are at times clunky. Plato's homosexual, a fact which he attempts to mask with violent masculinity. Jim's straight, but similarly displaced. If only I belonged some place, he says, some place where I didn't have to be all confused and ashamed! Judy's likewise struggling with acceptance. On the cusp of womanhood, but still a child, she mimics everyone around her in an attempt to fit in.Despair and a longing for connection are traits common in Ray's films. That he mixes these themes with overt existentialism (Man, existing alone, is of little consequence, one character outright says) lends him the aura of a romantic, Suffering Artist. Ray was himself bisexual (as was James Dean), and during the production of Rebel was rumoured to have been sleeping with both Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo, the actors who play Judy and Plato. Wood was also reportedly sleeping with another co-star, a young Dennis Hopper. Her on-screen persona was similarly frisky, Wood often playing sex-starved young women.Rebel Without a Cause is often touted as being the first representation of post-war teen malaise. That's not true. Films like Hitchcock's Shadow of a Doubt predate it by almost a decade. The Wild One and The Blackboard Jungle beat Rebel by a few years as well. What's true is that Rebel's the first of a certain type of teen problem picture. It also captured well its Zeitgeist. This was an era in which the studio system was on its last legs, in which a new generation was casting away the rules and mores of those who came before, and in which the political movements of the sixties were slowly rearing their heads. Wood, the sex goddess of her era, was herself a transitional star, straddling Hollywood's classic studio system and the independent free-for-alls that came later.James Dean's reputation was largely the result of hype and studio marketing. But like Brando, Newman and Montgomery Clift, he also brought a new type of acting into the mainstream. As a result, virtually everything he does in Rebel has become iconographic, from the way he turns up his collar, to his whispered dialogue, to his graceful body motions. In Ray's films, that which is feminine is oft made masculine is made feminine again. Dean, of course, tends to do this without Ray's input, a sexy blend which has led to him, and this film in particular, becoming a fetish object for the James Dean cult.After In A Lonely Place, Rebel Without A Cause is arguably Ray's most atmospheric film. But though Ray's direction and camera work are strong throughout, the film's thin in a number of areas, particularly in its handling of Jim's parents. Ironically for a film about rebelling, our cast's thoroughly conformist. They all want to fit in, to be embraced, and white heterosexual romance is the order of the day.Rebel has been accused by many critics of being sexist (an overbearing mother seems to be the cause of Jim's troubles) and of boosting the idea of traditional masculinity as being a necessity (Jim and Plato have emasculated or absent fathers), but Ray seems to be saying something else entirely. He asks what, exactly, is the definition of a man, and by what standards should a man be defined (breadwinner, leader, hunter etc). In this regard, the film both denounces and affirms traditional conceptions of masculinity/femininity, leading to its climax, in which our new Mother and Father essentially mourn the loss of their gay kid. Then came the 1960s.8/10 &#x96; Dated, overcooked and silly in places, but also excellent, and a fascinating cultural marker. Ray's style and outlook strongly resembles Vincente Minnelli's work during this period. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"When there's nothing to look for except each other.","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray's 'Rebel Without a Cause' is a dramatic, teen movie from the 50's that can be interpreted in a number of different ways. There's no one clear message that's sent through this movie about these kid's lives or their families, which I think attributes to its ever-lasting value. This was a film that was made inbetween times of war, and really there was nothing about society to rebel against, hence the name Rebel Without a Cause. Instead this movie focuses more on home matters and families, particularly through the eyes of the younger generation. These kids all seem to have something to prove to one another, and all want to be a part some group. Jim gets harassed by some punk kids, who manage get under his skin and drive him to do some dangerous things. Judy wants to be loved by her father, but her father doesn't feel inclined to show it. And Plato intends to find the family that he never had. If there was one message I could get out of this movie, it's finding your right place. Unfortunately not everybody ends up in the most perfect situation, but it is their own actions and intentions that lead them there. There was quite a bit of interesting symbolism I found in this movie as well. One scene Judy returns home after a fight with her father and is quickly greeted by her little brother, who hugs her and calls her all the names her father wouldn't call her, which to me shows the love between siblings the younger generation. Also, as mentioned before, the scene where Jim, Judy and Plato all hideaway in the abandoned mansion was one of the more heartwarming moments of the movie. This was one of my most favorite scenes in the movie, and I think told the most about the moral of the story. What these kids want is to be loved. And while it can't seem to work with their own dysfunctional families, they seek to find love in the form of starting their own. "},{"Title":"I'm just the age when nothing fits.","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this film a number of times now and I can't tell you how irritated I get with the character of Frank Stark (Jim Backus), the father of the film's hero portrayed by James Dean. When he appears in that apron, totally emasculated, I want to reach into the film and grab him by the lapels of his jacket and shake some sense into him. Apparently Jimbo wanted to do the same in that scene when he knocked the father out of his chair and begged him to be a man. She eats him up alive and he takes it! is the way Jim describes the relationship between his parents, and you begin to understand why he's the confused and alienated suburban youth of the Fifties, not because he's from a poor or racial family, but because there's no one he can connect with on any meaningful level.As good as the film is, I find I have some of the same reservations mentioned by other reviewers. I know the template for movies, and even TV shows of the Fifties, was to use older actors to play the part of teenagers, but the disparity here is overdone except in the case of Sal Mineo's Plato. I look around at teenagers of today, and I don't think they could have handled themselves with the likes of Buzz, Crunch and Moose hanging around. Funny, but I don't recall handles like that when I was a kid growing up in the Fifties, but I do remember a 'Slats', so I guess they were around.There's also the odd non-reaction when Buzz goes over the cliff during the chickie-run. Is it my imagination, or did no one express any horror over the event? Personally, this would have caused a big time freak out with any group I ever hung around with but it didn't cause that much of a sensation here. That didn't seem very believable to the extent that it failed to tie into the desperation that many of the teens in the picture seemed to be feeling.I like James Dean and like many others, I wish he hadn't died at such an early age. Imagine the output he could have produced based solely on the three memorable films he made his acting mark in. One of the original trailers for Rebel Without a Cause describes it as 'Entertainment of Unforgettable Emotional Impact'. Generally I find that to be pretty accurate as it deals with teenage angst that prevailed in the era of the late Fifties/early Sixties. Things are certainly different today with a lot more distractions vying for young people's attention, but the need for understanding, love and friendship are timeless qualities that are brought home with this film, with a message that still has universal appeal. "},{"Title":"A  misfit young man gets mixed up with some tough guys  and two sensible ,  troubled  friends","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Trending picture about maladjusted teenagers excellently directed by Nicholas Ray , being his most popular and influential film . A rebellious adolescent named Jim Stark (James Dean) with a troubled past comes to a new town, finding friends and enemies. He is alienated from both his peers and parents (Anna Doran , Jim Backus) . He finds underdog youth as Plato (Sal Mineo) and Judy (Natalie Wood , to whom Ray was rumored to have made advances) in a Police Station and soon later they befriend turning into three outcast friends .Good film dealing with adolescence problems from the 50s , being magnificent played by a group of splendid young men . Many memorable set-pieces , including the chickie run between James Dean and black leather-jacketed Corey Allen . James Dean's most important screen appearance in the second of his three movies , following East of Eden and his final was Giant. Director Ray touches upon his favorite theme two lovers searching for a quiet place to live in peace that also used in former picture titled Lovers of the Night (1945), one of his few totally controlled pieces of work . Awesome support cast formed by newcomers who would have an acceptable and uneven career as Dennis Hooper , Corey Allen , Nick Adams and special mention to Sal Mineo as lone and feeble Plato . Ray, screenwriter Stewart Stern, costar James Dean, and Sal Mineo himself all intended for Mineo's character Plato to be subtly but definitely understood as gay , although the Production Code was still very much in force and forbade any mention of homosexuality, all worked together to insert restrained references to Plato's homosexuality and attraction to Jim, including the pinup photo of Alan Ladd on Plato's locker door, Plato's adoring looks at Jim, his loaded talk with Jim in the old mansion, and even the name Plato, which is a reference to the Classical Greek philosopher ; for that mansion scene, Dean suggested to Mineo that Plato should look at me the way I look at Natalie. Furthermore , the film packs a colorful and glimmer cinematography in Technicolor by Ernest Haller . Moving as well as thrilling musical score by Leonard Rosenman .The motion picture was very well directed by Nicholas Ray who researched L.A. gangs by riding around with them for several nights. In September of 1954, Ray wrote a treatment to The Blind Run, about three troubled adolescents who create a new family in each other. This would form the basis for this picture . After some re-writes, Ray started shopping for a lead actor. After a trip to the Strasberg Institute in New York proved fruitless, he learned that Elia Kazan had recently discovered a New York stage actor for his latest film, but he wasn't recommending him; even after Ray saw a rough cut of this actor's latest film he still wasn't sure. It was only when Ray met 24 year old James Dean at a party did he realize that this hot new talent would be perfect for the role of Jim Stark, a troubled youth whose world is unraveled in a 24-hour period. Ray and Dean formed a very close bond during filming, with Ray allowing Dean to improvise and even direct to his liking. The rest of the cast came together with the talents of two fifteen-year-old  Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo; as well as smaller roles, which Ray cast based on weeks of bizarre, improvised auditions as well as interviews with the actors. The three superb young stars carry this in-the-gut tale of teens . However , all three leads met with real-life tragic end , Dean dead by a car crash , Natalie by drowning and Mineo was killed . Filming was a wild ride, but it paid off; Mineo and Wood were both Oscar-nominated in the supporting acting categories, and Ray received his only Oscar nomination, for the screenplay. Ray and Dean planned to make more movies after this, but Dean's death would never make that possible, and at least they left movie audiences with one great film. Rating  two thumbs up , extraordinary , top-drawer material . Indispensable and essential watching this classic movie . "},{"Title":"New Hollywood","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's fair to say this film is the very origin of the 'new Hollywood' era, since James dean was one of the first method actors, along with Marlon Brando and Dennis hopper.What made this film so groundbreaking at the time was that it portrayed very neatly and accurately the state of society in the mid 50'sThis film is about children who are not quite adults, and their desire to rebel against their parents, what makes this film powerful is that it portrays this as well as showing that inside the characters of Jim stark, Judy and Plato are nothing more than vulnerable children. A highly commendable piece of cinema "},{"Title":"Nothing has changed since 1955","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this film James Dean is quite convincing as an actor and his part is perfect. A difficult part in that trinity of J, Jim (for James), Judy and John, in one letter Jesus three times and one of the three will have to be sacrificed, crucified in a way, falling right upon a random police bullet when unarmed.Just such a concentrate of the film shows how ridiculous the world was in 1955. The war was over and the horror of before, during and after was so bleak that the whole world was stoned into full paralytic dullness by the holocaust, the genocide, the fifty million victims and the huge destruction of goods and infrastructures but also of morals and ethics and plain human decency. No surprise that John had Plato as a middle name. The philosophy we could have then was nothing but the good thinking of an elite in a society where 80% of the people were slaves, like in Athens.In a world like that what is left for the young? The question is actually slightly premature in a way since these high school teenagers in the early 1950s had experienced the war. They had the horror of the end of that war and they had nothing to thrill them into believing there was some kind of future worth living. No allusion is done to it but there is nothing but the Cold War to enthuse these young people. With that kind of perspective there is not much any one can do to motivate them. We can even wonder if the world exists for these young people in this film.The parents are dead war heroes, or plain absent. They can also be neurotic and paranoid survivors who want to do things differently and well and do not see that either they run away from what these young people want, or they just ignore what they want, or they just leave them to their own means and to die playing some chicken dare over a cliff. The world is unable to provide these young people with the two things they want love and a cause they could commit their lives to.And they will get none.The school system will go on harping on stars and constellations and will not see that some bullies are imposing their norms to everyone and that those these bullies decide to victimize will have to survive the death of their bullying challengers or die. What a beautiful perspective. Death in both cases. And they do nothing about it, the teachers and the guidance counsellors, and it is still going on. The pedagogical masters who are in fact monstrous monstrosities are just ignoring their very mission which is to build in all the young people they are entrusted with an idealistic vision of the future that makes them ready to work with everyone as equals and to respect everyone else in all their parameters and personalities. The school system has drastically been failing since 1945.The police is not better since they can only brandish weapons and shoot first. Nothing has changed there either since 1945. They do not wait for the presumed criminal to start shooting or to really prove he is dangerous for himself or for others. They neutralize him for life by inflicting him death first and wondering afterwards. In the particular case of this film the police officer who shot the boy did not get any order from his commanding officers, in fact it was the reverse, and he was under no menace from an unloaded gun and the other young man had actually said so but it must have gotten lost in translation from plain English to police speak.Young people want to invest their tremendous energy in some cause, but they have none worth even blinking half an eye. Young people want to love everyone and find love in everyone, and not that kind of churchlike love but all the shades of love you can imagine, fatherly, motherly, friendly, brotherly, sisterly and even plain childlike and adult love. That's a lot and I can tell you that has not change since Auschwitz love is the last thing anyone will provide the people around them on a daily basis, and if anyone tried to do that he or she would at once be classified perverse, paedophilic, peevish, petulant, in one word depraved, though in fact that someone is only trying to give what they want and need to deprived people.But deprivation is the basic goods of this society.Is there any hope? For the dead chap certainly not though he is going with the coat of one who was his friend and he knew it more or less. For the young man who gave his coat he found a girl friend but will that be enough of a cause to satisfy his rebellious needs? He also finally found some understanding on the side of his father and especially of his mother. Will she be able to remain that open or will she go back to her frigid paranoia and escapism? For the girl Judy she lost a boyfriend down the cliff who was a bully and she got a new one who was the bully's plaything. Did she win anything? And how long will she be able to go on with her subservient attitude waiting for and finding the man she wants to submit to? Without a cause and without a commitment to that cause, there is no hope on this earth and in this society. A film that still speaks to us even if it has aged technically.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "}{"Title":"Rebel Without a Cause","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although it's been a while (several years, in fact) since I last saw Rebel Without a Cause, I do remember it as being one of the finest movies I've ever seen, and one of the overall best films of the 20th century and one of the best films ever made. It is arguably the greatest movie ever made about juvenile delinquency and alienated youth (and pretty much every problem facing American youths everywhere). But first and foremost, Rebel Without a Cause is most famous for cementing the legendary status of its star, tragic lead actor and Hollywood icon James Dean, who died in a car accident just one month prior to the film's release in 1955. His portrayal of the extremely troubled young man Jim Stark and the trouble he finds himself getting into once he moves to a new town and joins a gang, made him an icon and a living stand-in for all the troubled youths everywhere, as well as sparking over half a century of debate over what is causing youths to misbehave so violently sometimes and what can be done to fix it. Rebel Without a Cause offers no easy solutions, but I feel that it is simply a true-life portrait of one young man's troubled existence; I don't think this movie was made to offer solutions, but instead I think we're meant to understand Jim Stark's dilemmas, amongst those of the other characters in the film. Director Nicholas Ray's film may or may not be cursed (as some legends have it), since all three of the film's primary stars have met tragic, premature deaths as stated earlier, James Dean died in a car accident one month before the film's release; actress Natalie Wood was involved in a mysterious drowning accident in 1981; and Sal Mineo was murdered in 1976. This film remains their most famous and iconic film roles, and one of my all-time favorite movies.10/10 "},{"Title":"Tsk. Tsk. All Those Troubled Teens Of Yesterday, Today, & Tomorrow","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, folks - If you don't know this already, Rebel Without a Cause (RWAC, for short) was the very movie that (back in the mid-1950s) spoke precisely the right lingo to millions of angry, alienated and defiant teens all across this here continent. It told them exactly what they wanted to hear.As well, RWAC catapulted its bright, new star, James Dean, right into Hollywood-idol heaven where he would instantly become the most emulated and worshipped actor (by the teens) of his day. (Within the same year of this film's release, Dean, at 24, would be dead, but not forgotten)Casually dressed in red (jacket), white (t-shirt) & blue (jeans), Dean (like an American flag of sorts) stood tall in this film as the very essence of cool. And, thus, in the starry eyes of the teens who adored him, he was transformed into a revered icon through their undying devotion.As a teen flick, RWAC certainly posed many pertinent questions, but rarely did it answer any of them, satisfactorily. I mean, this film didn't help at all to resolve the growing concern of delinquency which was rearing its ugly head amongst the American youth.But RWAC did make it clear that a problem such as hooliganism was a two-sided coin where full blame for its existence could neither be laid solely on the confused parents' indifference, nor on their bored children's defiance.All-in-all - RWAC, with its timely message, was well-structured story-telling that literally screamed out at the top of its lungs - Money can't buy me love! *Trivia note* - If James Dean were alive today he'd be 83 years old. "},{"Title":"If i had one day when i didn't have to be all confused and i didn't have to feel that i was ashamed of everything ............","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark is a troubled teenager who moves to a new town finding friends and enemies whilst he clashes with his parents ho do not understand him or how he feels. A simple and provoking story and the first film to deal with teenage angst as a story. Dean again makes the film a classic , the image of him in a red windbreaker , jeans , boots and a white t-shirt have become one of the most famous looks in popular culture , the way Dean portrays Stark is one of the most realistic performances ever , he really makes the viewer feel the angst and hormone ridden emotions that his character feels. The scenes which really show this are often with his parents where his feelings contrast with their lack of understanding. Natalie wood and Sal Mineo also give memorable performances as two other young kids who's own emotional troubles help them to connect with Dean's character however once again Dean is the show stealer here. A great film and probably the best film depicting teenage unrest and still holds up just as emotionally dramatic and challenging today as it did over 50 years ago. "},{"Title":"This movie had a lot more than I expected.","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie had a lot more than I expected. I think all of us have heard of this movie, especially because of James Deans fame after his early death. And with the title, it sound kinda corny. Far from it, this is one of the best 50's movies I've seen taking on many sociological questions about teen environments. I don't even know why the title is Rebel without a cause, the cause is shown quite clearly. I don't think I've ever before seen such an old film depicting a dysfunctional family, sure compared to today it's not too bad, it it is still very well told. James Deans character Jim Stark is one of the most complex and enigmatic, yet still easy to understand and identify with character I've ever seen. From the very opening sequence his performance is great, and his character well portrayed. Of course this film has more than a dysfunctional family, but there are so many teen related problems in it I think I'd rather just say; watch the movie. If you like drama, teen film, are interesting in sociology, psychology, or just plain like films, I highly recommend this film. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Concerning everyday's youth.","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie is about some of the typical struggles of teenagers. It was a mostly relevant and revolutionary picture back in the '50's but you can also definitely say its still being relevant to today's young audience. They struggle with their own identity, stuff at school, feeling like outcasts and misunderstood by your parents and everyone else. This movie has all this stuff in it, teenager at one point or another used to struggle with. It's set at a certain point in life when you have to decide who you want to be be and what you want to do with your life but without knowing the answers yourself to any of this. You have to explore and discover it on your own, the easy or the hard way.Of course the story and events get exaggerated and enlarged, in order to fit all of those themes into an under 2 hours movie. It's perhaps the biggest and only complaint of the movie that it doesn't always move natural and isn't the most realistic movie around, concerning the story and its themes. It's still mostly being a subtle movie though, so you don't have to be afraid of any melodramatic plot lines or performances of the actors.James Dean was an absolutely great actor, whose style was really that of his own and unlike anyone else's of that time. His acting was really confident and even somewhat cocky in a good way. He plays his character really well and not in a way you would normally expect to see in a movie like this. His performance alone already made this movie a classic. There are also some other great, young actors in this, such as Sal Mineo, Natalie Wood and Dennis Hopper with hair, in his first movie role.It's an original movie with its story and approach and it also got shot in full color, which does really give the movie some extra dimension. I'm not the biggest fan of the director Nicholas Ray but with this movie he simply did a great job. It's also definitely his best known- and most appreciated one. He did some stylish, symbolic and just plain good stuff for this movie.Not the perfect classic but a great classic nevertheless.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Still good but definitely dated!","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Nicholas Ray presents us with his vision of life as 1950s angst-ridden adolescents in Rebel Without a Cause. With 2010 marking the fifty-fifth anniversary of the film, I felt compelled to write a review as objective as possible without any nostalgic bias as so many reviews for this film are written.I think most of this film's enduring legacy are based upon three things. One, its catchy title. Two, it was one of only three films ever made starring the late James Dean, who died tragically on September 30, 1955, just weeks before the film was to be released in theaters. Lastly, it provides the most iconic image of Dean, clad in his red windbreaker, white crew neck T-shirt and jeans.As far as the actual content of the film is concerned, it hasn't aged very well. Of course, maybe that is to be expected for a decades old social commentary. Even still, it's hard to imagine this wasn't viewed as melodramatic even at the time.James Dean turns in a good performance as Jim Stark, but is it the stuff of acting legend? The jury's still out on that one as far as I'm concerned. Personally, I think he did a good job but is it an untouchable performance? I don't think so. However, I will give credit where credit is due and say that at the time he was better than many of his contemporaries.It is interesting to note that Marlon Brando was originally considered for the lead role, but being seven years older than Dean was thought too old for the part, and in all honesty, he would've been.Rebel is the kind of movie you should check out if for no other reason than to be able to say you've seen it. Just keep in mind how old the film is, and try not to laugh during the chickie run when Buzz Gunderson (Corey Allen) goes over the side of the cliff and perishes in one of the cheesiest fiery explosions I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Classic Fifties Youth Drama Starring The Immortal James Dean","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark has problems. He doesn't get on with his folks. He's in trouble with the law. He's just moved to a new town and doesn't know anybody. Worst of all, he has the hots for the girl next door. What's he gotta do to be a stand up guy ?James Dean is a hard man to critique. On one hand he may be one of the greatest actors of all time, with iconographic good looks and a smouldering style that influenced a whole generation of movie stars and tough guys. On the other, he only made three movies, at least one of which is kinda dull and he plays a very similar part in all of them. This is his best film and best performance I think, and the imagery of him in his red jacket and jeans, tooling around town in a 1949 Mercury Coupe is pretty unforgettable. He's just Mr Cool, ain't no doubt about it. And although the film personifies the fifties juvenile delinquent era (along with the less wholesome The Cool And The Crazy), its themes and drama are still as potent as ever today. For me, it's a movie all about fathers and failing relationships with their children. Jim wishes his Dad had more resolve, Judy's Dad is too embarrassed to talk to her about her developing sexuality, and Plato simply wants to have a Dad who loves him. The only adult who attempts to understand the kids is Ray the cop. Jim is hotheaded enough to get into trouble whenever someone calls him a chicken, but also mature enough to realise that kind of macho lifestyle isn't really worth a damn. But when he asks his Dad about it he never gets a straight answer. This would make a good strange double bill with Alien, which in a weird way is all about mothers and motherhood. The film is thoughtful and honest about families and the social pressures of youth, and the cast are all very good. Wood (who was only seventeen) is the classic girl next door, and Mineo (sixteen) as the deeply troubled Plato, in many ways steals the movie from Dean with his edgy, homoerotic, little boy lost performance. The well-known sequence where the three of them hide out in the big abandoned house is lyrical and haunting, not least because all three talented actors subsequently met with violent deaths at much too young an age; Dean was already dead before the movie opened. Featuring a nice loud score by Leonard Rosenman and sharp photography throughout by Ernest Haller (despite Dean trying to jump out of the frame all the time). Ray was a talented and socially conscious director who, along with contemporaries like Sam Fuller and Don Siegel, made a lot of good films in the fifties and sixties (check out In A Lonely Place and Johnny Guitar). Written by Stewart Stern and Irving Shulman, from an original story by Ray. Although Rebel was preceded by a few youth-gone-wild pictures (The Wild One, The Blackboard Jungle), it's pretty much the model for every teen angst film since, from To Sir, With Love to The Breakfast Club to Heathers. At the time it was quite the phenomenon and the passing decades have done nothing to detract from its dramatic impact. "},{"Title":"Enduring icon","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebelliousness. Testosterone. Driving force.In the cool light of day, knowing where the anger comes from and what it is directed at often saps the charisma around such things. It lets us explain it away. When there is no such reason, no cause, it acquires an almost godlike status, beyond logic and argument. This is the film that launched the icon that was James Dean. His name now litters countless songs as the immortal symbol of teenage angst, a figure of non-aggressive but charged masculinity almost without equal. The film title, taken from a psychologist's collection of juvenile case studies, captures the imagination even before we see the movie.Jim Stark (James Dean) meets the sweet, unloved Judy (Natalie Wood) - the girl destined to be his sweetheart - when they are pulled into a police station at the start of the film. Through no fault of her own, she has been mistaken for a streetwalker. Jim is just 'plain drunk'. Also in the police station is an emotionally disturbed youngster called John, or 'Plato'. Plato's anger and aggression can take a more violent turn, but he also a victim of circumstances whose parents care nothing for him.The teenage cry of, You don't understand me!! could not be portrayed more meaningfully right from scene one.Judy's boyfriend, Buzz, is the leader of the gang and taunts her new friend. Jim is torn between always trying to avoid trouble but never wanting to be seen as 'chicken'. Buzz manipulates him into a flick-knife fight, which acts as prelude for the even more dangerous 'chicken run' challenge - racing stolen cars towards a cliff edge and jumping out at the last minute.Rebel Without A Cause continues the themes of teenage alienation with great dexterity and insight. Plato befriends Jim and Judy, eager for companionship. He guides them through a derelict Gothic mansion. Here, and in the nearby planetarium, the stories of love, friendship and violence reach a dramatic and tragic climax.The strengths of Rebel Without A Cause that set it apart from the multitude of inferior copies are numerous. (Teenage rebellion films multiplied exponentially in the years immediately following its release.) In terms of substance, it both follows expert psychological profiling and distinguished Method Acting. Stylistically, it is a showpiece of evocative cinematography.Cinemascope was still quite new and is used here to remarkable effect. In the police station, Jim, Judy and Plato (who don't know each other at this stage) are sectioned across three discrete pockets of the set. We can see each third portraying the distinct individuals with their own story lines. Later, before the first real kiss, the wide screen is used effectively at closer quarters in a head-and-shoulders shot. Here, Jim lies on his back and we see him side-on, motionless but inviting, as Judy exchanges sweet nothings with him, gradually edging closer. The length of the screen continues in our imagination - we feel their bodies should be entwined. This build up to the first kiss is maybe one of the most tantalising in screen history. We can visualise it long before it happens.Colour coding is an important stylistic touch. Look out for the symbolic values of Jim's jacket, Judy's lipstick, and various colour schemes that appear throughout the film. The uneasy background score effectively underlines the themes of psychological turmoil.The film also has a serious note that raises it above its apparent teen-flick status. The idea that teenage rebelliousness or delinquency cannot just be blamed on social deprivation and is not just bred in the slums was quite innovative. (The youngsters in the film are from fairly affluent backgrounds.) It also gave expression to a non-conformist persona that teenagers could identify readily with, the antithesis of adult 'apparent perfection'. It laid bare the generation gap and helped to force people to acknowledge and deal with it. Characterisations are full enough to explore hidden themes of homosexuality and incest. Cameos include the young Dennis Hopper and, towards the end of the film, director Nicholas Ray.Unlike many examples of cinema from an earlier generation, Rebel Without A Cause is dynamic edge-of-the-seat viewing many years on. James Dean is reported as saying, Dream as if you'll live forever. Live as if you'll die today. Sadly he never lived to see the release of the film, but the dreams he created seem to live on. "},{"Title":"Was he really a Rebel without a Cause","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Was this movie really about Jim Stark (James Dean)? No, &#145;Rebel without a Cause' was mainly about a young boy who has nothing then when a boy Jim (Dean) moves to town becomes his friend, and family. The director was unique when it came to this movie, instead of making Jim (Dean) the rebel he made John &#145;Plato' Crawford (Sal Mineo) but even though the director focused on Jim (Dean) during the movie you can tell who was the real rebel without a cause.  	There were parts of the movie were the acting seems to be fake, for example when Judy (Natalie Wood) was crying she was more like screaming. Also when Jim is drunk, you can tell that he was drunk, but when he goes and talks to the detective he seems to be fine and talking clearly. James Dean seem to play the part well but he looks older then the part that he is playing. There was a scene when Jim (Dean) is doing a &#145;chicken run' which is a drag race to see who will make it out of their car before the car reaches the cliff, when Judy's boyfriend lost she wasn't really disappointed, and she grew to Jim (Dean) and could care less of her boyfriend Buzz Gunderson (Corey Allen) and all of a sudden she claimed to &#145;love' Jim (Dean). Jim's mother (Ann Doran) seems to be a spineless, and crude, and his father Frank Stark (Jim Backus) acts as if he can't take control, he just sits there and lets Mrs. Stark take over. 	In the end Plato, Jim and Judy realizes what happened and how to fix it but it was too late for one of them. So it may seem the movie is about Jim Stark (Dean) but you'll have to see the movie to see who is the real rebel "},{"Title":"Great Classic Film","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie for the first time and I have found it to be entertaining.  Far better than George Lucas' American Graffiti this film is a microcasm of some of the 1950s' teenage years that spawned a new and even more rebellious decade; the 1960s.  "}{"Title":"Every high school student should see this film","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is excellent. Every high school student should see this film. I can see why James Dean became an idol after movies like this Giant. Sal Mineo was excellent in his role of Plato. With the rash of high school shootings over the past 5 years or so hs students can learn a lot from this film. Highly recommended 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Film that Teenagers can relate to over 40 Years Later","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'll never forget when I first saw James Dean come on screen in this film as Jim Stark. He played the rebellious youth not for the fifties, but for all decades, even through the 21st century. He played his role well, giving what I thought to be his greatest performance (out of only three major roles). He played this role so well probably because even he could relate, with his Live fast, Die Young attitude towards life. The plot is one that many teenagers still today can relate to any misunderstood, rebel without a cause, who feels like sometimes he is being torn apart. Natalie Wood gives a fine performance as Judy, who hangs with a gang that has taken a particular disliking to Jim Stark, and his friend, the always-misunderstood Plato, played well by Sal Mineo. Jim Backus was an excellent choice for Jim Stark's father, who never stands up for himself. Even Dennis Hopper, in his first film role as Goon, a hoodlum. The scene where Stark tries to settle things with the gang one night by playing a game to decide who the coward is really stook out to me as the film's greatest scene (although there were many others). And the result of that game fuels the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"its relevance is is as strong half a century later","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The reason I love this film so much lies in the fact that it is a perfect way to understand post-war America (if not the world)films and literature of this era are of the most daring and challenging ever produced, nower days we seem perfectly happy to be shown irrelevence in favour of substance as long as something explodes, Rebel is charged with the emotions of youth suppressed at that time. One thing I find quite disturbing is that its message is sadly as pivotal today as it was in the fifties, still the young are treated wrongly in socioty, socially conditioned into something laid down by supposed betters. Rebel is what all teen movies should be, it questions the feelings of its players and reveals the sources of their troubles (lack of understanding from parental figures...aint it always so). Its a sad fact that the youth of today think they know and understand everything, hence the influx of so many irony laden teen flicks , as a youth myself, it irritates me that we as a social group are so pompus, I just wish insightful films like this were still made today, maybe then we would be less up our selves and realise as with the cast of rebel, all we desire from life is recognition and love. James Dean gives an amazing performance, his portrayal as Jim is one of the only truly polysemic roles ever, he shows rebellion and sensitivity without ever seeming false, I defy anyone who cannot connect with Jim on at least one level, his frustration evolves into deep understanding, and his characters growth is a joy to watch. Rebel should simply be on every national school curriculum as an aid for puberty, remember kids FIGHT THE POWER...FIGHT THE POWER  "},{"Title":"The first real teen angst film.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are not many movies that can touch someone the way that Rebel without a Cause has touched me.  The character Jim Stark (played perfectly by the incomparable James Dean) is a perfect model of youth, and his troubles and emotions are the exact same ones that teenagers of any era experience. Nicholas Ray took movies in a new direction with this film, creating the first visionary movie about teenagers and their problems.  Not only does Rebel have a terrific script and plot, but the acting is first rate as well.  James Dean is (in my opinion)the most amazing actor to have ever lived.  I can think of very few actors that can even come close to his talent.  Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo are also fantastic, they are an amazing complement to James Dean and his character Jim.  The story itself, which revolves around the effect that parents have on their children, is amazing. It is truly the fisrt movie to depict the troubles that teenagers face every day, and it has the ability to relate to teenagers and their parents at the same time.  Nicholas Ray is to be commended for his brillant work on this film. "},{"Title":"Hardly could have been worse","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause is incredibly weak on every level, and the little that's offered is so absurd and incoherent it would destabilize the most tolerant.Whether it is the plot itself, uninteresting because almost non-existent, or the characters you are told nothing about and who are even a bit creepy in their behaviours, everything just stays superficial in this scenario which, as often happened in those days, tried to mix different genres but never went deeper on any of them, the most blatant example being the rushed and totally unbelievable love story between Jim and Judy.The content hardly could have been worse and unfortunately the form doesn't compensate for, the direction is clearly poor, the editing and soundtrack don't match the action. "},{"Title":"...You know you've been some place.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't have really high expectations going in to see Rebel Without a Cause. I saw it simply because it's a cult classic, and everyone has to see it at sometime or another. Suffice it to say that I was very pleasantly surprised. Not only is the acting superb, but the storyline is brilliantly pieced together and the characters are equally well-developed. It is truly a beautiful journey.James Dean's brilliantly subtle portrayal of a troubled teen is perfect &#150; while some of the lines are a bit melodramatic and could be terrible if performed by the wrong actor, James Dean makes them not only believable, but extremely effective. He doesn't even have to speak to let you know what he's thinking. You can just feel it.One of the things I thought was great about this film is that James Dean's character, Jim Stark, is not your regular Hollywood bad-boy. He's not just going around looking for a good time, and he's certainly not looking for trouble, as the title seems to suggest. Like any of us teens, Jim has made big mistakes in his life, but unlike some of us, he genuinely wants to do the right thing. He's surprisingly sensitive and sincere; which, as Judy (Natalie Wood) states, is just the trouble.Weird as it may sound, I absolutely love Sal Mineo's character, Plato, and the way the film portrays him. One of the first things we hear Plato say is, No one can help me. He tries so hard to be accepted, and finally finds a friend in Jim. Even though lots of people say there are homosexual innuendos here, I don't believe there are. Plato's need for attention spawns from his neglectful parents &#150; which, as Jim points out, are who he tries to turn Jim and Judy into. He even says several times that he wishes Jim were his father. A truly tragic character, Plato will go to any length to get the affection he was always denied.Though mostly about the teens and their attempts at being accepted and loved, a huge part of the story follows the relationship between Jim and his parents. The way this family is portrayed is absolutely brilliant, as it shows that abusive and neglectful parents aren't the only ones who can mess up their child's life. Jim's parents love him, and he loves them &#150; but the way his domineering mother makes mush out of his submissive father is just tearing Jim apart. Every boy needs someone to look up to; but Jim finds it hard (and rightly so) to look up to a man who is even afraid to contradict his wife.The story takes place in just over one day. In some films this can be a bit choppy, but director Nicholas Ray did an excellent job in this one. One of the really cool things about it is that, though Jim is the main character, the story isn't told just from his point of view. In most every scene, Ray takes you into the head of each character. In some cases, it's a real trip.The only bone I have to pick with this movie is the oddly resolved conflict between Jim's parents at the end. When Jim's dad indicates to his wife to shut up, they merely smile at each other and walk away together. I mean, this is what we wanted through the whole movie &#150; but the smiles really do seem out of place in the moment.One of my favorite parts takes place at the field trip to the Planetarium, while watching the light show. While looking up at the stars, Jim leans back and says, Once you been up there, you know you've been some place. At that moment, you can feel his desire to do something great; his desire to really be some place worth being. Watching this film, you feel like you're there &#150; and it's definitely a place worth being. "},{"Title":"You're tearing me apart!","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When it comes to 1950s cinema, few films are more iconic than Nicholas Ray's 'Rebel Without a Cause (1955),' which was one of the first to actively explore the themes of juvenile delinquency and the decay of American youth, and the widening rift between adolescents and their parents. The screenplay by Stewart Stern and Irving Shulman, from a story by the director, derived its title from an actual 1944 publication, Rebel Without A Cause The Hypnoanalysis of a Criminal Psychopath, but bares little other resemblance to this book. Of the three feature films for which James Dean is remembered, it is this one with which he is most closely associated, his tragic death in a motor accident on September 30 1955 somewhat validating his reputation as a rebel without a cause, ensuring his enduring legacy as an American cultural icon though undoubtedly denying the cinema-going public of a lifetime of brilliant performances. In 1956, Ray's film received three Oscar nominations, including acting nods for co-stars Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo Dean received the first of his two posthumous Best Actor nominations, but for Elia Kazan's 'East of Eden (1955)' rather than this film.Jim Stark (Dean) is a rebellious seventeen-year-old, whose tendency to get into trouble with the police forces his family to move neighbourhoods often. He is one of three adolescents in the film whose degrading relationship with their parents &#150; to varying degrees, as I'll explain &#150; attempts to demonstrate and explain the widening rift between generations. Jim finds himself able to talk to his father (Jim Backus), but can next coax a straight answer out of him. Frank Stark is a meek, submissive husband &#150; shown in one scene dressed in a woman's apron to highlight his lack of household authority &#150; and Jim finds it difficult to respect him. Judy (Natalie Wood) can hardly interact with her father (William Hopper), as he resents her approaching maturity and labels her a dirty tramp for dressing up and using lipstick. As for the troubled Plato (Sal Mineo), his parents have more or less deserted him, and he is left in the care of an African-American maid who isn't able to control his disturbed personality. By the end of the film, Plato has become the story's sacrificial lamb, his tragic shooting death the inevitable culmination of the neglect of his parents.Had a lesser director held the reins during the film's production, it would have been easy for 'Rebel Without a Cause' to erode in quality with the passing of time. A picture dealing with then-contemporary issues such as juvenile delinquency today a considerably more complex and troubling subject might now appear dated, but it holds up surprisingly well, both as a societal caution and as artistic entertainment. The first ten minutes do, indeed, feel something like a public service announcement, but the narrative falls into a comfortable rhythm as we come to know and sympathise with the major characters. Likewise, some outdated elements now seem exaggerated and a little silly the consequences of the chickie-run didn't need to be quite so drastic &#150; and Judy completely forgot the death of her boyfriend within hours, but all is forgiven in view of James Dean's memorable, incredibly heartfelt performance. His anguished cry of you're tearing me apart! betrays the confusion and torment suffered by many youths stranded in a household that they can't understand, and whose shortcomings they blame on themselves &#150; Jim's mother (Ann Doran), notably, uses her son's actions as a scapegoat for the failing of her marriage. "},{"Title":"A genre-creator and classic teen movie","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is the teen angst movie to end all teen angst movies, largely thanks to James Dean's nuanced performance. Rebel invented the teen angst genre, a genre has been popular ever since, with constantly Hollywood churning out teen movies at a furious pace. The strength of this movie lies not within its story, which is nothing special until the closing moments of the film. It is special because of the power of its performances, and because it was James Dean's last movie before the car crash that claimed his life.The story of Rebel Without a Cause is simple, a format followed often by subsequent films in the same genre. Jim Stark (Dean) is a troublemaker who has recently arrived in town. It is clear that Stark is not a bad kid at heart, just misunderstood by his parents and acting out in hopes of getting their attention. It's a setup that has become as cliched as the teen movie genre as a whole.Jim Stark is the core of this movie; everything else revolves around him. The movie follows his attempts to fit in and make friends with some of his new peers, a process made more difficult by the tight cliques and gangs already in place. Stark befriends a student nicknamed Plato (Sal Mineo), mostly because they are both outcasts in the society of the high school. Stark also attempts to befriend Judy (Natalie Wood), and though she rebuffs his advances early on, she grows to like him and clings to Jim after the tragedy of the chicken race off the cliff.The trio's attempts to find solace are interrupted by vengeful friends of Judy's dead boyfriend, out for Jim Stark's blood. Plato is pushed over the edge by the actions of the gang members, and the film ends in one of cinema's greatest and most gripping climaxes.Rebel Without a Cause is important both as a piece of film history for James Dean, and as a portrait of the increasingly disaffected youth of America and the growing rift between they and their parents. It is clear that the seeds of the1960's culture revolution are present in these teens, as they rebel against their parents and societal norms together, in order to form their own society.The parallels drawn between families, gangs, and friends also shows the three groups to be not that different, and that those teens who cannot find love and affection at home &#150; such as Judy &#150; will often find it in groups that act as stand-ins for family. Perhaps the most engaging part of the story is Jim's efforts to reconcile with his parents, especially his weak father (Jim Backus, of Mr. Howell fame on Gilligan's Island) who is controlled by his domineering wife.By the movie's end, things are finally looking up for Jim, despite a turn for the worse for Plato. He seems truly happy with Judy, and his father seems to finally come into his own and stand up for his son. The message of the film is to fight for what you believe in, even if you don't have anything to believe in yet; as happened for Jim, what you believe in may make itself obvious if you choose to take risks and make a stand. Though Jim Stark may have begun the film as a rebel without a cause, by the time the credits roll, he has found one that he is willing to fight for. "},{"Title":"Good, But Not Timeless","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  AFter all of these years of James Dean Hype, I finally decided to rent this movie. I have to say that it is something that you can enjoy after all of this time, however it is not the timeless piece that it is made out to be. The acting was fine for the time, although there was a sense of overacting at time, especially by Plato. Theres something about 50's movies that are just so different from today. It's like the actors don't have good chemistry, like every conversation is forced or it is so dramatic. Dean was a talented actor, its a shame we couldn't see more. But to call him the best ever or to keep this film at the top of the timeless films is a mistake. "},{"Title":"Outstanding film","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without A Cause is one of those classic movies that stays with us always.  James Dean was absolutely incredible as Jim Stark.  Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo and Jim Backus also gave wonderful performances, but Dean stood out as only he could. "}{"Title":"The Greatest James Dean Movie!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  By far his most entertaining work!  This kid would have been a legend, if no for his early death.  This is one of the best movies about adolescence from a teenagers viewpoint of all time!  Please note the appearance of Dennis Hopper, who later said James Dean influenced him more than any other figure in his life!  "},{"Title":"A Tremendous Motion Picture","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a teenager when this movie came out. However, I didn't see it until last year. I wasn't a James Dean fan back then. I suppose you might call me a slow learner. As far as I am concerned, James Dean was one of the greatest actors of all times. And despite what some critics say, this film is as relevant today as it was when the picture first came out.The acting in the picture is superb--particularly James Dean as Jim Stark. It is a fascinating movie to watch because his acting ability takes a new turn in Rebel--Dean matures from the excited, bouncing, youthful Cal Trask of East of Eden to the more determined, angry, frustrated rebel. He wants answers--and he is certainly not getting them from his parents.This is definitely a picture to see. "},{"Title":"great for it's time","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We have definately surpassed this movie, but for it's time, this was a powerful movie sending messages to our once forsaken parents.  If only they listened to everything we had to say.  James Dean is classic, definately an idol of mine, I have this movie and have watched it numeriously.  Definately a worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Timeless masterpiece","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was born in the year 1986. I have never heard of an actor named James Dean until recently. I, like a lot of teenagers, are facing problems that may seem trivial to adults but the world to us. Rebel Without A Cause was made 31 years before I was born...and yet, it is the only movie that I have seen that I can fully relate to. Rebel Without A Cause is definitely not dated; it's timeless. Jim Stark, Plato and Judy are teenagers who seek love and understanding in a world where they don't seem to fit in anywhere. They are lonely, and ultimately seek solace in each other. I'm a teenager living in the 21st century, yet I can identify with Jim Stark and relate to him. Over-protective parents who seem to be afraid to face up to who their children really are, and don't seem to have a clue how to guide them? Friends who like you when you're fun, and drop you when the going gets tough? I've been there, done that, and am still there.Director Nicholas Ray described Rebel as a movie about a kid who just wants one day in his life when things are not confused. I cannot begin to express how many times I have felt that way in my life. To me, Rebel is way more than just another classic, or just another James Dean film; it has become my personal ally in my journey to get rid of teen angst once and for all. It is perhaps the most important film I have ever seen, and it is one that has affected me personally the most. Rebel understands teenagers, and not just teens of the late 50's, it understands teenagers of any period and time who are facing the same problems as Jim, Judy and Plato.The character of Jim Stark is well-written, and brilliantly portrayed by the phenomenal and talented James Dean (who is one of my favourite actors). It has been said that James Dean played himself in this movie, but the way I see it, he became Jim. I don't know, maybe Jim is a lot like James, but if they ever decide to update Rebel, although there really isn't a need to, no actors would be able to even come close to what Dean has achieved. He deserved a Best Actor Oscar for his role, but then again, the Academy is practically known for being blind dingbats who award their awards to the wrong people (1994's Best Supporting to Tommy Lee Jones instead of Leonardo DiCaprio; this year's Best Actress to Julia Roberts instead of Ellen Burstyn, etc), and winning an Oscar doesn't necessarily measure the merit of a person's cinematic work, so...it's okay.Sal Mineo delivered a touching performance as Plato, as did Natalie Wood as Judy. Their Oscar nominations were well-deserved. But the ultimate performance here is still James Dean's. Jim Stark is someone you could see during that time, heck he's still someone you can see now. The scene that made the most impact in my mind is that part when Jim returns home from the chickie run and gets into a huge fight with his parents, when Jim begs his father to stand up for me. It just touched me in a way that few films have touched me; I ached for Jim, and could relate so well to that part.All in all, Rebel Without A Cause is an amazing movie. It's timeless, it's very relevant to people like me, and it should be seen by everybody. 10/10. "},{"Title":"good movie !","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I only saw this movie because James Dean is in it and his good in this movie not only james but also Sal Mineo give an excellent performances and I also can related to him I liked this movie there are good scenes  like the chicky run and the knife fight and the dramatic end of this movie great I give it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No scene in this movie is unnecessary. All the actors are perfect, especially Sal Mineo. I mean, while you can't help remembering that James Dean is James Dean and that Natalie Wood is Natalie Wood, you actually believe that Mineo is Plato. This film has stood the test of time very well, and it is just as powerful as it was 44 years ago. This movie has an unbelievable unemotional impact. I cry at the end every time, I mean I literally have tears streaming down my face. The only problem is that, although there are no unnecessary scenes, some drag on to long. However, this is a minor problem, and Rebel Without a Cause is definitely one of the best films of all time. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. I love the story , the actors and the way that it was filmed. Only if they made movies this good today!!!! "},{"Title":"An icon of American youth","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films every made- the ensemble works well together- though Dean was the star, Wood, Bacchus, Mineo and the others really add to the movie.  There is not a false move or a wasted scene in the whole movie- from the scene at the police station to the scene on the planetarium steps-- and the little things are there- like having Mineo's charcter wearing different color socks,and Bacchus in an apron.  this film set the standard for years to come... "},{"Title":"Lost in the Fifties","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was certainly launched at the right time - it captures the mood and substance of the youth of the Fifties - it was a different time from any other and yet it has a poignancy that stands up well today.  Beautifully acted by James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo who would have to do it all so differently if this film was to be re-made in 2004.   The parents were played by Ann Doran and Jim Backus in roles so different from what they did before and after.  The final scenes are enthralling, and James Dean certainly shows what a fine talent was lost by his early death after only three films of note, but I feel that Rebel was his finest effort. "},{"Title":"Forceful drama of teen-age alienation...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The theme of teen-age alienation gets brilliant treatment at the hands of director Nicholas Ray and stars James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo in this poignant melodrama from the '50s that made Dean a household word.The trio of stars do standout jobs--sensitive and compelling with Sal Mineo especially appealing as the most disturbed one of the three, Plato, whose final scenes in the Griffith Observatory bring the movie to a chilling climax. His obvious hero worship of Dean's character is played with enormous skill, as is his loneliness and despair.Natalie Wood is warm and appealing as Judy, lovingly photographed and at her sensitive best in a demanding juvenile role. But the picture belongs to James Dean in his first screen role, lending a quirky believability and immediacy to the role of Jim Stark, who wanted to find a niche for himself in a new neighborhood until he has to confront the local thugs and the police. As his overprotective mother Ann Doran lends a sympathetic note to the role. Jim Backus as an ineffectual father who utterly fails to understand his alienated son is excellent.The Observatory scenes are given added dimension by Leonard Rosenman's starkly effective score underscoring the torments of its teen-age protagonists. Although some complain of the film's datedness, it explores the theme of alienation without ever insulting the intelligence of today's audiences. Well worth watching if only for the fantastic central performance of James Dean. "}{"Title":"At least worth a serious watch.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's easy to look back on an older film like this and call it a classic, and indeed it is that.  But such a facile observation has nothing to do with the value of Rebel.  Sadly, four of the stars, James Dean, Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo and Nick Adams, met untimely ends that almost seem part of this tragedy, and perhaps that; the preservation, even iconization of the cast, is why Rebel is a classic.The myth of Dean eclipses the reality.  Those who speak of his mere three films forget that he was a bit part actor of little note before East of Eden.  Even here, he is more star than actor, and at his best when striking poses that are etched in our psyche, if often incorrectly.Natalie Wood is almost lost in the hokey bravado of the paper hoodlums who are almost lighter than air by later standards.  Sal Mineo may be the only fizz in this otherwise flat mix, and Nick Adams, wasted as usual, is notable for who he became, not who he is here.  Everyone in the cast has done much better work, but the sum of it all is at least worth a serious watch.A year later, Dean would be dead, and Nick Adams, his real-life friend, would be dubbing his voice in Giant.  Wood and Mineo's stars would soar for years, and Adams, his string of cheesy Japanese horror films notwithstanding, would burn more brightly than anyone ever expected.  But this movie is all about Dean, and perhaps rightfully so.  He is exquisite as the teen idol by which all others must be measured.  "},{"Title":"Still the Definitive Teenage Movie","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I will never understand a large group of people in this world, something I consider to be a good thing. I have no desire to get inside the heads of racists, homophobes, or any other intolerant idiots. But one group of people that I do have a desire to get in the head of are people who do not like this film.Some, including one of the greatest film critics of all times, Roger Ebert, believe that the film has not aged well. I do not believe this at all. It's more likely that they are the ones who have not aged well. The first time I watched this film, I was a teenager, and it hit me like a ton of bricks speeding on a car at a thousand miles an hour. It captured some deep truths about change and rebellion and insecurity and the teenage years that no film I have seen before or since have seen.Yes, it is long, and, yes, it is slow. So what? Were your teenage years fast and upbeat and electric every day? If you can't get through an 111 minute movie, you really need a lesson in patience. And, more pressingly, no scene is boring or extraneous.This is the point where people start to protest. But stay with me. No, there are not huge action pieces or excessively sharp dialogue or even a lot of big 'moments.' But it more than makes up for this with its atmosphere and acting. You want to stay in this movie world forever, you want to lay yourself out to it and let its waves rush against your innards. The restored version is stunning in black and white. You feel everything Dean- who is absolutely fantastic in this movie, by the way- and the rest of the cast feel.I'm sure there are a lot of people who think this too. But I imagine few of them like it as much as I do. This is higher on my favorites list than Saving Private Ryan or a number of other highly regarded films. Why? Because I feel connected to these characters like I have felt connected to very few others. Before the fifties, teenagers were never really taken seriously in film, and even when they were, rebellion was considered a no-no. There was never a movie to bring out their essence, the truest extents of their personality. And unfortunately, that has not changed too much. There are movies involving teenagers, who are recognized as being a fair part of the market, but they are too often shown as stereotypes, and even when they are not, their problems are not fully fleshed out.Eh. At least we have this film. To me, it has as many memorable scenes as any film despite not having any crowdpleasing sequences. And they all build up to the climax of the tragedy, which I will not spoil but will admit is quite jarring. You feel all the aches of these kids, but know you are locked out in so many ways.This is one of the definitive films of the fifties, one of the all-time definitive teenage movies, and one of the definitive films of my life. "},{"Title":"A must watch classic","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An extraordinary film staring James Dean and Natalie Wood. Takes place in the 50's at the height of the baby boomers generation. Although East of Eden could be considered James Dean's best film, Rebel Without a Cause was what put him on the map as the icon that he was, which still holds up to this day. Even though the plot gets tangled up at times, the overall story shows the struggles that teenagers went through during that era. It was revolutionary of that time, because it was really one of the first films to focus on the teenage coming of age.The performances from both James Dean and Natalie Wood are wonderful to watch, not only do they have great chemistry on screen but clearly embellish their characters to the full extent. James Dean in essence was Jim Stark, having father issues in his real life, which translate so well on screen you don't even realize he's acting. I would recommend this film to everyone. The film still holds up very well to this day 60 years later! "},{"Title":"Took My Highschool by Storm","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" His performance may have been hotter in East of Eden, but here James Dean defines the meaning of cool for generations of bewildered teenagers. Never mind the sops to convention that compromise the film's ultimate force. Instead it's there on screen, in the Dean persona, the hesitant gesture, the understanding smile, and a sensitivity that at times becomes achingly, painfully real. Dean didn't play Jim Stark, he was Jim Stark. How fortunate that this avatar of teenage angst was paired with director Nicholas Ray, the patron saint of 50's youth. Together they lift the material to classic heights, such that a bust of Dean now appears at Griffith Observatory (the site of the knife fight) in Los Angeles. Times may have changed, and the film may have dated, but the central performance remains trans-generational, as Dean taps into a universal core. For this now geezer, the drama's not only nostalgic but still packs a wallop. (For the sociologically curious wishing to measure the country's thirty-year loss of innocence, compare this film with the youth-based 1987 film River's Edge. The parallels and contrasts are revealing.) "},{"Title":"Jimmy takes my breath away every time","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An adult playing with toys, a long way from home, just laying on the ground is really unusual start intro of the movie. His eyes says the same as some angry child's face, which mom's leaving and the only way to deal with his deep loss is just small, secret facial expression full of pain showing, and hiding at the same time from the world.I can say, as an passionate movie fan, that the way how James Dean represents the broken, angry young people of era is marvelous, unique, with feelings that a movie does not need so many words to be great. Rebel Without a Cause, as an example, shows the combination of matching storyline with a fate and life experience of an actors, resulting in something so unique, that it gets away from the stereotype and brings a new kind of spirit, which was missing in the movie industry for a long period. In my opinion, the greatest thing an actor and director can do is to let their spirit, let some part of them, in the movie and make it least forever, despite their temporary lives. And James Dean did it. And that's the reason why I'll watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Gone too soon James","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark You're tearing me apart!Jim's Mother What?Jim Stark You say one thing, he says another, and everybody changes back again.The story is about a teenager who leaves his old home town to start a new continues to rebel against the rules and conformities while falling in love with someone unlike him.Since I'm a movie reviewer and in my past reviews I reviewed old classic movies just to add it to the watch collection. But I just notice that I never see Rebel Without a Cause or any of James Dean's movies and this is my first movie I've seen him in and a great one to start on.Now James Dean at the time was a rising star with the couple of movies that he was in, everybody sawed a bright future in him and even I sawed that while watching this movie, but sadly James Dean died in a vehicle accident back in 1955 meaning that this and the movie Giant was his last role. Before seeing the movie I've heard nothing but amazing things about James Dean of how he could have been the next Marlon Brando and now his known as a icon to actors out there and how every actor said out loud that they wanted to be like him. Now after seeing the movie the only thing I can say is oh my god this was a true tragically that this guy is dead I mean gone too soon because his acting in this movie is some of the best I've seen since Marlon Brando. What makes it more tragic is that he could have been in more movie roles that was even more amazing or just off the walls brilliant, now thinking about that makes me kind of sad. I can't wait to watch his other movies but for now rest in peace James you were one of a guy.The directing from Nicholas Ray was truly brilliant and this is the first film I've seen from this Nicholas and just like what I said about James Dean, I can't wait to check out Nicholas Ray other movies because he directed the hell out of this movie and effort was shown pretty well. The chemistry between Dean's character and everyone else (Besides the bullies) I bough into just be the first word of Hi because the writing may come off cheesy and a bit dated but let's not forget this is set and filmed in the 50's so yeah you can't really fault the movie for that, it's like criticizing a 1920's for being too black and white. But anywhere I thought the writing was pretty cute at times and I won't I repeated some of the lines in my head.For problems with the movie I don't really have any to be honest. The acting, the directing and the character's was so good that I watch the movie trying to find problems but couldn't find any may be it's because it's James Dean, I don't know about that guy but these something about him that I have a bit of man crush on him, nothing sexual here it's just a thing called bromance.Overall Rebel Without a Cause is a true 50's classic movie with excellent performances and great directing by Nicholas Ray. "},{"Title":"Rebel Without a Cause","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the very beginning, Rebel Without a Cause captivates and makes the viewer ask questions. The opening scene is one of the most famous from any movie, James Dean is the greatest storyteller. Rebel Without a Cause was/is one of the more groundbreaking films, especially for its time. The rebellion that is adolescence is uniquely captured in this film unlike any other. The cast is great, and the writing is superb. The camera angles also are groundbreaking. The Dutch Angle shot during the staircase scene is one of the most memorable from any film. Edgy camera angles and acting makes for a great film. Definitely worth the watch! "},{"Title":"You're Tearing Me Apart!!","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without A Cause is James Dean's most iconic role. His red windbreaker from this has become a Hollywood trademark. Despite this being his best role, it was the only movie he did were he did not win (or was nominated for) an Oscar. He may have only done three movies (this, Giant, East of Eden) but still.I consider James Dean to be the Buddy Holly of film. Buddy Holly was big for two and a half years before his death and has since become an immortal figure in pop culture. James Dean is parallel to him, except Dean did three movies all released in 1955. James Dean is one of the best known members of the Actors Studio training under Lee Strasberg who revolutionized method acting. Method acting is one of the best acting techniques to use, and good thing Dean used it for his three films. Dean's performance as frustrated teenager, Jim Stark, is so raw and natural. There's nothing artificial with Dean. Dean plays high school a kid who has constantly moved from town to town with his parents. He is confused, out of control, and frustrated. He gets himself involved with the wrong people and wins a deadly car racing bet against them. He goes in hiding with two other frustrated teens (Wood, Minero) where they grow close and learn about themselves. This lat bit with them in hiding is dragged out and uninteresting. That is why I'm not giving a perfect score. Everything before hand was fresh, exciting, well-acted, then it just falls. Luckily, it does not ruin the whole picture. "},{"Title":"Classic teen movie","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a teenager myself, I absolutely love teen movies and have probably seen most of them. This one I stumbled on to, I think when I was reading something about James Dean. I had heard of him being a legend etc. but I never really paid much attention to ''old Hollywood movies'' but this one looked really good plus I wanted to see what made Jimmy Dean so legendary. I mean to have only done three movies before his untimely death and to be regarded as one of the best actors of all time he must have done something right.Well I must say that if there ever has been a more beautiful man that James Dean was, I have not seen him! He just exuded coolness in that iconic red jacket. Normally I would think ''yeah right, someone as attractive as James Dean being an outcast!''. However, he portrayed his character with shyness,innocence and angst or something that really made you empathise and believe his character.In terms of the issues explored in the movie, it really is something that I haven't seen many times before. Normally, in teen movies the focus is friends or getting laid etc. but this focuses on something way more important to teens' lives parents. James' character how all he wanted was to do something right and be appreciated by his parents. How he wanted his dad to stand up to his mum who stripped his dad of his dignity. And Natalie Woods' who just wanted her dad to show her love and affection.I think the most interesting character was Plato, his estranged parents meant that he had no family, so wanted Jim and Judy to be his family. I felt that Plato's obsession with Jim bordered on homosexual and that's one of the many ways that made the film ahead of its time.To sum up, everyone should go and see this movie, amazing performances and even though it's so old it doesn't feel dated and we can all relate to it. The events happening aren't realistic but the portrayal of teen angst is the most realistic I've seen and makes the film compelling down to the last second. "},{"Title":"Still a powerful film 59 years later","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not just a powerful film but also a very, very good one where it is very easy to see why it's considered a classic. It is a well-made film with the observatory shot at the end deserving a big mention and it is wonderfully directed by Nicholas Ray in terms of technical control and his ability in how to make the characters and their relationships compelling. Leonard Rosenman's music captures the 50s beautifully- just like the film's atmosphere does- as well, while the dialogue is thoughtful, treats the subject matter sympathetically without over-idealising and still packs a punch. Some have had that they consider how the characters act and speak outdated, not to me, for the time it was very ahead of its time(Jim's actions and what he said wouldn't dared to be have done and said before then, and the depiction of the parents was different to before too) and I still related to the characters' actions and the way they spoke. The story explores the theme of a teenager alienated by family and society struggling to fit in, and(at least personally) no other film has explored this theme and issue as powerfully and movingly- certainly not as realistically either- as Rebel Without a Cause, and in a way where you identify every step of the way with the characters and what they say and act. And despite what you may think the issue is very much relevant now, as well as important and something a lot of people still feel strongly about, speaking from personal experience in secondary school. The characters are the sort that are easy to relate to and that you can see yourselves in them, Jim Stark is somewhat of an icon now and unsurprisingly, and the film is beautifully played. Aside from the film's subject matter Rebel Without a Cause is remembered most for the performance of James Dean, and there is good reason for that because it is a superb performance and very heartfelt, makes one very sad of how such a promising young talent have their life and career cut short and tragically. Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo both give great supporting turns that are among their best, she charming and compassionate and he bringing an equally troubled character to affecting life. Everybody acquits themselves very well though. It is a shame that the ending is a cop-out and wraps things up too easily, but Rebel Without a Cause is otherwise a must see for particularly James Dean's performance and as a textbook example as to how to make a film with the teenager-struggling-to-fit-in theme. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"One of the most truthful movies on teenagers","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark (James Dean) is a teenage boy who is always getting into trouble. His parents give him lots of things but never listen to him. Judy (Natalie Wood) has an understanding mother but a father who hates her. Plato (Sal Mineo) has a father who never sees him and a mother who's never around and has no friends and is gay (implied heavily). He falls in love with Jim and Jim becomes attracted to Judy...but it all leads to tragedy and death.Rightfully classic movie. It caught EXACTLY how it feels to be a teenager and treated its characters with sympathy. It spoke to a whole generation of kids and was a huge hit. Also it defined James Dean forever. He was already dead when this came out but that didn't stop him from becoming an idol to thousands of teenage boys who wanted to be just like him. Also it dared to have a gay character. Plato is (obviously) in love with Jim. It's never made explicit that he's gay (the Production Code wouldn't allow that in a movie back then) but it's pretty obvious through the looks Plato is constantly giving Jim. The acting is excellent across the board but Dean, Wood and Mineo are superb--especially Dean. When Dean yells out, You're tearing me apart! in one scene his anger and pain comes leaping off the screen. Also it's kind of fun to see Dennis Hopper so young. It is dated in terms of some dialogue and situations but I think any teenager can relate to the characters and their feelings. A must-see movie. "},{"Title":"An absolute classic","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A story of a teenager who struggles with his parents, peers, and himself, Rebel without a Cause was released in 1955 and directed by Nicholas Ray, and is arguably James Dean's best known film.Jim Stark is a seventeen years old boy who in the beginning of the movie, is brought to a police station for being drunk in public. The Starks had recently moved in to LA and are keen for their son to make some friends and stay out of trouble, which seems to follow him wherever he may be. The next morning, however, Jim and this bully named Buzz, argue with each other and eventually decide to settle it in a game of Chickie Run. Things don't go according to plan and now Jim has to deal with the consequences and try to finally do the right thing.James Dean stars as Jim Stark. And even though Dean was seven years older than the character he's playing, he gives a solid performance for the time. Seeing Dean in his iconic attire and with his hair slicked back, you can't help but tell yourself Man, this guy is cool. He doesn't look anything like a seventeen year old but his screen presence makes you forget that. You just want to see this guy do his thing. Also starring are Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo, who both got nominated for Academy Awards for best supporting Actress and Actor respectively. Also, a young Dennis Hopper makes his acting debut.I think it's both fair and unfair to say the movie got so much recognition because of Dean's death. Fair because it's true that when an actor dies, the movie they last worked on gets more attention (Like The Dark Knight after Heath Ledger or The Crow after Brandon Lee). Unfair because this really is a good movie. A lot of people who watch it nowadays will say that it's dated. But if you consider that it came out nearly sixty years ago, it was like nothing they've ever seen before.Rebel without a Cause is a classic. Anyone who likes movies has at least heard of it. Most of the movies that deal with teenagers and their troubles owe a lot to it, and for that it deserves a place in cinema history. "},{"Title":"Representing An Entire Generation","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause is a film that defined a generation in the minds of theatergoers. What really cemented its representation of rebellious teens was the death of its star, James Dean, in a car accident.Actually, RWAC is the story of three teens, all misunderstood, all with feelings of alienation. Like all teenagers, they seek to define their places in society, but they struggle--in part due to bad parenting or lack of parenting.In Jim's household, there is a power struggle between the mother and the grandmother. Jim's father--played by Jim Backus--is a shell-shocked victim of their warfare. Jim sees him as an emasculated fool. He longs for his father to stand up for...anything. He seeks respect.Judy--played by Natalie Wood--is a young girl who seeks to be unacceptable to authority figures as a means to gain acceptance by the crowd. Her father rejects her attempts at intimacy due to his warped views of appropriateness. She seeks love.Plato--played by Sal Mineo--basically lives with the family maid. His mother is always away, making it clear that he is of little consequence to her. He seeks stability.The story tells how the lives of these three intersect in a police station, and they rapidly and awkwardly become a family of sorts, hoping to cope with the world through their caring for each other. In the process, they gain respect and love.In the aftermath of the atomic bomb, mankind was asking questions about the stability of the world and, indeed, the entire universe. In this setting, the insecurities of children trying to define themselves and their roles in society was rightfully seen as a volatile fuse. And when self-esteem is undermined by the family unit, the results are dangerously unpredictable.RWAC is beautifully filmed. Its main attraction is the wonderful acting of James Dean. He is the center of the film and his performance never flags. The director must have reveled in the dailies, discovering that his film was becoming so much more than he might have hoped through Dean's brilliance and his dedication to the role. "},{"Title":"Inspired Performances and a Story That's Easy To Follow,","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without A Cause is a great movie with a very good storyline that was probably very risky for the fifties and a very impressive cast,especially from the great James Dean in one of his most famous performances.The movie is very enjoyable and very easy to watch,although I did feel with that story that it could have been more exciting and thrilling,it was actually a lot more plain than its title may suggest.The best part of the movie was without a doubt James Dean,his performance was very inspired,he was clearly an amazing actor that died too young,his character was very creepy,brave and also lovable in a weird way,also Natalie Wood and Sam Mineo gave very impressive performances.The movie is definitely a must see for fans of this classic era of film.The son of an overhearing mother and a withdrawn father copes with the world through violence and alcohol. "},{"Title":"There is no Rebel against society here","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is a more compelling sub-text running throughout than the accepted, facile storyline of rebellious teenagers suffering growing pains. There is nothing rebellious about this movie; it conforms and confirms cultural norms of the era. It's really about gender identity and how roles of men and women were defined in 1950s America. James Dean's performance is over-wrought and self- indulgent. He emotes throughout the movie like a recently toilet trained teenager who can't hold anything in&#x97;crying, moaning, bemoaning his life. His father, played effectively by Jim Backus, is an emasculated figure who tidies up the house wearing a ruffled apron. This poor specimen of a father figure is overridden and browbeaten by his supercilious, strident wife. The father is apparently not a real man. He defers to his wife and lacks the courage to wear the pants in his own family. Jim is disappointed and ashamed of this role model of manhood. At the police station, angry with frustration, Jim tells the juvenile police officer the remedy he feels would fix the zoo that is his family life If only he (his father) had the guts to knock Mom down once&#x85;she'd be happy. There you have it. The male/female template of the 1950s.In this film masculine translates into bully with a knife, teen boys who group together challenging each other in dangerous games proving masculine supremacy. These are their self-defined kicks, of which the chickie run proves fatal for Bud, the acknowledged king of the roost. Before the game's commencement the two opponents Jim and Bud face off positioned in their respective cars. Bud salutes his rival Jim christening him toreador. Yah, this is it &#x97;two bulls in the bullring locking horns in man-to-man combat. Natalie Wood, as Judy, is tormented by what she perceives is her father's withdrawal of love for her. The 16 year old craves his attention, which has lessened as she has matured. He smears off her lipstick, calls her a tramp. He is repulsed by her daughterly hugs and kisses&#x97; she's now too old for that stuff. His discomfort with her demonstrative affection could more reasonably be affixed to a darker origin. Maybe Daddy is suppressing a taboo sexual desire for his own flesh and blood? Could it be?!Suppression is no stranger to Sal Mineo's character, Plato, a troubled gay kid, neglected by his parents, in frustration gunning down puppies and pining for the actor Alan Ladd whose photo he has pasted on the door of his school locker. But his desire for the man in the photo is displaced to his new friend Jim whom he stalks with devoted idolatry.All this said, the movie is an interesting curio, a time capsule of American society some 60 years ago. To use the word rebel' in the title is a disingenuous branding by the filmmakers. They had the savvy to know they were offering a mislabeled dish to the public. They used a catchword that would entice an audience who were craving more representations of the still novel, media dubbed Teenagers of the Rock 'n Roll Generation. "},{"Title":"I wish it could be 1955 forever!","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You will remember how Fonzie said that in an episode of Happy Days - he had a photo of James Dean in his locker, similar to the way Plato has a photo of Alan Ladd in his locker. This film sums up American society in the middle of the Fifties. I often feel that the Fifties are unfairly maligned - the Forties are all about the Second World War and the Swinging Sixties are the pop culture at its height. The Fifties are often dismissed as that boring decade in between. Nothing could be further from the truth. To me, the Fifties was the decade when our modern world was born - the counter-culture started then, not in the Sixties. James Dean still seems like a modern young dude. So many powerful scenes in Rebel prove that. My favourite is the flick-knife fight with Buzz. Watch Dean's face in that scene and then how he flicks Buzz's knife away, moving with reflexes like a panther and then holds his own knife to Buzz's throat - that scene seems incredibly modern to me, even with an actual gap of 58 years.Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo both said in interviews many years later how much they idolised Jimmy and what an influence on their acting careers he had. So many young actors have said the same in the decades since. There is no doubt this film is dated but yet that doesn't matter at all. Watching it is still a pure pleasure, thanks to Dean's performance. It deserves its legendary status and Jimmy's image will live forever because of it.There is not too much more that can be said that other reviewers haven't already said about this great film. For anyone in that difficult decade between the ages of 15 and 25, when you're struggling to transition from childhood to adulthood, it is a film you will instantly identify with. Bravo to the three young stars and to director Nicholas Ray. They all did a superb job, with Jimmy truly outstanding. "},{"Title":"Method acting at its very best.","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nominated, Best Picture, 1956.No other movie has ever shown the plight of troubled teenagers than Rebel without a Cause. The petty fights, the bullying, revenge, the desire to do something unprecedented so as to be noticed in the crowd, the precociousness, the gradually dwindling bond with family members- all these are the facets one faces when a transition from an innocent adolescent to a late-teenager is made.Jim Stark doesn't share a very good relationship with his cantankerous mother and is more attached to his father, who supports him and deals with his mother's tantrums calmly. The quarrels between his mother and father make him feel insecure and he vents his pent up emotions by indulging in activities like breaking the parking lights or bashing his fellow students in the school. He gets into a fight with a gang in his new school and is challenged to a Drag race, to prove that he is a chicken. The race ends with the death of the challenger and the other members of the gang hunt Jim. Jim falls in love with Judy and together they care for the troubled and insecure Plato. The movie ends with the tragic death of Plato. A 24-year old Dean matched the standards of method-acting set by Marlon Brando, and with this performance he justifies the legendary status conferred on him. "},{"Title":"...An Episode Of Little Significance","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's tempting to want to dismiss Rebel Without A Cause just for the role it plays in James Dean's suffocating iconography, but to do so is to miss out on a great performance in a very good film.Dean is Jim Stark, a troubled but by-no-means troublemaking teen who finds himself in a new town already off to a bad start. The gang at Dawson High doesn't appreciate his fancy wardrobe or his humor. The gang's leader, Buzz (Corey Allen) deflates a tire on Jim's car with a switchblade as Buzz's girlfriend Judy (Natalie Wood) eggs him on. Jim wants no trouble, but as his tagalong pal Plato (Sal Mineo) tries to warn him, it's no use.It's hard to make friends with these guys, Plato says.I don't want to make friends, Jim answers, looking cool but sounding uncertain.The only lead role Dean ever played that didn't get him an Oscar nomination, only because he was competing against himself in East Of Eden, Jim in Rebel is who people think of when they think of Dean. Properly, too; he's riveting and believable here, playing a tough part with casual bemusement and a sensitivity to the moment that one gets only rarely from more seasoned screen performers.One oddity about Rebel is its place in the pantheon of juvenile delinquent films. It doesn't play like one. How unusual is it to see a movie where a youth openly resents his parents for not being firmer with him, and walks away from a fight? There are episodes of violence and danger, but how many other films feature knife-fights where the principals agree to stop before someone gets hurt?Rebel's strongest scene takes place at the Griffith Observatory, where a wizened lecturer tells these young people they live in a cosmos marked only by the shortness of time between our planet's birth and its demise. Poor Plato is so overcome by existential dread that he cowers under the seats, to be coaxed up by Jim in a moment that crystallizes their friendship. It's a movie about kids finding their way in an institution, but also about people struggling to shape themselves in a larger world that shows no signs of caring.In that way, and in others, too, Rebel rises above the standards of its day. There are some serious script problems. Irving Schulman and Stewart Stern get too stuck on the dime-store Freud of their time; that kids' emotional problems can be pegged on distant parents. A police detective played by Edward Platt dispenses wisdom with disconcerting ease I groan when Jim confesses after one such analysis I bet you see right through me, don't you? Poor Natalie has to deliver lines like Yes...no...I don't know, while Dean's most famous line, You're tearing me apart, is something better seen than heard.But even amid such clunky moments, the acting is good. Wood shifts believably from Daddy's cloying little girl to angry gang moll (Are you always at ringside? Jim teases her at one early moment), while Mineo raises the bar in his every scene with his unaffected need for love and attention. Dean delivers a powerful central performance, combining recognizable Brando-esque mannerisms with some off-beat line readings worthy of Robert Mitchum. You have to wonder what the future would have held for him if he only wore a seat belt.Nicholas Ray does a powerhouse job as director balancing the need for domestic realism with fluid pacing and an operatic quality aided by garishly effective WarnerColor and a killer Leonard Rosenman score. It's a quintessential 1950s movie, like others here say. The supporting players are dialed in, from a surprisingly conflicted Allen to Jim Backus's desperately ingratiating father to Jim. One reason Dean gives such a great performance is because, for so much of the film, he has Backus' flustered pop to play off of.Making a point that life matters even if no one cares, Rebel stands as a lasting achievement as well as a memorial to one (as the movie would argue, of many) who died too young. "},{"Title":"Best James Dean Film","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This tragic tale of teenage angst in the 1950s is one of the best known films on the subject. James Dean just shines as the troubled Jim Stark, feeling alone in a world that doesn't understand him and parents that don't know he needs their help. Natalie Wood is the lovely Judy who is trying to be more mature than she is at the tender age of 16 with a strained relationship with her father (William Hopper, later Paul Drake of 'Perry Mason') and the final player is the doe-eyed Sal Mineo as John 'Plato' Crawford, a boy caught in the waves of an absent family and longing for true affection. Soon these three players' lives intertwine through fate, but has a tragic consequence for each of them. The film is so beautiful that you will be tearing up at the conclusion of the movie. "},{"Title":"a picture","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a trial. a meeting. traces of a regime. Germany out of definitions. many years, this movie was for me a circle around frau Berthold character. as piece of a lost world. as judge of fall. as key of past force to transform a society in which innocence and guilty are only empty/confuse words. many years, the character of Judy Garland was personification of a metamorphose in which truth is profound pain and mark of a very long illness. for a time, the performance of Jim Backus was perfect example of measure and discover of essence in the other. witness of clash between civilization and explorer of signs before the skin. it is a film about war and justice. about cynicism and different manners to redefine past. a reflection of a bleak world. and good show of subtle nuances. "}{"Title":"Rebel's Lost Cause","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Finally I got to see 'Rebel Without A Cause', the film that made James Dean immortal. I had always wondered why. Other than the fact that he plays a rebel, I didn't know much also about this film. Many have argued that the film itself is dated but I disagree. While it does have a 50's look and drag racing isn't practiced among the majority of teens, the main idea of parents not giving their children enough attention and of children acting out for their attention and affection (sometimes through extreme measures) is still a very contemporary issue.Coming back to the film itself, 'Rebel Without A Cause' is definitely an interesting watch, to say the least. It's execution is solid. Nicholas Ray's direction is splendid. His use of lighting and score and the cinematography is brilliant. His attention to detail (which is evident in his use of props, such as Jim's red jacket and Plato's socks) is impressive.I was also impressed by how the characters were written. All the main characters are portrayed as humans. There is no good guy or bad guy among them (except Buzz's gang). Also, there is a subtle darkness in how the relationships were portrayed. For example in the father-daughter relationship between Judy and her dad, there were hints of an incestuous attraction.As for the performances, obviously James Dean needs no further praise from me as his memorable Jim Stark remains immortal. Natalie Wood too does a fine job as the confused and lost teenager who's just trying to find her place and fit in. I was particularly impressed by Sal Mineo as the awkward sort-of-outcast needy and ultimately tragic teenager who just wants a friend just like any teenager does at some point. The young actor remarkably conveys various emotional depth through subtle gestures.The main flaw for me was how the film resolved Jim's relationship with his parents. It felt very rushed and leaves a lot to be desired. The pacing in the first half is also a tad slow (even though this is only but a minor quibble).'Rebel Without a Cause' was definitely ahead of its time but even today it's an important film. In recent years, there have been many films made on similar themes but that doesn't lessen the relevance of Nicholas Ray's picture. Teenagers then craved their parents attention. So do teenagers today. "},{"Title":"It Epitomizes The James Dean Enigma","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is the story of a rebellious teenager who arrives at a new high school, meets a girl, disobeys his parents, and defies the local school bullies was a groundbreaking attempt to portray the moral decay of American youth, critique parental style, and explore the differences and conflicts between generations.It was also the movie that epitomizes the James Dean screen personality.Overall,Rebel Without A Cause is the movie that reminds us what James Dean was all about.Rebel Without a Cause is a drama film about emotionally confused suburban, middle-class teenagers starring James Dean as Jim Stark together with Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo.It was directed by Nicholas Ray.The performance of Dean was great but not enough to merit an Academy Award nomination unlike in his two of only three films including this one in East Of Eden and Giant. But overall,this movie established James Dean and his persona well as a movie legend and a screen icon. "},{"Title":"The landmark of adolescent cinema","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a cause enthralled viewers in 1955 and still leaves a deep impact on viewers that watch it today. The second of Dean's remarkable trilogy of masterpieces, each powerful and dramatic in their own way. With James Dean leading an exceptional cast that includes Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo, Jim Backus, and Dennis Hopper, who would bloom in later films, there's no ignoring it. Director Nicholas Ray delivers a wallop of social observation and never loses sight of the heart and soul of the characters. It's affectionate filmmaking with insights pulled in at all the right times. This film marked Dean's talent and got Nicholas Ray plenty of fans that he deserved so very much. An essential. "},{"Title":"Hollywood goes to the drags with a psychologist","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like this movie! I have this movie! I have been to many places they used in this movie. But, it was Hollywood's version of hot rodders and knife swinging punks. ALL of the actors did what they were supposed to do for their pay, and they did it very well - I think. The fifties were my hot rod times, and did the drag strip thing and most of the other stuff in this movie. If you don't take this film too seriously, then I think you will enjoy it. At the time this movie came out, I would have done anything for a black Mercury like James Dean drove. Natalie Wood as his love interest is super, one of our very best actresses. Actually, I was kind of surprised that Robert Wagner didn't have a part in this movie, I think he could have helped it some. Rent/buy it, if you like cars, girls, teen romance, and friendly relationships, you will like this. The color is very nice, and the Observatory at Griffith Park never looked better. "},{"Title":"The Film That's Synonymous With James Dean","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What is really interesting, at least to me, is that James Dean more or less only had three roles in his life, in the 1950s. The lesser-known Giant and East of Eden, and this film. So, basically, even though today -- sixty years later -- everyone has heard of James Dean, it is from one movie that most have probably not seen.But, what this could be saying is that Rebel Without a Cause is a very influential film, permeating culture all the way up until now. And I'm not surprised by this. The gang violence and alcoholism, presented in the middle of the mythically perfect 1950s, really makes an impact.I watched this film because of Dennis Hopper, not James Dean, but if that is your primary motivation, I wouldn't bother. It is a good film and should be seen, but Hopper's character is very minor and I do not recall if he even has one line of dialogue. "},{"Title":"Movie is very 50-ish in places, but still has relevance today","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause released in 1955, caused a sensation at the time. The principle reason is James Dean -- without him, this could have easily been just another movie. After all, this film was not the first to tackle the subject of juvenile delinquency; but to teen-agers of that era, it probably seemed like it. Dean plays the character of Jim, a high-schooler who is clearly a misfit. We see him early on in the film drunk and staying out past curfew, and from that point on, he rules the film as the ultimate rebel. Natalie Wood plays Judy, a girl from a good family who seems to want to be a bad girl by hanging around hoodlums. Then there is Sal Mineo, playing the character of Plato, a boy who is abandoned by his wealthy mother and being raised by the housemaid. After much going on in the first part of the movie, including a drag race that goes horribly wrong (Judy's boyfriend is killed), the three principle characters find an odd sort of bond as outcasts at school and in their own families. The movie clearly sets up the rules the young people versus the adults (i.e., the establishment, as the 1960's kids would call them). Adults are not to be trusted in these kids world. Jim can't relate to his father (Jim Backus in a solid performance) or his nagging mother. His mother has clearly emasculated his father; he seems to do most of the housework (unusual for the 1950's!) and is very indecisive. Judy seems to idolize her father, but he seems to coldly reject her now that she is a teen-ager. Much discussion has been made of the rather odd way Plato seems to almost worship Jim, without even really knowing him. Some suggest Plato was sexually attracted to Jim, which could be true, but keep in mind we are viewing the subject of homosexuality from today's standpoint versus the 1950's. The character of Plato was likely meant to look up to Jim as a very cool older brother type. This was a knock-out performance for James Dean, the one that really established him as the ultimate cool, aloof teen-ager; and raised his stature in Hollywood. Love Dean or hate him, and whether you like his rather strange style of acting, the man reeked of charisma and explodes on film. Natalie Wood is fine in her role, as is Sal Mineo. Some of the smaller parts of the hoodlums in the film (inculding a young Dennis Hopper) are a bit cartoonish, but overall a worthwhile film. Not without flaws, but still a decent movie. "},{"Title":"He shot puppies!","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like many teen movies of the age, most of the disaffected teens in the film are old enough to start thinking about social security! Dean is 24 and a few of the tough thugs are clearly about 25-30! You just have to ignore this, as this was the norm for juvenile delinquent films of the 50s. Plus, at least Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo were teenagers! While the opening scene involving James Dean was pretty famous, the part of the film that struck me in the first few minutes of the film was not Dean but when Mineo was being interviewed by the Police. Apparently, for kicks, he'd been out shooting puppies!!! Wow...now that's pretty cold and this small scene, for me, overshadowed Dean's performance in the police station--though Dean was good as the angry, hurt teen. Puppies...that boy was crazy! And, in fact, I found Mineo's character the most interesting throughout the film--with a strong gay subtext (it sure seems to be there in spades).As far as Dean's anger and rebelliousness, it soon becomes obvious in the police station that his parents were much of the problem. While it's often too easy to blame parents (and very typical for psychologists of this time), in this case this is at least a large part of the problem. The parents don't agree about anything--there is a nosy grandmother who needs to butt out and the father (Jim Backus) seems much more concerned with making excuses and being his son's pal than being a parent. And, in many ways, the parents seem to be in denial as the police send him home. And, in many ways, the film seems like a great example of the Oedipal Complex in a modern American family.A weird part of the film is Natalie Wood and the very, very disturbed relationship with her father (William Hopper). While not explicitly stated, it sure seemed as if there was sexual tension boiling within her Dad. He pushes her away and is nasty with her as a result of these unacceptable impulses! Pretty sick stuff! And, speaking of sick stuff, Backus' problems seem far deeper than trying to be his son's friend. He is a walking caricature of a castrated man--with a mother who dominates him and a wife and son who don't respect him. The image of seeing Backus running around the house wearing a very frilly women's apron sure drove that point home! With both Backus and Hopper, it sure seemed as if the writers had consulted with some Freudian psychoanalysts!! Later in the film, I halfway expected to see everyone sitting around eating hot dogs.The rest of the film is the usual stuff you might expect to see in any rebellious teenagers film but with a few exceptions. The biggest difference is that most of the films in this genre were ultra-cheap films made with horrible production values. Rebel Without a Cause is a larger budget film made by Warner Brothers--not some two-bit studio. In addition, there are many great moments that stick in your mind that you just would never find in a typical film of this type--such as the crazy scene where Dean and the gang leader play Chicken on the edge of a cliff, Sal Mineo's pink frilly bedroom, the knife fight, the confrontation at the old house and observatory, etcetera. This is a very well-made and entertaining film from start to finish and clearly the best in the glutted genre (boy, did they make a LOT of these sort of movies). Excellent acting and direction throughout. "},{"Title":"Something simmering","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray is on my closet-gay list, though few people seem to agree. This film only strengthens the case - ignore the possibility at your peril if you want to understand this film. Here we have an array of teens, including teen-angst specialists James Dean and Natalie Wood, having problems with their folks. We are supposed to believe that Jim (Dean) is driven almost to insanity on account of his henpecked father wearing a pinny. Riiiiight. American films are obsessed with parent-child relationship problems but this one takes the Palm d'Biscuit. Read instead Jim's own quest for masculinity. Dean is great doing his Brando-mumble method stuff, and Wood is always high quality, but the script and the story are utterly lamesville. The hint of the gay subtext, as so often, is in the title. There is no cause because it dare not speak its name. The almost overtly gay relationship between Jim and Plato is explained away as Plato's need for a father figure. Balls. By smokescreening gay issues behind heterosexual ones we end up with the familiar mix of confusion, sexual and relationship trauma and seemingly irrational behaviour that makes so much cinema and literature look broodingly deep and powerful (eg. Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Hamlet). Life is always simpler than that. I tell you, homosexuality is nearly always the key to these unexplained behaviours, as it is nearly always the spring of the finest, most intense, most accomplished art - although it kind of fizzled and fell to earth in this case. "},{"Title":"James Dean embodies all teenagers","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean's Jim Stark is one of the most unforgettable and relatable characters in film history.Jim (James Dean)is an angry and frustrated teenager who has no connection anymore with his father, is depressed by the constant arguing of his parents(Jim Backus and Ann Doran)and the fact his dad won't stand up for himself. They move to a new area where Jim befriends Judy(Natalie Wood)and Plato(Sal Mineo)they are three misfits who become a family and find the most rewarding friendship of their lives.Dean's character embodies teenagers everywhere from any time who can't connect with their parents and are frustrated with life. This is the role he will always be remembered for. "},{"Title":"I don't want trouble, now.","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very recently, you may have heard headlines about actors which have died too early to fully flourish their careers. Actors such as Brad Renfro, Judith Barsi, the immortal Bruce Lee and the soon to be immortal Heath Ledger, who before kicking the bucket mesmerized us with one of the best on-screen villainous performances of all time, The Joker in The Dark Knight. But they will only be compared to, the first great and tragic young icon, James Dean, the young man whose title of the film I'm reviewing as you read stunningly personifies him.Dean, having starred in only three films in his career, died in a car accident. He death involved what he was embodied as; a fast life and fast cars. Yet, in this movie, he delivers a tour-de-force of acting that I have yet to see in most of today's youth actors. In this film he gives his standalone performance, one that was and will continue to be imitated or inspire other actors trying to act as a troubled youth. This film captures the adolescent cry for help, and it is done with brilliant and poignant direction.Here Dean plays Jim Stark, a rebellious young man whose attitude is presumably the cause of his parents moving from town to town. Finally, in the suburbs of Los Angeles, he makes new friends, and some enemies as well. The film is made in the '50s, a time where World War II still lingers on everyone's minds and the ongoing threat of nuclear war, which terrified citizens young and old alike. However the young, whom the adults are not paying enough attention to due to the current state of events, suffer, and eventually become involved in gangs, fights and violence. This shows the desperate cry for help by these teenagers, and even today the film still delivers the powerful and pessimistic message it has to say. Dean gives a crackling and reflective performance as Stark, here he's a psychologically scarred teenager with a circus for a family and a penchant for getting mixed with the wrong kind of people. Along the way, he befriends a mentally unstable homosexual, Plato (who is convincingly played by Sal Mineo), and falls in love with Judy, played superbly by a dazzling Natalie Wood at her peak. Make no mistake, this is classic Hollywood at its best, and most probably, at its most controversial at the time.The story and screenplay is well-written and thoughtful, though I must say, there are some flaws in the characterization department, though those are merely minor distractions from the film's true greatness. The direction is unflinching and bold by master Nicholas Ray, and the cinematography is beautiful, especially with some scenes involving the Chicken Race and the planetarium. Whoever thought of filming the movie in CinemaScope should deserve kudos, because it really gives the film a sweeping and grand beauty to it. It really sets the mood for the film.In short, although it has its downs, it's still a masterpiece, a film that should be watched and embodied by every adolescent in every generation, as this is a film that is ahead of its time by leaps and bounds. It should stick to the AFI's Top 100 list, and should enter the IMDb top 250, if there are others who truly embody this genuinely bold drama.Overall quality 9.611/10Delton "}{"Title":"Rebel Without a Cause on Reel 13","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Every once and a while, a movie comes around that defines a generation. EASY RIDER, ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN and THE BREAKFAST CLUB are all Examples. I would argue, however, that no film better defines the generation it came from than REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE, which aired last night on Reel 13. As a matter of fact, the cultural impact of the film as well as the legend of its star, James Dean, almost seem to overshadow what I was reminded of last night &#150; what an artfully and skillfully crafted film it is.The first thing that struck me about REBEL upon rewatching it was the extraordinary richness of the color. Director Nicholas Ray was shooting in Warner Color (at the time, each studio was working with various labs to patent their own color process), but it's more than just the film stock or processing. Much of the beauty of the color has to do with the choices Ray makes in terms of the wardrobe or the objects &#150; the red of Natalie Wood's overcoat in her first appearance, the colors in the observatory presentation, the yellow of an apron donned by Dean's screen father, Jim Backus (a.k.a. Mr. Magoo), the mustard color of Sal Mineo's wardrobe or the famous bright red coat Dean wears through much of the film. They all combine to create a beautiful palette worthy of paintings in the Louvre.The second thing that I noticed was consistently inspired framing and angles &#150; and a lot of camera motion, which was not as prevalent in the period as it is today. Ray knows exactly when to be wide and just when a close up is called for. It seems as if he shot a lot more coverage than most directors of the period and used it to perfection. The scene where Wood and Dean are alone in the mansion is notable in the sense of how tightly the two of them are framed together in such a big house &#150; as if they are the only two people in the world. Another example is during the first showdown at the observatory when the cool kids sit on Dean's car while he looks on from overhead. A few times, Ray cuts to an extreme low angle shot with the cool kids in the foreground with Dean and Sal Mineo very small and high in the way background. An unusual shot to be sure, but effective and telling. Other unorthodox ideas Ray sets forth in the film include the occasional Dutch angle (shots off the standard axis) that he uses in moments of extreme crisis (the scene with Dean's parents on the stairs and at the climax of the film). Ray has only recently been recognized as one of the era's premiere auteurs and his ahead-of-his-time work in Rebel only cements that theory.The third thing I noticed was the incredible subversiveness of the film, particularly in regards to the potential promiscuity of Natalie Wood's character (Judy) and the sexuality of Sal Mineo's character (Plato). Neither of these subjects were dealt with head-on as they were taboo at the time, but Ray certainly plants the seeds with subtleties and a clever usage of the mise-en-scene. In the beginning, the police detective subtly hints at why Judy was picked up and her relationship with her father seems awfully unusual &#150; even for the time period. As to Plato, Sal Mineo's effemininity is one thing, but details like the picture of a male actor in his locker and the way he gazes at Dean throughout the film are strong clues as to the truth of Plato's problems &#150; he is not just a boy whose parents abandoned him &#150; he is a young gay teen in a society and era that rejects homosexuality. What's particularly interesting about how careful and hidden these subtexts are is that the film works hard to spell out the surface problems each of the characters have. At one point, Dean, who is still a high school student, theorizes that Plato was trying to make he and Judy his surrogate family (quite an analysis for a 17 year-old). These surface issues that the characters have are almost too easy and laid out for us that I wonder if the extent to which they offer analysis was in part to mask or draw attention away from the more subversive aspects to the film.If Ray is the brains behind the artistry of REBEL, James Dean is the heart and soul. As many of you know, he was a disciple of the Actors Studio in New York and their style of method acting, which was slowly permeating its way into the movies in the mid-50's (STREETCAR was the first major film that prominently featured this performance style). Out of his three films, EAST OF EDEN features the most method actors, GIANT is about half and half and as a result is a weird hybrid film in terms of performance and REBEL puts Dean all alone on his method island &#150; which in a way, fits the narrative. It almost seems as if he's acting in a whole different movie. Wood is no match for him and is actually not very believable, particularly in her more emotional scenes. Similarly, Mineo's old-school theatrical performance style seems particularly archaic when pitted with Dean. Actually, only consummate character actor Edward Platt (who always seems to be playing lawyers, cops or doctors) seems to be anywhere close to Dean's level as the police psychologist Ray Fremick. With that said, Jim Backus (best known to most as Thurston Howell III on GILLIGAN'S ISLAND) is extremely sweet in his role as Dean's father. While he is by no means a naturalistic actor like Dean, his portrayal of weakness (read spinelessness) is at times both bold and quite beautiful. Actors generally don't like to play characters that are weak, but Backus manages to do it with layers and dignity. "},{"Title":"The First American Teenager","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a Deaner, I first became hooked when I saw Rebel on video during the BIG '80s. I wanted to be Dean, I wanted to know everything that I could about this Mutant King. His performance in Rebel lept out at me from my t.v. screen. A flawless performance from a flawless film that continues to influence each new generation of disenfranchised youth. 50+ years after his untimely death, film critics and fans alike are still dissecting his genius. -D, NYC I can't think of another actor who...achieved stardom so quickly...who held it for such a short time..and then...kept it for such a long time. Dean became a star in one calendar year...and then left us. But he's still being talked about...he's still being revered...he's still being iconized 40 years later. I don't think there's another example like it in the entire history of movie. - LEONARD MALTIN "},{"Title":"One of the Great Movies of Our Time","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie meant a lot to me as an 11 year old just seeing it with a bunch of my friends. We all came back from the movie walking our 10 blocks or so back to our neighborhood acting out the parts in the movie. I guess I am a totally non-objective voter on this as I gave it a ten because the movie meant so much to me. Of course at that age or even years later I had no idea there was any underlying homosexual theme. Nor does it matter to me. First of all I believe that the movie stands up today. You can't say that about a lot of 1955 movies. I think a movie that stands up over time must have elements of great acting, directing and writing. I became a huge James Dean fan to this day. He was already dead when I saw thee movie of course. I'm not sure if I even knew that at the time.I can't explain this anymore that my admiration of other idols of my youth, like JFK, RFK, or MLK. I later would read much more about the movie, James Dean, the Director, Nicholas Ray, Natalie Wood. I found out that JD was probably bi-sexual. Perhaps no doubt bi-sexual. We know that Sal Mineo, later known to the public, was homosexual. Not that any of this matters. They were acting parts in this movie. Perhaps Nicolas Ray meant to include this sub-theme, perhaps not.Nick Ray did change the script DRASTICALLY from the original written story. It was to be a juvenile delinquent that was visited in prison by a cop or social worker. It was re-written many times by writers he hired but he changed things as they filmed also. There was a real gang member in the cast, Crunch. JD went to some gang hangouts before filming to get a feel for it. He was after all an Indiana farm boy, not a city boy.There's lots more to be said. But I say this JD, what an actor! "},{"Title":"You're tearing me apart!","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The perfect film. It is a flawless story of teenage rebellion and isolation that is more poignant today than it was in the 50s. It perfectly embodies every element of being a teenager. The angst, confusion and feeling of complete alienation from everyone. You feel lost and angry, and not even your friends and family can help you. It really is just the epitome of an adolescence film. It takes every element of the time period in one's life and combines them so seamlessly. Watching it, I felt like I was seeing my own life instead of a fictionalized one. Everything about it is so authentic and palpable. The performances are just indescribable. Dean is the embodiment of every teenager, filled with pain and confusion. His facial expressions and body movements easily display every emotion searing through his mind, and the mind of every rebellious teenager at that point in their life. I don't think I've ever seen an actor become more absorbed in their role. You forget that you are watching somebody act. It might be the greatest performance I've ever seen. Natalie Wood is incredible. She is absolutely gorgeous and the chemistry between her and Dean is unlike anything brought to film. Never before has their been a couple so adorable or meant for each other. They are two halves of one whole and this romance is brought to the screen flawlessly. Sal Pineo is also sensational, displaying the third form of teenage angst; the nerdy, secluded boy who's always picked on. I was incredibly surprised by how brilliant this film is. "},{"Title":"Loved him, just loved him!","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was my first James Dean movie that i've seen, and I thought it was cool. It was fun (I love his laugh) and interesting and I really started to pity him at first because of his mom and dad (they were strange at first...) but then I started liking him and I thought he was strong and he really was a good boy, although misunderstood.Natalie Wood is wonderful and really likable and also misunderstood. To summon it up, it's a movie about teenage life, love and showing off, but it's also deeper than it seems. Dean's character, Jim Stark, thought at first that being strong meant showing off in front of people he didn't know and wanting to be accepted, but then understood that being strong means protecting your friends and family and not try to be someone you're not.It was a great movie with wonderful actors and Wood and Dean really fit well together, and it's ashame that he passed away without giving us more wonderful and great movies, just like Rebel Without A Cause.Aida "},{"Title":"Essential James Dean","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First off, rebel without a cause is essential for anyone who is into classic movies. James Dean plays the role that will forever enshrine him as one of the greatest pop icons of all time. Some people attribute James Dean's greatness to his good looks but the performance he gives in Rebel Without a Cause proves why he is so great. Dean gives the perfect mix of teenage anxiety and teenage rebellion. While Dean's performance is the most memorable part of Rebel Without a Cause, the actor who portrayed Plato and Natalie Wood are essential to the movie. The images that are portrayed in Rebel Without a Cause are images that will last a lifetime. Finally, the only reason i don't give Rebel Without a Cause a perfect score is because there are only a few movies deserving of a perfect rating. "},{"Title":"Sal Mineo is even better than Dean here","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this day of videos and fast-backward, freeze-frame etc, you can watch an actor and dissect what it is that catches your attention about him/her.Mineo actually steals the show here in my opinion. And he does it from two terrific actors.Natalie Wood showed she was a great actress in the final scene from Splendor in the Grass. She does less here, but fills her role perfectly.Dean did more acting in East of Eden than here, where he does less very subtle acting.In Rebel Without a Cause, Mineo gives the greatest display of of facial and vocal changes.As for the queer connection which some posters push so hard, I don't see it at all.The Mineo character is a mess, which many kids are.He needs adults. That doesn't make him a queer--not in any way.Many people in this world, even adults, clutch at a hero, someone they admire and get pleasure out of looking up to.That does not make them homosexuals.Franklin D. Roosevelt gave the impression of security to many people. That is why he was elected President of the US FOUR times.Others admire someone who does things they think they are incapable of doing--especially a very brave person who comes through when it counts.Every girl I have known has gone through a stage while growing up where attention or lack of it from her father has a powerful effect on her, often well into the future.I am not a female so I can't understand this, but I have seen and been told repeatedly by females I have known of the powerful level of attention females have on the way their father treated them. This can have an effect on them to some degree for a lifetime.There is nothing incestuous in this. Judy's need for approval from her father is typical.The Mineo character saw Dean as a hero who could do things the Mineo character himself was afraid and/or incapable of doing.There is nothing homosexual about that.Casting a movie where the actors are supposedly high school kids is always a problem.Dean and Buzz look a bit older than high school age, and Crush and some others definitely do.Mineo and Natalie Wood are more believable as being that age.There is no question that this movie brings up basic situations that affect human beings approaching the adult world, both on the male and female sides, but from what I see here homosexuality is not one of them. "},{"Title":"This is the film that explains James Dean's legend","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you've ever wondered why James Dean is a legend, this is the film to watch. It perfectly explains why in many people's mind, he remains the embodiment of cool and teenage angst. Rebel Without a Cause reached out to an entire generation of disaffected youth. They were all traumatized to find out that Dean died in a car crash and that is on-screen performance resembled his actual self. This was also the first film to really understand teenage rebellion. It didn't simplify the issue by offering the solution of kids coming from a broken home immediately go into delinquency. In the film, thats only one of the problems and sometimes too much love is the issue. None of these characters are bad, just misunderstood. In my mind, this attitude more than makes up for any of the dated aspects of the production.The direction and screenplay by Nicolis Ray are both fantastic and further prove he was one of the most underrated (if not the most underrated) filmmakers ever to come from Hollywood. The acting is good for the most part, even though Natalie Wood is occasionally a bit too melodramatic and Dean tries a bit too hard to be cool. The best acting in my mind comes from Sal Mineo as the cinema's first sympathetic homosexual. Its a tragic and touching role, one any viewer is unlikely to forget. All the characters remain as likable and emotionally connectible today as when the film was initially released. Rebel Without a Cause is more than just an American icon, its a truly great movie. (10/10) "},{"Title":"Powerful, With Great Performances","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a classic teen angst movie, and one of the first to capture it realistically on screen.James Dean gives an incredible performance as the troubled, confused teen, trying to stand up for himself and understand what's going on is his life. you can notice his fear and eagerness to be loved in his gaze, his movements, his laugh and his voice. When he shouts the famous line You're tearing me apart!, it's truly heartbreaking. He creates a character with whom you can easily relate and who's incredibly sympathetic.Natalie Wood has a steady sweetness and beauty, a woman-like quality in a confused, stubborn teenage girl. She's believable and has a good deal of touching moments, without overplaying them. She has a good chemistry with James Dean, too. Sal Mineo as Jimmy's friend is the best of them, though. He was just 16 when the movie came out, and this is one of the est teen performances ever. His character has a fear, a confusion, and above all, such a need to be loved, that you can't avoid to want to protect him and help him. His puppy-like eyes, begging to be loved, his sweet, young boy's voice, and his way of shivering all the time, the doubts you can feel he has make this performance great. You never doubt by a single moment that what you're seeing is real. His performance is the best in the movie, I think, even if everyone is just great.Al the supporting actors are amazing. Jim Backus as Jimmy's dad, keeps up with the difficult task of making us like and understand his confusion about his son and at the same time wanting him to be stronger and seeing Jimmy's side. The gang members have a typical teen arrogance, but they are real. The actor's that play Judy's parents have a nicely played scene too.The screenplay is incredible. It portrays realistically the confusion of teenagers and their parents, it has very touching moments, it's suspenseful, the characters are all believable and you care by them. Here, you can feel the lack of communication between adults and teens. But the most singular thing of all is the satire to American society. You can see the irony of all this seemingly perfect families, hiding in their houses and arguing. Some of the shots suggest this, too; the way outside everything's perfect, and inside of all the suburban houses and the minds of the characters everything's confused and messed up. I liked the ending resolution a lot, too, showing that sometimes people just can't live with themselves.The directing is good, with some shots that are sort of campy and fits in the mood of the movie. I liked some subtle touches, like Dean's red jacket and Plato's socks. The music was sometimes a bit overplayed, but mostly, it worked. This is a great movie, not to be missed by anyone! 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Teenage rebel icon","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean was already dead by the time this hit the screen, confirming a martyr's status on his portrayal of crazy mixed up kid Jim. Not that Jim is really that messed up, despite the fact that he gets drawn into a knife fight, a lethal chicken run car race and befriends the creepy Plato kid, a twitching psycho nerd if ever there was one. Why all the boy needs to straighten him out is a nice girlfriend like Natalie Wood. Its hard to imagine the impact of this dated and predictable melodrama now, but this is where the teenager got invented, despite the fact that all the adults here, including the screenwriter, clearly had no idea what the Generation Gap was all about. Elvis reportedly knew Dean's dialogue by heart. This film is naive but fascinating and Dean does look cool. "}{"Title":"A Deeply Disquieting Film About Juvenile Delinquency","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray creates another typically feverish dreamscape for this film about juvenile delinquency, and the effect is strongly disquieting.Rebel Without a Cause suggests that the strain of teenage rebelliousness prevalent at the time of the picture's release (and glamorized in many films made specifically for the newly discovered teen audience) stemmed from more than everyday spoiled child angst. It distinguished between normal rebellious behavior that all children go through as part of the maturation process, and truly destructive behavior that suggests anti-social tendencies. And what's more, the film lays much of the blame for these troubled teens on their absentee parents and a culture that asks them to make concessions and conform before they've even had a chance to establish their own place in the world.James Dean was perfect casting in the lead. During his short career, he excelled at playing teens who were visibly uncomfortable in their own skins. He is given fine support by Sal Mineo, who plays a young gay man terrorized by the thought of his difference from the norm, who wants nothing more than to hide away from a world that punishes difference with ostracism or worse. Natalie Wood gives an overly-hysterical performance as another of the film's misfits. I've always thought Wood was one of the most beautiful actresses Hollywood ever produced, but I have to be honest and admit that her acting abilities left much to be desired.I don't know if Rebel Without a Cause was the first film to accuse one generation of being responsible for the ills of the next, but it certainly is the first one of any stature to do so as directly and bluntly as is done here. Of course, many years later we realize that Ray and his film were absolutely correct.Grade A "},{"Title":"I don't understand???","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie itself is pretty good, in the same rebel genre as Marlon Brando's The Wild One, and holds its own on that account. But I've never been able to understand the cult status that Dean, the actor, has accrued over the years. He was a GOOD actor,yes, but certainly not a GREAT actor by any means, come on now, he made only three films,and REBEL was the one that gave him that icon of rebellion image. Had he lived, I'm not at all sure he would've lasted very long, after all, James the MAN was TOO rebellious and headstrong to hold up under the pressures any actor worth his salt has to be! Rather than compare him to young Brando (who had formally trained under Stella Adler), I'm more apt to class him with songstress Janis Joplin Made a Big impression, briefly, then was gone. I just don't understand! Does Anyone? "},{"Title":"Remembering three legends who died too soon","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Out of all the classic teenage films that I've ever seen, this and West Side Story have been the two that have been embedded in my psyche for the longest time.  I have been a fan of James Dean for many years, but it is only here where he finally allows his genius to shine through.  Sadly, his star fizzled out before it could even begin to shine fully.  Whenever I watch Dean on-screen I am always curious as to what could have been had he lived longer.  Frankly, I believe that Rebel Without A Cause will forevermore be known as his testament to us of his brief time upon this earth.Everything about this film is stunning from the acting to the camera angles, not to mention the stark use of color in different sequences.James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo all make up a sort of fractured family, the castoffs whose normal families don't understand.  If you look hard enough, there can be seen a sort of love between James Dean's character and Sal Mineo's character.  Mineo's character simply idolizes James Dean's character and one wonders if he thinks of him as more than just a friend.  It is interesting to note that the role of Plato (played by Sal Mineo) was in fact probably the first homosexual character in a film, although Nicholas Ray only allows glimpses and hints at it throughout the film.This is the film that elevated James Dean into the mythic legend category most stars only dream of, and you must admit that it is one of the most searing, provocative performances ever placed upon celluloid. All three of its stars died too young...and all will never be forgotten.My rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Powerfull and violent!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Powerful and violent!James Dean was spectacular  and his interpretation was superb,Natalie Wood  was fantastic.  This movie is excellent!This is a view of the teenagers in the 50's.  8/10 "},{"Title":"was I and my family the only ones?","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off I'd like to say that this was a great movie with great performances by everyone. You have to have and open enough mind to look past the outdated slang but that's the only problem (hey, it has James Dean, that's good enough right there).But as I was watching with my family and my best friend, I couldn't help but notice that Plato had a picture of a guy in his locker and that his behavior towards Jimmy was a little too questionable. Before I could mention anything, my brother points it out himself and my whole family perks up with the same though. We were all scared to say anything because we didn't know if we were imagining it. Then at the end of the movie, Plato is literally smelling Jimmys jacket and caressing it. That was obvious!!!I don't believe in that time they could blatantly speak about homosexuality but I definintly saw it as a subtext in this movie.I do not believe that because Plato was mentally distrubed that he was gay. It could have been many reasons. His lack of a father figure for example. Or it could simply be that he was gay and being different in that sense was the final thing that pushes him over the edge. I don't honestly know but I stand by my theory that this theme was intentional.I'm not the only one who thinks so. "},{"Title":"I was a little disappointed, but the movie was good","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a member of the youth of America, I can relate to the teenagers of this movie (Dean, Wood, and Mineo). The struggles with finding who you are and where you want to be, while breaking away from your parents (to their despair) is very apparent in every generation, and the creators of Rebel Without a Cause chose very general troubles, while still being able to add depth to each of the characters.  My eyes were constantly focused on James Dean. Not only is he good-looking, but he's probably the most popular sex-symbol of the 50's and 60's, and the victim of a terrible car accident not long after this movie. While I watched, I was kindly paying my respects to him. His sullen, brooding and defeatist, yet very realistic portrayal of the new kid (Jim Stark) facing parental problems, popularity, and finding out where you belong was great. We didn't always get to know how he felt about certain things, since he never said too much, but his youth-of-Americana feel was there.Good movie, I give it a 6 or a 7/10. I was a little disappointed at the direction the movie took near the second half. It seemed kind of pointless. "},{"Title":"FINALLY A MOVIE THAT TELLS IT LIKE IT IS","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was schocked when i saw this movie Nicholas Ray got it right on the dot. The movie doesnt show how bad teenagers are, it shows bad parenting not bad kids. I can TOTALLY relate to James Dean's character being the new kid a dealing with the challenges i face EVERY SINGLE day with my parents. James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo give excellent performances in this terificc movie. The movie is very realistic about teenagers in a suburban town they even had a member of an LA gang play a technical advisor and an actor in the movie. This movie inspired many futrure movies and still remains a instant classic. **** stars   10/10  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm only 13, but I can really relate to this movie. I've been a new kid before and I know how James Dean felt. I can also relate to Sal Mineo's character, Plato. James Dean, Sal Mineo, Natalie Wood, Dennis Hopper, Corey Allen, and everyone else were all great in this movie. It's tragic how James, Sal, and Natalie died, and that they died so young. Personally I think it's one of the best movie's ever made! Long Live James Dean! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I was born 23 years after this movie's release, I love it!  I'm a huge James Dean fan, and although problems are different than that of today, it's still easy for teenagers to relate to.  10 in my book. ) "},{"Title":"Cheated out of a great career......","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     James Dean is a beautiful prodigy of the film industry.  There's something so natural about everything he does in this film.  It survives the test of time, because teens have problems dealing with their parents and fitting, and the regular pressures of any teen.    The loss of Jim Dean is one of the greatest tragedies in Hollywood history, because this movie truly defines his future in acting as a bright one.  The entire world was cheated out of the chance to see this aspiring young actor turn into a superstar.    I guess the one comfort that comes from his death is that he left this world doing something he really loved.  Hollywood will never forget you James Dean!!!  Dream as if you'll live forever, live as if you'll die today... "}{"Title":"Cheated out of a great career......","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     James Dean is a beautiful prodigy of the film industry.  There's something so natural about everything he does in this film.  It survives the test of time, because teens have problems dealing with their parents and fitting, and the regular pressures of any teen.    The loss of Jim Dean is one of the greatest tragedies in Hollywood history, because this movie truly defines his future in acting as a bright one.  The entire world was cheated out of the chance to see this aspiring young actor turn into a superstar.    I guess the one comfort that comes from his death is that he left this world doing something he really loved.  Hollywood will never forget you James Dean!!!  Dream as if you'll live forever, live as if you'll die today... "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With all the terrible high school movies that come out these days, this film is an outstanding landmark in the genre.  The acting is exceptional, the screenplay and direction are terrific.  This is probably the best movie made about teenagers ever. "},{"Title":"Watch Giant instead","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean's first movie and a credible performance.  Too bad the movie's plot is a bit contrived and the acting, including Dean's, seems very strained at times - as if the actors were going to start laughing out loud at the hackneyed lines in the script.One would have hoped that with this movie's reputation and solid cast, it might have held up better over the last forty-odd years.  The movie tries to explore just why our protagonist is going through a tough time in his life. Every other teenage angst movie made since came up with the correct answer - that's what happens to teenagers.  The premise of the movie is that Dean's behaviour is unusual for a teenager of that generation despite the fact that every other teenage character in the movie is going through the same thing, even though their mothers don't pick-up and move when their kids get in trouble.The best you can say about this film is all of the cast takes it seriously. For a 60's baby like me (okay, late 1950's), seeing Ed Platt as anything else than The Chief and Jim Backus as anyone other than Mr. Howell is a treat in itself.  In one famous and outrageous scene, the emasculated Backus, playing Dean's father, is dressed in a frilly apron and preparing dinner while he talks to his son about problems he really doesn't understand.  You try doing that with a straight face.  Rounding out the cast are Sal Mineo and a very young Natalie Wood.Watch this strictly for historical purposes, not to be entertained.  Dean only made three movies, so even though I haven't seen either of them, they've got to give his considerable talents a better chance at expression than this exploitation flick did. "},{"Title":"James Dean Was More Than A Postcard","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I actually have two favorite movies, Rebel and The Wanderers(1979)This film means a great deal to me as I can relate to all of the characters. Before I watched this, I knew James Dean only as a postcard. I was blown away by just how great an actor he was, I have no doubt that he would have gone on the become even better. Natalie Wood was also great and Sal Mineo gives a very convincing performance.I think 'Rebel' holds up today because of Dean's acting and Nicolas Ray's direction. The film was shot in Warner Color and looks great. The colors stand out and the film is very shadowy in parts. The music is also great. The theme's of alienation and loneliness will always be relevant.It is unfortunate that so much controversy has surrounded the three stars and there untimely deaths, but this film is not to be missed.**** 4 out of 4 "},{"Title":"Good movie hasn't dated too badly, but...","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is terribly slow in spots, particularly during the rather long scene where Dean hangs around the police station near the beginning.Natalie Wood, who was only 18 when she acted in this film even though she looks much older, was very good as the spoiled rich popular girl who took to outcast Dean.  Dean, who's second-last film role this would be, seems very casual about his role and smoothly slides through the film yet giving a very solid performance.  Overall, the acting in this film was quite uncommonly good for the genre, and several of the kids in the popular-kid gang later grew into successful actors.  It's kinda amazing seeing a young Dennis Hopper and Nick Adams in pretty quick supporting roles.  Neither of them has much in the way of dialog, but their presence alone kept me awake.The story on a whole still seems pretty pertinent today, though I wasn't fooled for a minute into thinking these 20-30 year old were High School students.  The scenario of a new kid not fitting in at his new school is something most of us have had to deal with at one point or another, but Dean's journey in this film seems particularly rough.  The first day at school, not only does he get cut up in a knife fight, but accidentally kills another kid he gets in a car rivalry with.About the only thing that severely dates this film is the dialog and the situations.  Modern audiences have trouble swallowing lines like a guy telling another guy I really like you out of no where.  Back then audiences were not quite as likely to equate such behaivior with homosexuality.  A lot of the lines muttered by Sal Mineo's character are downright embarrassing to hear as he tells two complete strangers that they are like the family he never had.  The relationships all move way too quickly for one to take seriously, and hence the film seems more hokey and not as realistic.  Too bad, since the film has some classic scenes and is the best example of Dean's acting ability. "},{"Title":"Death of a great actor","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't think this film was a masterpiece. Its story is way too thin and familiar, though it certainly scores some points for the neat character studies of bored and alienated youngsters. Their struggle for self-esteem and honor is remarkably well drawn. But as I said, it's too predictable to make this a really good movie instead of just a good movie. However, what really raises the film above par is the acting of James Dean. Until now, I had only heard and read something about his (short) life, but this is the first time I saw him in a film. And I can only say this (young) man had great potential and it's a shame that he didn't have the time to make more films. I can't say anything about the man James Dean, but I can say that we've lost a great actor far too soon.Oh, and as for the movie, I rated it 7/10.(thanks to Jimmy Dean) "},{"Title":"Amazingly emotional and real.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The basic plot Three troubled teens meet over s short period of time.The praise Muscularly emotional, it recounts the events of adolescence realistically, dealing with doubt, turmoil, and emotion in a surprising way.  It is all about the problems of life and growing up, role models, etc, etc....  It happens to be MEANT to make one uneasy, and it does so, effectively.  The acting also happens to be near perfect, James Dean and Natalie  Wood giving stellar performances.  But it is Sal Mineo who I think is truly great, giving a realistically emotional performance and a truly complex character.   Great multi-scene opening and a suspenseful, great closing.  Suspense all the way through, especially during the Chickie Run  scene, the mansion scene also is perfect.  Must-see. "},{"Title":"James Dean's finest movie!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent. It is profound. I saw it for the first time in high school. Now I own it, and know a ton about James Dean himself. He has become my favorite movie star, or legend however you prefer it. He does such excellent work. But I think that some forget about Natalie Wood, and Sal Mineo who's performances were equally good, and helped shape the movie into a classic. James Dean as Jim Stark is an excellent choice. James Dean always played rolls that were kind of true to his life. He felt he needed something more from society, and so did Jim Stark. Neither ever found it, but at least Jim Stark's end was a new beginning. This movie is excellent. See It! "},{"Title":"The first teenage gay scenes in a major Hollywood film.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The feeling by Plato for Jim are clearly gay longing.  The scene outside Plato's garage readsPlato Hey do you want to come home with me.  There's nobody at my house and heck I'm not tired, are you?  See I don't have too many people I can talk to.JamesWho hasPlato If you can come we can talk and then in the morning we can have breakfast like my dad.  If only you could have been my dadJames Have you flipped or something.  Look I'll see you in the morning o.k.?Plato Well I've got to pickup my scooter.  See you tomorrow.The longing Plato expresses here and through out the film is primarily for James.  Get the DVD and see the auditions for Dean, Mineo and Wood together.  The hugs and by play are mostly between Mineo and Dean, while Woods seems to just be an extra.How would this play out nowadays.  Dean and Mineo would seem to be Rebels With A Cause, that of getting out to the closet.This is the classic teenage rebellion film that started them all and still stands up.  At least the opened the door to the closet "},{"Title":"Diamond in the Rough.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 7 out of 10.  Granted, Nick Ray does a rather well job. This movie started the teensploitation movement so heavily felt in the past 5 years.  The difference is Nick Ray and of course, James Dean.  A typical portrayal of family life in the mid 50's, Rebel was a little thin at times. Natalie Wood annoyed me a lot.  I really can't blame her.  She was only sixteen and I doubt she would have defied Nick Ray, so she performs too often forcing what was most likely Ray's instruction.  Mineo is better, harboring geniune emotions.  Cory Allen and Dennis Hopper are the only goons who aren't stereotypical buffoons.  But rising above it all, defying Nick Ray and even his fellow actors at times.. is Dean.  His screen presence sucks your attention.  Who could ever forget the staircase dialogue, for once, I just want to do something right!  Dean's acting is a 10 and then some.   "}{"Title":"Intriguing, I want to watch it again","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't say that the movie was shattering, but I can certainly identify with the characters. It's eerie, but I can actually see shades of myself in those characters. Loneliness, anger, hurt, alienation, these are things you can recognize if you've gone through them yourself.The movie also does a brilliant job of portraying the relationships of each of the characters with their parents. When I  saw the movie, I didn't react in any specific way, I couldn't relate, but Rebel has this funny way of sticking in your mind, it's characters and their essence-or essences-stay with you long after the last reel has played in your VCR. "},{"Title":"A wrenchingly powerful story of the rebellion of the 50s.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    This movie was selected as #59 on AFI's top 100 list and deserved a way better spot like in the top 25.  This isn't only an excellent, powerful, heart-breaking story about a young man whop tries hard not to be a rebel but just doesn't have the required help.  This is reality.  Plenty of kids acted the same way James Dean did in this movie and not because they wanted to be show-offs or tough-guys, but simply because it was the only way of living they could see.  Story aside, this movie contains without any doubt Dean's best performance as Jim Stark, the rebel the title talks about.  Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo are equally good  as Dean's girlfriend and best pal.  So enough said.  I don't want to spoil the fun of watching this gem.  Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Truly one of the greatest films ever made.","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another classic, another masterpiece. 'Rebel Without a Cause' was released 53 years ago in 1955, but this is one timeless story that hasn't aged one day, if not ahead of its time entirely. It is absolutely stunning, a powerful and moving ode to the terrors of growing up. Complete with innovative direction from Nicholas Ray, an intelligent and insightful script, and eye-popping performances, few films have kept me riveted the way 'Rebel Without a Cause' did.You may find it corny. You may find it clunky to today's standards. But a moment is never wasted in this masterful picture, and while situations may be different then they were when 'Rebel' was filmed, the struggles remain the same. To grow up and feel as though you don't belong, this is nothing new. Whether you grew up during the golden years of the 50s, or if you're still growing up now in the 21st century, life isn't as neat or simple as it is on 'Leave it to Beaver'. 'Rebel' understands this, and there are moments of real truth to be found.To conform or not to conform, that is the question. It is the central theme here, and what plagues Jim (James Dean) more than anything else. Growing up in a new neighborhood, Jim finds himself torn between being an individual or fitting in with the others, even when that means doing terribly dangerous things. It is such a decision that will affect the rest of your life, and to which there is no easy answer. 'Rebel' understands this better than any other film I can recall, and it's what makes it such a fascinating and realistic approach to those dreaded moments in life.It is impossible to discuss 'Rebel Without a Cause' without the legendary performance that would make James Dean an icon. Though he starred in only three films, his legacy lives on like few others ever will. His undeniable charm transcends film, and his fascinating but tragic life that was cut much too short has made him immortal. Dream as if you'll live forever; live as if you'll die today, he once said. He was an old soul, and a man wiser beyond his years. His performance here in 'Rebel' is, quite simply, flawless. Every word spoken with such passion and truth, his presence alone is incredibly powerful. He will leave you breathless.'Rebel Without a Cause' is the definition of true greatness. But it is difficult not to watch this and feel a great sadness come over you. James Dean. Natalie Wood. Sal Mineo. Three magnificent talents, gone much too soon. But the moments we do have with them will live on forever in the timeless tradition of cinema. Their presence lives on for future generations to discover and praise. Some people are just born with tragedy in their blood, goes a line from 'Donnie Darko'. But we must treasure the time we have with them. And 'Rebel Without a Cause' is one of the best movies I have ever seen.More reviews at rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public "},{"Title":"Knock on any door","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel without a cause is arguably Ray's finest hour.It 's not surprising that in the first screenplay,Plato played a prominent partwhen you watch the film today for the umpteenth time,you realize that it's Plato who interests Ray .James Dean was extraordinary ,and his acting was quite revolutionary in the fifties but his character was much less interesting than the little boy,left by his mother to his own device with a black servant.Rebel without a cause represents Ray's zenith and the search of the father which is present in all Ray' s great movies from the Bogart/Derek relationship in knock on any door to that of the same Derek and Cagney in run for cover which even continued in the unfairly despised 55 days at Peking with Heston and the Chinese girl was never more moving than here.The only moment when Plato is really happy is the night in the abandoned house before going to sleep,he has the strange feeling of being part of -at last- a family I wish you were my father he says to Jim.For Jim and Judy who both come from families they can't stand anymore,their wedding means starting over.But when Plato asks for children,they are not very enthusiastic.All happens in 24 hours from a middle of the night to another middle of the night.And Ray masterfully uses the wide screen ,and the places where the action takes place are at once baroque,apocalyptic and disturbing a police station,the cliffs, the planetarium -when the earth disappears ,the professor says,it will be nothing but a tiny bang which will mean nothing across the universe- and the strange house where the characters try to reinvent their life .Ray (by the way the cop 's name is Ray ,isn't it?) depicts teenage angst as nobody did before.Jim Stark,dead drunk in the gutter plays like a little child and in the police station ,he breaks like a little boywhich actor even from the actor's studio could act like that?Jim is a close relative of Nick (Knock...),of Davey (Run for cover ),of Bowie (they live by night) , of Turkey (Johnny Guitar ) and of course of Wes (Lusty men) ,who,becoming a child for a short while,finds back his old money box in his house.On the contrary,Judy puts lipstick and she tries to act like a woman .Her father is probably the strangest character in the whole story ;too bad ,it is underwrittenwhy doesn't he want to kiss his daughter?The search for a father is almost always painful and tragic there is an expiatory victim.In all the movies I mention ,someone dies and the others can go on and survive .Sometimes it's the father (They live by night  Lusty men winds across the everglade ),more often the son (knock.. run for cover Johnny Guitar Rebel).The influence of Rebel without a cause is incalculable and one can go as far as saying it spawned the whole rock generation.Like this?try theseThe wild one  Laslo Benedek 1954Avant le Deluge Andr Cayatte,1952Blackboard jungle Richard Brooks, 1955 "},{"Title":"Gripping, intense and Absolutely Amazing","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before i saw this movie i knew who james dean was but i never knew he was this amazing! The day i saw this movie it completely changed my perspective on movies. James Dean must be the greatest actor of all time and I'm not joking you! He will blow your mind in this gripping, realistic story! Accompined by the beautiful Natile Wood and The insecure Sal Mineo. This must be one of the best movies I've ever seen that's how good it was. There is suspense, action, real life situations and romance. It gives you a hole different perspective on life! It's absolutely amazing and i give a standing ovation to Jimmy Dean the best actor of all time he is incredible in this movie! I love this movie and RECOMMEND THIS TO EVERYBODY ON EARTH! I may be exaturating just a bit but if your a person that is into the 50's sense you'll adore this movie you don't even see it first once you read this go out and buy it now!! NOW what are you waiting for! "},{"Title":"Candidly Realistic Peek on the Anxieties and Issues of Every Adolescent","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seemingly outdated today, the strength of its performances, the overall impact of Nicholas Ray's direction and the teenagers' frantic cry for help from anguish make REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE eternal for generations of moviegoers. The film is most renowned for launching a young James Dean into mega-stardom establishing him as a legend of 20th century cinema.A newcomer to the town, Jim Stark (Dean) is a defiant juvenile delinquent and individual, who stems from a stuck-up family. Jim is sent to the police station for staying past his curfew where he meets a weeping, attractive and similarly disturbed Judy (Natalie Wood).The next day, Jim tries to get her to go his way, but she runs off with the cool crowd led by Buzz (Corey Allen). Because of Jim's maverick behavior, he is not gleefully welcome by Buzz's clique. His and Buzz's competition escalate to violent behavior and brutality solely for the sake of honor. All the while, Plato (Sal Mineo) a distressed, helpless, feeble loner tries his best to befriend Jim by trying to get Jim to support and care for him.Nicholas Ray provides us a fascinating and unadulterated character study. Ray spent hours studying petty crime and misdemeanor among youngsters at the time. He implies that most of the felonies committed by teenagers root from dysfunctional families. Jim's parents are apathetic to his social life. Judy's father never gave her the adoration she required and Plato's parents separated at a young age. All feel unloved and abandoned by their respective relatives and the trio tries to build their own family based on shared understanding and genuineness to one another. The transpiring events will spark curiosity among younger viewers and ones of older generations will reminisce. Also, the planetarium scene, the brawl scene and the chickee run scene all oddly make us contemplate on where we really fit in....that is what REBEL is all about.Dean is agonizingly powerful in this tailor-fitted role that made him a martyr in the filmdom. This was undoubtedly his magnum opus in his all-too-brief career. His defining moment in the movie is the devastating drunken performance he gave in the opening sequence. (You're tearing me apart!). Natalie Wood is likewise noteworthy and authentic as a daughter eager for love, Judy, who slowly falls for the charming Dean. The scenes with her and her father are psychologically excruciating to watch. However, the most emotionally shattering representation of a character is Sal Mineo's Plato. After his father leaves him, he takes extreme measures to make Jim his dad. He is dangerously engrossed (sexually?) with Jim since he was the only one who would be Plato's pal.If REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE could have been more accessible to other generations, it could have been completely perfect. Nevertheless, Nicholas Ray offers us a mesmerizing analysis on sociology and adolescence with its stars at full power. This turned out to be the most influential movie of the fifties and the most significant picture on teenage years ever. "},{"Title":"Extremely bizarre...","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know that people who read this are going to think, Well, she's just a stupid kid and her mind has been poisoned with garbage from this decade but they showed us this movie in Health class (9th grade) and I found it to be extremely colorless. Now, it makes more sense, plotwise, then many of the other tasteless crud that pollutes the airways this decade, but I just wasn't a fan of this movie. I did find it interesting that several books I have read, namely the Burn Journals, mentioned things relating to this movie. I suppose it, like Grease, is a part of history, bizarre as it may be. I just wanted to see what people had to say, and they were all different questions. ... .. "},{"Title":"Long live Jimmy Dean","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean plays Jim Stark, a high schooler who moves to a new town with his parents Frank and Carol (Jim Backus and Ann Doran).There he befriends with friendless Plato (Sal Mineo) and becomes enemies with the local gang.He also finds love with the local beauty Judy (Natalie Wood).Nicholas Ray's Rebel Without a Cause from 1955 is a true masterpiece.Jimmy Dean's sensitive acting is a thing this movie is mostly remembered for.There are many other greats there including Edward Platt, Corey Allen and Dennis Hopper.This is actually Dennis', who plays Goon, first film role.There are many scenes in this movie that make it a masterpiece like in the end when Plato gets shot and Jimmy first laughs to his socks (he's wearing different colors) and then starts to cry.That's very touching.Everything in this movie works just perfectly.It's been fifty years since the fatal car crash of Jimmy Dean.He will never be forgotten.James Dean was in one word cool. "},{"Title":"The classic story of not fitting in.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE is that classic story of rebellion that we all know--a boy named Jim Stark (played by the brilliant James Dean) moves to a new town, and has a hard time fitting in with his new schoolmates. Despite his efforts to befriend the popular Judy (Natalie Wood) and fit in with her crowd, he gets turned away and must instead befriend the outcast Plato (Sal Mineo). But, Jim is also a nice guy and doesn't mind his company.*here be possible spoilers*One night, on another attempt to fit in and gain respect, Jim engages in what the kids call a chickie race, in which two boys drive stolen cars towards the edge of a cliff and see which one jumps from their car first. However, this race ends tragically when Judy's boyfriend, Buzz (Corey Allen) gets caught inside his car and is killed. Jim still earns no respect for the race, and is still unhappy as he goes back to his heckling parents (Jim Backus and Ann Doran) and his lonely life. Of course this is not how the movie ends, but I won't ruin that for you.REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE is a great movie, and easy to relate to. It's technically a coming of age story, but it's not corny or cheesy in the least. Probably because it was made quite a while ago, and is considered a classic, and does stand the test of time. All of the technical aspects are in good shape--scripting, directing, and casting are all great.And as for the acting... well, what is there to say. I adore James Dean, and he was a brilliant and beautiful actor, but there's nothing I can say that hasn't been said about him before or that would do him justice. The only way to understand his legacy is to see him in action. As for the rest of the cast, everyone is great, namely the other two leads, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo (sadly, both have passed as well as Dean).*here be more possible spoilers*The only flaw I could see in REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE is how unrealistic it is in parts. After Buzz is killed, Judy seems to show virtually no emotion about it. We don't even see her crying over the accident. And then, that very same night, she gets together with Jim? She must be one heartless witch if so. However, this seemed pretty inevitable from the beginning, so I can't say much.Aside from that one gripe, I really can't think of anything else bad to say about REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE. It's a great old movie that I'm sure will remain a classic for another 50 years. And I hope it does. 8/10. "},{"Title":"in way its a spoiler, but an awesome movie","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without A Cause is a romantic comedy. The main characters in this movie  are Jim Stark / James Dean also Judy / Natalie Wood, Plato / Sal Mineo. Thebeginning of this movie does not start off well for Jim Stark, the reason being  that he ends up in the police station answer questions because he was pickedup for drinking.  Then his parents come down to pick him up and argue overhim. Who he meets down at the station are Judy and Plato, which later onbecome his friends.  After he leaves the station with his parents, they go home. The next day he starts  school and tries to make friends with the lead group of rebels. This doesn't turn  out to well, as he gets a little hurt and something more traumatic happens.Mainly throughout this movie his is just trying to fit in to a new place with the  people that are someway like him. Though he goes through a lot of trouble, in  the end he succeeds. I will not be telling you any of the main details, because this is a movie you must  see. Not only was there a terrific cast, but this was also James Deans last movie  before he died. This movie has comedy, romance, action and more then youwould think. The music was well done it set the mood to every scene and itdidn't stay the same during the whole movie.  It was more like now days how a  movie has a complete soundtrack with 12 or more songs. When like the moviesfrom older times have 5 or less. This movies music I feel just allows the movie to  continue freely. I enjoyed this movie, it was funny, exciting, and not only that but  it shows some sort of moral. I know that the ending is sad but it's happy as well.  I know that with the way James Dean acted in this movie, if he were still alive  then he would have made more films, and could become a very large icon. I'mnot saying that he isn't already a large icon, with his handsome looks and this  charming way about him. I recommend this film to anyone that loves a goodstory and that likes great actors and beautiful people.  "}{"Title":"A somewhat unrealistic movie that drags on in unrealistic occurrances","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is a pretty good movie.  It has all the aspects of a good  movie an original story, a plethera of occurances that add to the storiesimportance and purpose, and a good cast to back up each role.But above all of these things, this film isn't exactly top of the line.  This is more of  a date movie.  Something to do instead of something worthwile.  True, the cast  was great, as was the story, but all these things are unrealistic.You get some background to the main character's (James Dean) life, and whyhe's where he is.  But the reasons for it are utterly silly.  Parent's, no matter what  the financial stability they are in, will not move continuously just so their child  can make friends.  Plus, the entire story takes place within the entirety of a 24  hour time period.  He makes a good friend, a girlfriend who pledges her love to  him at their first meeting, and the death of an enemy, whom also the maincharacter had just met.  This is all too far-fetched.  These problems cannot just happen in a single night.   These types of situations take as long as weeks to develop.  If this wasincorporated into the film, then the reviewer would have probably liked it much  better. "},{"Title":"A day in the life of a Rebel Without a Cause.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is just one of those movies that everybodyhas to see. Some people might say that it it was not a good movie,some people may say it is a great movie. Sure an importantcharacter dies in the end of  the movie, (who it is will not be told inthis review) but they died for a reason. For what reason shouldthis person die? Some one might ask. To teach the viewersomething.  Whether that be to show compasion to every one, or tonot have an ichy trigger finger, or that teenagers sometimes doreally dumb things. Like, oh lets say driving cars off cliffs. Whatever it may be everyone must get something out of it, or else theymust have been asleep. this is the kind of movie that makes theviewer feel for the characters, unlike todays movies that are allabout sex, drugs, and killing  people. in the  end all is resolved. theguy gets the girl. the bad guys are either died or in jail. and theparents are happy. So go, watch this movie. and see that it is wortha rating of ten out of ten.     "},{"Title":"This movie shows the rebls of the fifties","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At a first glance, `Rebel without a cause,' appears to be a typical story about  teenagers in the mid 1950's who rebel against their elders.  But is this really portrayed in the film?  In the reviewer's opinion, yes, and no.  Sometimes it actually shows a little bit of rebellion, and other times it shows pure mischief.	At the beginning of the story, Jim Stark      (James Dean) is staggering around late at night  and he passes out in the street.  Moments later, he is at the police station with his parents, and it appears that he is drunk.  His parents were worried sick about him.  His mom, throughout the whole movie is a control freak, and his dad is almost too lenient with him.  The next day, he meets Judy (Natalie wood) and seems to be in love with her.  He is on his way to school and he offers Judy a ride, but her boyfriend Buzz and all of his friends (who appear to be thugs) pick her up and take her to school.  On that same day, there is a fieldtrip at the planetarium for the school that he is now attending.  At this field trip, he meets a  student named Plato who has no friends, and somehow they become best friends.  After the fieldtrip is over, Jim walks out to his car to find  Judy, and her thugs standing around his car.  Buzz tries to start a knife fight with him, but he loses when the police showed up on the scene.  In turn, Buzz challenges Jim  to a rematch latter on that night.  Jim shows up to the rematch, and finds out that he is going to be playing `chicken run' with Buzz and two stolen cars.  As the two are  racing towards the cliff, Jim decides to jump out of his car before it is too late.   Buzz on the other hand, is too proud of himself, and without realizing, he  traps  himself in his car.   As a result of that, Buzz drives his car over the cliff and dies.  Everyone who is there watching ran away, except for Jim, Judy, and Plato .  Jim goes back home to tell his parents what has happened.  His parents freaked out and told him to lay low.  He ignores their orders and  tries to turn himself in to the police, but is unsuccessful .  At that same time, Buzz's thugs are assuming that he is going to turn them in, so they try to kill him.  Jim, Judy, and Plato   met up near an old abandoned mansion to protect themselves from the thugs that are after them.  While they are there, the thugs showed up on the scene and are chasing after Plato ,  who  shot one of the thugs and ran.  At that point, the police hear shots and see Plato    running out of the mansion and heading up to the planetarium. This is when the standoff began between Plato   and the police.  Jim and Judy see what is happening and decide to help him by sneaking in to the planetarium and luring him out.  The plan almost works well, except when  Plato   steps out side, he panics  and fires shots at the police, causing him to get shot by them.  Jim's parents show up with the police on the scene to find that their son is not hurt.   Jim introduces Judy to his parents.  To the reviewer, this is a sappy ending.James Dean does an excellent job playing Jim, who is supposed to be a rebel, but appears to be more of a former troublemaker who doesn't want to fight, and hates the name chicken.  So in a sense he doesn't really act rebellious.  But he seems to have had a few run -ins with the law, so he was probably rebellious at one time.  As the girls would probably say, `Whoa, what a stud.'Natalie Wood's portrayal of Judy shows that she is a girl that just wants to have fun.  Because her dad abuses her and her mother doesn't give a darn,  she has no one to hang around with, except  Buzz.  The only bad part is, after Buzz's death, she pays attention to Jim.  It is as if she didn't care about Buzz's death at all,  or maybe she forgot.The reviewer would rate this movie a 3-1/2 gold stars out of five gold stars.  The characteristics were good and the movie was funny in some places, but the story did not seem to point anyone out as being a rebel,  just a few mischievous teenagers. "},{"Title":"spoiler if you don't want to ruin your movie don't read this review","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was entertaining if not accurate depiction of teenaged life. Some parts of this movie have valid points such as abandonment issues and the longing to belong and the hostilities towards those who don't. This movie portrays James Dean as a teenager whose' parents are very well to do and as a result he has scorn for what money had done o his family this is portrayed mainly through James Deans' father  played by Jim Backus who in the movie is controlled completely by his wife who this viewer feel represents  money and toward the middle of the movie James Dean asks his father to stand up for himself and he won't but at the end of the film after the father sees what he has done wrong he tells his son that he will stand up with him which is how the movie ends. James Deans character is very well played he seems to be the run of the mill punk but as the movie goes on the viewer comes to find that there are reasons for his behavior and that he is not such a bad guy after all. "},{"Title":"SAL MINEO, JAMES DEAN, NATALIE WOOD in a timeless classic","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can be said about a film that is one of the most influential classics ever made?  PLENTY!  Rebel without a cause is still a timeless masterpiece. Kids of today can still relate to it's basic premise, of youth misunderstood.. .of wanting to belong.. The clothes, hair, and times may have changed, but the story of 3 teens, bonding as the world around them seems to cave-in, is just as potent today as it was in 1955. James Dean delivers a knock-out performance, as Jim Stark. It's his first day at a new high school. Only, this time, he wants to do things the right way A troubled past, his parents avoid problems by simply moving. On this day, Jim truly wants things to be different for good. The night before wasn't great!. Arrested for public intoxication, his parents, perhaps the first glimpse of a dysfunctional family on screen, hardly know how to handle the situation Mom is overbearing, self-centered and constantly ruling over anything his father has to say. His dad is a lilly-livered man with good intentions, but Jim needs guidance. He begs for it, in his rebellion. At the police station, among the other teens in trouble, is Judy (played by the gorgeous, Natalie Wood). Judy has similar problems with her parents. Her father actually slapped her for kissing him on the cheek! All Judy wants is to feel loved.Also at the jail, is John Plato, played to perfection by Sal Mineo (Nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actor). When we first meet Plato, he is being questioned why he shot a bunch of puppies, a horrifying way to introduce a character, but somehow, Mineo makes us care about Plato, a rich kid with tons of problems His dad disappeared, and his mom is always away on trips, leaving him to be cared for by the family maid. Plato is looking for somebody to be his friend, or family. And by the end of 24 hours, these 3 will make their own tightly knit little circle. After a rough start in school, Jim finds trouble during a field trip at Griffith Park Observatory with a bunch of rough kids, including Judy, who runs with the wrong crowd. Jim meets Plato at the Observatory, who warns him not to monkey with them. But, the kids are dead-set on causing Jim trouble, and before we know it, Buzz, the leader of the gang, forces Jim into a knife-fight.. Jim, Judy, and Plato form a kind of family,(and it's obvious Plato has a crush on Jimmy,possiby the first gay teen in cinema history) and end up hiding out at a deserted mansion near the Observatory, as the gang searches for them, as well as the police. In Jim, Judy finds a young man who she can truly love...And Plato finds a buddy he always has wished for.. .. The performances are so gut wrenching, and real, you cannot help but feel their pain.. .When Plato screams out, save me holding a gun, as the gang closes in, you cannot help but feel his pain. These 3 not only make you care for them, but you can almost feel their agony. Rebel is not just the tale of teens trying to fit-in. It is also about friendship.. it's about loyalty.. integrity, and the basic need to feel loved. That is what makes this movie so potent. That is why generation after generation have discovered, and embraced Rebel. Times have changed, but human emotions haven't We all long for human interaction, and companionship. And for 24 hours, at least, this family of 3 found it. We should all be so lucky.   "},{"Title":"Legend Without a Cause....","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've been laid up this week at home recovering from knee surgery so before the surgery I made sure I got a number of movies that I have never had the time to watch to catch up on.  The local library has been carrying more videotapes and DVDs now and Rebel Without a Cause caught my eye.I have always heard of the legendary James Dean but never was moved enough to watch one of his movies, so this was a perfect opportunity.I won't go into the plot synopsis as others have done a good job on that. All I will say is that I was sorely disappointed watching the movie given all the acclaim it and James Dean came with.Maybe it's the feel of the whole movie overall -- I've seen a number of other '50s movies and their actors didn't exactly chew up the scenery like many of these over-the-top performances did.  Maybe these actors and actresses in Rebel were directed by Nicholas Ray to do that to get the feeling across to the audience of that wayward intensity these bad kids and their parents all had.  Maybe, but to me, it just seemed to make the movie that much more cartoonish and caricaturish, careening from one extreme to another, back and forth, like a ride in one of those softly sprung '50s jalopies you see in the movie.Anyway, it was a chance to see the legendary James Dean on screen.  I have to admit that no other actor readily comes to mind who can so instantaneously screw up his face and go into that almost tortured and conflicted wailing soul sort of performance.  It was very melodramatic -- maybe that's the appeal of James Dean. Here's a handsome young guy, who could be tough, but at the same time show that he is so sensitive through his extreme emotional outbursts.Interesting talent to be able to and comfortable enough to do that for one's screen persona, but it's not something that would make him an acting legend for the ages in my book.  (Not having seen his other movies, I will leave that judgment open for the benefit of the doubt.)I agree with the other poster who said that if it wasn't for the tragic ending to his short life and career, James Dean may not have enjoyed the status he seems to have.  On the other hand though, there are a few times even in this somewhat lame movie, that in a certain shot or close-up, James Dean does evoke what Clint Eastwood ended up becoming.However, all-in-all, I found this movie disappointing given all the hype. On the technical side, what was rather disturbing was a few major flaws in the final climatic scenes.*** MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD ***  The biggest one is how the character Plato's socks switch feet in back-to-back shots. (Plato happens to have a red sock on his left foot and a dark blue ? one on his right - well, he was nervous and in a hurry that morning.)  Watch the final scenes closely and you'll see not only the blue sock miraculously switch to the left foot and back to the right with the scene cuts, but the shoe moves too!  It was so obvious an error I'm surprised it made it out of the editing and post-production booths.  The continuity girl should have been whipped with her scriptbook to have let in such a visible distracting gaffe in the final climatic scenes.*** MINOR SPOILERS CONTINUE ***  Two other things  At the end, you'll also notice a cop fumbling around with his notepad/logbook preparing to make some notes about the climatic closing brush with the law.  You would think that for a cop, it would be second nature for him to open up his logbook without even thinking about it.  Yet this guy opens it up one way, turns a page or two, then realizes he has it upside down, then turns it over...... and then all at the same time that he is fumbling looking for his flashlight because he forgot which side of the belt he has it on!  Geez, Officer Krupke, to borrow from a much better '50s type of movie, the classic West Side Story), give me a break!!  Why didn't Nicholas Ray re-shoot that scene after seeing the rushes -- or did he really want it that way?*** FINAL SPOILERS *** And then the final disconcerting part of the ending scene was how quickly the expressions on the faces of the parents of James Dean's character changes in a last close-up.  Totally unrealistic and the wrong type of happiness expressions for that situation!  Relieved yes, but not the type of buoyant glee.The film overall was only about tolerable, to see what all the hype was about, but these last few directorial screw-ups at the very end really can't be blamed on the mood and style of the '50s;  they were just sloppy filmmaking.>> Special note for you guys who grew up in the '60s and and enjoyed the TV spy comedy spoof Get Smart you'll get the rare opportunity to see the Chief in his serious acting days (and with a little more hair!).Good thing the library doesn't charge to borrow movie videos....(p.s. This VHS edition had some additional behind-the-scenes featurettes that were almost more interesting than the movie.)  "},{"Title":"This dreamy 50's teen flick only ripens with time as a tribute to the poetic genius of Nicholas Ray.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seething with internalized energy and visual aplomb, here's one of the keystone movies of the 1950's.  The innovative use of CinemaScope, the saturated Warnercolor and of course, the pivotal cast, will impact generations of moviegoers wanting to see Ray's compelling high school movie that perfectly personifies it's place in time.  This one exhibits just about every positive filmmaking skill there was in the CinemaScope era.  One of many Nicholas Ray greats. "},{"Title":"You can get up now...the world is over","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been a James Dean an for quite some times. Only problem? I'd never seen a James Dean film. But I was in love with the whole Rebel attitude and look. Needless to say, I was a tad worried when I first watched it. One problem and one problem alone is within Rebel Without A Cause...most versions you can find in modern society are colorized. If you want a great, easy to watch film that you'll want to see over and over, Rebel Without A Cause is it "},{"Title":"A pretty good, but dated film","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is a dated film, if you are 21 years old as I am, in these days. However, in the fifties, this must have been quite an important movie.James Dean, the teenage role-model of the fifties, plays the leading character in the movie and does that pretty well. Natalie Wood is beautiful to watch, but in the movie she has a bit of an unreal character. She forgets the death of her boyfriend in maybe 0ne hour, which even in them days is very fast. The ending is also a bit of an anticlimax, but all in all it is not a bad movie. I especially like the role of Jim Backus, Dean's dad in the movie. He plays a real soft father, which is quite funny sometimes.I rated it 7/10. "},{"Title":"started out so well, but then.....","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really didn't know what to think when I started watching the movie.  I was wondering if it was going to be something like 'American Graffiti', or maybe a little heavier.  Well, the first half of the movie, and really well into the third quarter or so, it had great potential, and was somewhat heavy.  After that point it got soft.  Much of the things in the movie are good, specifically the relationship between Jim and his dad.  I enjoyed that, but I was not happy where that or the movie ended up.***SPOILERS***The movie fell apart, not quite, but almost immediately after the game of chicken.  Then begins continuity problems.  I am bothered by the fact that after someone drives over a cliff, in the same night, his girlfriend could not only be happy, but fall in love with someone else.  And not only her, but his whole gang doesn't even seem to mind, as they chase after Jim and try to beat him down.  This is in the span of only a few hours.  Thats horrible.  And they handled the problems of lonliness and family relationships all wrong.  Had they put this story in that hands of either a better director, or a better screen writer, perhaps it could have gone somewhere that would have elevated it to a great movie.  Instead it devolves into a dumb shoot 'em up style of thing, and Jim is pushed into the background.  Why spend time with a character if you push his problems into the background during the climactic part of the film?  I don't know!!! So, in closing, I was utterly disappointed by where the movie went.  I was completely into it until that point, and then it just started to get bad and I stopped caring what happened.  James Dean was good, as were the other actors, but thats about all.  6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"It has changed the way that I feel about movies.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Once in a while, a film comes along that changes the way that you view society and the people in it. After viewing this film only once, I knew I had to have it in my collection. I fell in love with its characters, dialogue, plot and is view on teens and the world around them. I am only 22, but I was very familiar with its cast. James Dean became a legend after only 3 films, (how many actors can we say achieved that level of fame?) and a reputation for living life in the fast lane, and he still remains an unforgettable icon 45 years after his death. I have watched his other films, and feel that he had a very special gift for expressing how he felt. The film has not dated at all, and teens today can feel that they relate to the subject matter. As a teen, I had lost my father and was constantly searching for others to reach out to, like Jim, Judy and Plato did. Everyone in the movie acted wonderfully and the best scenes were between Dean, Wood, and Mineo in the mansion. For one night, they felt exactly what they had been searching for togetherness and acceptance. In my opinion, it is the best teen film ever. Also, isn't it a coincidence that all three leads met tragic, early ends? This movie has a special place in my heart with its unforgettable characters and story line. Dean's best performance, and one of Wood's best, next to Splendor in the Grass and West Side Story. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Sal Mineo drawing a bead on Dennis Hopper while Natalie Wood and James Dean are playing house in a vacant Hollywood Hills mansion....","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sal Mineo drawing a bead on Dennis Hopper while Natilie Wood and James Dean are playing house in a vacant Hollywood Hills mansion...  A chilling freeze frame in film history, and an intersection of extreme beauty and pending tragedy.  James Dean, car crash; Sal Mineo, stabbed to death; Natalie Wood, drowned; Dennis Hopper - alive, but what a row to hoe! Wow.  "},{"Title":"Finally got to see this film","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Its strange that all three top actors of the movie died young. Mineo was stabbed to death at 37. Wood was 43 at the time of her death. She accidentally slipped and fell overboard from a yacht. Dean Died September 30, 1955 (aged 24) Wtherich (Deans mechanic with him during the accident) died in a road accident after several suicide attempts. The movie seems childish for this age, Back in the 50s, as Buzz puts it you got to do something, don't you before the chicken run. So they made this movie. The actors seemed too old to be going to high school, and to see Dean drink milk straight out of the bottle was funny enough. Some scenes were too long and a drag, the movie could have been 20 minutes shorter, and the cops shouldn't have been made looking stupid after killing a schoolboy. There are some good movies from the 50s and 60s. This is not one of them, but a must watch if you haven't seen Dean, but knew about him because you are a Porsche fan. "},{"Title":"Are the characters mentally sick?","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I guess it is impossible to write an objective review about this film. James Dean is an icon, whose name is generally mentioned in one breath together with Marilyn Monroe, Elvis Presley, and (surprisingly) Humphrey Bogart. They all dominated in emotionally trend-setting movies. In addition they reflected their professional work in their private lives, that made them lamentable victims of the show business. I was born just after the production of Rebel without a cause, but the influence of this film was still palpable during my childhood. It may even have been the inspiration for this other giant film about youths, Saturday night fever. However, there is something uncanny in RwaC, that seems absent in SNF. It may be that SNF plays in a social environment, where one expects the natural fostering of aberrations in the development of half-growns. The SNF kids are ignorant and, although they are portrayed as essentially good, can hardly escape from violence and brutality. On the other hand, the kids in the story of RwaC stem from wealthy families, and have no material worries and little intellectual wants. The violence in these surroundings seems abnormal and leaves little room for sympathy. There is no excuse when two characters get into a wild knife fight outside the planetarium. It is absurd when a school kid carries a gun to protect himself against class mates. And it is bizarre when a kid tries to strangle his father, only because the poor man reflects upon an answer to his sons question. The metaphor is clear, namely the search for personal autonomy and the wearisome separation from parental control. However, the metaphor is so extreme that it ruins the credibility of the narrative. RwaC contains lots of hidden hints - supposing that I don't see ghosts. It is probably designed as a film with many layers, for as many different kinds of viewers. However the aim to touch and take along the viewer emotionally is shipwrecked by the monstrous behavior of the main characters. The viewer eventually concludes that the characters must be mentally sick and insane, and this naturally excludes any feelings of identification or empathy. One could speculate that this lack of balance mirrors the spirit of the time, when the people were alienated while trying to cope with the aftermath of the Second World War and the violence of the McCarthy politics. Summarizing this film is part of me but not my cup of tea. "},{"Title":"It's Good, But Not The Great Film That Has Been Believed","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have heard about Rebel Without a Cause for years. It was a cult classic that withstood the test of time and spoke to past and future generations about troubled youth. I also remember how James Dean was such an icon in pop culture, and I loved Blackboard Jungle, which came out about the same time, so I was hoping for a similar classic in Rebel Without a Cause. I prepared myself to be blown away.Unfortunately, all I saw was a slightly above average movie that was not so much about rebellion but a failure between teens and parents to communicate. In Rebel Without a Case, each of the main protagonists has pain in his/her own family life, ranging from an abusive father,(the parent of Natalie Wood) a young teen (Sal Mineo) with no parents being raised by a housekeeper, and another teen who lives with an over-protective mother, and a hen-pecked apathetic father. (James Dean's parents.) The story involves Jim Stark (Dean) trying to fit in at school. A very difficult task as his family has constantly been moving from state to state because Jim can't seem to stay out of trouble. He quickly (almost too quickly) befriends several students at the school and also makes several enemies, all in a very short period of time.Jim quickly becomes provoked into a knife fight by another group leader while on a class field trip to a planetarium. He retains his cool for the most part, but is goaded into another dare by some bad apples to participate in a car race known as the Chickie Run. Each member of the group dares to risk death by speeding his car up to a cliff, stopping as close to the cliff as possible by jumping out. Whoever jumps last is Chicken. The rival member Buzz gets his jacket caught in the car door and can not jump out as the car topples over the cliff and Buzz is killed. The rest of the movie involves Jim and his friends debating if they should go to the police, as well as the fears and repercussions faced by Buzz's friends who are out looking for Jim because they believe he is responsible for Buzz's death.No one can talk to the parents so the group hides in an old abandoned mansion. Jim befriends, Plato, in an excellent performance by Sal Mineo who has a troubled past of his own. He was picked up by the police shooting puppies. (Thankfully not shown.) However, there is a certain empathy and sensitivity about Plato that makes him more empathetic as the movie goes on. Each of Jim's friends see the seriousness, lack of communication, and disconnection that their friends have with each one of their parents.There are some good moments of suspense, but Jim's parents especially Mr. Stark, payed by Jim Backus (Thurston Howell III from Gilligan's Island) display no solid acting qualities at all. It's almost like they were picked off the street, given a script to read for a week and just go through the motions. James Dean had the macho and charisma of a leading man actor who died in a horrible car accident before this movie was released. However, I think his Hollywood looks at the time were better than his acting. The talented Natalie Wood, as Dean's love interest has no time to develop because she jumps into his arms for support too fast. This quick timing renders their relationship to be unrealistic. Sal Mineo does the best acting job of the trio who shows the most believable actions and reactions to the movie's events and how they affect both his friends and him.The problem is that Rebel Without a Cause has an interesting premise, but a muddied superficial story that needs better character development for the viewer to empathize with these troubled teens. Instead of being blown away by what this movie was supposed to represent, I got, at best, a strong breeze.Rebel Without a Cause is a good movie for a one-time viewing. But for all-time classic repeated viewing status, it's just not there. Blackboard Jungle blows this movie away. "},{"Title":"Realism anybody?","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The greatest plus for this film is definitely the performances. Without exception, the actors in this movie depict believable characters who show real emotion, deliver the sometimes ridiculous dialog very believably, and make you genuinely care about what happens to them.Unfortunately, the situations that the characters are put into are completely ridiculous. On a day that is supposed to be Jim Stark's first day at a new high school, he is thrown into the middle of a knife fight without provoking anybody, makes a new best friend, gets into a death race, and falls madly in love with a girl.Now i know that this film was trying to show that teenagers are supposed to be wild and fickle, but this was ridiculous.The extreme events in this movie were resolved much too quickly, and the ending left everything to be desired.Unfortunately, I could just not willfully suspend my disbelief enough to enjoy the truly amazing performances that these actors delivered. "},{"Title":"Essay for school.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause, directed by Nicholas Ray, was an entertaining movie. I chose to watch this movie because it is alluded to in Don McLean's American pie. Although it was rather entertaining I thought that James Dean was not the best choice for Jim Stark. Jim seemed like he should be less awkward around people, at least in my opinion. Mr. Ray obviously thought Jim should be a very awkward character, but I thought he should have been a little tougher, being as the movie is titled Rebel Without a Cause.I feel like the title did not fit the movie, the phrase rebel without a cause means you do bad things for no reason, but there was nothing like that in the movie. The closest part was when Jim had to do the chicky race with Buzz. But he had perfect reason to do this; his honor was at stake.The main character, Jim, was a static character. In the beginning he was absolutely no different from the end. But his father was dynamic; by the end of the movie he was ready to stand up for himself. Judy, played by Natalie Wood, was dynamic. She started out taking the abuse that her father put her through and ended up running away from it. Plato, played by Sal Mineo, was a static character too he started out a coward then he got a gun and ran away. He never had any courage, except when he walked out of the planetarium, and then he got scared and held up his gun, again, no courage.Although this is a classic movie that I am positive that everyone has at least heard of, I don't understand what made it such a classic. The only thing that I could see being controversial, thus making people talk about it, would be Jim's father being the mother figure of the house. Even though this was shot and placed in the 1950's I don't think it is that amazing.In all I would not say this movie was classic worthy and that it was shot in a rather safe way. Very few risks as to costume and effects were taken. I would give this movie an 8 out of 10 for entertainment, but only a 1 out of 10 for eligibility of being a classic. "},{"Title":"amazing movie!!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Teenage rebellion is something that every kid goes threw at one point during there teenage years. It's that time in your life where you think nothing is going your way and all you want is to be independent and do things your way. James Dean plays the main character Jim Stark who is a kind, compassionate person, who is trapped in a society that demands him to play the tough guy role. In order to keep up with this image that he is being forced to play he is frequently getting into trouble which causes his family to constantly move from town to town. Jim feels that it is necessary to rebel against his parents to give off the image that he is strong and is fully capable of taking care himself. He also is looking for a chance to be accepted. He thinks that if he acts like he is this big tough new kid, the other kids will think he is cool. He lived in a decade that forced teenage boys to act macho and to appear to be stable on their own. This movie offers all of the great aspects of old and classic movies. I strongly recommend that if you haven't yet seem this movie to go out and rent it! "},{"Title":"teenage love drama","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Rebel without a Cause', directed by Nicholas Ray, and was released 1955. It stares Natalie Wood as Judy, Denis Hopper as Goon, Sal Mineo as John `Plato' Crawford, and James Dean as Jim Stark. `Rebel without a Cause' for lack of a better clich is a coming of age movie, about situations and decisions most teens are faced with everyday. Jim Stark the main character (James Dean), has just moved to a new town, and suffers from a permissive father and a terribly authoritative mother who are clueless to what the needs of their son are.  However Jim struggles to not be like his father, who is `hen-pecked' by his mother, and because of this Jim has a short temper for being called a chicken. Jim also struggles to be accepted in school, and to find new friends. Jim finds having to prove himself to his peers, and in some ways to prove he's a `man.'James Dean's performance was spectacular, and set the tone for later, `teen rebel movies,' such as `Grease,' minus the song and dance, just to name one. This movie makes viewers sympathize and relate to Jim because of the struggles he encounters. The typical teenage conflicts, to fit in, find the meaning of life, and their own identity. This film definitely draws viewers in by doing so.  The film's cinematography was very well done, and showed what the director's vision of what the story was supposed to look like. Overall I give this film 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good times....","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     What an amazing movie!  Not only does it feature two beautiful actors (James Dean and Natalie Wood) but there's a touching story line as well, one that even teenagers today can relate to.	The story of Jim stark is that of a young man moving to a new town and having trouble while making new friends.  He meets a neighbor girl (Natalie Wood) and becomes infatuated with her even though she rejects him at first because her friends don't think very highly of Jim.  He eventually meets a boy, Plato, and the two become friends eventually befriending Judy along the way.	Like I said, this is movie that teenagers even today can relate to.  The story line is one that at some time or another a teen has had to deal with.  Whether it be moving to a new town like Jim, trying to stay cool with the in crowd like Judy, or even just wanting a friend like Plato.  That is why this movie was such a success when it came out, and that is why we are still watching it today.      "}{"Title":"good stuff!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	A classic that is more than just a story about teenagers, it delves into the minds of three teenagers torn by their parents in different ways.  A young lady trying to find herself somewhere in the mixed up feeling of not being a woman but too old to be a girl, struggling with her father's love and lack of emotion towards her.  A young man nicknamed Plato is lost and feeling so alone without his parents there for him and last but not least the star&#133; a young man who can't stand the sight of his weakling father being bossed by his completely obnoxious mother and a grandmother who bickers with the both of them; his parents give him all the things he could possibly want but not the one thing he truly needs a home with some sanity. 	                                                             Rebel Without a Cause has a great leading lady and main man, Natalie Wood plays Judy the love interest of Jim Stark who is played by none other than the incredibly handsome James Dean.  Judy hangs with the wrong crowd and is dating the `leader of the pack' and Jim is the new guy in town and neither can resist flirting despite the odds.  The only friend Jim has upon entering his new high school is Plato, (Sal Mineo) and at first the friendship is only one-sided (Plato seemed to have a strange obsession with Jim) but then true friendship arose and the three misfits come together in the end and form a `family'. 	                                                           These teenagers suffer from really troubling issues and this movie isn't to be taken lightly; given the circumstances none could have carried on in life without the others.  Plato seemed to be on the verge of a nervous breakdown and needed serious help.  Jim could have used some help in realizing that he does have a good life despite the fact that his father isn't really that strong of a father figure, not really a manly man with the apron he wears to serve his wife breakfast.  Judy's father could have used some real help to make him understand that everyone needs affection, especially teenaged girls trying to figure out their places in life.	                                                                 Rebel Without a Cause is a great story and a must-see.  James Dean and Natalie Wood do a great job with their parts and the story is fantastically written.  Rebel will have a lasting presence in Americana for years to come.    "},{"Title":"A great movie filled with good values","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Throughout a persons life they learn many lessons that are necessary to progress in life. The idea of pride is taught and each person in their experiences is humbled and learns the misconception of pride. A young person develops into the person they will be for the rest of their lives and in that season of time the loneliness of being lost is experienced. After time people finally realize that family is the most important thing in this life and that they can always depend on them. All of these fundamental concepts needed throughout life are shown in `Rebel without a cause.' 	Although this movie is famous among many people just because of James Dean (Jim Stark), it surprisingly contains the idea of the evil of pride. Throughout literary classics pride has been the down fall of the hero. In Greece this was known as the characters `hubris' and was the very downfall to such hero's as Oedipus. This is the very climax to this movie as Jim plays chicken in a car with a cliff. This stupidity results in killing another young man, and devastating Jim and others. If Jim would not have given in to his weakness of being called Chicken, his life would have been peaceful and another boy would have been alive. 	The entire movie is about individualism and how Jim struggles to do the right thing and how he wants to become apart of society. In the planetarium scene, after the earth was created the words `Man is alone in this universe' is stated. At that time every main character in the movie was separated from society or their family. As each character struggles to make the right decisions, they are alone. 	As the characters Jim, Judy, and Plato search for their place in life they realize the importance of family. Only when Jim and Judy are with him does Plato feel happy, they are his make believe parents. Jim and Judy are constantly trying to rely on their families but do not receive the strength that they seek. Only at the end of the movie does Jim's dad say `I will be as strong as you need me to be.' Then Jim introduces Judy to his family and he is assured of his newly found strength that is given to him. 	This values and warning are missing in today's society. Families are looked down upon by many, and individuals wander alone not knowing where to turn too. The pride in society and people is astounding, and only events such devastating events such as 911 humbled the USA. This is just like the car accident in the movie, and once this occurs Jim and others are humbled. People today need to look back and focus on the values of the earlier society of America, and if this ever happened then life would be much simpler and peaceful.   "},{"Title":"Classic coming of age tale","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this film does an effective job of portraying the difficulty of bridging the transition gap, thanks to the sure handed direction of Nicholas Ray, one of my favorite directors. Whenever his star James Dean is on screen, this film is utterly riveting thanks to his enormous talent, looks, and star presence. The rest of the cast is also superb though without a doubt this is Dean's film. It would be interesting to see how the homosexual subtext between Jim and Plato would be dealt with in a modern film. All in all, a fantastic film that should be revisited from time to time, especially by those who are cynical of today's youth, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Tremendous revealing story about bad parenting, not bad kids...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tremendous revealing story about bad parenting, not bad kids as the title and some of the previews may suggest.It shows what really happens when parents don't agree or simply are not there.The kids rebel because there's no-one there to tell them what to do or teach them right from wrong.  Good performances throughout hold this together. "},{"Title":"A bit dated, but still cool in my book","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Practically considered the greatest teen idol, James Dean lead ashort, yet very significant life that many young people greatlyadmired. His brooding personality and good looks was Dean's keyelements to his cool image. His characters in his small numberof movies all have conflicting problems, antagonizing againstsociety and even himself. Sounds a lot like today's kids, yousay? True, but Dean made being a rebel look smooth.Dean plays Jim, a teen outcast who is pressured by both hisparents and his new peers in the landmark film Rebel Without aCause. Everybody seems to be getting on his case, especiallyhis rich, snobby parents (with Jim Bachus from Giligan's Islandplaying the dad). They seem to control Jim's life withoutthinking about his feelings and inner troubles. So, Jim goes ona trip of self-discovery, with his new found friends, Judy(Natalie Wood) and the slightly gay Plato (Sal Mineo). The kidsare all on the run when Plato is suspected of murder, by thevictim's punky friends (which included a very young DennisHopper) and the police. Jim tries hard to persuade Plato tochange his ways, which it may or may not lead to disaster.Rebel Without a Cause may not be so bad compared to the stuffthey broadcast today. An episode of Dawson's Creek may soundmore endearing than this movie! But anyway, the film is greatfor the characters' intensified conflicts, and its moral issueshave a profound effect on everybody, even the audience (it didfor me, anyway). Dean is the perfect rebel. It's a  "},{"Title":"i waited 35 years for this??","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  for 35 years i have heard how great this movie is, what a classic this movie is, and how cool james dean is (yes, i am an eagles fan). well, i finally got around to watching it, and when the movie was over, i was left shaking my head in disappointment. i will fully admit that dean was great (and cool) and what a tragedy his early death was as we were robbed of a great acting talent, BUT this movie does not warrant a second viewing, and is not a must-see for a first viewing. there are only 2 gripping parts to this movie (the bluff scene and the final scene), while the rest of the film is, at best, mediocre. i can only wonder if the actors who have sadly passed away (dean, wood, mineo, adams) were still alive today, how much of an impact would this film have today? very little i suspect.  "},{"Title":"James Dean is alive!","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nobody can deny the fact that James Dean remains a legend, the icon of the late 50's, the symbol of the eternal youth. Furthermore he has the looks and attitude of an amazing actor and that's exactly what he is. He has only played in three movies (I'm not counting in the small and trivial roles in some other movies) but he managed to be nominated twice for an Academy Award, both posthumous.I've seen two of his movies (Giant not yet). 'East of Eden' was wonderful, I loved it! That's probably why 'Rebel Without a Cause' was a bit of a disappointment my expectations were rather high. The story was the most disappointing element of the movie. It was quite simple and flat. That's why I also don't understand why the movie was nominated for this..The acting on the other hand was excellent. James Dean and Natalie Wood were very good, as well as the young Sal Mineo. Overall is 'Rebel Without a Cause' quite entertaining although I didn't completely fulfilled the hype. I think this movie is a little bit overrated. It can't have the same rating as 'East of Eden' because 'East of Eden' in just much better than 'Rebel Without a Cause'.So should you watch this? Sure, but certainly watch 'East of Eden' as well. "},{"Title":"James Dean's Final Film","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholas Ray was a master director and a bit of Hollywood rebel himself. I saw a documentary of Nicholas Ray before his death. James Dean, Natalie Wood, and Sal Mineo are an unlikely trio of teen misfits in suburban Los Angeles, California in Hollywood's shadow. Jim, Plato, and Judy form an unlikely friendship. Plato is left like an orphan with absentee parents and a loving housekeeper who acts as a surrogate mother. Plato has mental illness and problems. Jim is the newcomer in town. Jim Backus (Mr Howell from Gilligan's Island) plays his loving father. Natalie Wood's Judy bears no resemblance to Maria in West Side Story. The film is shot both in black and white and in color. Ray captures the story beautifully in every scene. The colors especially in the clothes capture other aspects of the scene. "},{"Title":"James Dean classic","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jim Stark (James Dean) is the new kid who is often in trouble. He is arrested for drunkenness and finds Judy (Natalie Wood) at the police station. She is distraught over his father disapproval. His well mannered parents don't understand him. The gang from school picks on him. Plato (Sal Mineo) tries to help but Buzz calls him chicken. Also watch out for Dennis Hopper as one of the gang. Then he is challenged to a chickie run.It's the start of the disenfranchised youth genre. Others may have done it earlier but nobody did it quite like James Dean. He's definitely overacting but that's why it's so iconic. There are some timeless qualities but also things that are unique to the era. It can feel a little dated but it doesn't feel irrelevant. There is only one reason why this is a movie classic rather than old campy cheese. It's that James Dean commits fully. His acting is delivering a deeper truth. "},{"Title":"Loneliness amidst the end of the universe.","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So much has been written on this seminal film in the last fifty years that it seems rather superfluous to add to the mix. Nevertheless, despite some of its qualities striking contemporary audiences as decidedly old-fashioned and dated, this remains a film of remarkable familiarity to today's society. Whether intended or not, what Nicholas Ray has accomplished here is telling a story about themes which transcend all generations and eras in this sense, it is a universal story.James Dean remains an iconic figure in today's culture thanks in large part to this film. He has become the embodiment of the restless, conflicted youth attempting to understand his own place in the world while trying to reconcile the growing disparity between himself and his parents. Indeed, it is quite obvious that parent-child relationship issues are at the heart of this film, though unique for its time in the fact that this story emphasizes all three youths come from good families; good in the sense that they are affluent, somewhat grounded and stable despite what lies beneath the surface.Loneliness and alienation permeate throughout the entire film and Ray uses his mastery of framing and color to emphasize these themes. He also portrays Jim, Judy and Plato as the fantastical ideal family, most evident in the scene in the abandoned mansion. Unable to deal with the worlds they dwell in, these youths form their own, which is soon to be invaded and attacked. Despite this seemingly silly material, Ray transcends it with his dynamic camera work and sympathetic eye. His legacy is one centered on looking at such characters with enduring empathy and this is his most famous example. Does it hold up a half century later? Some would challenge that thought, but it is important to note that whatever modern day viewers may think of the more dated elements of this film, the impact it had on its own time and the subsequent generations remains intact. It has found a special place within our memories, which may very well be all that Nicholas Ray wanted. "}{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Films Ever Made With A Brilliant Performance From James Dean.","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without A Cause is simply a classic and not only one of the greatest teen films ever made,but one of the greatest films ever made. Filled with Brilliant performances from James Dean,Natalie Wood,Sal Mineo and the rest of the cast,great direction and writing,Rebel Without A Cause is one of the all time great classics of cinema and is one of my favorite films.Set in Los Angeles,California in 1955,Rebel Without A Cause tells the story of a troubled teen named Jim Stark(James Dean)who is a good kid,but is always getting into trouble making Jim and his parents moving to different cities. While Jim is new in town,wants to make a fresh start and not get into trouble,Jim unintentionally gets into it with a bunch of bad local kids while at the same time forming relationships with two other troubled teens Judy(Natalie Wood)and Plato(Sal Mineo). Together Jim,Judy and Plato deal with love,tragedy,death and the complications of being a teenager.Rebel Without A Cause is a classic that came out a month after James Dean's death and immediately made an impact with young audiences in 1955 and was the film that made James Dean a movie icon and was a film,in my opinion,that helped reinvent and revolutionize the Teen film genre. One of things I love about the film is that while the fashions and style are of the 1950s,the feelings of the teenagers and themes in the film are timeless. The teenage years,while fun,can also be complicated and confusing and RWAC puts in the forefront where we can relate to the characters Jim,Judy and Plato. Jim Stark is a classic character that we can all relate to because while the film is called Rebel Without A Cause,and while Jim is a rebel,at the same time isn't really a rebel in the traditional sense of the word,because he's not telling his parents to leave him alone or getting into trouble with other kids because he wants to,Jim just wants his parents to understand him and as for trouble with other kids I don't think Jim is looking for trouble it's just that trouble finds him. The film also gives viewers glimpses into Jim,Judy and Plato's home lives and why the characters do the things they do. Jim's parents love him,but don't understand him,Judy's parents are tough and distant and Plato's home life is the most tragic because his parents are never around. Jim,Judy and Plato are complex,three-dimensional characters that we can relate to because they are trying to find their way in the world while trying to figure out themselves and who they are and the three characters form a friendship because of their home lives and discover they're rebels who actually have a lot in common and not so different. The way the film depicts teenagers and their relationships with their parents is powerful and relevant as it was in 1955. What I also love about the film is that(with the exception of the first 17-20 minutes)the whole entire film takes place in one 24 hour day which raises the stakes and the situations even higher for Jim who has to deal with bullies,parents and the classic chickie run all within one day. I believe the reason the film is set one day is because in one single day anything can happen and no one can prepare for it. The screenplay by Stewart Stern(With the Story by Nicholas Ray and the Adaptation by Irving Shulman)is well-written and memorable giving the characters great dialog,multiple dimensions and amazing realism,with some of the dialog ringing true today. The ending of the film is tragic and gut-wrenching and adds to the film's greatness and status as a classic. While watching Rebel is always a treat,it's sad to watch the film knowing what happened to the three lead actors. Dean was killed in a car crash the year the film came out,Wood tragically drown and died in 1983 and Mineo was stabbed to death in 1976. James Dean is one of my favorite actors and he truly is an icon,but sometimes I always wondered what if Dean lived longer. Who knows Dean probably could've done more films and probably given greater performances than the three feature films he was in,but with Rebel,East Of Eden and Giant we were given three flawless performances that add to the greatness,mystery and iconic stature of Dean who's time on earth was short,but,his impact on the world of acting and cinema is long and Dean will always and forever be one of the greatest actors of all time. The whole cast is wonderful. James Dean is simply excellent and masterful as Jim Stark bringing an intense,dark sadness. Although he was excellent in his other two films East Of Eden and Giant,this role is my favorite James Dean performance and his greatest and most iconic performance. Natalie Wood is brilliant and beautiful as Judy,Jim's love interest and has great scenes and chemistry with Dean. Sal Mineo is amazing as the disturbed and unstable Plato and has great scenes with Dean and Wood. Jim Backus and Ann Doran do wonderful jobs as Mr. and Mrs Stark,Jim's parents. Corey Allen is great as Buzz,Judy's boyfriend and Jim's rival. Edward Platt is effective as cop Ray Fremick,a sympathetic cop who helps Jim. Dennis Hopper(R.I.P) doesn't have many lines,but does well with his role as Goon. Frank Mazzola(Crunch)Marietta Canty(Crawford Family Maid)and Jack Grinnage(Moose)give good performances as well.Nicholas Ray's direction is excellent,with Ray making great use of the widescreen cinematography and using great angles and camera movements. Great direction,Ray.Leonard Rosenman score is wonderful and adds to the intense,dark and tragic tone of the film. A great score.In final word,if you're a fan of James Dean,Teen films,Coming Of Age films or cinema in general,you'll love Rebel Without A Cause a classic film that will stand the test of time and should be in any movie lovers collection. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"you are tearing me APP....ART!","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i am a English movie fan but haven't watched much of old films. my range is mostly movies from late 90s till date. rarely i watch movies of 50s to 70s with proper ratings and all other researching. but this film caught me when i was completely open.i have a theory that 1999 was the best year for Hollywood as many of my favorites, all time favorites, long term no 1 movies are from this year containing matrix and fight club which changed my life forever. when i watched fight club on and half years back after that no movie moved me like this one. i was so much moved by it that no other movie seems to had similar effect on me. obviously every time after watching a good movie failing to touch me deep inside i researched for movie similar to fight club. recently while checking Wikipedia of fight club i found this movie many people found similar to fight club.i downloaded it without checking anything and saw. this will never replace fight club for me but now this movie has its own place. what a timeless masterpiece. as down looking as fight club and high on content and acting at the same time. hardly we find movies this entertaining made on social issues of particular time.time to meet fathers of film making. 50s let me see what you have. "},{"Title":"state of spirit","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it is not exactly a film. it can be manifesto, frame for an iconic actor, masterpiece. but not a film. because scenes, actors, performance, director - all, each , in my case, are parts from a sentimental ball as lines of emotions. the triangle of teenagers, the race, the visit to astronomic observatory, the nuances of end, the shadow of James Dean death, the years and attachment of viewer by a special age, the dreams and character of film to be window for escape by others, in fact, by yourself, the message 0 so precise and fresh, the genius and fear and need of others of every teenager, the tragedy as rule for existence of Wood, Moneo and Dean - so, the hero aura is perfect, the passing time, are ingredients who transforms Rebel Without a Cause in seed for a spirit state. without age, without explanations. as mystery. or key for discover world as white page. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie twice in one year. I woke up one day and just felt compelled to watch it again. I think I might have even dreamed about it. It's really something. I always felt like I could identify with the protagonist, I don't know why. James Dean delivers the performance of a life time in this movie. He really becomes his character. Rebel Without a Cause is grim, it's honest, and it forces you to look at the kinds of things we normally like to forget about while watching a movie. It certainly dwells on themes that were routinely avoided back when it was made. It's about real people with real problems, and these are not criminals. They're regular young people from middle-class families. This movie is not sugar-coated; it's not pretty or polished. It's dirty and it's refreshing. It may not seem that controversial now, but the 50s were a time of happy family facades, and this film is one of the few of its kind that broke the rules and showed life how it really is. Rebel is not without flaws, and it may not seem quite as groundbreaking or as fresh as it was back in 1955, but it is still an engaging and original classic that includes a signature and unforgettable performance from one of the finest acting legends of the 20th century. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for Dean...","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause focuses on a teenage social outcast searching for his identity. His dysfunctional parents (a milquetoast father and a cantankerous mom) can't help him and he shuns any form of authority. The young man only finds solace in the company of two fellow teenage misfits, but even they aren't able to prevent tragedy from befalling this reckless and uncontrollable anti-hero.I understand why this film became such a classic but at the same time, had this film been release today it would probably be a major flop. It worked because it was made in the 50's and follows the standards of that era. Today it's no longer that powerful or revolutionary. And yes, the core themes of the film; honor and teenage angst, are still very much fascinating subjects but, by now, they have been dealt numerous ways and in a better fashion. Regarding James Dean, wow, there's question why he became an icon. He's handsome, charismatic, stylish and definitely has that certain something, whatever you want to call it that it's so rare to find. His performance in this film is superb. On the other hand, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo who were both nominated for Oscars for their performances were absolutely awful. Not to the point of ruining the film but they over-acted throughout the entire thing.I don't necessarily think Rebel Without a Cause is a timeless piece of work but it's still worth watching, mainly because of Dean.6/10 "},{"Title":"The Rebel","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean, Natalie Wood and Mineo were great, but Wood and Dean left The Final Imprint. And that was Emotion. A movie without emotion is a movie without a soul. This one was destined for greatness and so it is. This movie had faith. It had a lot of Hope to teach Youths of every age till today. There is not enough written in biography books of Wood and Dean today to tell the tale of a Princess and her Little Prince. Everyone knew them then. They were real actors living, as it were, under a tent of shadow onlookers to see how they would react with each other. There were many doubters and as there are today many scurrilous fables told of these 2 poignant stars who just happened to be at the right place and the right movie----together! Now they are and have left us a masterpiece----Forever!RJ "},{"Title":"Another example in the They don't make movies like that any more canon of films","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, finally, I got to see Rebel Without A Cause. I'm a guy who really enjoys movies, both new and old, (the next movie I'm seeing, actually, is The Rundown with the Rock), and well, even though I've seen a pile of movies, more so then my family, I am sure, there are still some movie chestnuts I haven't seen, Rebel Without A Cause being one of them. Well, check that one off! I'm deeply ashamed to say I really enjoyed this one tremendously. I say I'm ashamed, because now I'm embarrassed about how I've haven't seen this until now. James Dean, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo are all top notch here, it's sort of chilling watching the three together on screen at the same time, and realizing they all died tragically. The story, in case you don't know, is all about fitting in. How teens are so desperate to fit in with each other, and how quickly one reacts when they don't fit in with each other (Watch what Natalie Wood does after the race and what Sal Mineo does when Dean and Wood leaves him for a second), There's also the motif of fitting in with parents as well. Some are confused as to how to parent a child, others don't want to parent anymore (without them realizing it, but the children do), and others have abandoned them. Many different layers start appearing. Very interesting.The whole story is gripping from end to end, although there are some logic gaps in there (the seemingly shoulder-shrug at the end of the race, the final observatory scene), but these are minor quibbles to one of the hallmarks of classic cinema. "},{"Title":"Dated but Timeless","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found this film to be a bit dated, specifically when the action veered into melodrama and in the depiction of the clean-cut bad kids. That said, I think this film is, nonetheless, timeless because it conveys the restlessness that so many teenagers feel, as well as their frustrations that are so difficult to articulate. And I don't believe that those feelings are exclusive to teenagers. What adult hasn't felt the way Jim Stark feels in this film, knowing that he is unhappy, yet not really knowing why, or what to do about it? I'm almost 40 and I still connected with the characters because I am far from having it figured out. Not every film manages to remain a classic, but this one has because it contains great emotional truth, and that truth is the heart of the film. "},{"Title":"Performances were excellent, this picture is truly one of most outstanding of the 50s.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film for the 2nd time, expecting to get nothing new whatsoever out of it. I was delighted. I recognized things about this movie that brought out its fullness. I loved the visual storytelling that goes on in this picture. The scene when all 3 characters Jim Stark (James Dean), Judy (Natalie Wood), and Plato (Sal Mineo) are all gathered in the police station on screen at once but in 3 different worlds. The only thing dividing them was the thin glass of the office windows. I also noticed a theme about the jacket that was great. First Plato wouldn't even acknowledge Jim's gesture or jacket, toward the end it is put over him as he sleeps, and then he is shot while wearing it and Jim zips him up in it as they carry him off. It demonstrated growth and change in the relationship in a visual way.Ray had fascinating shots such as when the Starks family is arguing over what to do about the fatal crash incident and whether or not to inform the police. The camera tilted to and fro giving an insane look at the situation which was fitting considering the parents were relating to the child in an insane way. The performances were excellent and this picture is truly one of most outstanding of the fifties. I paid particularly close attention to targeting schemes from Hollywood in this film in that it was a significant contributor to a new genre. The jazz/saxophone music in the background during the planetarium scene in the beginning was VERY similar to West Side Story and the clothing the bad kids wore leather jackets , T-shirts, and blue jeans were taken from the beat generation poets and later Happy Days and The Wanderers were to capitalize on this fashion and embed it in our minds. Watching it the second time I FINALLY recognized what Dean was rebelling about his father's milk toast approach to manhood. It was good to see Jim's father (Jim Backus) assure his son that he would be as strong as he needed him to be. This cemented the rebel's victory for his cause. "},{"Title":"You want my jacket?","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the more riveting and entertaining movies I've seen recently. It's got amazing cinematography and excellent performances by Dean and Wood. The ending felt like a cop out though. And I thought from the moment at the observatory, every scene in the story started to move everything forward, the advancing KILLER SHARK in screen writing. Which is good. It also becomes startlingly obvious that Plato was sexually attracted to Jim Stark, although the director was said to deny to death. And he probably felt that Judy would get in the way of their relationship although he displayed no signs of it in the movie. Despite this, he also looks up to Jim and might have wanted Jim and Judy to be his family. Or even his parents.You want my jacket? Rebel Without a Cause. 9/10 "}{"Title":"The Kids Are Alright","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the original melodramatic tag lines for this 50s teen angst piece was The Bad Boy From A Good Family, and that couldn't BE more inaccurate of the James Dean character and his family. If anything, Dean's character, Jim Stark, is a good boy from a bad family, or rather a dysfunctional family. His father's a wimp and his mother and grandmother are overbearing hags. Jim Stark is actually a kind, compassionate person, but he's trapped in a society that demands him to play the tough guy role. Natalie Wood's character, Judy, is a good girl with jackass father who can't accept her as a young woman; when she tries to give him a hello kiss, he slaps the hell out of her (okay that's melodramatic, but he does slap her), which is a totally overblown and overly aggressive response. Then there's Sal Mineo as Plato, the allegedly homosexual outcast who latches on to Jim & Judy as his surrogate parents. Dated to be sure, just as TV's M*A*S*H is dated, but worth a look all the same. One wonders what might have happened to Dean if he hadn't lived fast, died young and left a good looking corpse. "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard the name James Dean mentioned so i decided to look him up, I came upon his website so i chose to watch his films. I saw Rebel Without A Cause and I was amazed, at only 16 all my friends laughed that i was watching old films especially since they had never heard of James Dean other than in the Daniel Bedingfield song, however no matter what my friends say James Dean is a world class actor and as in his quote to me the only success, the only greatness, is immortality James Dean has achieved that being a well remembered, praised and loved actor. As for his portrayal of Jim in Rebel Without A Cause it was brilliant, the film itself was a work of art, the storyline gripping and the characters representing that of what was in the world at that time and still is. I feel that this is a brilliant film, well worth watching and a huge achievement, not only of the actors but of the writers, directors etc as well.  "},{"Title":"One of James Deans best","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Released in the mid 1950s, Rebel without a cause follows oneboy in his journey to find his place in the ever so perfect societythis boy lives in.  Directed by Nicholas Ray, Rebel without acause  displays such  passion for dark and dramatic characters. As a troubled teen tries to start over, again and again and again,he cant help but find trouble everywhere he turns.  	James Dean, one of Americas biggest icons, finds himself actingin a film that in some way reflects his life.  After his dramatic carcrash Rebel without a cause was one of Deans biggest films.  Itwas an ironic way for for Dean to leave this world.  Deanscharacter Jim Stark was a teen with to much trouble in his past. His rebellious nature seems to catch up with him  in one fateful. Jim, who is constantly moved from town to town, cant seem to gethis parents to understand him.  They figure by moving him fromplace to another his attitude will get left behind.  He cant help butact out against everything!  In the last town Jim was in he findseven more trouble.  When Jim finds himself falling for the mostpopular girl in school, he also finds enemies.  Not knowing how tocontrol his rebellious nature, Jim finds himself in a very stickysituation.  With his love interest and idolizer counting on him, heforced to grow up.	Rebel without a cause sums up every feeling any kid has everfelt when ladled as a outsider.  Dean does a marvelous jobcapturing the vulnerable side of Jim.  Deans performance forcesyou to feel the all the emotions Jim Stark goes through.  It bringsyou closer to the characters edge.  	This poetic film of danger, sadness, and acceptance lingersamong one of the best  teenage focused films.  Who knows howfar James Dean could have gone, but Rebel without a causeshows James Dean at his best.  Rebel without a causedeserves a 9 out of 10.          "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel without a cause is a film about a boy whose mother always wants to run from her problems and a father that can't stand up for himself, along with Love and friendship. Rebel without a cause is a great film that explores the teenage psyche, the alienation and confusion that kids go through. The first scene sets the tone of film, and the miserableness that Jim stark (James Dean) is going through. Jim Stark has just moved to a new city and it's his first day of school. Accidentally he walks on the school emblem and gets bullied for it, at this point he's has not even entered the school and you already feel sorry for the poor fella. When Jim actually reaches the school, he finds out that all the juniors and seniors are going to the local planetarium for a field trip. After the spectacular show of how the world will end, Jim makes a comment to the tough crowd of the school which gets him in big trouble, and thus arises the drama of the film The great thing about this film is that the writer introduced the main characters within the first scene of the film, right off the bat you're wondering what can these people have in common? Throughout the whole movie you wonder what is going to happen next. Rebel without a cause is not just an action packed film full of teenage drama but it's romantic and very hilarious. The actors and actresses were great in all their roles, James Dean who plays Jim Stark does a great job with making the audience feel his emotions in every scene. Natalie Wood who plays Judy, Jim Stark's love interest, really pulls off that bitch personality who you just grow to love as her character grows in the film. The best role of all was Plato played by Sal Mineo who maybe just a little mentally ill and just wants to feel needed.There was not much music in the film. The only scene with music, which the reviewer can remember is when Jim Stark has his radio on which played popular music of that time.  This is a film for the whole family to enjoy and is recommended for your home video library. This reviewer rated the film 8/10 "},{"Title":"Buy Worthy","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Rebel without a Cause' was a very good movie.  It was one that some, not all, teenagers could relate to.  It involved trouble with the parents, trouble with peers, and young `love.'  It was also very entertaining.  It isn't one of those movies that at some point would make someone so bored that they get up to go get some food or do something else.  It holds the viewer's attention.  Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's dramatic, and sometimes it's just plain interesting to watch.  Overall, `Rebel without a Cause' is definitely a movie worth seeing over and over again.`Rebel without a Cause' stars some familiar actors/actress like James Dean, Natalie Wood, and Jim Backus, all of which are very good at what they do.  All three are really talented and make the movie worth sitting on the couch for an hour and a half to watch it.  At some times in the movie the acting does seem a little, well, strange.  Those are the times when the audience might laugh, even though that particular line or scene wasn't meant to be funny.  Despite all that, the acting is pretty good and very entertaining.This is one of those movies where there is music being played throughout almost the entire film.  Doing that sort of makes the movie seem livelier and more entertaining.  The acting grabs the viewer's attention and the music helps to keep it.  The music in `Rebel without a Cause' fits the scene that it is being played in.  If it was a romantic scene, there would be romantic music, and if it was a fighting scene, there would be loud and exciting music.  In most of the older movies that this reviewer has seen whenever a gun goes off there is a loud bang and smoke leaving the gun, which could be considered a special effect.  But in `Rebel without a Cause' whenever a gun goes off, and guns go off quite often, there is just a very loud bang with no smoke.  This reviewer has never used a gun and does not know which depiction of a gun shot is more realistic but both seem to get the point across that they have a gun and it is being shot.`Rebel without a Cause' is a great movie, even though it may take a while for some to think that.  It is definitely worth spending some hard earned money on.  "},{"Title":"another dramatic love story","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Teens, pressure, new situations and trouble.  This is what Jim Stark (James Dean) seemed to always run into.  In going through high school and moving over and over, Jim stark is repetedly trying to avoid being like his father...a chicken.  Him and his father don't really seem to have the best father son relationship, it actually seems to be quite destructive and nonexistant.  Looking up to his father, he never really gets anything that he needs.  Love, affection, trust or safety.  Just once Jim just wishes that his father would stand up for himself, but he just can't seem to be man enough to do it.On his first day at Dawson High, he sees the girl that he fell in love with, Judy, while taken to juvenile. for drunkeness.  His eyeing her gets him in a lot of trouble with her gang and her boyfriend Buzz. This, like most, has a classic love story wrapped up in all the drama.  One night while on a chicken run, Buzz accidentally dies.  Oddly, Judy shows no emotion and seems to be quite taken with Jim and his sincerity.  This movie is a wonderful classic and huge for it's time.  It's got and amazing plot and has an uncanny way of relating to teens and bringing out emotion.  This movie is great for anyone, and especially great if you love dramatic love stories.All in all, this movie gets a 10 out of 10, not only for it's perfect casting, but for everything else, as well. "},{"Title":"It's kind of a new idea to take wealthy kids and give them a dark side.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean and Natalie Wood shine in a dark drama about kids in the fifties, but the movie goes beyond the drunkenness you first see.  Rebel Without A Cause is different because of the type of kids it portrays.  Jim Stark, a lonely and yet fully surrounded kid, is forced into multiple everyday situations that have the ability to drive him mad.  He's not just some random teenager, but a child born into suburban misery; growing up all he wants to do is have a normal life.  The plot is almost unimportant to the real quality of the film, it explores how Jim can have two completely different sides.  First, he acts out to try to get his way and potentially his fathers attention, while all the time being quiet and even sometimes shy.  Jim is beating up an office desk while fifteen minutes later he can be protective over a newfound friend.  Secondly, it shows smart, wealthy kids who get good grades and do their chores doing bad things that would possibly be hazardous.  Setting the entire film so much closer to home than ever before.  The movie blatantly explores the contrast between what people see and what is really going on, the viewer is shown the chicken run but also sees Jim try to help his friend with a jacket.  Rebel Without A Cause is definitely one of the best movies, rating a ten on a scale where there is no higher ranking.  It's perfect to watch for the hypocrisies of society, and entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Classic film full of risks, rule breaking","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel without a Cause is a classic film with portrays the rebel gang of teenagers, which seem to be the ones all teenagers are assumed to be. In this film James Dean plays a troublemaker who causes his rich family to keep moving around because of his embarrassing misbehavior. They are now in this new town and as always Dean is feeling out of place and left out. Dean's performance on this film is a work of natural art. His character has a certain charm to him and a rebel's confidence which Dean is fully able to capture due to it being so natural to him. The plot in this film deals with the turbulence a teenager in 50's would have gone through and the sort of things they would get themselves into just to go against the rules of society. An example of that is the `chicken' scene, which deals with a car race between Dean and his character's opponent. Within this scene Jim, (Dean), expresses pride and confidence at the attempt to show himself off to a crowd he deeply longs to belong to. Natalie Wood portrays Judy a beautiful girl who now is Dean's next door neighbor. Natalie Wood is also the perfect fit for this role, of giving off innocence when needed and turning around to morph into this smoker rebel girl. The chemistry between Dean and Wood is so amazing it reflects to the audience how comfortable they felt with each other, this is a good mix. Rebel without a Cause has its popularity guaranteed for more decades to come, because it reflects teenage hood in a way all of us have dreamed of having. Full of freedom and breaking of rules with no care in the world except to make sure life is full of fun and risks.  "},{"Title":"A complex and unique coming-of-age story.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without A Cause is a coming-of-age story.  It manages to be both simple and complex, with interwoven themes of maturity, decisions, rebellion, friendship and love.  Ultimately, though, Nicholas Ray's film asks the viewer what makes a man?James Dean stars as Jim Stark, whose name represents his character quite well.  He is a confused yet passionate, questioning everything around him, wanting desperately to define himself in a complicated world.  James Dean's portrayal is excellent - he is intense and intriguing, able to convey level-headedness and wild emotion and switch between the two without missing a beat.Jim Stark begins the movie with a prolongued shot of him prone on the ground, completely drunk and playing with a toy of some sort.  His tie and jacket tell us that he is from a good background, thus we can tell that he is a rebel - completely out of his environment, in a world he doesn't belong in.  The toy represents the danger he flirts with - he continuously skirts the edge of real trouble - this can be seen from a prologue that was not included in the final film, which explains the story behind that toy.We follow Jim through his first day at a new school, where he quickly meets up with and befriends Plato, showcasing an impressive performance by Sal Mineo.  Plato is a wiry and loyal ally who wants only to find friendship and stability in his life.  His emotions are high-strung at all times.  At first seeming like the typical tag-along stereotype, one eventually realizes his character is one of the most deep and significant in the film.Going on a field trip to a local observatory, Jim almost immediately finds himself again in the midst of the adversity he had been trying to escape from.  Without giving any details, a few mistakes here eventually build up to the plot that drives the story.Rebel Without A Cause tells a unique and significant story.  Aside from a few flaws - Natalie Wood's shallow and uninteresting character comes to mind - the film is extremely engaging and intriguing.  It rings with complex ideas and fascinating characters.  Its universal themes ensure that it will remain a classic with audiences of any age.  "},{"Title":"Not just a movie, an emotion","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie Rebel Without a Cause is about a boy that is on the verge of manhood.  This movie really does a fantastic job of capturing the human emotion.  It shows the bonds that can be formed between friends, girls, and family.  James Dean plays Jim Stark, a boy with a bad past trying to make it in a new town.  Throughout the movie, it shows Jim with his dad, played by Jim Backus.  This relationship is a horrible one.  Jim looks to his dad for answers, but all he gets are ramblings that don't answer the question at all.  His dad doesn't really know how to `be the man' so it presents problems between the two.   This movie also shows a relationship between Jim and Plato, played by Sal Mineo.  Plato is the first person to really befriend Jim.  This is sort of a weird friendship, partially because Plato is a very troubled boy.  At one point, on the first day that they met, a girl asked Plato how long he had known Jim.  He then comes up with a story about how they have known each other for a long time, and that Jim lets his close friends call him Jamey.  This is all untrue information.  Finally, this movie, as with most movies, has a love story in it.  This one is, however, slightly `screwed up', for lack of better terms.  Towards the beginning of the movie a chicken game is played.  This is when two people race towards a cliff and the first to jump out of the car is a chicken.  Well, the guy that Jim was playing with got caught in his car and careened off the cliff, and died. The girlfriend of this guy was Judy, played by Natalie Wood.  Not only did she not show that she was upset in any way, but also not long after the crash, she was telling Jim that she loved him.Overall, this movie is good if you like drama.  It shows the human feelings very well, and is not a predictable movie.  The only not-so-great aspect was the love story.  Most likely this is not a movie to take children to.  This reviewer gives it an 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"A grand time...","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Confusion. Honor. Love. Death. Wrapped up in a tiny bottle of teen angst, and one will find Nicholas Ray's flick `Rebel Without a Cause.'The flick features a young Jim Stark (James Dean) as a friendless new kid, who always gets into trouble, and doesn't take kindly to people calling him chicken.The flick starts out with Stark drunk in public playing with a toy monkey. Later he is in a police office where the audience meets the other main characters Judy (Natalie Wood) and Plato (Sal Mineo). Another notable actor is comedian Jim Backus who plays Frank Stark.The bases of the flick transcends through a couple days of ups and downs. Either the story was in extreme high emotion, or in the deep depths of trouble. Not to mention the story went a little too fast, but hey it's a rebel without a cause.A fun ride of `teens gone bad' and also being a James Dean flick I would recommend this to anyone.  "},{"Title":"Falls short of the mark","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Had it not been for my interest in the protagonists of this movie (Natalie Wood, James Dean, and Sal Mineo), and their collective charisma, I wouldn't have lasted more than twenty minutes into it. I found it poorly written and misdirected. ***SPOILER ALERT*** for instance, whenJudy lost her boyfriend in an accident, she bounces back much too quickly to be realistic. ***END SPOILER ALERT*** Sal Mineo certainly proved his acting mettle by managing to come across as being more than a mere caricature. Unfortunately, James Dean and Natalie Wood were not as lucky, instead falling victim to the director's melodramatic vision. And what's with the title? If ever there was a movie with an ill-fitting title, this is it. I was disappointed, but I suppose that if I had to do it over again, I would still watch it; after all it is considered an American classic. I gave it a six out of ten, though. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean has got to be one of the best actors of all time. This movie is a true classic. Natalie Wood is also great. The plot of the movie is outstanding. Where are all the talented actors now? This movie is for all ages and represents how teenagers feel. I can relate to this movie very well and I know others will too.  "},{"Title":"a powerful, unsappy teen flick","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think Rebel Without a Cause is a landmark film of the 50's and should be considered a classic by all true movie buffs. It delivers it's message of teenage angst in way that does not feel forced or corny. It leaves a lasting impact on the viewer and a haunting memory not soon forgotten. The way teen flicks should be done. It's also one the best widescreen movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A strange prophecy!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found it so shocking that a film about teenage mischief with tragic results could come true in real life with the unnatural and untimely death of its three main stars.  James Dean, killed in a car crash at the age of 24.  Natalie Wood, drowned at the age of 43.  Sal Mineo, the victim of a fatal stabbing at the age of 37.  Sort of like the deaths of Elvis Presley at the age of 42 and John Lennon at the age of 40.  All five top icons in their profession cut down in the prime of life.  In the case of Elvis Presley, a natural death but a preventable one.  Truly sad and a reminder that fame does not equal immortality. "},{"Title":"I Don't Get It...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As one of the previous commentators wrote, I don't think this film would have made such an impact had it not been for Dean's untimely death(R.I.P.) I have seen Giant and other productions featuring James Dean and, sorry to say, I'm not impressed. This movie was a good effort that may have been more notable with perhaps another young rebel in the title role. James Dean is simply over rated. "},{"Title":"A classic drama that isn't just teen angst","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's so hard to review classic films like Rebel Without a Cause because there isn't anything new that I can say about it that will effectively contribute to my predecessor's observations, and I don't want to insult anyone's intelligence by attempting to do so.Having said that, I viewed Rebel Without a Cause a couple of days ago for what was probably the 20th time and I came away with an interesting perspective.  In film school, I took a class called `Film of the Fifties', and our final thesis was a comparison of two of the films we had viewed during the semester.  After a lot of thought and a lot of coffee, I finally decided to wax philosophic for sixty pages double spaced on the similarities between Rebel Without a Cause and Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  The more I got into it, the more I found to compare  isolationism, conformity, you name it, I found it.  I watched Rebel Without a Cause about 10 times to get quotes, themes, nuances, etc.Eleven years later I'm thirty and sitting down to watch it again as background noise while I do some work, and I find myself riveted again because I suddenly had a different perspective.  When I was 19, I was all about the teen angst angle and essentially discounted Dean's parents as ineffective and just plain wrong in their handling of their son.  While I still agree with that perspective, I also noticed things I didn't when I was basically an inexperienced adolescent.  Most notably, I was struck by the relationship between the mother and her mother in law.  Every attempt she made to `mother' her son, she was shot down and criticized by this woman &#150; a plot point that apparently skipped right past me, probably because I hadn't dealt with that yet.  (Not having been married yet, I still haven't experienced an `evil mother in law' but I've had my share of interesting encounters with various boyfriends' mothers, and it is challenging.  I saw this struggle in the mother, and suddenly she wasn't such an unsympathetic character anymore.  The same can be said about the father, who is still extremely ineffectual, but admittedly has enough character development to explain some of his conduct.  These are only two examples out of several that I noticed, but it made me realize that there are probably a lot of films that I should watch again to see how my perspective may or may not change.  Granted, this sometimes can turn around and bite you in the ass &#150; case in point, I dragged my father (and probably mother and other relatives) to see the film `Xanadu' about 5 times when I was about 9 years old.  A couple of years ago I picked up the VHS at a local library book sale and watched it again and was promptly horrified, so I guess I will stick to films that have *some* merit before I decide to revisit them.--Shelly "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE GREATEST OF ALL TIME!!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is one of the greatest films ever made. The direction is unique, the camera work phenomenal, and of course the acting...need I say more than James Dean.  What other film has made such an impact on american youth and culture, as the story of James Dean's troubled outsider character Jim Stark trying to fit in a society that doesn't accept him, to his eventual tragic confrontation with a gang of hoodlums. Nearly fifty years later Hollywood is still trying to catch the lightning in the bottle talent of James Dean and the disaffected troubled youth image he portrayed so flawlessly. I rate this film a 10+!!!    "},{"Title":"What is with the title?!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I think this movie is a great beginning to the teen movie genre, and don't get me wrong, I think that Dean's character is well defined and emotionally engaging, it's just that I find it difficult to find the 'rebel' element in his character.He is obviously the title character, yet seems more interested in conforming and making friends, and fitting in than rebelling. It just annoys me, that's all!Plus, he has every reason to rebel, seeing as his parents are so restricting (ok, well his mother is, his father's a wimp) but he doesn't do anything, so I am unofficially re-naming the film 'Conformist with cause to rebel'!  "},{"Title":"James Dean's Role in History Is Cemented","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause was a major film in 1955 as it was released shortly after James Dean's untimely death and it was the film that created his larger-than-life image. While Dean is excellent, the film is little more than a curiosity today. Dean is a young man whose family has just moved to a middle-class neighborhood in California. Dean's life is spinning out-of-control and it seems to be tearing apart his family as parents Jim Backus and Ann Doran just cannot cope. New neighbor Natalie Wood (Oscar-nominated) is having similar problems with her father. Dean desperately wants to fit in with the kids at his new school, but he becomes the target of some nasty thugs. Meanwhile a youngster (Sal Mineo, in an Oscar-nominated performance) is going down a path of destruction that will directly affect Dean and Wood in the end. Rebel Without a Cause was somewhat trail-blazing in 1955, but it has not aged as well as it seems somewhat routine these days. Dean is out-of-this-world and the film is worth one's time just because of his performance. However, do not watch the film expecting to be blown away because you likely will not be. Watch for a young Dennis Hopper as one of the thugs. 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Plato's gun was still loaded when he was shot!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film is obviously a super classic representing 50s teens in a mostly unhappy light. Of course, it is a drama as opposed to the more happy go lucky teen musical movies of the day. I am glad to have it in any case.   Now for the blooper which is obvious to anyone who has even a limited working knowledge of handguns. Near the end, Jim removes the magazine(clip) from the butt of the pistol which contains cartridges(bullets). He then hands it back to Plato who thinks the clip is still in place. The purpose behind this is, of course, to render the weapon harmless. However, the pistol has been fired several times (but not enough to empty it) before the clip was removed and each time a pistol of this type is fired, another cartridge is then fed from the magazine into the firing chamber. Therefore, that gun still would have had a live round in the chamber ready to fire even though the clip was removed. Regardless of the fact that the police did not know about the removal of the clip, in reality the weapon would still have been loaded with one more shot. So contrary to the intent of the writers, Plato did not die with an unloaded gun in his hand. "},{"Title":"Ah, ha ha ha, drown them like puppies - ha!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If only for giving a 100% accurate, pitch-perfect impersonation of Mr.Magoo should James Dean go down in history. That's the highlight of his performance in this film, one of the most overrated of all cinema.In 1955 Dean became less a Rebel Without A Cause, more a Ham Without A Reason. Laying down some of the most painful overacting ever captured on celluloid, Dean, 24, and looking 35, plays a juvenile delinquent. Badly. (Though it's worth noting how many of Dean's affected mannerisms seem to have been absorbed into Brad Pitt's performances). His family include a creepy, apron wearing father (Jim Backus, the real voice of Magoo) who claims that during his schooldays he couldn't swallow until recess(!) and a hen-pecking mother.Dean is likeable, however, despite his performance, proving he's more icon than actor. The film's storyline is also engaging, and daring. It takes in themes of knife fights, clifftop car crashes and homosexuality, a rarity for cinema of the age. Six years before Dirk Bogarde was to play an openly gay character in Victim, Sal Mineo appears as Plato. Despite his claims that he looks upon Dean as a father figure, his constant loving gazes, radio requests and his near-attempt to kiss the older man in the Planetarium show that the character had sexual feelings for Dean without it being directly spelt out. This does have odd consequences, however; the film's makers seemingly implying that homosexuality is some form of psychological disease or social dysfunction. Plato is turning gay without a father to guide him; Dean is turning into a hoodlum because his father is too effeminate to guide him.What really fascinates is that the character (called Jim Stark, incidentally, though it's really always Dean) is essentially likeable, and decent. His naive, almost childlike need to be liked, and understood, is quite endearing. Look at the scene where two youths - watching Zodiac signs at a Planetarium - impersonate Cancer the Crab. Amused, Dean joins in with Taurus the Bull - only to look genuinely hurt when his efforts are met with derision.In fairness, most of the faults of this film aren't Dean's as such. The forced, melodramatic style is something the whole cast indulge in, and is symptomatic of the time that it was made. Dean's arguments with his parents are like amateur dramatics night, a skewiff camera angle adding little of the required tension, while Natalie Wood as Judy is similarly cringe inducing. Dean shares two on-screen kisses with her, the first of which is so chaste and old-fashioned I thought he'd fallen asleep.Some of the dialogue is lame - I got my car, you wanna go with me? I go with the kids/You know, I bet you're a real yo-yo - but most of the time it is reasonably well observed, and certainly above average. It might not have the best actors in the world, but its star's undeniable charisma anchors this film to moments of scant psychology that make this an interesting, and ultimately rewarding, experience. "},{"Title":"You must see this IN A THEATER","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ah,  teenage rebellion 1950s style  the girls wear skirts,  the pants ain't baggy,  and there's no sex or drugs.  So what,  exactly,  are they doing that's so dangerous?  Outdated standards aside,  Rebel is a 24-hour study in juvenile violence,  as the exploitative posters announced (Jim Stark...what makes him tick like a bomb?).  The movie ages little because of 1) James Dean's brilliant performance and 2)  Nicholas Ray's restrained direction.  This movie should have come out before On The Waterfront just to give Elia Kazan a lesson in how to make a movie that is both explosive and not overbearing.  I know the comparison is flippant,  but both movies feature explosive acting and an over-the-top score;  the difference is that Ray doesn't allow the music (in this case,  by Leonard Rosenman) to overpower the drama like Kazan does.  Corey Allen eerily resembles Bobby Briggs on Twin Peaks.  Sal Mineo's performance seems self-conscious and overly mannered.  You must see this in a theater at least once (for better impact and for letterboxing),  even though It's only TEENAGE WASTELAND!  "},{"Title":"Quaint","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The rebellious teen-agers of 1955 seem awfully quaint in 2000, don't they? Good performances by Dean and Natalie Wood. But why is this film such a classic? Is it because of Dean's death? He seemed to be a very good actor here, but I haven't seen his other movies. Maybe when I do I'll understand. "},{"Title":"Dean is the King of Cool","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebel Without a Cause is what really boosted James Dean's image as the coolest rebel around. He literally lights up the screen as teen outcast Jim, who causes trouble like a typical rebel should. Jim and his friends Judy (Natalie Wood) and Plato run around messing with punks (among them Dean's real life best pal Nick Adams and a young Dennis Hopper!) and their parents. True, this flick is dated and extremely primitive compared to today's stuff, but I consider Rebel Without a Cause a classic today.  "},{"Title":"This Was a Classic?","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So how did this become a classic again? James Dean was good i will admit, but the supporting cast was laughable.  The story had holes big enough to drive a mack truck through. The characters seemed to shrug off extremely tragic events as if nothing had happened. I was really expecting more from this film and am left wondering how it has held up this long while feeling so dated "},{"Title":"One of the worst and sadly funny films of all time","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought it was awful when I first saw it almost 60 years ago, and I just saw it again yesterday and it is as awful now as it was then. It is a preposterous and psychotic look at teenagers, and it's also a teen exploitation film of the 50's. I think THE BLOB had more meaning. Jim Backus in that kitchen apron was a hoot. He was the Father Knows Best about nothing character, totally hapless. It was the beginning of the destruction of the male/father image in TV and film in America. We had Archie Bunker and Al Bundy and many other impotent and stupid fathers to follow. The film is a bust; the acting is so bad. Sal Mineo is almost salivating over James Dean, and James Dean is really the psycho here. In today's world, he'd be locked up in a mental institution for what he says and does and how he acts. And by the way, he has just got to turn himself into the police. What a dolt. The leader of the pack says to Jimbo before they race, I like you. Oh, Please!!! Poor Natalie Wood. I don't think she knew what to do or who to be. No direction. These characters are just so dumb, that you have to think if it was the screen writer who was dumb, or did he make the kids out to be so dumb on purpose. Lastly, I loved the address book. That whole plot line was so flawed. so there. "},{"Title":"Severely Overrated","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is pretty irrelevant to today's world. The acting is overdone, the dialogue is unbelievably dated. This almost sixty year old film has virtually nothing to say. It's boring - to say the least. The relationship of these kids to their parents is laughable &#x96; come on, if kids acted like that with their parents back then I don't need to know about it. James Dean looks way too old to be in high school. The police at the beginning of the film are so polite and seem to have too much time on their hands. They are a joke. The families are so middle class. As a matter a fact calling this film a classic is a joke! Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Dean's legendary film","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The ultimate James Dean movie, red jacket and all. This movie has rightfully earned it's place as one of cinema's most influential movies ever. Introducing that crowd called teenagers and accepting the fact that they do have problems. Might seem hokey today, but in 1955 teenagers who had problems to deal with hadn't occupied much screen time up until here.In Rebel, Dean is the personification of the estranged teenager. Having problems adjusting, gaining friends and respect issues with his doormat father, Dean exploded to a generation of young filmgoers who immediately identified with him and his situation. While actually just playing himself to some extent, Dean is incredibly forceful in his performance. Tough, mean and humble with an earnestness which feels all to real, it's not hard to see why he became the legend he did. Whether or not Dean would have maintained his immortal status (probably not) had he lived longer, his Jim Stark remains the ultimate teen figure in movie history. As for the film itself, it's very powerful. Depicting a reality many people hadn't realized existed, the film had a point then that's still valid today. All performances are good, Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo excellent as Dean's girlfriend and buddy and Nicholas Ray's direction is on the mark. Quite the eye candy this movie is. The final scene in the auditorium is a classic, tense and emotional. Rebel Without a Cause is a classic that demands multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Teenage Rebellion","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie because it shows the realistic antics of teenage rebellion. The movie reflects the way teens act today. Rebelling against their parents and wanting to do what they want, when they want. Near the end of the film a great lesson is learned and I really enjoyed James Dean. James Dean was the perfect actor to play a rebellious teenager. He makes the film stand out more by the way he plays his character. I rate this film a ten because there was a great plot and outstanding cast. It shows a great relationship between teens then and teens now and how they act. Once again, I enjoyed this movie and I am sure if I put my friend in front a my TV they they would enjoy it too. "}{"Title":"Jim Stark - The Ultimate Rebel","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean plays Jim Stark, a troubled teen who's come to a new town with his parents. These parents of his don't give him the love and respect he needs, and that's why he's so rebellious.In the new town, he discovers a girl (Natalie Wood) who gives Dean some of what he needs. He also finds a friend in a young boy played by Sal Mineo. Dean takes it upon himself to show Mineo the kind of friendship they both need.Rebel Without a Cause is somewhat of a psychological look at the concerns of a teenager and how they have needs and are growing people. They have growing minds and imaginations that can go wild. If their minds aren't tamed, they'll become rebellious like the ones in the movie. The film also takes a look at how parents seem to dislike their growing children and just try to let them handle themselves. Parents don't realize that all the teenagers need is a loving, caring relationship.Rebel Without a Cause is the poster for so many generations of teens today and years ago. It's as tough and gritty as it is thoughtful and the film will still pack a punch after all these years and for years to come. "},{"Title":"Rebel Without a Cause (1955) ****","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a tough film for me to evaluate. Because while it was completely enjoyable, nicely shot and well acted, I just couldn't relate to teenage angst as a middle-aged adult anymore. Ultimately, I had to give it a complete four star rating though -- because I think this movie is very powerful and successfully captures the stress of that teen confusion and anger. It holds up well for today's times too, and is probably best appreciated by young people who are coming of age, rather than those of us who've already been there.As I've said, I found it difficult to relate to these silly teenagers even from when I was a kid. Believe me, I wasn't exactly what you'd call a model teen all of the time myself ... I did some irresponsible things too ... but I was always my own person and never felt the need to fit in with the crowd. So it's hard for me to feel sorry for a dopey girl who goes around with the class bully and switches jerks like she changes socks; dumb boys who get into knife fights and are stupid enough to risk their lives playing chicken or get drunk or run around brandishing guns just because they've had a non-traditional childhood (I myself was a child of divorce and never needed a bottle or a pistol). Plenty of times I felt like yelling to the screen, serves ya right! But the thing is -- considering the real types of kids portrayed here, the movie does capture their turmoil perfectly. Enough so that even an old grouchy adult like me can still want to slap them while watching my television. Now, THAT'S realism! This was my first James Dean flick, and he lived up to all the legendary hoopla I've heard about over the years. He's very effective as the troubled youth trying to sort out his many mental problems. But for me, the best performance came from young Sal Mineo, as the confused boy without a dad who tends to look up to Dean as the father figure or big brother he never had - or maybe even more, as I felt a possible aura of homosexual attraction to James mixed in as well. The film is strikingly photographed in beautiful color, and some shots are strong standouts (one of my favorites was the chicken race where two cars zoom past Natalie Wood who stands between them).So for me, this was more a film to admire objectively than one which I related to personally. I'm positive I've had similar issues with my parents while growing up myself; but perhaps it's just been too many decades gone by to hit home for me at this time in my life. Youth is wasted on the young indeed. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Mass Hysteria","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did like this movie, and after seeing the recent James Dean Television movie I have a new found respect for him. However, everyone in the film aside from Dean's character, his quasi-girlfriend, and the cop that watches over them are completely insane. The whole of the the world is crazy outside of those three, it seems a pretty bleak world to live in. "},{"Title":"Over-rated, even in a contemporary context","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For a film that has such a hold on the imaginal psyche of the western world, this film is disappointing to watch. I approached this film for the first time with an anticipation of rebellious youth captured with all the cinematic flare, and star-driven energy, a good Hollywood film is capable of.What I saw instead was a strange, scattered narrative with acting that for the most part consisted of whining. The portrait of the father in his frilly apron is so over the top that it has my film classes laughing out loud. Was that the intention? The relationships between the characters are not believable. I don't understand Wood's Judy at all. What is her point in this story? The incessant 'male homosexual/female slut' subtext of this film posits a very sinister message boys in trouble have effeminate fathers and are probably gay themselves, and the girls who hang around with them are 'tramps'.To contrast the failure of this film to honestly portray adolescent angst, I show Truffaut's 400 Blows. This is another portrait of a troubled young male coming from a troubled family. The superiority of the acting, the film-making, the sense of reality and honesty strike my students immediately. And this film was made only 4 years after Rebel... So to argue that the James Dean film was 'good for its time' also does not hold water.I now show this film as an excellent example of how much the myth of a film can over reach its reality. As a student once asked Where is the leather jacket? "},{"Title":"The film itself pales in comparison to its legendary reputation.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just watched the film for the first time in its letterboxed format (originally shot in Cinemascope) hoping for a better viewing experience this time around.  I didn't get one.  True, the film does retain some emotional power and Dean's performance is brilliant at times, but time has not been good to Rebel.  It is, at times, almost hard to watch.  Its anti-parent, you-don't understand theme is dated.  When you really think about it, Plato (played by Sal Mineo) becomes the central character and the film strays from Dean's plight with authority and growing up. He tries to save Plato, and you find yourself not caring about what happens to each character.I guess you have to say it is essential viewing, considering its status as an all-time classic and being one of only 3 films Dean made before his tragic death.  One viewing would be enough.  "},{"Title":"A little overrated","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is said that this movie is a masterpiece that shows perfectly what happened to teenagers in the fifties. I think this is partly true. However, I feel that this movie is a little bit overrated. When watching it, I felt that most things were exaggerated and wouldn't really happen in real life. I know it is Hollywood working its magic, but everything is just too fake. Even though I feel that James Dean did a superb acting job in the movie, I felt that most of the other character's emotions were forced. Natalie Wood's character seemed too whiny and over-dramatic. No one I know acts like that. Despite the solid story line, I feel that some aspects get too much credit that they deserve. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A brutally honest and well-filmed study of dysfunctionality and learning to deal with aggression, the film is earnestly acted, in particular by James Dean and Jim Backus. The dialogue is surprisingly smart and the stereotypes of society are perfectly portrayed and characterised, yet the script is rather weak in the final scenes. However, I found the film to be always captivating, and it raises some interesting issues, like the disturbed being able to help the even more disturbed. When released, it was a precedential film, and I think that it still would hold a large degree of potency for most, even if not all, viewers today. "},{"Title":"I had wanted to watch this movie for years.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I finally had the chance to view Rebel I was disappointed.  The acting seemed so strained.  At one point I felt I was watching a community theatre production.  I love Sal Mineo and Natalie Wood.  I am sure that with better dialogue this would have been a great film. The costumes were perfect.  I am happy that Dean didn't really wear a leather jacket.  How many 50's teens actually wore them?  Otherwise the movie seemed corney.  My dad was a teen during this era, and he actually agreed with me about the movie.  I am surprised! "},{"Title":"Hardly the classic people make it out to be!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know what people see in this film. I hear stuff about 'youthful alienation, accurate depictions, blah blah blah' but I saw none of that when watchinfg this film. It is two hours about a boy who was in the wrong place at the wrong time. Hardly a rebel without a cause. If you canmake it through this film in one sitting, you should be applauded. It reflects nothing a good teen pic should have, and has none of the quality of the andy hardy movies! A real bomb! "},{"Title":"Quite good, actually, in spite of Dean's overacting...","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I was a child, I always thought James Dean appeared in this film riding his motorcycle, with a tough-looking image. (Later on, I learned it was really Brando in The Wild One). I remember this as an example of Dean's iconic stature in the world of cinema, though he never gave me the impression of rebeliousness in Ray's film. Just the opposite, he played Jim Stark, a shy, introspective young man who has a problematic relationship with his parents and gets into trouble in every opportunity he has. He seems to be drifting, wandering in life, and obviously has the need to fit in, to be accepted by other people his age. At a police station he meets Judy and Plato, two misfits just like him, who study at the same school he goes. Judy's father despises her and thinks she is a tramp, while Plato's only companion is his black maid (his mother is absent most of the time). He is emotionally unstable and has homicidal tendencies; he was brought to the police after shooting some puppies. Plato seems to admire Jim's personality, though Ray never makes it clear if it's really a homosexual attraction towards him. The film is aggressive and tender, poetic and melancholic, with a sense of quiet desperation, of things left unsaid, the lack of communication not only between adults and their sons, but also between young people and the prejudice and stereotypes among them. "}{"Title":"Rebel without a Cause","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The phrase live fast, die young was coined on behalf of the leading actor of this film, and I was most looking forward to seeing him in this 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die recommended film. Basically seventeen year old Jim Stark (BAFTA nominated James Dean) has moved to Los Angeles and is enrolling at Dawson High School, and he has a habit for getting into trouble, he and his family have moved before. The film opens with Jim arrested for public drunkenness, and he is allowed to open up to the questioning officer while waiting for his father Frank (Jim Backus), his mother Carol (Ann Doran) and his Grandmother (Virginia Brissac). He is let go, and we next see him attending school, where he meets new friend John 'Plato' Crawford (Oscar nominated Sal Mineo) and Judy (Oscar nominated Natalie Wood). But he also meets the tough ones who see him as the new threat and outsider, led by Buzz Gunderson (Corey Allen), with his gang members, including Goon (young Dennis Hopper in his first big screen role). After getting in a serious switchblade fight with Buzz, Jim agrees with Buzz to participate in a chickie run, where the first person to jump out of a speeding car before going over a cliff is the coward. Buzz loses this battle, and his girlfriend Judy believes that someone grassed to the police when they start searching for her, Jim and Plato. It all comes to a head with Plato getting really agitated with a gun, he winds up shutting himself in the Griffith Observatory, and when he does come out, he is gunned down for refusing to drop the gun, and all Jim can do is introduce Judy to his family. Also starring William Hopper as Judy's Father and Rochelle Hudson as Judy's Mother. The phrase live fast, die young was coined on Dean's behalf, other actors with this title include River Phoenix and Heath Ledger, people speculate whether they, Dean especially, would be as popular as they are with more films, I think it is likely they would. It is also really ironic that we see Dean speeding in a car in the film, and that is exactly how he died at just twenty-four, oh, and his car parts have been locked away as they are believed to be cursed, killing many other victims. Anyway, Dean is brilliant as the troubled teen, the supporting cast are all great too, and there are some really memorable moments in what is quite clearly a classic (teen) drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Motion Picture Story, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. James Dean was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, he was number 64 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 50 on The World's Greatest Actor, he was number 18 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and he was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 59 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"You're tearing me apart!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rebel Without a Cause seems kind of dated nowadays. The idea of some teenager living for the sole purpose of making trouble has been repeated so many times that we lose track. So, we have to accept RWAC for what it is. James Dean plays Jim Stark, who refuses to obey any authority figure, and gets into all sorts of trouble. Natalie Wood plays his girlfriend Judy, who's slightly (or more than slightly) rougher than most of the characters that Natalie Wood played.Obviously, Dean has since become the paradigm of the rebel, to the extent that Fonzie has a poster of him, while Natalie Wood continued her career. Granted, we know that when we turn on the movie. What really catches our eyes nowadays is the presence of certain people in the movie. Dennis Hopper plays one of the gang members, Jim Backus plays Dean's father, and Edward Platt (the Get Smart chief) plays a cop. The things that we see in life. "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker...","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently bought this film at suncoast to watch it. (cuz well, i just like doing things like that). The film is about teenagers and fitting in. You have a teen named Jimmy Stark(Dean) who moves into a new neighborhood a lot because he simply can't fit in or people call him chicken. Plato(Mineo) becomes friends Stark, and is a fellow outcast too. Judy(Wood) hand out with the cool kids until later on in the film. The movie deals with conflicts that teens faced during the 50's and how they try to fit in. Judy, Plato, and Jimmy all lack a decent, solid father figure. Plato starts to look at Jimmy as his father. Dean's performance as Stark is outstanding and Sal Mineo as Plato is also a noteworthy performance. The film also proves that we all have our own problems too. The film gets very intense at parts, is more remembered for its tender moments. The film's ending is a tear jerker and you may need a tissue or two. If you don't watch this, then you read too many comic books. "},{"Title":"Nice try !","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A worthy concept , that is examining the lack of communication between generations , but the characters are as has been said just annoying and unrealistic . The ''kids'' look 35 years old and act like they are 2 years old . Its pretty bad and a waste of some good actors , Nick Ray is ultimately responsible for all of it as director , and its an uninteresting mess for the most part . There are opportunities for good payoffs that are wasted generally . Its too long and there's really nothing to hold your interest here , none of the characters can be related to in a meaningful way and every time there is a chance to its usually not taken advantage of . I think its remembered because Dean , then Wood died more than because of anything else . Too bad . There was a chance to be decent at least . "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's almost too much that can be said about RWAC. For one there's James Dean. If anyone ever doubted his acting ability they need to take seat, watch and shut their mouths. His portrayal of Jim Stark a lonely, misunderstood and underrated teen is probably one of the best performances to ever grace a strand of film. Natalie Wood of course did a wonderful job of Judy whose need for love at times out shines Dean's lead character and Sal Mineo's best work is seen through Plato's eyes.The film begins when Jim is taken to the police station for drunkenness where we also meet our two other principal characters Judy and Plato. Judy is there because of a fight she got into with her inattentive father after he called her a dirty tramp for wearing lipstick of which she ran away from home and was then picked up by the police. Plato is there for drowning puppies which he could not give a reason for. Later Jim's parents come in and begin arguing which really upsets Jim. After that officer (Ray) takes Jim into a back room and eases him by letting Jim vent his anger on a desk and tells him to call if things begin to go over the edge again with his folks. All go home and begin and new day. The next day Jim meets Judy and The Kids, a gang of delinquents that Judy calls her friends and who is girlfriend to the leader Buzz. Later, on a field trip to the planetarium, Jim consoles Plato who was frightened during the show and then shows off to The Kids to get Judy's attention. Outside Buzz and Jim get into a knife fight and after Jim wins is invited by Buzz to participate in a chickie-run which Jim agrees. That night, at the bluff, Buzz tells Jim that he actually likes him but that they gotta do something just to prove themselves to the rest of the gang but once again Jim's main goal is to prove him self to Judy. The race begins and Jim ends up jumping before he reaches the edge only to watch Buzz drive off it due to the fact that his jacket got caught on the door. Buzz dies and the gang scatters. Jim takes Judy home and contemplates whether he should tell the police. Meanwhile Plato is accosted by Buzz's friends mainly Crunch and Goon who are scared that they'll be turned into the cops. Plato gets away and runs home to grab his mother's gun as protection. Crunch, Goon and a few others then proceed to find Jim to stop him from ratting them out. Jim gets in another fight with his parents and leaves for the police station. Discovering that his police friend Ray is out Jim calls Judy but is rudely hung up on by her father. Judy hears this and sneaks out to find Jim. Plato, Judy and Jim meet up after Plato warns him about the gang coming for them and tells them they can hide out in an abandoned mansion by the planetarium. They go there but are soon found out by the gang and the police. Plato shoots one of the gang and then runs to planetarium locking himself inside. Jim and Judy go after him and Jim attempts to talk Plato out of doing anything rash. He takes the gun and removes the bullets hiding them in his pocket from Plato after he gives Plato the gun back. All is well until they begin to leave the building. upon seeing the gun and officer shoots Plato only to learn quickly afterwords that Jim had the bullets. Plato dies and Jim's father consoles him realizing that he has to stand up for his son and to stop taking verbal abuse from his wife. As they leave Jim introduces Judy to his parents and they go home, so ends the movie.Rebel is certainly one of the most time appropriate movies for it's time even with Plato's gay undertones which you can either agree or disagree with. I never really thought about Plato being gay, I always considered it just how James Dean's character Jim described it that he just wanted to be part of a family and that he considered Judy and Jim his family. I did see though how Plato could be thought of as gay but I don't think that's really a major issue in the film. You can definitely see the closeness in the cast and especially if you look at the behind the scenes footage which makes it even more apparent. It all clicks, the story, the cast, the locations...it's everything that great movies should be and sadly aren't anymore in this day and age. Even though this film is set in the 50's i think many of the problems between the parents and the kids are very real today as they were then which makes Rebel just as relate-able to kids now. It's timeless and tragic all in one which makes Rebel Without A Cause one of the best. "},{"Title":"First Bull Run","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's not difficult to imagine the impact this must have had on viewers just over fifty years ago even if it now appears a tad dated. What I noticed right away were the incongruities; Natalie Wood isc dressed - as is James Dean - in a style more late forties than fifties, yet she chooses to associate with a 'wild' gang who are, to a man, dressed in clothes much more reminiscent of the mid-fifties in which jeans and sweat shirts predominate. Again looking first at the debit side the elementary symbolism - Dean and Wood as the parents Sal Mineo craves, seems hopelessly oversimplified today. On the other hand the performances are up to snuff and Nick Ray keeps you interested. "},{"Title":"Overrated film about a lot of troubled people","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a downer. Jim, Judy, Plato and Buzz - troubled teenagers all in need of therapy - two of whom wind up dead by the end of the movie.There is nothing uplifting about this film - it's simply the product of a troubled writer and a studio's effort to cash in on a public's emerging interest in a then new sub-culture of middle class teen malcontents.James Dean only made three films and in this one, he really hams it up. It's almost comical at times the way he overacts. The big screen magnifies every gesture, every word and he's performing like he's on a stage instead of 5 feet in front of a CinemaScope camera.Sadly, this was one of the movies of the mid 1950s era that helped popularize rebellious behavior during one of the nation's most prosperous periods. "},{"Title":"It was a major flick for the teenagers of the late '50s","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was nostalgic watching the movie again (43 years later) and remembering the tragic & relatively premature deaths of 4 of the stars Dean, Mineo, Adams, Wood.  However, it seems somewhat dated in light of the problems facing teenagers today.  I rated it a 7. "},{"Title":"This film played with my emotions. It nearly ruined me.","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Look. I do not hate this movie even though I gave it 1 star. But here is why I did give it one star It was a Friday in my Visual Arts 11 class as we got to watch this film Rebel Without a Cause with one of the most famous actors of all time. I enjoyed it...... at first. But, I noticed something, this movie is the story of angst, abuse and horrible people. This movie could be the most emotionally challenging film ever made.The way the dad abuses the girl, the way the parents fight all the time, the way that they don't care about anyone, the fact that they hate everything and everyone made me wonder If this was what my life had come to. If I was born to suffer through this, then congratulations, you definitely did it. I don't know why I would want to live in a world where this is considered Entertainment. I cried for a long time. I never did finish watching this film. I never will. This movie played with my emotions and I nearly jumped out of a window.If you are autistic, have abusive parents, or have divorced parents or if you are just soft hearted, do not watch it. Stay away from it as far as you can. If you ever come across this movie, do not buy or rent it or download it from a torrent. You might regret it. I do not hate this film in any way. I only gave this a 1 because I felt my life was pathetic and worthless after watching half of this.No Rating. "},{"Title":"Over Rated","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this film to be very over rated.  It had a very week story line that need more character information.  I would not recommend this to a friend, and if it wasn't for college wanting me to analyse this film, I would never watch it again. "}{"Title":"A Good Cause To Not Like The Film","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's always interesting to watch James Dean act. I mean, the man WAS good, not just some teen heart-throb.....but most of the characters in this film were just plain annoying to make the film enjoyable.Dean and Natalie Wood's parents were either way too wimpy or nasty. While Dean's character was okay, the other kids in the film, led by Wood, were obnoxious and horrible people. Sal Mineo's role was kind of strange in that, even though he was the same age as Dean, he was the little brother here who idolizes Dean. It didn't quite fit.In the end, watching two hours of stupid parents and unlikable juvenile delinquents is not my idea of fun and entertainment and cause enough never to watch this overrated teen angst mess again. "}]