[{"Title":"Cinema's Best Shaggy Dog Story","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"96 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" With all humor, you either get the joke or you don't. If you don't, no amount of explaining can change your mind. If you do, the details are endlessly enjoyable.Part of the joke that's The Trouble With Harry is that nothing happens. Hitchcock's anti-Hitchcock film defies expectations for action, shock, mayhem, suspense, spectacular climaxes on national monuments, etc. Instead, it's a New England cross-stitch of lovingly detailed writing, acting, photography, directing and editing.Saul Steinberg's title illustration tells you exactly what you're in for. One long pan of a child's drawing of birds and trees . . . ending with a corpse stretched out on the ground as Directed by Alfred Hitchcock briefly appears.So meticulously is The Trouble With Harry conceived, the only two images in the title art that are NOT trees, plants or birds are a house with a rocking chair on its porch and that corpse. The film literally plays in reverse of the title sequence -- from little Arnie's (Jerry Mathers, pre-Beaver. The boy who drew the titles?) discovery of the corpse, back to the home with the rocking chair, as Hitchcock's final joke puts the audience safely to bed. A double bed, in this case.What's the film about? Oh, Great Big Themes like Life and Death, Youth and Age, Love and Hate, Guilt and Innocence, Truth and Lies, Art and Pragmatism -- packaged with deceptive simplicity.The hero, Sam Marlowe (John Forsythe), is an artist. The man the child who drew the titles (Arnie, or someone like him) might have become. His name is an amalgamation of two of hard-boiled fiction's greatest detectives Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe. Indeed, Sam Marlowe functions here as a sort of detective. But enough of pointing out the detailed construction of this script and film repeated viewings yield far greater pleasures.Introducing Shirley MacLaine in her first screen role threw that enduring actress into an astounding mix of old pros Edmund Gwenn, Mildred Dunnock, Mildred Natwick and Forsythe. That MacLaine held the screen then, and still does 50 years later (name another major actor who can say that), validates Hitchcock's astute casting.In fact, TTWH is a tribute to cinematic acting as much as anything else. These are among the finest performances ever captured of these terrific actors. Since there are none of the expected spectacular Hitchcock sequences, nor his nail-biting tension, all that's left is for the actors to fully inhabit their characters.That they do with brilliance, efficiency and breathtaking comic timing. No pratfalls here. Just nuances.Edmund Gwenn and Mildred Natwick are the real stars. Had Hitchcock said so, the film would never have been produced. Their scenes (they receive as much if not more screen time together than Forsythe and MacLaine) are possibly the most delightful (and yes, romantically and sexually tense) ever filmed of courtship in middle-and-old age. Perfectly realized in every intonation and gesture. Occasionally laugh-out-loud funny.Theirs is paralleled by the courtship of the younger stars, Forsythe and MacLaine. Love at both ends of life, young and old, and love's wonderful humor and mysterious redemption, even in the face of death -- that inconvenient corpse on the hill.Perhaps the most surprising and powerful undertow in The Trouble With Harry (one hesitates to name it because it's handled so delicately) is Sex.It is only barely present in the lines given the characters, but the subtext is always there. Occasionally, it boils over into an infinitely subtle burlesque, as in the exchange between Gwenn and Forsythe about crossing Miss Gravely's (get that name?) threshold for the first time.The look in Gwenn's eyes and the repressed joy and romantic hope in his face -- even at his stage of life -- is bliss.The coffee cup and saucer for a man's fingers; the ribbon for Miss Gravely's newly-cut hair (Wiggy cuts it in the general store -- Mildred Dunnock in another unbelievably subtle performance -- muttering, Well, I guess it will grow back.); Arnie's dead rabbit and live frog; the constantly shifting implications of guilt in the death of Harry up there on the hill; the characters' struggles to regain innocence by doing the right thing; the closet door that swings open for no apparent reason (never explained); the characters' revelations of the truths about themselves; their wishes granted through Sam's negotiations with the millionaire art collector from the city -- ALL portrayed within the conservative but ultimately flexible confines of their New England repression and stoicism (yes, the film is also a satiric comment on '50s morality) -- these details and more finally yield a rich tapestry of our common humanity, observed at a particular time and place, through specific people caught in an absurd yet utterly plausible circumstance.Nothing happens? Only somebody who doesn't know how to look and listen -- REALLY observe, like an artist / creator -- could reach that conclusion about The Trouble With Harry. Only a genius, like Hitchcock, would have the audacity to pull the rug out from under his audience's expectations at the height of his career by offering a profoundly subtle morality play in the guise of a slightly macabre Hallmark Card.When the final revelation arrives, in the last line that takes us home to the marital bed where love culminates and all human life begins -- yours and mine -- and draws from us a happy smile of recognition, so Hitchcock's greatest secret is revealed, more blatantly in this than any of his films.Life and death -- and all of it in between -- are a joke! Don't you get it? It's there in all his pictures. Nowhere more lovingly and less showily presented than in The Trouble With Harry. Thank you, Hitch. "},{"Title":"Outlandish black comedy from Hitch, a failure when released as it was probably a little ahead of its time.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"53 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble With Harry is a comedy film about a dead body. Alfred Hitchcock makes the macabre concept deliciously funny and entertaining in his unique style. Helping Hitchcock to turn this unlikeliest of premises into an enjoyable film are Bernard Herrmann (providing fabulous music scoring), and a cast of winning actors who judge to perfection how far to push their tongues into their cheeks.A dead body turns up on a patch of grass near the top of a wooded New England hill. Various people have reason to believe that they're responsible for the man's death. Septugenarian ex-sea captain Albert Wiles (Edmund Gwenn) is worried that he might have accidentally shot the man while hunting for rabbits. Old spinster Miss Gravely (Mildred Natwick) fears that when she whacked the man over the head with her shoe, she may have done more damage than she intended. And single mother Jennifer (Shirley MacLaine) has even greater cause to feel responsible, for she is the dead man's wife. During an argument, she smashed a bottle over his head and is now almost sure that he died as a result. Local artist Sam Marlowe (John Forsythe) decides to help his neighbours to cover up the crime, but after burying and digging up the corpse several times, the truth behind Harry's death is finally revealed.No Hitchcock film divides viewers more than this one. Some consider the film a masterpiece of understated black comedy; others deem it a plot less, pointless time-waster. The film was a fairly massive box office flop at the time (audiences obviously felt from the movie poster that they were going to see a murder mystery, and were disappointed to actually find themselves experiencing a bizarre, off-kilter black comedy). In retrospect, I'd say The Trouble With Harry is a great film that was probably a good two decades ahead of its time. The performances are wonderfully outrageous, especially the elders (Gwenn and Natwick) who give perceptive comic turns that actors nowadays just don't seem to have the range to do. Forsythe and MacLaine are delightful too (the latter in her movie debut), and Royal Dano rounds off the cast as a gullible cop who nearly finds out that the other four have been up to no good. There's no doubt that The Trouble With Harry is an acquired taste; but if this taste is to your liking then you're in for a delectable treat! "},{"Title":"Oh the irony!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've been a big fan of Hitchcock as long as I can remember, but I only had the opportunity to see The Trouble with Harry recently. I never knew the film was a comedy before I began watching, so you can imagine my surprise when one innocent character after the next stumbled upon a brutally murdered corpse and react in the very least expected ways possible. It was almost as surpring, however, when I read the comments on IMDb and realized that a large portion of Hitchcock's audience simply didn't get it. Of course the character's are not reacting the way real people would in these circumstances! How many of Hitch's characters actually would? The Trouble with Harry is Hitchcock's own jab at himself, at the entire suspense film genre, and a wonderfully inspired satire on the implications of desensitization. The film is not that simple though, for even in addressing these objectives Hitch tantalizingly avoids any answers or definitive statements. Its a difficult film to describe, but definitely worth seeing as it confirms Hitchcock's dual mastery of comedy and suspense. Watch it for the social commentary, the sleepy New England setting, but above all else, for the blissful irony that fills its every crevace. It is the kind of irony that makes shows like Family Guy so popular today. A wonderfully surpring film in every way!  "},{"Title":"An absolute gem, one of the few 10's I've ever given!!!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is fantastic. I don't think anyone except Hitchcock could have made such humour out of a dead body. Shirley MacLaine (in her first role) is delightful and Edmond Gwenn perfect. You'll see a young Jerry Mathers pre-dating Leave it to Beaver by a few years. Don't miss this little gem, it's as funny today as it was in 1955 and I suspect for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"Yes, a Hitchcock COMEDY. And it's very clever and a lot of fun!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  One thing I really admire about Hitchcock was that he was willing to experiment, and wasn't content to make the same movie over and over. This meant that he sometimes made movies that puzzled his audiences, and several of them were out and out flops. But the passage of time has been kind to many of these movies which can be enjoyed for what they are, not what the audience WANTED them to be. 'The Trouble With Harry' is a great example. Many of Hitchcock's movies have humour in them, but an actual comedy was a bit left field for him. And not just any kind of comedy, a very black one. Humour is very subjective, but I found this movie to very clever and a lot of fun. It gets off to a bit of a shaky start with John Forsythe's character coming out with some unfunny lines and bits of business, but once the story kicks in and the characters played by Edmund Gwenn and Mildred Natwick are introduced, the movie becomes very amusing. Forsythe is technically the star of the movie, and Shirley MacLaine (in her movie debut) the leading lady, but Natwick, and especially Gwenn, steal the picture, and to me have the best lines. Edmund Gwenn was also in the underrated 1950s monster movie 'Them!', and I'm really fond of him. I also get a kick out of Royal Dano who plays the sheriff. Dano was a very interesting character actor who was in everything from 'Moby Dick' to 'Drum' to 'Killer Klowns From Outer Space'. To be totally honest 'The Trouble With Harry' wouldn't make it into my Top Ten Hitchcock movies, but that is only because he made so many great ones, and it's tough to choose, not because this is poor movie. If you want an edge of your seat thriller then maybe this isn't for you, but if you thought Hitch's droll introductions on his TV show were entertaining, then you should check this one out, as it's cut from the same cloth. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Change-Of-Pace From Hitchcock","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a real change-of-pace from Hitchcock, and some of his most devoted fans do not really enjoy The Trouble With Harry, but it is quite entertaining if you appreciate Hitchcock's subtle British sense of humor.  There are funnier black comedies, but this one holds up pretty well, and has a number of things going for it.'Harry' appears only as a dead body, discovered at the beginning of the film in a clearing outside a picturesque New England town.  More than one of the residents feels responsible for Harry's death - so, just by being there, Harry sets off a lengthy chain of events in the lives of several persons in the town.  There are no tremendous laughs, but a lot of good low-key wit, much of it having to do what the situation brings out about the various characters' perspectives on themselves and others.  The cast is pretty good, and the scenery is beautiful, some of the best in any Hitchcock film. There is not the action or suspense in this one that most fans associate with Hitchcock.  But if you appreciate Hitchcock's sense of humor - for example, the kinds of subtly ghoulish remarks that he used to make on his television shows - give it a try.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I read the box at the video store, I thought it sounded a little silly, but since it was directed buy Hitchcock, I decided to give it a try.  I was glad I did!This film does a good job at showing what life is like (in a twisted way) in a small American town.  Of course the whole thing is a black comedy about a corpse, but it's great fun, and suspenseful too, especially when Calvin is in the room, questioning everybody.  I didn't understand why the door kept opening, but maybe it was just a joke - normally the door would signal a killer entering or something like that - but the door is never any cause for alarm.All the actors are good, especially Gwenn, and Mrs. Gravely was so endearing.  Don't ignore this lesser known Hitchcock movie.  It's a treat to watch and is genuinely funny. "},{"Title":"Witty and clever","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a deviation from Hitchcock's normal subjects. Sure, there is murder and intrigue, yet somehow a strange comical effect.The trouble with Harry is black comedy at its finest. Nobody but good old Sir Alfred could make a mockery of a dead body lying in the woods. But Hitchcock revels in the role, displaying wit and character to a timeless film. He's done it again! "},{"Title":"Delightfully twisted","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone who had something to do with Harry just can't figure out if he should stay buried or dig him up.  From there, Hitchcock's black comedy brings about tension and giggles.  Seems that everyone had a reason for wanting Harry out of the picture, only trouble is, Harry is more trouble dead than alive.  A light film for Hitchcock, but it does contain the transference of guilt theme, and the guilt bounces all over our main players.  A small gem of a film that often gets overlooked, watch this one and you'll be charmed by the trouble that Harry causes. "},{"Title":"Twin Peaks 1950s style","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The Trouble with Harry could well be one of the funniest films I have ever seen. It's a case of Alfred Hitchcock successfully parodying himself, while in the meantime offering some memorable cinematic moments.Perhaps the most memorable is the screen debut of Shirley MacLaine, who is extremely cute and animated and fun to watch. It's easy to see why Hollywood fell in love with the elfin elder sister of Warren Beatty. Her performance betrays her inexperience in front of the camera, but you'll be too busy watching her facial expressions to care.The rest of the cast is also excellent, with the actor who plays the captain deserving special recognition for his calm and cool demeanor throughout.As far as the script goes, I think David Lynch must have had Trouble with Harry in mind as one of the inspirations for Twin Peaks. The dialogue is hilarious, with non-sequitors coming out of nowhere, as well as one-liners that will have you backing up the DVD/video saying did I really hear that? For one thing, the film is surprisingly risque for 1955 -- there's a boob joke involving a statue that could easily fit into an Austin Powers movie, and a pre-Beaver Jerry Mathers gets some of the film's biggest laughs with some perfect comic timing.It's a mystery to me why this film bombed in its initial release. True, it's leisurely paced in comparison to other Hitchcock films, and there are no scary moments to be found. Instead, this is a film that is fun to watch, and provides laughs at the most unexpected places. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"A nice attempt at something different, but still an overall failure","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Before I begin in earnest on this review, I must point out that in the future, I'm expecting this review to have received many not helpful posts. That's because with many famous directors (such as Godard, Bergman and Hitchcock), there is such a perceived aura of greatness associated with their films that they have many rabid followers who will not allow any criticism of any of their films. While I can in some ways respect their loyalty, these fans seem like cult members the way they attack honest attempts to critique the films. In other words, if you disagree with them, it seems to be a personal attack!! Well, here goes--and in a couple years I'll need to check back with this review and see how poorly it faired.THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY is probably the strangest and most daring film Hitchcock ever made. While he did occasionally inject some comedic moments into some of his films (such as his deliberately including phallic imagery into NORTH BY NORTHWEST, the odd romantic comedy of MR. AND MRS. SMITH and the kooky moments in his last film, FAMILY PLOT), none of his films were as comically dark and absurd as THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY. Additionally, there were no big-name stars associated with it--something only repeated a few times in his films (such as in FRENZY).The only problem with this experiment is that the overall effort, at least seen more than fifty years later, isn't all that funny nor involving. Sure, I laughed here and then, but rarely were the laughs all that strong and the film seemed rather forced.In some ways, the film reminded me a lot of a French film, BUFFET FROID, as both were absurdist films. In other words, when events occurred, people responded in completely unpredictable and confusing ways. When people discovered Harry's body, no one seemed the least bit concerned to find a dead man! In BUFFET FROID, after a man's wife is murdered, the murderer meets the husband and confesses--and they both go out on a road trip together! Some think such scenes are brilliant--I just got tired of it after a while because the shock value subsides very quickly and there isn't a whole lot of depth to it.Now all this isn't to say this is a bad film--after all, I scored it a 6. It's just that it is far from a great film and isn't much better than a time-passer. Cute at times and very strange, the film never rises near the level of greatness. Of interest to the curious and Hitchcock fans--all others may find this one a bit tedious and unfunny. "},{"Title":"Not Too Wild About Harry.","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock was in his own curious way a genius. No one has made better films -- of their type -- than he has. He had a singular sense of humor too. His thrillers were often as funny as they were entertaining. I'm thinking of the remake of The Man Who Knew Too Much, Jimmy Stewart's struggling with the staff of Ambrose Chapel's taxidermy shop, before finally squirming out the door and slamming it behind him, and the director's quick cut to the head of a stuffed lion wearing an expression of amazement.He even managed to insert the odd good laugh into some of his otherwise unqualified dramas. In Shadow of a Doubt, in Hitchcock's cameo, we don't see his face, just a shot over his shoulder at his bridge partner. We can see Hitchcock's cards. It's a Grand Slam in spades. The partner stares at him and remarks, You don't look so good yourself. But he had nothing but trouble building an entire film around comedy. He'd tried it in 1941 with Mr. and Mrs. Smith and despite the piping score it didn't work. It doesn't work well here either. In some ways, the best thing about it is the location photography New England in the Fall, with all that florid foliage.John Forsythe as the artist is reassuring but bland. Shirley MacLaine is an awfully cute red-headed widow with hints of horniness but this was her debut film and often she seems self conscious. When she's supposed to be relaxed and thoughtful she assumes a slightly unnatural position with her shoulders hunched and her face down. Edmund Gwenn and Mildred Natwick both get their jobs done but aren't as endearing as the director seems to believe.Mostly, though, the problem is that there is nothing intrinsically amusing about a dead body that no one seems to know what to do with. I lost count of the number of times Harry was buried and dug up again. It reminded me of one of those Laurel and Hardy two reelers in which the duo spend all their time trying to get something done -- a house built, a piano lugged up a long staircase, a boat painted -- and the audience waits and waits for the job to be done, and it never is.I can imagine, though, that some people might find this ludic understatement very funny. I can imagine myself enjoying it more but I'd have to be in the right mood -- stoned. "},{"Title":"A Too Light Dark Comedy","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There is often a motif of a younger couple contrasted with an older couple in Hitchcock's films. Think of the Man Who Knew Too Much (1956) or Saboteur (1942) for example. Here the courtship of a young couple, Robert Forsyth and Shirley Maclaine, is contrasted with the courtship of Edmunn Gwenn and Mildred Natwick. The passion of young love versus the humdrum and security of old love is an interesting motif that should be studied more in Hitchcock's film.The comedy between Forsyth and Maclaine works somewhat, although it never really lights up the screen. On the other hand Gwenn and Natwick are terribly miscast. Gwenn was 77 years old and Natwick was 50 when this film was made. Even as an old maid, it is hard to believe that Natwick would have a romantic interest in Gwenn. Both of the actors seem annoyed that they have to act towards each other in a romantic capacity. As a result they are stiff instead of funny. If Hitchcock had cast an actor around Natwick's age, instead of her father's age, the movie might have worked.The movie reminded me of Frank Capra's Arsenic and Old Lace, another quirky dark comedy that misfired. In both cases the directors thought that they were being very wicked. Instead the black humor is just gray and the directors show themselves as more puritanical than their audience.The cinematography is pretty, the music is cute, and the acting is fine. However the story is just dull and the audience doesn't really care what happens to Harry or anybody else in the movie. Once or twice every decade Hitchcock made a mediocre movie. For the 1950's, this is it. "},{"Title":"No trouble at All","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" So it begins, the famous collaboration between suspense maestro Hitchcock and composer legend Herrmann to bring the world . . . a comedy? I went into the film not really knowing what to expect, though with Hitchcock's name I assumed thriller. Within minutes, though, Hitch and Benny helped me shift gears and accept Trouble with Harry for what it is a tongue-in-cheek ride with a side of murder and a wicked sense of humor and dead on timing.Within the opening five minutes, my jaw dropped at the sheer ludicrousy of the movie's premise &#150; the offbeat reactions of all the characters to the troubled Harry &#150; and how I laughed at the audacity the film had to throw so many off the wall characters into a situation that grew more and more outrageous with every passing frame and keep running with a straight face.We get a retired ship captain, an old woman looking for love, a troubled widow, an artist with a taste for the weird, a dead guy, and it only gets more and more strange, folks. The plot? It goes in circles over and over and over again, and not much really happens as this group tries to figure out Harry and what to do with him. Needless to say, The Trouble with Harry walks dangerously close to disaster, but Hitchcock does something remarkable he lets his style seduce the audience into suspending their disbelief, sitting back, and trusting the master of black comedy.That is what I love about Hitchcock and about Trouble with Harry &#150; he is so confident in his films and his audience that he knowingly presents the absurd where other filmmakers wouldn't dare go in fear of losing the audience. He knows precisely which ties to reality he can afford to cut free, and he so gracefully and fearlessly lets go of realism in favor of his own flavor of the surreal. The Trouble with Harry presents some of the goofiest characters to ever appear on screen with some of the strangest logic-defying ideas, and I love them for it.How does it work? The film simply resonates with the charms Hitchcock fans have grown to adore &#150; how the grassy hill looked like a set, the witty dialogue between the characters (the captain and Sam cracked me up every time), the mastery of frame composition (loved the first few shots of Harry), and Bernard Herrmann's delightful score that perfectly reflects the tone and feel of the film. Murder never felt so whacky and wonderful. It's that same world of Hitchcock that made us, the audience, forget about logic and realism when we viewed North by Northwest, Psycho, and Rear Window.Realism is boring. As Sir Alfred, himself, stated, Most films are slices of life. Mine are slices of cake. And indeed, his world is so much more fun. Screw reality. This movie is a gem that's easily overlooked since it is a comedy by the master of suspense. Fans already know he had also mastered the art of black comedy, and the only phrase I need in describing the film to fellow Hitch fans is pure cinema. The Trouble with Harry is Hitchcock at his best, and it's no trouble at all to sit through. "},{"Title":"Please enlighten me, I thought this movie was quite bad.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This film is meant to be funny but is quite unfunny. I say this not because the center of the humor is a corpse. Don't get me wrong corpses can be hilarious. This one isn't, though. I think that if this movie weren't a Hitchcock film, people wouldn't feel obligated to like it and thus wouldn't like it. The characters are extremely annoying (that little boy is not funny at all and he talks way too fast), the story moves soooo slowly, and the characters' motivations are constantly shifting (first the artist is all about himself and then he is Mr Magnanimous). The reasons the characters have for burying and exhuming Harry are not convincing--they seemed forced (like the writer needed 5 or 6 different reasons for burying a body but could find only a couple and just scraped together a few others to toe the line of the comic premise). This fact is betrayed at the end when the characters are trying to explain the situation and they cannot remember all the reasons for the various burials--the reasons are not reiterated here because they were not compelling reasons. Also, the characters can hear the cars in the town from where they are burying Harry, so the spot must be very close, and yet no one ever sees them going up and down the hill with shovels. Also, the spot is traversed by 40 zillion people in the wildly implausible opening scene, and then remains relatively deserted for the rest of the film. How lucky. With some exceptions, only the folks who are going up there to deal with Harry go there. I guess the two main problems for me, then, were these the story is annoyingly implausible in many ways and the jokes are simply not funny. Most of Hitchcock's films contain a lot of humor, and almost always humor that is much, much better than the humor in The Trouble With Harry. That whispering of double bed joke that caps the film says it all, I think--this film is lame. Help me out! Am I wrong about this movie? Will someone please point out what redeeming qualities, if any, this movie possesses? "},{"Title":"Death treated as a triviality.","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The trouble with Harry is an offbeat comedic movie that starts off slowly but ends strongly. This is not Hitchcock's usual style, but is effective. Once again, the audience is taken on an emotional roller as characters interact over a problem that is contrived and even morbid yet drives the story. Uncertainty abounds as the characters disclose their own violent acts, thus revealing the superficiality of their otherwise pristine and seemingly innocent small-town personas. Lurking inside the human being is the propensity to commit violence. Death is reduced to the level of a triviality and is treated as an inconvenience. The sheer callousness of the characters has a lot to do with making the story so fascinating and strong. No matter how likable they are, the characters in this story are not good guys. This movie reveals so much about people and about a society that can treat death with such indifference. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and wry, but slow as maple syrup","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble with Harry (1955)When I first saw this years ago it was on a little television screen and the whole experience left me baffled. I saw it this time on a large, good quality projection and I had the same experience. What a frivolous, boring movie! It has charms, for sure, including the whole exaggerated Vermont setting in all its idyllic small town beauty. (The movie premiered in Barre, Vermont.) And it is, truly, lightly humorous throughout, so yes, call it a comedy. But so little happens it gets maddening. It feels mostly like a Hitchcock Presents television production stretched into a full length movie. It's not a coincidence that the premier of that t.v. series was October, 1955, just as filming was under way for The Trouble with Harry. Initial shooting took a month that fall, with some later fill-in shooting at the end of the year.Here Hitchcock uses (with great fanfare) the new Vistavision very widescreen format, and full Technicolor. You might think the movie was just a way to dip into the mid 1950s revelation in big, colorful cinema. And along those lines, cinematographer Robert Burks makes the most of autumn in Vermont with some beautiful location shooting. And the ticklish music by Bernard Herrmann is, as usual, perfect. Burks was already a longtime favorite of Hitchcock, but this was the first of many collaborations with Herrmann.But the plot, and the acting (including a couple of respectable names like Shirley MacLaine, though Hitchcock hasn't always wanted the very best from his women leads) are flat and slow. Suspense? Not a bit. That's not the point. The movie flopped here in the U.S. but was a success in the U.K. so maybe, just maybe, we Yanks just don't get the humor. "},{"Title":"A little dissappointing","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"     When I saw The Trouble with Harry, starring Shirley MacLaine and a part of The Alfred Hitchcock Collection, I thought You can't get much better than that. I rented it. It was a flop. It was MacLaine's first movie and it shows. It has a hint of mystery to it but I wouldn't call it Hitchcock worthy. The Trouble with Harry is more of a romantic movie. Shirley may be one of my favorite actresses, falling in right behind Audrey Hepburn and one ahead of Liza Minnelli and Barbra Streisand but she wasn't that glamorous or amazing in this movie, although that blue dress of hers does show off her eyes.    Over all, the plot is a little complicated and unless your out for a silly movie that could've and should've been either a dead on romance or a dead on murder mystery (not a little of both), I don't highly recommend this movie. I gave it a 4. 1=Sam's handsomeness 1/2=Ivy's silliness 1/2=Captain's good nature 2= Shirley MacLaine's climb to stardom from this movie     "},{"Title":"What Is The Trouble?   'Possible' Spoilers","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is in my top five favorite Hitchcock films. Maybe I committed 'blasphemy' for putting it ahead of films like North by Northwest, Shadow of a Doubt, and Notorious, but I think it was worth it. Sadly, this is a film that's overlooked when you think of his other films, like the ones I mentioned above. For fans of the film, we can only wonder why it's swept under the rug. Sure it's no 'Vertigo', but the thing is it's not meant to be.The Trouble with Harry has the unique distinction of being only one of two comedies that Hitch made, in the U.S. anyway. The other being Mr. & Mrs. Smith. Of course Hitch is famous for little touches of black humor, but on this film he went all out. A plain, simple, black comedy that probably ends up flying under the radar of people used to watching Marx Bros. films, who I also like.While not exactly, laugh-out-loud comedy I enjoy watching it. I think it's a relaxing film, especially when you see the great photography that captures the beauty of autumn in New England. Then again, I don't think you can ever get a bad shot of that. It's an amusing tale with good acting from John Forsythe, Shirley MacLaine, Edmund Gwenn, and Mildred Natwick occupying the main and almost only roles in the film. It also marks the first collaboration between Hitchcock and Herrmann who brings a light, airy, and playful score that helps make the concern of the story less of 'how' Harry died, but what exactly to do with him.Basically, if you like Hitchcock, black comedy and don't mind an uncomplicated story, then I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"just about the drollest, and sometimes just quietly crazy, black comedy about murder ever","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble with Harry is set in a serene, Technicolor-awe-inspiring backdrop of autumn in New England, reminiscent of the 'cheery' Americana of Shadow of a Doubt. There's also a cast of characters who are more wrapped up in their romantic entanglements than in the body of Harry, who should be the focal point of the story. Matter of fact, one of the greatest delights of The Trouble with Harry is that the so-called MacGuffin this time *is* the dead body, and not some random object. Harry could just as well be anything, but the only thing that is of concern is, of course, that he's dead.What I loved seeing, as almost Hitchcock being a surrealist (he was a big fan of Bunuel after all) as much as being a director of dark/light comedy, was the non-chalance treated with the body from those around it throughout. The opening scenes had me floored, grinning cheek to cheek and sometimes just chuckling or laughing hysterically, at some line or moment in behavior from Edmund Gwynn and Mildred Natwicks' reactions (or lack thereof) to the dearly departed Harry on the ground. They go on and on talking about meeting later in the day, almost flirting by Gwynn's advances, and there's a DEAD BODY ON THE GROUND! On top of this there's the reactions from a little kid who loves playing with a dead rabbit, Shirley MacClaine as his mother and ex-lover of Harry, and the artist Marlowe played by John Forsythe, who seems to take a detached position almost in spite of making a detailed sketch of the dead Harry's face.So all of this, done in a manner that should suggest reality but doesn't in the slightest, builds up to something that is like the other side of the morbid coin that one saw in Strangers on a Train. Murder is treated a few Hitchcock works almost philosophically, but with with an air of 'oh, it's just a little death, no harm really', and in the Trouble with Harry it's done to the max. A good portion of the movie has nothing to do with Harry, even if he's on the characters' minds; a lot of courtship goes on between the elder Capt. Wiles and Miss Ivy Gravely and (very rushed, which is the point) between Marlowe and Jennifer Rogers. Forsythe might not be the best cast in the part, but everyone else is, and they all bring something to putting whatever potential is in the script to the fullest. Sometimes it doesn't look like it should be funny, but then something else comes along- another strange line of dialog, another aside about Harry's body being moved here or there- that turns things on its head.It's basically Hitchcock having fun with something that, for him, is probably more lighthearted then it might be for most. It's not a totally pitch black comedy, but then again Hithcock is deceptive, devilishly so, in in making things as simple as they seem. As with Bunuel everything seems like it should be straightforward, which adds to the absurdity, until one realizes that it means to be absurd like some yarn that you hear from a fellow you don't totally trust but listen intently anyway. It's not quite one of Hitchcock's masterpieces, but it surely is one of the best among those experiments that the director made from time to time, testing himself and the audience and putting energies into something that could turn his reputation on a turn. "}{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's talkiest murder mysteries.","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock tries out his hand at comedy, one of his least traveled paths. The Trouble With Harry will at first glance appear to be Hitchcock kind of taking a break from serious films, the thrillers and suspense films that he is best known for, and relaxing a bit with a light comedy, but there is much more going on in this film than that. First of all, only Hitchcock would come out with something that could be termed a light comedy when the central figure in the film from beginning to end is a dead body, but a lot of Hitchcock's standard themes are very prevalent in the film, even though it differs so much from his traditional style.First and foremost, of course, is Hitch's real life, almost crippling fear of the police, whom he portrays so often in films as bumbling, incompetent blockheads. The film is almost entirely dialogue driven, the crisp exchanges are almost nonstop from beginning to end and never get boring. Shirley MacLaine makes a brilliant film debut as Harry's new widow, displaying the perfect amount of charm and sweetness that allows us to immediately forgive her gladness at her husband's sudden death, no matter how mysterious or how many times the supposed responsibility for his death changes hands.As the blame is circulated among the diverse and likable group of main characters, the procession of guilt and responsibility leads to Harry being dug up and re-buried several times, until Jennifer (MacLaine) is asked what she thinks they should do, to which she replies, I don't care what you do with his so long as you don't bring him back to life. There is a recurring set device of a closet that just won't stay closed which seems to have caused some confusion as to its meaning, and I have a feeling that, since there is never anything actually hidden in it, it is a metaphorical thing that points to one of the underlying themes of the film, that of guilt. Skeletons in the closet, that kind of thing. Purely speculation, of course, but it makes sense to me.John Forsythe gives a brilliant, perfectly cool and laid back performance as the hugely likable Sam Marlowe, and his exchanges with Arnie, played by Jerry Mathers in his pre-Beaver days, are some of the best moments in the film, and this is also the first of a great many tremendously successful collaborations between Hitchcock and composer Bernard Herrman. Also keep your eye out for Hitch's cameo, which goes by much quicker than usual, you can miss it in a split second. "},{"Title":"Black comedy  with funny moments ,  nice acting , gorgeous outdoors and fun dialogue","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Amusing and lighthearted suspense story about the apparition a corpse on the countryside and there being many suspicious , causing all sorts of troubles for peaceful neighbors in a rural community . Problems take place in a quiet New England little town when a man's bothersome body is found in the forests . The trouble is that almost everyone in town thinks that they had something to do with his death . As Sam Marlowe (John Forsythe) , Mrs. Rogers (film debut of Shirley MacLaine , and she is marvelous as usual) , Captain Wiles (Edmund Gwenn's fourth and last film with Alfred Hitch) and Miss Gravel (Mildred Natwick , John Ford's usual actress) , all of them are suspicious people and carry out several tricks and antics to disappear the evidences , in fact , Harry gets dug up three times throughout the film . Meanwhile , Deputy Sheriff Calvin Wiggs (Royal Dano), the closest thing to law enforcement in their town attempts to finds out about Harry (Alfred Hitchcock insisted on using a real actor for the body of Harry).Enjoyable mystery movie involves a motley group of characters who hold numerous tricks in order to disappear a corpse as well as find alibis . Entertaining suspense movie packs humor , intrigue and ordinary Hitch touches . This agreeable and often hilarious picture has some 'Black comedy nature' and results to be an unexpected change of pace from master of suspense . Alfred Hitchcock's films have become famous for a number of elements and iconography  vertiginous height , innocent men wrongfully accused, blonde bombshells dressed in white, voyeurism, long non-dialogue sequences, etc. However in this film there aren't these particularities but contains a fun intrigue and amusing situations . Hitch was famous for making his actors follow the script to the word, and in this movie the characters use their dialogue taken from an interesting as well as fun screenplay by Jon Michael Hayes based on the novel by Jack Trevor Story . Alfred Hitchcock's movies were known for featuring famous landmarks such as Mount Rushmore in North by Northwest and the Statue of Liberty in Sabotage ; however here only appears a quiet small town and some colorful outdoors . Hitch apparently decided to leave this movie location unspecific and without recognizable landmarks and filmed in Vermont , though it was hampered by heavy rainfall , as many exterior scenes were actually filmed on sets constructed in a local high school gymnasium . Alfred Hitchcock once said of this film and of ¨Family plot¨  ¨they are treated with a bit of levity and sophistication , I wanted the feeling of the famous director Ernst Lubitsch making mystery thrillers . The film was unavailable for decades because its rights -together with four other pictures of the same period- were bought back by Alfred Hitchcock and left as part of his legacy to his daughter. They've been known for years as the infamous 5 lost Hitchcocks among film buffs, and were re-released in theaters around 1984 after a 30-year absence. The others are ¨The Man Who Knew Too Much¨ (1956), ¨The rear window¨ (1954), ¨The rope¨ (1948) and ¨Vertigo¨(1958). When Music Composer Lyn Murray was working on the music score for ¨Catch a thief' (1955), Alfred Hitchcock was already looking for a composer for this film, which was to be his next. So Murray suggested Bernard Herrmann. Bernard arranged his whimsical themes from this film into a concert suite he called A Portrait of Hitch. This was the beginning of the long professional relationship between Hitchcock and Herrmann. Colorful and glimmer cinematography in Vistavision by Robert Burks , Alfred's ordinary cameraman , showing nice autumn outdoors .The motion picture was well directed by Alfred Hitchcock . Originally designed by Hitchcock as an experiment in seeing how audiences would react to a non-star-driven film and was one of Alfred's favorites of all his films . Although this was a failure in the US, it played for a year in England and Italy, and for a year and a half in France. Rating  Better than average . Well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Smuggler's Notch","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There is a beauty to this film that is so subtle and so brilliant that you have to be a good viewer to understand it. This is a film where Hitchcock not only makes fun of himself but he also goes directly away from every other previous movie he ever directed. While it is his second comedy, this is no Mr. & Mrs. Smith.The setting in Smuggler's Notch Vermont is a beauty. The cast of Edmund Gwenn & John Forsyth is unique and the premiere of Shirley McClaine was totally surprising. She was discovered working as the under study for another actress on Broadway in The Pajama Game. Originally, it was the other actress that was being thought of to be cast in this, but when Hitch's folks saw Shirley, she won the part.The comedy is subtle, and the entire cast plays it perfectly. One extreme note of interest, this is one of the very few Hitchcock films which does not have a staircase playing a setting in the film. Staircases always central roles in the action in most of his other films. "},{"Title":"Deathly hilarious","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Who else but Hitchcock could see the motion picture potential of this fabulous story?  The visual quality is breathtaking...the autumn landscapes are the best ever filmed.  After a slow beginning, the pace picks up to create one of the funniest movies ever made...how many black comedies can claim that? "},{"Title":"Simple, Dark, Funny","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble with Harry, is that he's dead. However this isn't the true problem because nobody seems to care for Harry in particular. What they care about is who did it and how best to deal with it so that nobody gets caught. This involves burying and digging up, re-burying and re-digging up Harry several times. The simplicity of the comedy is perfect. I have always been a Hitchcock fan, but this film is like a breath of fresh air. It shows that their is a fine line between dramatic and comedic movies. This movie is very dark in content yet because there is very little character development the viewer doesn't identify with the plight of the character and the absence of Hitchcock's signature suspense music allows a viewer to laugh at the awkward situation and the ridiculous actions of the characters rather than worry about what terrible outcome could come from them. A delight and if he had been so inclined this film is proof that Hitchcock could have gone into the comedic genre if he had so desired. "},{"Title":"An Inconvenient Dead Body","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Poor Harry, dropping dead in the Vermont woods one autumn day and four people manage to convince themselves they killed him. Including his conspicuously unlamenting widow, Shirley MacLaine.Alfred Hitchcock sure loved some humor in his films, his characters when they're being pursued throw off some really clever lines. But outright comedy just wasn't Hitchcock's bag. Hitchcock did better with Mr. And Mrs. Smith, a screwball comedy with Carole Lombard that he did as a favor to Lombard with a promise she might be one of his cool blond heroines in the future. Of course that never happened as we sadly know.Shirley MacLaine was introduced in this film, her debut big screen appearance. She does all right here, but she really hits the big time when she does Some Came Running and blew that attractive cast off the screen when she was on.John Forsythe, Edmund Gwenn, and Mildred Natwick also think they might have killed old Harry for one reason or other. They keep digging him up and reburying him with rigor mortis coming and going.The trouble with The Trouble With Harry is that Alfred Hitchcock took one gag and stretched it way too thin for a feature film.I could see it however in a Laurel and Hardy short though. "},{"Title":"Dead man tells a tale","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock's only previous attempt at a Hollywood comedy was the unexceptional Mr and Mrs Smith in the early 40's and even that came from a studio assignment rather than an original motivation. Here, with the engagement of Hitchcock at the height of his powers, you might guess this one plays a bit differently. Chock-full of (no pun intended) earthy, sometimes racy humour, this is a black comedy set, paradoxically in the beautiful autumnal hues of New England, with a non-starring cast of noticeable variety, from fresh newcomer Shirley MacLaine to the avuncular veteran Edmund Gwenn, not the first names you'd think of to appear in an eccentric piece like this.Also on hand are a pre-Dynasty John Forsythe as the reasoning artist Sam and Mildred Natwick as the school-marmy spinster to complete the principal foursome who themselves get into an Abba-type arrangement as they pair off together, thwarted only it would appear by the inconsiderate corpse of MacLaine's unloved, estranged husband which keeps making unwanted appearances to spoil their mutual billing and cooing.I can see how the movie might split Hitchcock's fan-base as there's little of his trademark excitement or tension on show, but that's not to say other of his traits aren't present, from the stunning cinematography of Robert Burks, a playful soundtrack by Bernard Herrman in his first collaboration with The Master and some typically imaginative shots to admire, probably none more so than the first shot of Harry's prostrate body, from the shoes up.The ensemble acting is crisply played and I personally don't get the critics of Miss MacLaine harping on about her gaucheness, as she seems perfectly natural to me in what must have been a rather unusual introduction to movie-making in Hollywood. I admire Hitchcock for taking the risk he did with this off-beat feature and strongly consider he pulled it off with aplomb. A change, after all, is as good as a cardiac arrest as I always say. "},{"Title":"A gentle comedy","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It is simply humorous. I didn't feel the director was trying to make any point in the movie. I read reviews where they said that he was trying to show how indifferent the world can be even at death, but I never felt it that way. To me it came like Hitchcock wanted to do a movie on murder(considering this to be his favorite subject) but this time the murder should be some what different form his previous films. So may be he though that well the earlier movie were way too much serious lets make a light hearted movie but taking the subject as murder. And he pulled it of well too. I loved the cinematography, the visuals were really wonderful everything in the movie was as light as feather. It would just pull you out of you misery. It was such kind of a movie.Regarding the other aspects of the movie I would not comment much because the movie was simply for enjoyment. Like you just watch and enjoy that movie. As someone in the review has said earlier expect nothing and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"An unusual comedy from Alfred Hitchcock","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It is a sunny autumn day in Vermont and Harry Worp is lying dead in a particularly scenic spot. His body is first found by young Arnie Rogers who runs of to get his mother, Jennifer Rogers. Meanwhile the body is found for a second time; this time by Captain Wiles. He was out rabbit hunting and worries that he'd killed Harry with a stray shot. While he is wondering what to do Arnie returns with his mother and it becomes clear that Harry was her estranged husband and she doesn't seem too upset that he is dead! It later emerges that she too thinks she killed him as she'd hit him over the head with a bottle&#x85; if that isn't enough suspects another woman thinks she may have killed Harry as well! Local artist Sam Marlowe also gets involved as he helps the Captain bury the body (several times) and falls in love with Jennifer. While these four are trying to hide Harry the local deputy sheriff has heard about the body and is determined to find out what is going on.This is a rather strange movie; it is a gentle comedy, a mystery and a romance&#x85; added to that it is directed by Alfred Hitchcock. That isn't to say it is bad; the mystery is fun even if its real purpose is to bring Sam and Jennifer together and provide a series of laughs as the four protagonists deal with the body and try to keep the deputy from finding out what is going on. This film is most notable for being Shirley MacLaine's film debut; she is a delight as Jennifer&#x85; even if she is a little young for a twice widowed woman with a child; although I didn't really think about this till after it had finished. The rest of the cast do a decent job in what is a fairly light film. When we learn the truth about Harry's death it provides a satisfying explanation and fits the comic tone of the film. Overall I'd say that this may not be a classic but it is worth watching, especially if you are a fan of Hitchcock or Shirley MacLaine. "},{"Title":"Offbeat Hitchcock Comedy.","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Director Alfred Hitchcock attempts comedy again, with better results as this film is about the corpse of Harry Worp, which is first discovered by Capt. Albert Wiles(played by Edmund Gwenn) who thinks he shot Harry accidentally when he was hunting rabbits, so decides to hide the body instead. Unsuccessfully, as it turns out, as it is discovered by young Arnie Rogers(played by Jerry Mathers) who then gets his mother(played by Shirley MacLaine) to see it, though she recognizes it as her missing husband! She then decides to hide it herself, only to have artist Sam Marlowe(played by John Forsythe) stumble over it! Thus begins the odyssey of Harry's body, and the trouble it causes... Amusing comedy is almost too droll for its own good, but a fine cast and amiable nature make it a pleasant diversion, but nothing more. "}{"Title":"Expect nothing and you won't be disappointed","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The trouble with Harry is that he's dead. Everyone in town who stumbles onto Harry's body reacts in the most comically indifferent ways (if that's not a contradiction in terms) imaginable. Opening scene is has a small kid (none other than The Beaver himself) pretending to be shooting his plastic gun in a combat, as his imagination runs wild. When he stumbles onto Harry's body, is it just more of his overactive imagination? He brings his mother to show her the body, and she is glad Harry's dead. A hobo steals Harry's shoes, figuring he won't need them any longer. Another, an artist, merely wants to draw Harry's likeness, while comically philosophising about destiny fulfilled. Small town cop thinks that he is the one who accidentally shot Harry, but cannot do anything to dispose of the body, because of The Beaver, the hobo, the artist, and an oblivious, near-sighted reader, who quite literally trips over Harry's body and doesn't even notice. Several others also believe they are responsible for Harry's demise, but who really is at fault? There is a dead body present throughout the entire film, but no sense of dread over one man's death, nor is there a preoccupation with how Harry ended up dead on the hillside, there is only amusement in the humorous reactions of those around it. Small scale Hitchcock there is no frantic chase sequences or nail biting suspense, which is probably what put off a lot of people to it during its original release. No, this is not a suspense film with occasional comedy to relieve the tension, it is Hitchcock's only true COMEDY. It is an absurdist comedy, one which I enjoyed quite a lot. "},{"Title":"Blueberry Velvet","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Everything's perverted in a different way, isn't it? - Alfred Hitchcock Alfred Hitchcock's The Trouble With Harry was completed in 1955 but only given a nationwide release 2 years later in 1957, reportedly because studious had trouble promoting and marketing the film. The film remained critically overlooked for a number of years, until Hitchcock bought back all its rights and it was given a VHS release in the mid 1980s.One of Hitchcock's few outright comedies, The Trouble With Harry sees a group of bumbling small-towners struggling to deal with a body which has turned up dead in a nearby field. A local artist named Sam Marlowe (conjuring up the great fictional detectives Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe) serves as our guide. He investigates the various persons who've come into contact with the corpse - later identified as a man once known as Harry Worp - and attempts to get to the bottom of its demise. Interestingly, Harry isn't a who-dun-it, or detective tale, but rather a kind of farcical what-shall-we-do-with-it-now, all of Hitch's characters, who turn out to be entirely innocent of Harry's death, casually wrestling with what to do with the corpse in order to preserve their own innocence. Much of the film's humour is then derived from the corpse's constant burial and exhumation, and the casual, dead-pan way in which the townsfolk treat the death. And as with most of Hitchcock's films, the humour is macabre, jet-black and mischievous, and the film is packed with kinky sex-jokes, shameless flirting, talk of nudity, preserving/taking virginity, double entendres and sexual innuendos. Like several of Hitchcock's other films, Harry then ends with an implied sex gag. Whilst Harry is dated in some minor respects (some obvious sets, a bit dull when an old sea-captain is on screen), it's also a farce which should still play well with modern audiences raised on postmodern irony and Coen Bros flicks. The contrast between the film's homey, rural, 1950s conservatism, and Hitchcok's gleeful deviance also remains unique. People forget how artfully perverted The Master was.Aesthetically, the film is sub-par for Hitchcock, filmed simply and without fuss. Still, several funny compositions pepper the film (the corpses giant feet, a kid running about with toy guns etc), the score has a certain ironic humour (this was Bernard Herrmann's first score for Hitch) and the residents' sleepy Vermont town is bathed in a pleasantly perpetual autumnal glow. The film's autumn setting is itself significant a time of death and replacement, the transition from summer to winter, all of which encapsulate the sense of mortality which suffuses the film, subtly with falling leaves, overtly with shots of local churches and of course the constantly reappearing corpse; humanity just can't look the other way when it comes to death. In a similar fashion, the film is packed with talk of the passage of time, dialogue which Hitch mirrors to the shenanigans of a five year old kid, who not only can't recognise that the corpse belongs to his uncle and stepfather, but has absolutely no grasp of time, todays, tomorrows and yesterday. The kid spends the film marching about the countryside, trapped in a perpetual now, toy guns strapped to his waist, dead rabbits clasped in his hands.Aside from the local artist &#x96; a comical take on the private detective &#x96; the film's characters aren't particularly interesting, though they are all very clearly drawn. Take the way Hitchcock parallels a young budding romance to that of an older couple, both companionships forged to assuage mortal fear. Death brings all these people together, even a travelling millionaire, who whimsically buys Sam's paintings, one of which, we're told, is of nothing less than the flaming birth of the universe.Some view The Trouble With Harry as being Hitchcock's only comedy. But that's not quite true. Most of his films are actually fairly wicked comedies. His thrillers, for example, function a lot like screwballs, and even a horror movie like The Birds, with its avian apocalypse raining down upon its petty cast of silly humans, is quite funny.Bizarrely for Hitchcock, The Trouble With Harry features not a cast of classy, suave schemers, but fairly ordinary schmucks. Beyond this, the film works fairly well as a parody of the murder mystery genre and many quite serious papers (and books) have been written postulating that the trouble with Harry is not only that he is dead, but that he was homosexual whilst alive. Such the sinister underbelly of small town America movies were common during the 1950s (Larger Than Life etc), and would go on to inspire modern fare like Blue Velvet and American Beauty.8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Never know when you might need  a dead rabbit","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's foray into the world of comedy may not be for everyone. It's a black comedy, the sort of which probably won't make you laugh but may make you smile. The actors are all very good, including a very young Jerry Mathers. Shirley Maclaine is hot in her Peter Pan hair-do, but her acting is merely adequate. The other actors are much better and John Forythe's soothing voice puts you at ease. He reminded me of a suave, light 'n' airy version of Bogie. This was the first collaboration with composer Bernard Hermann, and his score is exceptional, especially during the more tense moments and near the beginning. I wouldn't be surprised if Danny Elfman listed Hermann as one of his inspirations.As you have probably already learned, the trouble with Harry is that he's dead. Or, rather, not so much that he is dead but how he died and why. Several individuals in the main cast have encountered him and believed their actions may have directly or indirectly killed Harry. What follows is multiple burials and exhumations by the potential murderers, each curious to inspect the body to see if the truth can be revealed upon inspection of his corpse. The most amusing aspect about the situation to viewers will be that even for those people who don't know Harry's identity initially, being in the presence of a dead body doesn't seem to unnerve anyone. It almost seems to be the least of their worries(a disturbing analogy that seems frighteningly fitting in today's world with some of the morons society has raised in this new generation).This film plays out like a Vermont travelogue most of the time with some marvelous autumn colors and vast rolling hills surrounding a quaint cozy town(of killers). This film did poorly upon release and hadn't been available for quite a long time. If you are a fan of Hitch, you will probably dig it, though it likely won't be among your favorites in his film library. If you aren't a fan of The Man, then you might feel the plot is a little thin, the repeated burial sequences might be viewed as film filler. However, the dialogue is very good overall, and, considering the time the film was produced, there is some very frank dialogue, especially discussing Miss Gravely and her implied 50, er, 42 year old virginity. Oddly enough, I find spinsters hot.Get your shovel. "},{"Title":"Not Lesser Hitchcock, Just Unusually Comic with a Likable Cast","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I never thought it fair that this 1955 black comedy was labeled lesser Hitchcock. Granted it is atypical Hitchcock given its light touch and lack of threatening violence (save for three gunshots heard at the beginning), but master filmmaker Alfred Hitchcock has made other movies far more out of his oeuvre like the sparkling 1941 Carole Lombard-Robert Montgomery romantic comedy, Mr. and Mrs. Smith. At least this one hews closer to his macabre sense of humor as it revolves around what to do with a persistent corpse, the body of Harry Worp. First, a freckle-faced little boy named Arnie comes upon it, and then the rabbit-hunting Captain Wiles discovers it and thinks he carelessly shot Harry. The aptly named Miss Gravely, a homely spinster, sees Wiles drag the body and simply invites him for tea with romantic aspirations on her mind. She confesses she thinks she killed Harry with the heel of a hiking boot. Arnie's mother Jennifer Rogers sees the body, and the young widow twice over also recognizes Harry and also thinks he killed him but with a bottle.Caught in the middle is eccentric artist Sam Marlowe, who nonchalantly helps his friends dispose of the body. Just how Harry died is the MacGuffin around which Hitchcock hinges his entire plot. With a perceptive screenplay by John Michael Hayes (Rear Window) based on a popular post-WWII British novel by Jack Trevor Story, the quaintly whimsical tone is what surprises most Hitchcock aficionados here, but the dialogue is also laced with not-so-subtle sexual innuendo. The combination proves effective on its own terms though not particularly transcendent as a memorable piece of film-making. The charming performances help considerably starting with John Forsythe, long before his Aaron Spelling years on Charlie's Angels and Dynasty, as Sam. He has definite chemistry with twenty-year-old Shirley MacLaine in her film debut. As Jennifer, she emerges with her gamine screen persona almost fully formed, and it's no wonder she continues to work in front of the camera over a half-century later.Edmund Gwenn (memorable as Kris Kringle in Miracle on 34th Street) and Mildred Natwick play Wiles and Miss Gravely with pixilated cunning. That is indeed six-year-old Jerry Mathers as Arnie a couple of years before starting his six-year run on Leave It to Beaver. A couple of behind-the-scenes facts are worth noting - Robert Burks' superb cinematography capturing the colorful autumnal glory of New England and Bernard Herrmann's rhythmic soundtrack, his first of several classic scores for Hitchcock. Presenting a pristine print of the film, the 2006 DVD provides one other significant extra, an original half-hour documentary, Laurent Bouzereau's The Trouble With Harry Isn't Over, featuring interviews with Forsythe, Hayes, associate producer Herbert Coleman, and Hitchcock's daughter Pat Hitchcock O'Connell. It's an insightful piece about the production complications and idiosyncratic casting like the producers taking a chance on MacLaine. Along with the original theatrical trailer, there is also a 38-still production gallery as well as about five pages of production notes. "},{"Title":"The subtlety  of humour","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" In response to planktonrules, your comment that this was one of Hitchcock's failures is wide of the mark. It was a wonderful black comedy, nearly an old fashioned French farce. To say it was a failure in the USA is one thing (it was) but internationally it didn't do too badly. As was mentioned earlier in the site, this film went fairly well in the UK, Italy and France. This could be seen that subtle humour is more appreciated outside of the USA than inside. Hitch's problem was that the humour in the film was not the in your face type that was typical of comedy films of this era whereas overseas movies like Kind Hearts and Coronets and The Ladykillers (the original) had that subtle, understated humour similar to TTWH. "},{"Title":"A picture about the trouble with people","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a wonderful film, and beautiful film to look at. It will be a film that should make people want to visit Vermont. I however can only give it 7 out of 10, even though I would like to give it more.The film has what I consider some flaws, which hurt its entertainment value. It starts out really well, however after John Forsythe meets with Shirley MacLaines character, the film somewhat slows down and can be at times tedious. I think that one of the problems with the film is that even at 99 minutes it is a little too long to keep the joke going. Some have suggested that the film was his precursor to his Alfred Hitchcock presents TV series, and I honestly think that it would have been better their. However, being that Color TV was not yet around, you can't beat the beautiful color of the film, and the Vista Vision images.The film is however interesting in many different ways. First, the film could not have been made some 10 to 20 years earlier. First the feeling by Edmund Gwen and John Forsythe characters animosity to the police, and also the sexual innuendo's in the film. Forsythe telling Maclanes character how he would like to paint her in the nude, as well as Gwen saying how he wants to cross Natwicks threshold. Another writer has also mentioned how their are other references to a sexual act with Natwick's character, and I do believe that Natwick and Gwen are the real stars of the film.The Natwick and Gwen characters have been repressed people. Natwick's character (she says she's 42, but Natwick was about 55 at the time of release of the film) appears to have never had a sexual experience before, and now with this Captain, played by Gwen, who we learn has distorted his past accomplishment, love might come to these two people. These two people who believe that they are responsible for Harry's death, actually have a life affirming event happen by the death of Harry. Even though Natwick does claim to Gwen that the only reason she has invited him over, is because of the convenience of Gwens presence at the time of Harry death. This explains why she behaves so strangely when she meets Gwen with Harry's body.However, I do not think that Hitchock and the writers of this story are so confident that this will be a life affirming even for Forsythe and MacClaines characters. First, in the end, One of the last lines in the film regarding her son by Forsythe, and then his correction makes you wonder if he will be this good father. Maclanes behavior when seeing Harry (her 'no good husband') dead, and right in front of her son, makes you wonder about her too. They also decide to involve their son in this charade. What kind of lesson is Jerry Mather's character going to get from them. Who knows, maybe he was really adopted by the Cleaver family (Leave it to Beaver) from what could be the dysfunctional family that both Forsthe and MacLaine formed.One could also look at Trouble With Harry as a agreement with High Noon. People who may not really want to do the right thing, for sexual reasons in this film, and distrust in the police, and fear of them. Fear of police being one of Hitchcocks themes. I couldn't imagine the Gary Cooper character in High Noon getting any help from the two male leads in this film. Also look at that doctor, first so preoccupied, stumbling over the dead body twice, and not being aware, and then confronted with the police, running away, perhaps in fear of his life if he were to divulge the truth, or not wanting to get involved, which is perhaps a comment about general society. People not wanting to get involved perhaps a comment about 1950's McCarthy era.This is a rich comedy, though a very dark one indeed. The door that swings open at times I think representing the characters consciousness,and that only Gwen seems to be bothered by it, does not bode well for the other characters, especially the younger one. The other characters of the store owner, and Deputy are also interesting as well. While I do feel this film is tedious at times, it is a very interesting film, and perhaps much deeper than people imagine. "},{"Title":"I'm grateful to you for burying my body.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Iv'e seen The Trouble with Harry described as everything from a masterpiece to Hitchcock's worst film. I think the reaction depends on how you go into the movie. If you're expecting a nail-biting suspense thriller like most of Hitchcock's other movies, you'll probably come away disappointed. But if you're more open to the idea of Hitchcock's little experiment in comedy, you just might discover a wonderfully entertaining film.The Trouble with Harry is that Harry's dead &#150; and some of the local townsfolk aren't sure if they're to blame for Harry's death or not. They quite naturally (or at least it seems so very natural in the movie) decide the best course of action is to bury Harry and go on as if nothing ever happened. However, no sooner do they have Harry six-feet under than one or another has a change of heart and out come the shovels and up comes Harry. But wait a minute &#150; they can't let Harry be found. Back into the hole for Harry! Bury &#150; Unbury &#150; Bury &#150; Unbury &#150; it goes on and on.If you've read any of the other comments I've written about movies, you'll soon discover that I'm a fan of what I call the One Word Review. For The Trouble with Harry, that word is delightful. Everything about the movie is delightful. The gorgeous fall Vermont foliage, the witty and well written script, the new-found relationships, Jerry Mathers as Arnie Rogers, Miss Gravely's blueberry muffins, Hitchcock's direction, the joke about the double bed, Bernard Hermann's absolutely perfect score, the body in the bathtub, and a very young Shirley MacLaine, John Forsythe, Mildred Natwick, and Edmund Gwenn &#150; everything is all so . . . well, delightful.Finally, one thing I want to specifically mention is the dialogue found in The Trouble with Harry. The more I think about certain lines, the funnier they seem to get. A few of my favorites include &#149; She's a well preserved woman&#133;yes, very well preserved, and preserves have to be opened someday! &#149; He looked exactly the same when he was alive, only he was vertical.&#149; Couldn't have had more people here if I'd sold tickets.&#149; I've never been to a home-made funeral before.I'm glad people that people don't really talk like the characters in The Trouble with Harry. If they did, I would never get anything done because I would be laughing too much. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Hitchcock","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Master of Suspense proves himself to be a pretty good craftsman of comedy in this entertaining yarn about the trouble caused by a corpse in a small New England community. There are terrific performances from Forsythe as an eccentric artist, Gwenn and Natwick as a couple of old-timers who strike up a romance on account of the corpse, and, in her film debut, MacLaine as the wife of the corpse. And Jerry Mathers as the Beaver-like son of MacLaine. Initially, as the characters are introduced, the comedy seems to be forced but it soon gets on a roll and offers plenty of laughs. The country setting is beautifully photographed and Herrmann, in his first collaboration with Hitchcock, provides a nice score. "},{"Title":"Enoyable comedy, though not hilarious","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Though many of Hitchcock's films have much marvelous humour in them, this would probably be his only out and out comedy.The Trouble With Harry is about a man who makes rather a nuisance of himself for a day in a small country town. The players (including débutant Shirley Maclaine) bring off the humour very well, especially considering the subject, which of course only Hitchcock could find so amusing.There is a lot of black comedy here, but the film is not dark, rather very light hearted. This would probably explain why the movie is not as effective today. The central theme is no longer taboo, and so the audience is not uncomfortable with this sort of comedy any more. Enjoyable, but not hilarious.Wednesday, July 21, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Feel-good movie","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I caught this on TV one day not knowing what it was called or who made it. The film hypnotized me with beautiful photo, unhurried pace and a charismatic main character - Sam Marlowe, played to perfection by John Forsythe.Then I picked up a paper and found out that it was made by Hitchcock. It surprised me because TTWH is lacking in suspense but rich in humor, romance and mystique. Good performances by everyone involved. The characters seem like real people who have their lives interrupted by a small inconvenience (the corpse).The film is completely original and I can't wait to see it again. "}{"Title":"Love & Death collide in an atypical comedy from the Master of Suspense","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Director Alfred Hitchcock, the Master of Suspense, dedicated almost his entire career to entertaining audiences with his masterful use of suspense in his many famous thrillers, horrors and mystery films; however, comedy was not strange to him, as his black humor was always present in most of his films, often used to break the tension and give some relief to the thrilled audience. While it's obvious that suspense was his true passion, his taste for comedy produced several atypical films that were grounded entirely in comedy territory. Of course, many of this comedies were done by him in his early days, while his style was still in development, however, the most famous of them, The Trouble With Harry, was done when he was at his peak, right after that long series of successes that were Dial M for Murder, Rear Window and To Catch a Thief.Capt. Albert Wiles (Edmund Gwenn) has a trouble with Harry, a man he just found dead while hunting, as he thinks he accidentally has killed the mysterious stranger. Trying to hide the body in order to avoid being put in jail, Wiles is caught by Miss Ivy Gravely (Mildred Natwick), making his difficulties just a bit bigger. However, his surprise will be enormous as he discovers that he is not the only one in town with a trouble with Harry, as almost everyone thinks that they had something to do with his death. Wiles ask help to his friend, artist Sam Marlowe (John Forsythe), but Sam seems to be more interested in the recently arrived Jennifer Rogers (Shirley MacLaine) than in helping the Capt. with Harry. But soon this will change as Sam discovers that Jennifer too, has a trouble with Harry.Based on a novel by Jack Trevor Story and written by John Michael Hayes (who collaborated with Hitchcock in his previous two films), the story was seen as a departure from the kind of films the Master was doing at the time, but The Trouble With Harry is a movie as Hitchcock as any other of the classics, as it presents together his two favorite themes probably at their purest form Love & Death. Brilliantly written by Hayes, this romantic black comedy of sorts is essentially a character driven tale of how two couples met each other thanks to the death of an unknown man, and the many troubles they have due to the same mysterious Harry. Unlike most of his thrillers, here there is not one main character, but four of them, making the film livelier and fast-packed, although never over the top, as if the energy of love was walking together with the calm of death.Just as the story feels quite atypical for Hitchcock at first sight, the movie too feels oddly different at first, almost as if it were the work of someone else. However, soon one discovers that the Hitchcock feeling is still there, as this charming black comedy seems like and self-parody, where Hitchcock jokes with his own style for suspense and even his own kind of plot devices. With a subtler style of film-making (almost feels as watching a play) and without any suspense gimmicks, Hitchcock lets his actors work and crafts a charming comedy where apparently nothing happens but at the same time, everything does. In short, the film does feel different, but the magic is still the same.Being essentially a character driven movie based mostly on the ensemble cast's actions, The Trouble With Harry owes a lot of its effectiveness to the very selective cast that Hitchcock formed for the film. Leading the cast are Edmund Gwenn and John Forsythe, and both deliver an amazing performance, so believable that it feels as if the two men were really two good old friends. Their counterparts, Mildred Natwick and Shirley MacLaine, give also an equally good job, specially Natwick, who steals every scene she appears, proving her enormous talent on screen and showing her experience. While it was MacLaine's first movie, she comes up very natural and without problem gets the job done despite being a newbie among a cast of reputed and respected actors.As its poor box-office success proved, the main problem of The Trouble With Harry is the fact that it's so atypical that one expecting a typical suspense Hitchcock film will definitely end up quite disappointed. However, this mostly a problem of the way one approaches to the film, than a problem of the movie itself, as The Toruble With Harry, along with Vertigo, is probably one of the most personal films the Master did, as the mix of a macabre tale with a huge dose of Black Comedy was what Hitchcock liked more than anything (this mix would become the basis for his TV series). The Trouble With Harry may not be a masterpiece in the way that other Hitchcock films are, this is not a life changing movie or an influential work, it's more a personal venture where Hitchcock decided he just wanted to have fun making something he loved. This charming little comedy may not be everyone's cup of tea, but those with a taste for the macabre, will certainly end up with a smile on the face. Just like the Master wanted. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A good change of pace for Hitchcock","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Normally, you would expect the same from Hitchcock when you just look at the cover for The Trouble with Harry. It would be another typical mystery/thriller that would either be good or another bore like I have experienced with two films of his. Actually, The Trouble with Harry turned out to be a dark comedy that worked very well.It just is basically about a group of strangers who become friends through a corpse they find in the woods, and they all think they have something to do with his murder. One of the friends is a wife who hit him over the head with a bottle, another is an old woman who claims he attacked her and she hit him over the head with her shoe to get him off, and another is an old man who was hunting and thinks he might have accidentally shot him. One man is just trying to help them all and ends up falling for Harry's wife/widow.It's a fun movie that you get some strange laughs from. There are still a few questions left unanswered, but over all, still a great movie I would recommend for a Hitchcock fan.8/10 "},{"Title":"Delighfully absurd","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This one goes down on my list as pretty much one of the most entertaining of Hitchcock's oeuvre. Hitchcock places a dead body in a very small town (not even a town, more like a grouping of houses with a general store) and let's the characters there come together and discover more about themselves, each other, and just how useless the life of a stranger can be to them when the death provides so much more excitement.It's quirky, a quite black, a bit dry, and a lot of fun. This is Hitchcock's British-style absurdist humor distinctly rising to make it's own mark upon his collected works. The best part is that it bleeds into almost all forms of the film-making, including the imagery, like the kid shot between Harry's legs. I don't understand why, but that shot always provides chuckles.Anyway, it would have been really great overall if Hitchcock had refrained from trying to find ways of sticking some of his (frankly repetitive) ideas in there, like when the old man talks about the great passion of feeling loved while stamping down heavily on Harry's fresh grave. Yes yes, we know, you want to connect sex and death, yet again, Hitch. We got it the last hundred times you've done it. Lighten up.Otherwise, it's a jolly good time.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A dark comedy about a man who is better off dead. Quite twisted, but just as hilarious.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  One of Hitchcock's best, and most unappreciated works.  It works on many levels, and the more you watch it the more you'll be rewarded by his dark wit.  Not a film for everyone, especially those who don't like to laugh at misfortune, but for the rest of us its quite an enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Habeas Corpus, But Missing Purpose","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is what might have happened if Samuel Beckett wrote an episode of Green Acres.Amid the autumnal splendor of Vermont, a group of people individually come across a man's body lying in a field, two-toned shoes pointing to the sky. Each has reason to think they might have some responsibility for his apparent murder. They don't feel any sense of tragedy, or pang of conscience, mind. They just don't want to be bothered particularly with the apparent fatal consequences of what they might have done. Easy come, easy go, they say amid the majestic maples and rustic lanes. Thus existentialism meets Currier & Ives.John Forsythe plays an abstract artist with an abstract sense of humor. He blithely falls in love with the dead man's wife, (Shirley MacLaine in her screen debut, looking like a cross between Renee Zellweger and Molly Ringwald), who couldn't be happier about the man being dead (she worked herself up to a certain enthusiasm on their wedding night, and he failed to deliver.) The two people fall in love with all the passion of a corporate merger. Instead of I do, it's more like Whatever with these kids. MacLaine and Forsythe look remarkably young and raw, and they are saddled with unlikable characters. He's too whimsical and breezy, she scrunches her face too much and doesn't offer anything to like except when she's with her son (Jerry Mathers not as The Beaver). The rest of the time she comes off like some high schooler sunning herself by the pool while Daddy floats lifeless a few feet away. It's hard getting over how coldly she treats the death of her sad husband.Edmund Gwynn, a screen veteran with a nice turn in Hitchcock's Foreign Correspondent, seems to be smuggling steel-belted radials in his pants and exudes all the merry presence of a deviant Santa Claus as he asks Forsythe's Sam Marlowe to help him bury the body. His many conversations with himself are the most obvious of many things in this movie that scream scripted convenience. Mildred Natwick, with the beautiful eyes and big nose, is the only charmer in this bunch, but she is saddled with the dumbest motive for helping give Harry an unceremonious heave-ho.The Trouble With Harry is presented as a charmer, but it's not very charming. It's not a good caper flick, and the jokes are often bland. Sometimes it works, like when Gwenn's Capt. Wiles is invited to have tea and highbush blueberry muffins with Natwick's Miss Gravely and finds out her father passed away.I trust he died peacefully. Slipped away in the night?He was caught in a threshing machine.If you're going to make a brutal comedy, it needs to be funny like that a good deal more often. Instead, there's some protracted business about digging up and reburying poor Harry, some teasing of a suspicious deputy sheriff, and no hint any of this really means a thing to anyone. Hitchcock was having fun, but he forgot to bring his audience along for the ride.Even the great things about the movie, the music and cinematography (this is perhaps Hitchcock's most beautiful film along with Vertigo and To Catch A Thief) kind of seem out-of-place, too charming and smooth background for the nasty people inhabiting this picture. The Trouble With Harry may be Hitchcock's merry nod at the inevitability of death, but it works best at showing how even the Master himself could be mortal. "},{"Title":"A bit of a failure...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is quite possibly Hitchcock's oddest film, as well as being one of his least successful projects. The Trouble with Harry is an interesting endeavour that never really works; the movie is occasionally somewhat amusing, but too often tedious and it has a pretty stuffy feel to it. On the other hand, the cinematography is extremely striking - beautiful colours of autumn have rarely been captured as gorgeously. "},{"Title":"Still a crashing bore after all these years","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I have to chuckle when I read some of the over-the-top raves this film has gotten from supposedly American viewers.The Trouble With Harry will only work for you if you're a fan ofA) British drawing room humor B) French slapstick/farce C) Hitchcock's --- and a rabid one --- who vehemently believes he never failed at anythingThis is one of the rare instances when the studio idiots were actually right when they told Hitchcock not to embark on this project. It's a British movie made from a British novel with a distinctly European sensibility that posits that the back and forth burying and unearthing of a corpse for nearly 100 minutes is just the most hilarious thing ever. Because he's dead, you know? And since death is such a grim concept that everyone --- everyone, right? --- feels uncomfortable with, you just *HAVE* to laugh at it --- cause it's so freaking hysterical. Did you get that? Did you?OK, I know I'm being obnoxious here, but that's about how subtle this film is, and unfortunately unless you have the sensibilities described above (most of which I believe are akin to coming from a specific geographical area), you're in for a very tedious viewing session.I could say the same thing about Richard Linklater's Slacker, which is one of my favorite films of all time, and which I consider to be quite brilliant. Notice that both films have virtually no plot and rely on very specific culturally-inundated humor --- but Linklater's humor is self-referential and Hitchcock's is not. And that --- I think --- is why most people don't get Harry. To most Americans who equate humor with Woody Allen and Seinfeld (not Jerry Lewis and Benny Hill), the Trouble With Harry is he's...boring. "},{"Title":"The trouble with The Trouble with Harry","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A black comedy from Alfred Hitchcock, fantastic! Well not quite, actually not at all. Hitchcock films are often funny but it appears that when Hitchcock set out to make a comedy it didn't quite work. The death and subsequent burials and exhumations of the titular Harry by a couple of hapless villagers is ripe for comedy but the whole thing feels incredibly forced and bewilderingly unfunny. The cast don't really seem to be able to carry off the silly tone of the film either. Some critics see this film as Hitchcock poking fun at himself and he is quoted as saying it was a favourite of his output. Perhaps its this self indulgence that stopped me from enjoying it. "},{"Title":"Slow but brilliant movie!","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie yesterday and I must admit that it was a nice surprise. There was no action in it (I mean typical Hitchcock action of course), my first impression was that this film was extremely boring but I could not stop watching it and I don't regret it. There was really something strange about it. I don't know how to express it. You have to watch this movie yourself and maybe you will understand what I mean! There was a specific mystery in The Trouble with Harry beyond my comprehension. I would say that acting in it was fantastic. All the scenes were fabulous. So summing it up I would say that although this movie was so slow there was a strong indication that it was created by a genius. And Alfred Hitchcock was such a genius! "},{"Title":"The Trouble With Harry is That Nobody Will Leave Him Alone.","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble With Harry (1955) Dir Alfred Hitchcock / Cast John Forsythe, Shirley MacLaine, Edmund Gwenn, Mildred Natwick, Royal Dano The trouble with Harry is established early. He is dead and everyone who comes in contact with the body in the meadow believes that they are the prime suspect. Edmund Gwenn plays Captain Albert Wiles who comes across the body and believes he accidentally shot him while hunting. John Forsythe plays Sam Marlowe, an artist who assists Wiles in the several times they buried the body. Sam is romancing Jennifer Rogers, played by Shirley MacLaine whose husband is Harry and she seems disinterested in his death because she believes that she is responsible. Mildred Natwick plays Ivey Gravely who believes that she caused his death when she was attacked by him and she hit him over the head with her hiking boot. Royal Dano plays the Deputy Sheriff who shows up periodically while everyone is moving Harry about just out of sight. Director Alfred Hitchcock has fun with the humour and mystery surrounding Harry's death but the third act seems in very poor taste particularly when a cop pays a house visit when Harry's body is in a bathtub. The characters have likable qualities as played by an engaging cast but can anyone be this unlikable after death? The trouble with Harry is that he is never alive on camera for his version of the story to be told. Score 7 / 10 "}{"Title":"Has a brilliantly macabre sense of humor, but is still less than the sum of its parts","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY is probably the most atypical Hitchcock film I've seen so far. While it does have a brilliantly macabre sense of humor, the overall story is less than the sum of its parts. The basic story is that Harry is found dead in the woods, and a small group of people have trouble deciding what to do with his body. What the film does well is mining humor from the various situations arising from finding a dead body. Given that the subject matter is kind of grotesque, this results in more chuckles than outright guffaws. Fortunately, I thought the characters were also interesting, if a little underwritten. Shirley MacLaine did well in her first big screen role, and Edmund Gwynn (Kris Kringle in MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET) was also rather entertaining to watch. I also thought that the tonal shifts, while a little odd at first, gave the film a quirky air that I grew to like. An example of how this plays out is in conversations that originally revolve around Harry, but then rather cavalierly shift to other, more banal, romantic comedy territory. If James Stewart and Grace Kelly coming together over a potential murder in REAR WINDOW was weird, two couples doing the same thing over a dead body for essentially the entire film here was downright odd. Ultimately, though, where the narrative ends up isn't as interesting as the journey taken to get there, and is a little underwhelming as a result. This isn't one of Hitchcock's greatest films, but it did provide a refreshing change of pace. "},{"Title":"Digging up the dirt","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitch turns his hand in making a stylish black comedy with mixed results. The Trouble with Harry becomes laborious as Harry is buried, dug up, reburied and dug up again. On and on it goes and you kind of lose the plot and the joke.The film is bright, colourful with some stylish shots and wonderful music by Bernard Herrman. The film is set in a small Vermont town whose residents interact with the dead body on a hillside and have no idea who he is. Some of them think they may be responsible for killing him and hence try to get rid of his body.John Forsythe as a free willed artist gives a larger than life performance a world away from Blake Carrington. Shirley Maclaine makes her film debut and Welsh émigré Edmund Gwenn sounds so much like Anthony Hopkins I wondered if Hopkins actually re-dubbed his voice.This kind of feels like an experimental film by Hitchcock, away from his genre of suspense. It was one of the slew of films that were re- released several years after his death. "},{"Title":"The Unexpected From Hitchcock","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Taking a break from his back-to-back delivery of nail-bitingly tense thrillers, Alfred Hitchcock's The Trouble with Harry presents the master director experimenting with his storytelling ability in a new genre and although most of his films do have little elements of humour in it, this film qualifies as one of the few true comedies of his career.Set in a small town in Vermont, The Trouble with Harry concerns the town's residents & their actions when they discover the freshly dead body of Harry on the hillside and are clueless about what to do with it. A darkly comic outing from Hitchcock, the film features some hilarious situations surrounding a dead body & also works as a light-hearted but effective mystery.Skilfully directed, nicely scripted, decently performed, gorgeously photographed, cleverly edited & splendidly scored, The Trouble with Harry marks the beginning of Hitchcock's collaboration with composer Bernard Herrmann and confirms Hitchcock's greatness as a storyteller no matter what genre you bring him into.And even though The Unexpected from Hitchcock tends to not sit very well with the most devoted fans of the director, it did click for me as I found it to be an entertaining, enjoyable & delightful cinematic experience. If you still haven't seen it then don't wait anymore & simply go for it. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A really good film but badly promoted at the time","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" While Alfred Hitchcock is my favourite director, I am not going to say that he hasn't made a disappointing film(and actually I haven't come across that many Hitch fans that have said that). But even his disappointments I find are not that terrible, certainly in comparison to the worst of other directors' resumes. The Trouble with Harry for me may fall short of being one of his top 10 films(Psycho, Vertigo, Rear Window, Rebecca, Notorious, The Lady Vanishes, Strangers on a Train, Shadow of a Doubt, North By Northwest and The Birds) and it is one that seems to divide audiences, but it is nowhere near among his weakest like Jamaica Inn, Topaz, Under Capricorn and The Paradine Case. The Trouble with Harry does come across as pedestrian pace-wise sometimes, but even if people don't like it(and that is absolutely fine) I do find it difficult to believe personally that they'd give it a score that indicates that it has no redeeming values, then again that may be just me.Dissenting opinions, saying that the film is not funny and that it has no plot, and that it was a flop at the box office might indicate for some that The Trouble with Harry is not a great film. I think a large part of why was how it was promoted/marketed. Anybody thinking it would be a murder mystery and that it would have suspense like Hitchcock's master of suspense nickname suggests will be disappointed, and I don't think it helped that Paramount clearly didn't know how to promote it. The Trouble with Harry is an acquired taste and I wouldn't go as far to say it's perfect, but to me it is an example of a film that succeeds at being different. Besides, how a film did at the box office or how much money has made has never been an overriding factor in how I judge films anyway, it isn't a fair criticism and there are many examples of films that made lots of money but actually aren't that good.The Trouble with Harry is really well-made for a start. The cinematography is wholly professional and sometimes has a dream-like look to it. The scenery is a genuine beauty, and I'd go as far to say that The Trouble with Harry is one of Hitch's most visually pleasing films. Hitchcock splendidly directs, the opening sequence was a truly great touch and set the scene of the film really well, sure it is different to what he is known for, but there is the odd suspenseful moment. And there are those suspenseful moments you can tell that it is Hitch directing, which is more than I can say for something like Jamaica Inn or Under Capricorn where I was struggling to tell where it was Hitchcock directing or not. Bernard Hermann would do even better later with Psycho and especially Vertigo but the music score for The Trouble with Harry is still an atmospheric one that does a fine job fitting with the film.I'll also say that I am one of those who did find The Trouble with Harry very funny, often hilarious. Black humour works wonders when done right, and the black humour I found was done right here. It is very wry and deliciously ironic, also with some of the one-liners with Edmund Gwenn and Mildred Natwick quite ahead-of-its-time. Some will find the story plot-less with not much of a point, compared to other Hitchcock films that is true as there are more tautly written stories. However the story here while somewhat odd is clever and I did love how dramatically understated it was. The characters are disparate and will not come across as very likable to people, but like with the subtle storytelling and understated drama to keep them like that- and to have them spending the time thinking who did it? and did I do it?- was a deliberate choice and one that came off very nicely. The most endearing character is Miss Graveley, closely followed by Arnie.From an acting point of view, The Trouble with Harry is as excellent as the humour. Dwight Marfield is a little wooden, but it is not enough to harm anything and doesn't stick out too much like a sore thumb to everybody else. It is better to judge John Forsythe on his own, rather than comparing him to the likes of Cary Grant and James Stewart. His performance won't be up there with one of the greatest in a Hitchcock film, but his ruggedly handsome looks, subtle comic delivery and quiet intelligence makes it an above decent one. Shirley MacLaine was in her film debut, and it is a very charming and sweet(but not overly-so) debut indeed, again like Forsythe she works better being judged in her own way as well. Their chemistry is convincing enough, but that between Gwenn and Natwick was stronger. Mildreds Natwick and Dunnock are very easy to like and seem to be thoroughly enjoying themselves, while Jerry Mathers is similarly likable(and cute). I found Edmund Gwenn to be the one who dominated though and in a good way, he has brilliant comic timing and is very commanding and cool, it really helps that he has the best lines along with Natwick(their chemistry was adorable).Overall, really good, even great, film that shouldn't be dismissed so quickly. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Surely an inspiration for Twin Peaks...","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" What is most notable about The Trouble with Harry is that it is a very early example of an American black comedy. At the time, black humour was mainly the reserve of the British, most notably films from Ealing studio, such as Kind Hearts and Coronets. Laughing at murder was not something American audiences really understood or appreciated at this time, so it would be fair to say that this movie only ever got the go-ahead due to the considerable clout its director Alfred Hitchcock had at the time. As it was, it is one of the few out-and-out comedies that he ever made. He almost always included humorous moments and comic characters in his more typical thrillers but with this one, they took centre stage and the thriller part of the plot was marginalised to the point of irrelevance. Perhaps unsurprisingly, it was not a big hit in the United States but it did do well in Europe and it did subsequently turn a profit.It is an unusual film. The humour is really very silly. The characters never behave believably at any point. It's about the discovery of a dead body in the countryside; several characters think that they must have been responsible his death. In some ways it felt like a proto version of the TV series Twin Peaks. Not only is the story propelled by the discovery of a dead body but both share the quirky small-town characters and absurd humour. They also share a remote idyllic setting for their murder mystery, in this case New England. The leafy golden woodlands certainly make for a pleasant landscape. John Forsythe plays the central character, a bohemian artist. Better was Shirley McLaine in her first starring role, as the wife of the dead Harry. She gives an effortlessly sweet and likable performance. Hitchcock soundtrack regular Bernard Herrmann chips in with a playful reworking of a typical Hitchcock thriller score; the music really fits the picture.The Trouble with Harry isn't really laugh-out-loud funny to be perfectly honest. But it is one of the strangest films that Hitchcock ever made. It shows again that he was always willing to experiment with off-beat ideas. It must have been quite a puzzling film at the time of its release. "},{"Title":"Death is so commonplace that nobody really cares!!","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble with Harry is a charming little motion picture, with great actors, a witty script and as always with Hitchcock stellar motifs and camera angles . In this movie, Hitchcock ventures into uncharted waters as he blends his macabre themes with elements of mawkish comedy. Well what is the Trouble with Harry? Well, Harry is dead, and the fact of the matter is nobody in the small hamlet could care less. In fact, the endearing townsfolk, including a local painter, a hunter, Harry's wife and an elderly lady, dismiss Harry contemptuously and act aloofly in their initial encounter with his corpse, somewhat adopting the aphorisms Life goes on and ignorance is bliss . Instead, in what is a fine day in their small village, they bond. The wife and the painter, bond romantically, as do the elderly lady and the hunter. For the most part, the characters speculate which one of them killed Harry, until the closing scene reveals that Harry died of natural causes.They attempt to hide the body from the local deputy who is all too eager to abide by the convention of law. With moments of comedy, including the characters constantly exhuming the corpse, this film fails on very few fronts . However, maybe it could have been a bit longer and perhaps we could have more characters, but overall the film was a rousing success. "},{"Title":"Comedy-  Alfred Hitchcock style","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A body is found from a small village in Vermont.The corpse is called Harry Worp, and more than one people think they have killed the poor man.So they decide to bury him.But Harry has trouble staying buried.The Trouble with Harry (1955) is a black comedy by Alfred Hitchcock.It's based on a 1950 novel by Jack Trevor Story.The actors are just right for their parts.Edmund Gwenn is brilliant as Capt. Albert Wiles.John Forsythe is terrific as Sam Marlowe.Mildred Natwick is superb as Miss Ivy Gravely.Royal Dano is great as Deputy Sheriff Calvin Wiggs.Shirley MacLaine gives her movie debut as Jennifer Rogers.And she is amazing.Jerry Mathers is just adorable as her son Arnie.Philip Truex is the dead body, Harry.The director does his usual cameo this time as Man Walking Past Sam's Outdoor Exhibition.The score, done by Bernard Herrman, really serves the story.This doesn't quite reach the level of the brightest classics by Alfred Hitchcock, but the mark of the master can be seen there.Hitch was very brave to make a comedy about a corpse.Some uptight people were asking from themselves Am I supposed to laugh at this? Well I think you can make humor pretty much of anything, if you do it with class.And that's exactly what Hitch did.It's quite funny to watch all the trouble with Harry. "},{"Title":"I did not know Hitchcock could be so comical","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Bury and exume. Bury and exume. This also could be a summary of this 1955 Hitchcock film which was an intertwining of comedy and mystery. Who would have ever thought that the master of suspense, who had previously produced such thrillers as Spellbound and later produced such suspenseful movies as Vertigo and Psycho could have ever produced something as comical as this mystery? It was amusing to see Harry's body buried, then, again, exumed, simply because each one of three main people there in this Vermont village sincerely thought he or she had killed Harry; two of these people felt they had justifiable reason for terminating Harry's life. While it was laughable in many places, thesuspense factor remained permanently. The setting was an anomaly it was not the large New York, or Chicago, or San Francisco, but simply a very small, pleasant, New England village. And yes, Hitchcock did prove he could be a man with a sense of humor without omitting any mystery whatsoever. "},{"Title":"A Playful Hitch....","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitch's use of the beautiful, autumnal New England settings are a smokescreen. In England, we'd have a chocolate-box picture postcard scene of thatched cottages with roses around the door instead.It's this contrast with a murder and on the face of it, rather sweet and simple folks in the village. But, take away that sweet wrapper and something rather more unpleasant and sinister is revealed. As the layers are further removed more revelations see the light of day. It's also the opposite to the normal murder, instead here we have a body that everybody wants to own up for.But this is censor-controlled America in the mid '50s and whilst brutal murders with buckets of blood and stories of great depravity are the norm these days, the stories here are much more simple and ordinary. Hitch would never do a farcical comedy, he is far too measured for such frivolities but there is no doubt that he had a playful and dark humour that he had to rein in in order to command respect as a director. Here, he is making his own picture, probably away from prying executive producers that would want to fashion it into something saleable.As it was, 'The Trouble with Harry' wasn't and was a flop. He was then, of course about to indulge us with his spree of classics, as if a lesson learned. Self indulgence seldom works, whatever the director, however famous the name.But, it gave us Shirley MacLaine, who is a breath of Vermont air, in her debut feature. The dialogue is often non-sensical and one either sits there in disbelief or accepts it as being just part of the strange humour. The blossoming of two romances could be seen as something good growing from a something bad.It is understandable that Trouble With... divides opinion. Those that expect Hitchcock, the master suspenser and find instead something quite the opposite and those that take a film at face value and watch it for what it is and how it is presented. Those in the latter category are far more likely to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The trouble is not with Harry, but with the film's lack of popularity ...","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Making Top Tens of favorite directors' films is sometimes pointless considering that most directors made no more than ten good films in their whole career. Some of them escape though from this rule, John Ford, Woody Allen, Akira Kurosawa and of course, Alfred Hitchcock. So, if I say that The Trouble With Harry happens to be in my Top 10 Hitchcock's films, this statement has some validity. The Trouble With Harry is a landmark in Hitchock's filmography as it marks the first collaboration with Bernard Herrman, and since it was followed by many classic scores that would enrich our musical memories, the Hitch must have been satisfied with Herrmann's score and if only for that achievement, Harry deserves more credit. And after having watched the film two times in a row (which makes three at the end) I can't get this playful music out of my mind, it had an irresistible charm and a quality that perfectly conveys the mix of mystery and comedy, starting with a little boy who finds a man's body in a forest after hearing three gunshots. The feet are shot in depth to make them as big as the kid, and will be the defining image of Harry's body, of the film naturally. But it's only when the man with the rifle, Edmund Gwynne as the good-hearted veteran Captain Wile, thinks he killed the man that the titular trouble can finally begin.Despite the relatively good mood of the film, it's still revolutionary in the way it tackles death without the reverence and solemnity American cinema felt owing it. It's funny and quite disturbing in the same way, how people seem rather careless about this body lying in the forest. It does however sets the cynical tone of the film where a group of four peculiar individuals will coordinate their efforts to hide a death, as each one feel either responsible or an interest to do it. Guilt and interest are not the highlights of human personality, and here they are displayed through characters that are made absolutely likable thanks to a strike of genius in terms of casting, although John Forsythe as Sam Marlowe, the leading dominant male figure has somewhat that rose above the gentleness of the other characters. I wouldn't have minded seeing him playing a Hitchcockian villain. And totally off-topic, I wonder if I'm the only one who found a strange resemblance to Humphrey Bogart in that film. Never mind, let's get back to the casting.The film is carried by two key performances, Edmund Gunne is the perfect straight man of this whole comedy, and with the right amount of fear and goofiness that makes his character irresistible. The scene where he passes by the policeman Calvin Wiggs, hiding his shotgun and pretending to have a limp is perfect, with the right comical tune from Bernard Herrman. The second performance is Shirley MacLaine as the ill-fated widow of Harry Worp, but strangely pleased that the man is dead. Mac Laine in her first role has a breath-taking beauty and embodies an extraordinary mix of sweetness, innocence and predisposition to naughtiness. So when Marlowe starts his discussion by praising her beauty and asking her if he can paint her body (naked, of course), his boldness is shocking and we wonder how Hitchock got away with such a frank language in the middle of the 50's, then we see Shirley MacLaine's face and something magical happens we forget about it.The other characters play their part perfectly and succeed to make us root for them and wish they can succeed, Mrs. Gravely is perfect as the typical old maid and even Calvin Wiggs, played by Royal Dano has a unique charisma as the only incarnation of Justice in the film. So, if anyone complains about anything lacking , it certainly is not the casting, nor the editing, certainly not the script, and not the scoring. Besides, the cinematography of the film, shot in Vermont during a beautiful fall, is magnificent and changes us for the usual manors or urban settings. Not only is The Trouble with Harry in colors, but the mix of yellow, orange and green illustrate the endearing aspect of the characters as simple and down-to-earth inhabitants of a peaceful little town. The Trouble with Harry plunges in an atmosphere so relaxing that the presence of a villain would have ruined it, and it's ironic that the only real antagonist of the story is the very person who's dead. Poor Harry &#x85; only Hitchcock could have made us angry toward a dead man.Unfortunately, for all this lack of killing-suspense-villain, the film wasn't well received in the United States where people seated in movie theaters expecting the typical Hitchcockian experience. I can understand that The Trouble with Harry whose fate was to be 'sandwiched' between two thrilling classics from the Master Rear Window and The Man Who Knew Too Much would suffer from an undeniable comparison. But that's where you recognize the mark of the great directors, in their ability to transcend their usual image and to detach themselves from their very archetypes; Hitchcock can innovate in style and make a relaxing film about a dead man. The treatment of death was better received by a more intellectual European audience, especially in Britain and France, where the title was interestingly translated to But Who's Killed Harry?.This title highlights the mysterious aspect of the film as we don't really know who or what is responsible of Harry's death, and it makes the whole situation where innocent people tries to cover their guilt even more ironic, and in a very delightful way. Maybe it's not the best of Hitchcock but again, it's still better than the best of many directors, and when it comes to black comedy, I have no hesitation to say that the script is a real masterpiece, from the first lines to the ending credits. This review is over. "}{"Title":"The funniest dead body of all time","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This was the first flat-out comedy film Hitchcock had made since Mr. and Mrs. Smith, but the macabre use of a corpse fit in a little more with our perception of Hitch than the earlier movie did. It's a very silly comedy, and if you like silly comedy and don't mind a bit of dark humor then you really should watch this one. The characters are New-England-quirky, the story is brisk and the gorgeous fall colors make this easily the prettiest movie Hitchcock every directed.The movie apparently didn't do that well in the U.S. when it came out, perhaps because of the lack of suspense, but it's wonderfully funny and a general delight that I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"A subtle comedy that holds up very well","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a subtle comedy from Alfred Hitchcock, made in 1954 but remarkably undated. John Forsythe and Edmund Gwynne are listed as the stars, and the movie introduces Shirley MacLaine in her first film role at the tender age of twenty.Forsythe plays Sam Marlowe, an artist in a New England village too small even to be quaint, and MacLaine plays the recently widowed Jennifer Rogers. The trouble is that Harry is dead, and we can't seem to get a handle on how he died. We do seem to have a handle on Harry though, as he's buried and dug up again four times.The movie holds up very well today, although the prices are outrageously low and Jennifer is entirely casual about letting her son go out and play, handle dead rabbits, and walk around dead bodies. (Some may remember that back in the Fifties children were encouraged to go outside and play, as it was considered healthy.) The humor is dry and deadpan, and the movie is not played for laughs, but the laughs are there. You'll get a lot of laughs from the corpse; I'd never have thought a body could be so funny just lying there. (Harry was played by Philip Truex, in what appears to have been his last movie role.) Everyone in the movie clicks with his or her role, no one rings untrue, and Hitchcock toys with us with a door that won't stay shut. We all think of his mysteries, but Hitchcock was an excellent all around director - even with comedies.If you've never seen Shirley MacLaine in her 1950s movies when she was twenty-something, you'll find that she was an attractive, engaging woman. If you like her in this, I'd suggest renting My Geisha with Yves Montand and Robert Cummings. She's in her 30s in My Geisha, and she's hit her stride. Nobody kisses on screen as well as MacLaine did, and she really was an excellent actress. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock and Dark Comedy... a Good Mix","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Harry is a man, and the trouble is that he is dead. Well, not so much that he is dead, but what should they do with him, and who or what caused him to die? Many of the locals have a motive, and no one really seems too terribly upset that he has died... so, now what? Alfred Hitchcock and a comedy. Sure, it's a dark comedy... and yes, there's a dead body at the center of it. But it's a comedy just the same. Not laugh out loud funny, but amusing in its diabolical subtle, nasty nature. Everyone seems to be pretty laid back, and that's the humor... such a serious situation and no one cares. Oh my, it seems you are dragging a body... can I help? I love Hitchcock best when he's dealing with murder mystery rather than espionage. This is a murder mystery, although a light-hearted one. I get to play along with the whodunit... though there's no reason to really want anyone guilty -- no one is the bad guy! I love it. "},{"Title":"A Distinctly British Sense of Humor Imported by a Master to Satirize American Values","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock was the Master of Suspense, but he contributed to the genre and films involving some of its particular attributes in many different ways. He was not merely a great stylist but also an ingenious storyteller; his style has been what for which he's been more remembered over time. The Trouble With Harry, his 46th film, is one of his rare comedies, and we see a side of him that could have blossomed with as much fertility as his darker approach. If I were to compare it to anything, it's like a Coen brothers film in spirit despite its O. Henry ending.The residents of a small village in Vermont are faced with the freshly dead body of a man, which has inconveniently appeared on the hillside above the town. The problem of what to do with the body, and more importantly how and why he was killed, is the eponymous issue. While this turning point develops, we are beating ourselves with the question, Who the hell is Harry? Nonetheless, such exposition waits patiently through the very pleasant and otherwise completely benign characters' hilarious nonchalance regarding the corpse and the hiding of it. The way the exchanges are inflected is never overdone. Better be running along now. You don't want to be an accessory after the fact. You are a considerate man.There is never a dark moment in this film. It is blessed with a great autumn Vermont locale which makes rich use of its color. Indeed, this is the beginning of Hitchcock's highly regarded collaboration with composer Bernard Herrmann, who went on to compose some of the master's most iconically tense scores. Here, Hitchcock makes cartoonishly detached use of Herrmann's music. Still, The Trouble With Harry holds its own with the significance of other Hitchcock movies, because, rather symbolically, he taps into our interest in digging up the truth versus complacent surface planted over truth.The director made many classic American films, but he was an Englishman through and through, and this film, which appears so lushly all-American, is driven by a distinctly British sense of humor, imported to satirize American values. It is mostly in the less-is-more timing of certain lines, even when the script is implicitly philosophizing on the possible destiny, justice, right or wrong of accidentally killing the title character. The wryness of it all begins immediately with a nice lesson on the possible effects of hunting, on the human casualties of human errors. The film was considered fairly racy for its time, as there is a hilarious 1950s tip-toeing sexual innuendo Cross her threshold, preserves must be opened someday. There is a conversation with then-newbie Shirley MacLaine, whose earthiness fits like a glove here, concerning her nightie.Yet in spite of their seeming insensitivity, it is fascinating how such a small, extremely insular community can extemporize their own values. The value of life can hardly be considered one of them. From the little boy carrying around his dead rabbit to tea time with the quaint lady discussing how to dispose of Harry efficiently. Yet all good-natured people! At one point, there is a dispute over who's more grateful in general.There's the diplomatic and urbane Edmund Gwenn, who is certain that he must have killed the man with a stray shot from his rifle when rabbit hunting. But then maybe not, or perhaps. Studious John Forsythe plays an adventurous and energetic painter, quite unbiased toward the whole deal, willing to help his easygoing friends and neighbors however he can. I don't know why there just happen to be two Mildreds in the cast, both with two-syllable last names ending with ck, one of them playing a name that rhymes with itself; it must be a simple coincidence. At any rate, eloquent and versatile Mildred Natwick's Miss Ivy Gravely feels that Harry died subsequent to a blow from her hiking boot, not like such a claim inspires curiosity as to how that would've occurred.Hitchcock himself said, Everything's perverted in a different way. I think he held to his conviction when making this joyously sociopathic satire about the absurdity of the notion of utopia. "},{"Title":"A treasure","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a great film. It is absolutely hilarious. The comedy is witty and understated, and all the better for it. I'm very sorry there are some people who just don't get it, but for those who do, it's an absolute treat.I simply had to chime in after reading a review here which, frankly, offended me. The gist was that praise heaped upon the movie is only from people who are fanatic Hitchcock fans who must insist that everything he did was brilliant and will brook no dissent. I find that quite insulting. Yes, I love Hitchcock. Psycho is brilliant, Vertigo is a masterpiece, and North by Northwest is my all-time favorite film. But at the same time, I'm not some mindless, uncritical boob, and there are plenty of Hitchcock films that did little for me (or worse), and what's more, some of those are big-name, popular films. I didn't care for The Birds. Shadow of a Doubt didn't do much for me, despite being Hitchcock's own favorite. Rear Window is supposed to be a classic, but I found it flawed. So don't be telling me that I'm some kind of mindless lemming, unable to judge for myself. The Trouble With Harry is a delight of a film, thoroughly enjoyable. Not his most profound, to be sure, but a complete success in terms of what he set out to accomplish.And that is not some knee-jerk reaction, it is an informed opinion. "},{"Title":"not a thriller-coaster but still a fun ride","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock is often described as a master of suspense, for creating twists and turns in a story that keep you guessing until the end credits. The twists and turns are there aplenty in THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY but not with Hitch's usual style of a serious mystery injected with a little humor. HARRY is a madcap romp with a dash of mystery thrown in for added flavor. You know early on that there's a dead body. You even quickly learn his name. What you don't know is quite how he died. Hitchcock serves up plenty of possible explanations but very soon the real suspense in the story is in wondering how many more reasons can be devised for burying poor Harry and digging him up yet again. Each time you think the story is slowing down to a conclusion something happens to send it careening off again in a new direction. The cast is small but choice; for those of us who are a little older there is a host of familiar faces delivering almost stereotypical characters (the impractical artist, the lonely spinster, the bungling retiree, the young mother hiding out from her past) yet each does so with a skill that makes them fresh and fun. Be prepared for a wild ride that's more like the spinning teacups than a roller-coaster. It will spin you around till you're dizzy but you'll exit laughing giddily. "},{"Title":"Getting rid of a dead body isn't easy","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The trouble with Harry is a Dark Comedy/suspense movie by Hitchcock.The story is about Harry who got shot in the middle of the woods.His friends and neighbors slowly find out what became of him, and not sure what to do without knowing what caused his death.They don't want the police to know too much because either one of them can be committed for murder.So they try hiding the body and even burring the body.It's all tiring and a bit confusing for just one corpse.This movie has some moments to it. It's not really meant to be serious or anything like that. It's more of a dark humor story than a thriller movie. It's still pure Hitchcock, and belongs in any Hitchcock collection.I might suggest renting it before thinking of buying it. "},{"Title":"A weird and wonderful black comedy","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The discovery of a dead body in the woods of a quaint New England town leads to a chain-reaction of complications and misunderstandings amongst a small group of townspeople &#150; each afraid that they will be blamed for the death of this stranger.This one's certainly a contender for the oddest film that Alfred Hitchcock ever directed &#150; but that's a wonderful thing. Admittedly, I'm not familiar with everything he ever directed, but I can't think of another film that was a flat-out comedy. That's not to say that his signature isn't all over it &#150; in addition to the macabre premise, there are plenty of tense moments as discoveries are made about the recently deceased Harry.The look of the film is simplistic, yet it's lushly photographed with fun camera-work that keeps us from directly seeing Harry's face (except once, when we first see him). The cast is utterly charming, and all manage to pull of dialog that would surely come off corny in the hands of lesser actors. A very young Shirley MacLaine and pre-silver haired John Forsythe show some incredible acting and comic timing. Bernard Hermann's score is whimsical and helps set the tone for the whacked-out, off-kilter hilarity that fills the screen. All in all, a great gem that should be seen by all lovers of dark, tongue-in-cheek comedy. "},{"Title":"Can you guess whodunit?","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock, usually known for suspense, gives us a light comedy here. In a small New England town, a man is found murdered. Not only can no one figure out who the culprit is, everyone seems incompetent as to what they should do with the body. But as time passes, people begin to discover that they in fact don't know each other as well as they think that they do.The Trouble with Harry follows Hitch's common theme of chaos in that people begin realize that much of what they've believed for so long might not be true, and it could drastically upset this quaint town. Shirley MacLaine, in her film debut, plays Jennifer Rogers, a woman with her own set of secrets (her son Arnie is played by future Beaver Jerry Mathers, although in reality the two were only born fourteen years apart). Also starring are John Forsythe, Mildred Natwick, and Edmund Gwenn. A classic. "},{"Title":"Good But not Classic Hitch...","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers, Spoilers and erm, Spoilers The Trouble with Harry is a strange one really. It starts with random shots of nature and a boy running up a hill towards Harry's body. His wife then openly chats to a young man and a stranger about Harry and her son Arnie almost gives the game away to the police at the end.All in all, it's a weird 'un, the plot is a mix of tense drama and black comedy with a town that has a body on it's hands. I don't think Hitch really had a plot with this, as it seems to fit together poorly, but is saved by a wonderful performance from a young Shirley Maclaine.Worth a watch, But by no means vintage hitch, 2.5/4 "}{"Title":"Hitchy's Sense of Humor?","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Anyman who can create SHADOW OF A DOUBT, STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, PSYCHO, NORTH BY NORTHWEST, VERTIGO, REAR WINDOW, THE LADY VANISHES, REBECCA, and THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS has to be considered a great film director. But all great film directors make missteps, and Hitchcock would have to admit he made plenty of them. RICH AND STRANGE, WALTZES FROM VIENNA, TORN CURTAIN, are just a few examples of his errors. Most of these were examples of his typical thrillers (RICH AND STRANGE did have an attack by pirates in Eastern Pacific seas, though most of it was about how sudden wealth undermined a marriage). But he frequently tried to stretch himself with unusual projects. Although JAMAICA INN was a thriller (JAMAICA INN being a novel by Daphne Du Maurier who wrote REBECCA), it was a historical film, as was the non-thriller WALTZES FROM VIENNA. Historical films were not always his area of expertise (UNDER CAPRICORN shows he could pull it off). Another failure was Hitchcockian humor. Wisely Hitchcock used his dark sense of humor as a seasoning. It enlivens THE LADY VANISHES or SHADOW OF A DOUBT, when in the former Michael Redgrave briefly does an impersonation of British comic Will Hay, or when in the latter Hume Cronym and Harry Travers discuss methods for killing each other as an ongoing game. But the reason the seasoning works is the continuous sense of danger surrounding the actors in their films. Redgrave starts his imitation of Hay (a brief one, by the way) when trying to locate Miss Froy, just after having to fight a sinister magician in the baggage car. Cronym and Travers are having this odd philosophical game not realizing that visiting Uncle Charlie (Joseph Cotton) is actually a real murderer (and a serial one at that). In such carefully measured amounts the humor works well.But it was never his strongest suit. Hitchcock knew how to build suspense better than any other director of his period (except possibly Fritz Lang). He never was hired to direct comedy. His two comic films were MR. AND MRS. SMITH (his attempt at a screwball comedy), and THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY (his sole attempt to let his dark humor flow free). Neither worked well. The former was made because he wanted to work with Carol Lombard. It is a passable minor film, starring Lombard and Robert Montgomery, about a couple who discovers they are not legally married after all, but who decide to reunite in the end. The material was better handled in a film called WE'RE NOT MARRIED made in the 1950s, which was episodic. Here we see a series of strained scenes where the couple break up, clash, and reunite. The best scene is where Montgomery (in pretending to be out with another man's wife in a fancy restaurant) gets a busted nose, and a helpful Jack Carson tries to cauterize the nose with a piece of restaurant cutlery. That doesn't say much it is not among the most memorable funny scenes in motion picture history.THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY is a failure too, and given that it does reflect Hitchy's dark humor (far more than MR. AND MRS. SMITH tried to). Harry is a no-good character that we never really see misbehaving as the other characters say he does. All we ever see is he is a corpse. The film (beautifully shot in the New England autumn forests) begins with the sound of a gunshot, and the first scene of Harry is as a corpse. And so does he remain. The whole joke of the film is the lengths that Forsythe, Maclaine, Gwenn, and Dunnoch (and Maclaine's son, Jerry Matthews), keep blundering trying to hide the body (each thinking they have caused Harry's untimely death). That the sheriff (Royal Dano) is a jerk helps them in their attempts, but ultimately it turns out that Harry died of natural causes. By the time the film is half finished we really do not care whether he died from a heart attack or if he was shot. Not that the cast doesn't try. Maclaine was in her first role, but it was less effective than her second film (as the Indian Princess Aouda in Mike Todd's AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS). Gwenn was good in whimsical roles and had experience with Hitchcock (FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE), so he does well here. Dunnoch is nice as the eventual partner of Gwenn. Matthews is good as Maclaine's son. Forsythe, always an effective actor on television (BACHELOR FATHER, DYNASTY)was a hit-or-miss movie actor, and was more effective in Hitchcock's TOPAZ. His scene accepting payment (and recognition) for his artwork from a millionaire (Parker Fennelly) seems odd, although it is supposed to be somewhat poetic (given some of Forsythe's comments). I suspect that the oddness is due to Hitchcock not knowing what to do with the material. It was outside his normal range of activity. Royal Dano does do somewhat better with his dimwit sheriff, but he seems pitiful at one point (you even expect him to start crying). A poetry sprouting local doctor/coroner, who pops up twice in the film is more interesting, but his second appearance (as a helpless bystander trying to understand the ravings of four people about the corpse) is more a reaction scene than an active comedy turn (one wishes Edgar Kennedy had been alive and had the role - he would have done it with a masterful slow burn). The end result is that the film is not successful. It is a weak script with mediocre direction. One wishes, in the end, that Hitchcock had searched for some other property to develop into a film instead of THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY. "},{"Title":"Two Mildreds are better than one!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Once again the divergence of opinion one can find on an IMDb site dedicated to a film is close to astounding.  But, perhaps not.  This film, in the Hitchcock canon, is definitely an acquired taste.  There are inarguably first-class attributes - Bernard Herrmann's sprightly score (maybe just a bit intrusive occasionally, but certainly in tune with Hitchcock's intentions) and Robert Burks' use of VistaVision and Technicolor, an example of Hollywood artistry at its most professional.  (The complex and wordy script made it impossible to shoot all of the exteriors in Vermont - I'm surprised they got as much on location as they did - however the studio matchups are better than average.)  And surely any film that employs the very special talents of the two Mildreds, Mesdames Dunnock and Natwick, has got to be worth watching.  When one surveys all of the titles given the Hitchcock imprimatur, this one is a bit of an oddity, but it's obviously one on which he lavished care and a special affection and I, for one, am one of its admirers. "},{"Title":"Original release was 110 minutes","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film twice a night for 7 nights working in a drive-in.I swear there have been couple of scenes removed from the version being shown now. In particular in the beginning scenes showing Harry getting hit by the two women and a scene when the deputy sherrif sees Harry in the tub. Are these scenes lost forever? "},{"Title":"Bernard Herrmann's Hitchcock Debut","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In this the first of the Hitchcock-Herrmann collaborations, Bernard Herrmann paints a portrait of Hitch in his score which no previous composer attempted to do. This is what lifted Herrmann above the rest of Hitchcock's previous collaborations. The story is mundane and drags on for over 90 minutes without any surprises, but it is significant because Herrmann makes his debut. "},{"Title":"THE GREAT HITCHCOCK FILM YOU'VE PROBABLY NEVER HEARD OF!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock's The Trouble With Harry is a wonderful comedy about an semmingly unfunny subject a corpse. With the wrong cast and director, this could have sank like a stone. But Hitchcock and a game cast that includes Edmund Gwenn, John Forsythe and Shirley Maclaine (in her film debut) work wonders with it.I'll admit it. Most people will either get it or not. If you think about it, all of Hitchcock's films are like that. From my own experiences, I love Hitchcock and this is one of his very best films.For a film in which Harry is the corpse, it's not really about Harry. A dumb movie would have been about the corpse. But Hitchcock and screenwriter John Michael Hayes have other plans; it's about how that corpse disrupts the daily routine in a small town. Much of the humor is derived from human nature, not one-liners. Many of the very best comedies are like this. However, until most recently, gross out humor won the box office. Now, with the success of films like Bridget Jones' Diary, the tide seems to be turning and Hitchcock is laughing wherever he is.Everything works here. The cinematography (in VistaVision, by Robert Burks), the location filming (in Vermont)and the acting. The real delight is Edmund Gwenn, who you might remember from the original Miracle on 34th St. He won an Oscar for that role and he deserved another for his wonderfully witty performance as the Captain. Many of the laughs come from the facial expressions and delivery and it makes this film so much fun.The Trouble With Harry was not a success in 1955, and it's probably due to the fact that this is a much different film for Hitchcock; a comedy rather than a thriller. But Hitchcock proves he can handle the challenge of comedy as well as that of a thriller and the result is the great Hitchcock film you've never seen. You owe it to yourself to see this film.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Harry looks the same now as when he was alive, except he was vertical","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  May contain **spoilers**Despite all of the dark humor present in almost all of Hitch's films, ...Harry is the only one that can truly be classified a comedy. But don't look for lots of big laughs, this is a more cerebral comedy. Hitch wants us to contemplate life and death...but not too seriously. The characterizations are so rich that by the end of the film we not only understand what makes these people tick, but also feel the warmth inherent in small town friendships. Edmund Gwenn and Mildred Natwick are adorable as the older couple finding new romance over a dead body. Shirley MacLaine in her film debut, is perfect as the flaky, yet wise young widow. John Forsythe gives a fine portrayal of the wandering, artistic soul who finds a reason to drop anchor. Harry himself, is the most hilarious McGuffin that Hitchcock ever concocted. And those names...Wiggs, Wiles, Gravely, Worp! We are all wigging out over the Captain's wily actions as they dig Harry's grave over and over throughout these warped proceedings. Hitch was having a jolly time with this one, and we are all the better for it! And what a priceless ending, deciding to put Harry back where they found him to let Arnie rediscover him, knowing that Arnie cannot distinguish between his tomorrows and his yesterdays. With it's lush, brilliant New England countryside, and those wonderfully quirky characters, Harry couldn't have found a better place to die!My commentary on The Trouble With Harry is over.     "},{"Title":"Harry, is about atmosphere and mood.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I certainly understand why some would find this movie boring.  However for others, it ranks as a favorite to be viewed over and over.  Some attractions may be the movie's haunting music, bizarre plot, with striking sense of place, and warmth of newly formed friendships. For these reasons, The Trouble with Harry is forever my favorite place to escape, short of wading through the autumn leaves of Barre, Vermont.   "},{"Title":"Different and Disappointing","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie done in 1955 was completely different from any Hitchcock movie before it and maybe after it.  Some people love this movie and think it was one of his best ever.  I don't see how.  It's not that there were poor performances from the cast.  Edmund Gwynne, Shirley MacLaine, and John Forsythe all performed well.  It was just the plot was not interesting to me.  I nearly fell asleep several times during this movie!!(which is unheard of for a Hitch film--although I felt the same way with The Paradine Case and To Catch a Thief)  Jerry Mathers who would go onto TV fame as The Beaver is worth watching.  Other than that, the only people who would get anything out of this movie would be die-hard fans like me. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I knew nothing about this picture before viewing it and I was surprised that the film wasn't as good as I thought it could've been. Hitchcock films are always worth watching, but I don't think I can recommend this one.The problem is that I found it a little boring. It's meant to be a black comedy and that part works well, but the story as whole is very disappointing.The photography is excellent, one of the best looking Hitchcock pictures.The performances are brilliant, worthy watching just to see the acting.Overall, a disappointing black comedy but the performances make up for any weak moments in the picture. "},{"Title":"A real masterpiece of black comedy in an uncommonly light-hearted mood","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As crime stories usually are, this is a story of finding the truth. But in this case it is not so much about the cause of death of a corpse formerly called Harry and found in the bushes. Everyone of the characters learns a lot about the life of his neighbors.Although this lighthearted mood isn't very typical for Hitchcock, the twists in the plot and the dark sense of humour certainly are. Or could you think of any other movie handling a dead body as if it was nothing, just everyday-stuff like a pair of old pants, without drifting into mindless slapstick? I can't help comparing it to Waking Ned Devine.Although Harry seemed very British to me, it sketches a nice picture of life out in the American countryside. The photographs of fall in New England are of an incredible grandeur seldom seen in any motion picture.And that's where the tone is set. Life is beautiful and easy in the small town as long as they all mind their own business, but then the sudden arrival of Harry brings them all together, unites them in their dependence on each other.This well-cast and -acted (watch out for Shirley McLaine in her first major role) black comedy also marks the beginning of a long and beautiful friendship between the director and his (only true) collaborator Bernard Hermann, who provided the magnificent pictures with a appropriate score; one of his best for Hitch.Idyllic it seems, but thrilling it is, to see things happen in their own slow way. My favourite joke is the one with the closet door, maybe the weirdest ever...Even or maybe just because it's not exactly what you expect from the master of suspense, this movie is among Hitch's very best.  "}{"Title":"Okay - decidedly not the best of its kind","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's a modern version of the Tale of the Hunchback from `The Arabian Nights' - a corpse is batted around from person to person, no-one being particularly anxious to claim responsibility for it.  The old story really goes over the top, and that's where you have to go for this kind of black humour  to work.  Hitchcock's version is a little too sedate.  It also makes too big a deal of the idea of treating a corpse with disrespect.  Hitchcock said once that what amused him was the way the characters referred to the corpse as if it were a pack of cigarettes - but it's not THAT amusing, nor is it particularly unnatural, and it's too little to rely on during the sections where little else is going on.  That said, the movie is well written, competently directed (of course!), and pleasant enough to watch.  Some people may find the characters more interesting than I found them. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock waxes lyrical","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It is typical of Hitch that this, his most pastoral and idyllic movie, should center around a corpse. That a whimsical and warm-hearted light comedy about such a delightfully endearing group of people could be woven around the story of a body that is continually dup up and relocated is a mark of Hitch's moviemaking genius, and is a totem of his darkly idiosyncratic vision. Autumn in New England has rarely been photographed as gorgeously as this, and the ensemble acting is a joy to behold. Bernard Herrmann's first score for Hitch is perfect - whimsical, nostalgic, and archly playful. A delightful movie. "},{"Title":"twisted, funny, and suspenseful","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  well me and my friends are on a hitchcock binge and this one looked the most appealing at the video store. we all have twisted senses of humor so this was naturally a perfect fit. some highlights the captain and ms. gravely arranging a date over harry's dead body, the digging and undigging (naturally) and finally the doctor being the only one in the movie to express his distaste the main characters treatment of a strange dead man. we never did spot hitchcock's traditional cameo in this one. Also one bit of question, what was the deal with that closet door that kept opening mysteriously? we deduced that it is just pure hitchcock to add a faux clue like that.  "},{"Title":"Famous only because Hitchcock made it","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm not one of those fans of Alfred Hitchcocks who feels I have to fawn over every film he ever made. But I do like Hitchcock. There are about a dozen of his films that I think are classics. But there are a number that if someone gave them to me on DVD, I'd sell them at the next garage sale. I feel that way about The Birds, Pscyho, and this film.There is one thing notable about this film -- lovely photography...crisp, colorful.Let's see...is there anything else to praise? ... ... ... ... Nope! And I'm sorry to say that, because this is a cast of actors I generally admire. I always enjoy Edmund Gwenn...well almost always. I loved John Forsythe through his several television iterations. Always enjoyed Shirley MacLaine. And Mildred Natwick. And even Royal Dano. But nothing any of them does impresses me here, other than that I enjoyed seeing them again.If the director of this film were John Smith, no one would pay much attention to it. Three thumbs down. (Birth defect). Only joking. A little dark humor. "},{"Title":"Delicious, Hilarious, Wonderfully Wistful Hitchcock Black Comedy Involving A Troublesome Corpse","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Captain Wiles is out shooting when he comes across the dead body of a stranger called Harry Worp. The Captain attempts to dispose of the body but his efforts are thwarted by all sorts of unreasonable complications, not least of which is the fact that he didn't kill him. Can he find a way out of this sticky predicament with the help of his friends, all the while eluding the eyes of the local deputy sheriff ?I think this is my favourite Hitchcock movie, simply because it's just overflowing with charm and a deliciously black atmosphere. It's not as good, as famous or as influential as many of his films but if any of them epitomise his cheery gravedigger's wit, then this is the one, and it's just a sheer delight from start to finish. There's just no other film like it. The four leads are all perfect as the nutty oddballs they play; tactless artist, irascible old bachelor, screwball young mother and nervous spinster - for me, the blueberry muffins scene with Gwenn and Natwick is one of the funniest things I've ever seen. Dano also scores as the quietly unsettling hound-dog lawman. There is an absolute peach of a score by Bernard Herrmann - his first of eight for Hitch - which underlines the comic tones with delicious bassoon and clarinet motifs. The music is absolutely defining in the way the best scores are; composed and arranged another way it could turn the film into a crime drama but instead it lifts the humour up so high. Hitchcock blends all his elements together in the way that only a master director can, so that the film flows effortless from scene to scene with absurdist logic, rich performances, atmosphere, intrigue, wonderfully funny dialogue, resulting in an expertly-formed little comic gem. I love the people in this film and the things they say to each other, whether it's MacLaine deciding to make a frog a glass of lemonade, Forsythe describing people on Fifth Avenue, Gwenn's comment on first discovering Harry's body (For ricecake I've done him in. A harmless pot-shot at a rabbit, and I'm a murderer. Mother always said I'd come to a bad end.), or Natwick's reaction on seeing Gwenn dragging Harry into the bushes, which Hitchcock said was his personal favourite line from any of his movies. An absolutely fantastic, one-of-a-kind, unforgettable black comedy which will lift your spirits for weeks, and one of the many reasons why Alfred Hitchcock is simply one of the greatest filmmakers of all time. Shot in beautiful autumnal countryside in Vermont and brilliantly written by John Michael Hayes, based on a book by Jack Trevor Story. "},{"Title":"He looked exactly the same when he was alive, except he was vertical","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This comedy from the middle of Hitchcock's classic era is often seen as a deviation from his normal trademark thrillers, but while it lacks the seriousness of his other pictures, it is Hitchcock through and through. There is the usual blend of murder and romance, a dose of disrespectful black humour, and the ultimate MacGuffin in the form of a dead man who no-one misses and yet everyone is concerned about.The trouble with The Trouble with Harry is that, considering it's supposed to be a comedy, the jokes are as lifeless as the corpse that the plot revolves around. You actually get more laughs out of the comic relief elements in a straight Hitchcock thriller. And perhaps this is the problem &#150; I can imagine some of the lines and situations being hilarious if they were in a more serious film. The quirky characters that cropped up in all Hitch's previous pictures were usually brilliant, but stitching all those comic relief moments into a whole film doesn't work. There were a few little self-referential moments which made me smile &#150; for example Hitchcock pokes fun at how in his films murder always seems to lead to romance, here exaggerating it even further going from one to the other in a few of lines of dialogue.So, apart from the comedy, there really isn't a lot to recommend this picture. The plot is just about suspenseful enough to hold the viewer, but only just. The actors are adequate but not exactly memorable. The film does look very nice though, thanks to the beautiful Autumnal browns and yellows of the outdoor location shooting. Now this really was a deviation for Hitchcock, since he normally stuck to sound stages.This picture also happens to mark the beginning of Hitchcock's fruitful collaboration with composer Bernard Hermann, and in fact the music is one of the few marks of quality about it. It has a kind of grimness with a jaunty edge that suits The Trouble with Harry ideally.So, it's a lesser Hitchcock and a pretty poor comedy. I'd recommend this one only to completists. "},{"Title":"How many times can you bury a corpse!","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Call me a heretic but I find this one almost on-par with other Hitchcock classics like North by Northwest and The Birds. Not to say I was not surprised by The Trouble with Harry. It's a whole lot different than what one would usually expect from the master. Even if every Hitchock film seems to have a little comical twist at one point. The Trouble with Harry is a lighter film by Hitchcock, even though small-town America is well exposed with the qu'en dira-t-on phenomenon, as the French would call it. The autumn scenery is great and performances are good.Seen at home, in Toronto, on January 16th, 2005.87/100 (***½) "},{"Title":"A Funeral Service Never Takes Place","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is truly a great Classic film which was produced while President, Dwight D. Eisenhower was in office. In those days, this picture was not very well received and considered a very poor comedy and in bad taste. However, over the many years this film has found itself as a great Classic. Edmund Gwenn,(Capt. Albert Wiles),The Keys of the Kingdom,'44, put his heart and soul into this part and carried this picture on his back. Another great actress, Mildred Natwich,(Miss Ivy Gravely),The Kissing Bandit,'48 gave a great supporting role as a lonely older woman looking very hard at Capt. Albert Wiles as her later in life Soul Mate. John Forsythe,(Sam Marlowe),Charlie's Angels,'76 TV Series starts falling in love with Shirley McLaine and even hints about wanting to see her in the nude on his very first meeting with her. Sam Marlowe, is an artist and draws very very way out pictures. Jerry Mathers, (Arnie Rogers),Leave it to Beaver,'57 TV Series, gave a wonderful supporting role. Everyone over the years seems to either love this picture or find it TROUBLING to VIEW and consider it a very poor film. "},{"Title":"A minor masterpiece","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Made smack-dab in the middle of Hitchcock's (arguably) most successful decade, it's little wonder that this movie set in a small, sleepy New England town gets overlooked for the big city settings and big budgets of his other 50s films. Even with the magnificent backdrops of the woods, how can this possibly compare to the glitz of the French Riviera (To Catch A Thief), San Francisco (Vertigo) or the action-packed chase from NYC to Mount Rushmore in North By Northwest?My answer would be to look at the name after Directed By. For the master's hallmarks are present, and if there is a way to compare this film fairly to his others, it might be as you would compare a good short story by a favorite author to his finest novels. This is Hitchcock stripped down and rusticated, where he shows that the universal themes of life, death and love that he orchestrates around the glamor and peril of big cities are also be found amongst the simple houses and homemade cider stand of a rural village.For my money the star of the film is Edmund Gwenn as the jovial old sailor with a few secrets of his own. Most of the truly funny lines are given to his character, and it's a delight to watch as he makes the most of what he's given to work with. Shirley MacLain is fine in her first film as the young mother, and Mildred Natwick infuses Miss Gravely with just the right touch of village spinster sensitivity. In comparison, John Forsythe seems merely adequate as The Hero. It would be easy to imagine, say, Cary Grant making more of the role, especially its comic elements, but bringing his big city persona to the little hamlet would surely detract from the other characters and leave the audience expecting more action and suspense from a film with a genuine Hollywood star. On that basis, it's important to place this film into the Hitchcock canon much as you would Forsythe's sketch of the dead man alongside his paintings as a character study which may not be as polished as a finished portrait, but which clearly shows the artist's hand in the work.The film is an uneasy mix of macabre undertones and a surface of joviality (it is a surprise how relatively calmly the characters react at first to the dead man, as though such things happened all the time in the backwoods). The scenery practically steals the show, and once again color is an essential ingredient in a Hitchcock film. The use of reds, browns and greens throughout, from the natural colors of the woods to the house decor, Forsythe's paintings and MacLaine's hair and clothes, underscore time and again the rustic theme of the film and Hitchcock's musings on the decay and rebirth in the life-cycle of nature. While the casual fan may not find as much to feast upon here, this is a must for devotees of Hitchcock's genius.  "},{"Title":"Glacially paced, charmless macabre farce","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Whew! This was bad. It's not because I was expecting a more suspenseful movie - I have seen Hitchcock's comedy, Mr. and Mrs. Smith (which was ok- not really as fine as most screwball comedies) a few times. I love the humor in most of Hitchcock's movies - from The Lodger on. This is bad because it is never funny - always substituting fey and charmless whimsy for humor - and astonishingly repetitive. Moreover, it often doesn't make sense even within its own logic. The jokes are hokey and totally expected. I find it boring, completely charmless.There are many plays and movies in which the corpse is treated roughlym repeatedly buried or placed in a coffin, etc. Loot springs to mind - how about The Wrong Box? It's a common theme for farces. For some reason in the 1950s and 1960s, playwrights and screenwriters seemed to often think it hilarious to treat corpses roughly. Frankly, it's just boring.I rented this to see John Forsythe - he and Shirley MacLaine have no chemistry - she seems just an odd 20 year old without any redeeming characteristics, and he seems like a lawyer in his mid-30s on vacation (not the pretentious painter he is supposed to be). Mildred Dunnock and Mildred Natwick are both appealing. I find Gwenn ok - a bad part.This movie was truly tedious and as slow moving in plot as any movie I've ever seen.   "}{"Title":"In my opinion, Hitchcock's weakest","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The Trouble with Harry is easily the Master's worst film in the sense it fails on almost every level.  Obviously a black comedy but the humor is somewhat scattered and oddly humorless.  The characters are all cardboard cut-out's (the local painter is more useful with a shovel than a paint brush), making for the whole affair to crawl even slower than it seems to. Hard to believe Hitch made this in between To Catch a Thief and The Wrong Man! "},{"Title":"My 3rd favourite Hitchcock movie","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After Vertigo and Psycho this is probably my 3rd favourite Hitchcock movie. I just love this film. I love everything about it. The scenery is just stunning, Herrmann's music is just wonderful, the actors are great especially Shirley Maclaine's first big role and even John 'Blake Carrington' Forsythe is good. But I especially love Edmund Gwenn. What a fine actor. And of course it's a great story. I watch this movie every now and then when I feel miserable 'cause it just makes me happy again which is bizarre in a way cause it's a black comedy but it's just funny and romantic too. Go see this movie. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"It just didn't work for me","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Hitchcock is my favorite director and so I saw this film twice on the excellent Hitchcock Collection DVD in a desperate attempt to get this film to win me over. It was a fruitless labor. I found the characters perpetually trying to be so charmingly mischievous that it began to grate my sensibilities. I appreciate Hitchcock's humorous touches in his other films but I simply didn't enjoy this film. I heard the film was better received in Europe than in North America. Maybe the cultural folkways are too different?  "},{"Title":"Not very interesting","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was very interested in seeing this movie because I heard it wasn't a Hitchcock thriller but rather a romantic comedy. Well, after I bought it and watched it, I was very disappointed. Hitchcock is outstanding at putting comedy in his films but without the suspense, it doesn't work so well. The only great thing about this film is the vivid colors (autumn leaves and such). Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Hitch blew this one","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unutterably boring dialogue, completely silly story, but lovely scenery. I kept waiting for something to happen, but all that ever went on was a group of folks kept burying and digging up a dead guy. Two of the people thought they were responsible for the death and were trying to hide the evidence and circumstances continued to require that they keep shuffling the body around. Very tedious. I would rather watch a red oak grow that waste my time watching this drivel. "},{"Title":"An often overlooked Hitchcock English comedy","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A rather droll and mild English stage play brought to the screen by Hitchcock. It's a lot like Capra's Arsenic and Old Lace in that it draws you in the longer you watch it. A mild film by it's director's standards. The Trouble with Harry is that he's dead, and he tends to show up in the most inconvenient places after being moved about several times, to hide him from the Sheriff. There is also quite a bit of discussion as to how and why he died. Maybe it wasn't murder after all? A charmer, beautifully filmed in VistaVision and Technicolor, in Vermont. Some might consider it too slow or even plot-less, but it retains that special Hitchcock sense of dry humor, and it is a love story! Like many other great and classic films, it was originally a box-office failure. Look for Jerry Mathers (Leave it to Beaver) as Shirley's little boy! "},{"Title":"black comedy from Hitchcock","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Captain Wiles (Edmund Gwenn) is out shooting rabbits and finds a well dressed Harry Worp shot dead. He figures that he accidentally killed her and tries to hide the body. Harry's estranged wife Jennifer Rogers (Shirley MacLaine) is brought to the body by her son Arnie and she's glad he's dead. She thinks that she killed Harry as well as spinster Ivy Gravely (Mildred Natwick). Artist Sam Marlowe comes along and tries to help Captain Wiles and the others as they try to hide the situation from Deputy Sheriff Calvin Wiggs (Royal Dano).It's a black comedy from Hitchcock except I found none of it that funny. The situations are quirky but the characters aren't particularly comical. The start is rather boring with the constant stream of odd characters. It seems to be trying way too hard especially with the guy reading the book or the tramp who takes the shoes. It's bad slapstick or bad something. The story gets even more boring with all the talking. My eyes glazed over and I don't recall half of Jennifer's story. None of the characters truly interested me. The multiple burials and reburials are almost funny. That's the best I can say about the movie. "},{"Title":"Literally laughing in the face of death.","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A quiet and picturesque autumnal part of Vermont is the setting for Alfred Hitchcock's 1955 foray into cheeky black comedy. Harry Worp lays dead on the grass up on the pass, who killed him and why? Four residents of the village are about to have a very interesting day.Based on the novel written by Jack Trevor Story, The Trouble with Harry stars John Forsythe, Edmund Gwenn, Mildred Natwick, Mildred Dunnock, & Royal Dano. With Shirley MacLaine and Jerry Mathers both appearing in their first film roles. The film is also notable for being the first of Hitchcock's collaborations with composer Bernard Herrmann. It's shot on location in New England with photography by Robert Burks.Often ignored when talk turns to the works of Hitchcock, The Trouble With Harry may be some way removed from his best work, but it's still a fine film that finds the director enjoying the thematics on show. I mean this is a film where romance and matter of fact attitudes to death are born out of his dead body MacGuffin. Said to be a favourite of the director, the film was badly received by the public, while the bods at Paramount Pictures simply didn't know how to market it. It is an oddity of sorts, whimsical, good natured, even lackadaisical, a murder mystery where two couples find each other. The characters are eccentric yet engaging, while the suspense that comes in the last quarter ultimately feels out of place yet it fits the director to a tea.. And just what is up with that door anyway? Much to ponder and observe here for sure.The four principal actors grasp the tone Hitchcock wanted from the off. Gwen and Natwick have the eccentricity of small town rural bumpkins down pat. Forsythe is straight laced but witty and self confident, and MacLaine turns in an eye catching debut playing the role smart, sexy, yet undeniably odd! Herrmann's score is on the money, mostly playful and in jolly with the quirkiness of the plot, but also Cape Fearesque when Harry's body is the focus of Alfred's attention. Burks does a marvellous job on photography, vividly painting the autumn setting as the russet gold and browns of the leaves hang neatly over the red and pinks of the in bloom flora.Amusing and technically worthy, the trouble with Harry is that he needs to be seen in a better light one feels. 7/10 "},{"Title":"And If You Go Chasing Rabbits","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" While little Jerry Mathers (as Arnie Rogers) is out playing with his toy gun, he hears some real gunshots. Stumbling upon a dead man, he scurries off... Grandfatherly hunter Edmund Gwenn (as Albert Wiles) happens by next. Out rabbit-hunting, Mr. Gwenn is certain he's accidentally shot the man, whom he identifies as Harry Worp (Philip Truex) of Boston, Massachusetts. Soon, young Mathers brings mom Shirley MacLaine (as Jennifer) to view the body. Surprisingly, Ms. MacLaine turns out to be the deceased's widow. Happy to see Harry dead, she begins a romance with smoking painter John Forsythe (as Sam Marlowe). Meanwhile, spinsterish Mildred Natwick (as Ivy Gravely) is romanced by Gwenn. Another suspect, Ms. Natwick claims Harry attempted rape her, after claiming she was his wife.The characters, with support from Mildred Dunnock, plot how to dispose of the corpse&#x85; This was the first feature for MacLaine, who seems to have spiked her own lemonade. Mr. Forsythe (Bachelor Father) and Mathers (Leave it to Beaver) would soon begin successful TV series runs. Director Alfred Hitchcock might have considered making Mathers' pet rabbit a beaver; but, perhaps Gwenn wouldn't have been out hunting beaver&#x85; or, would he?You never know when a dead rabbit might come in handy, observes Mathers. The Trouble with Harry is comically bemusing, but never really all that funny. The New England in autumn setting, very nicely photographed by Robert Burks, and Mr. Hitchcock's direction are its main attractions.****** The Trouble with Harry (10/3/55) Alfred Hitchcock ~ John Forsythe, Shirley MacLaine, Edmund Gwenn, Mildred Natwick "},{"Title":"The Trouble with Movie","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock was a great director. Though he worked with some of the biggest stars and greatest actors of his time, his movies were never Cary Grant, Jimmy Stewart or Ingrid Bergman movies, they were invariably Alfred Hitchcock movies. He has a superb vision for movies and a superb eye for framing shots, not to mention his brilliance for building (and sustaining) tension. His best movies (Strangers on a Train, for instance) take a suspenseful situation and increase the tension throughout.The reason they are not unbearable is because Hitchcock's wonderfully droll sense of humor shows in flashes here and there. His humor relieves the tension of his most suspenseful movies, and allows the viewer a breather and a chance for Hitchcock to begin the process of building tension again.Hitchcock was also (like most artists) given to experiments. Rope was a series of shots that used up an entire roll of film, so that the movie was played out in real time. The Trouble with Harry is a comedy. It has a solid cast (a young Shirley MacLaine is a trifle wooden). The autumnal New England scenery is gorgeous and there's no exterior scene that's not worth watching Hitchcock's eye served him extremely well. And the movie's macabre humor is not unwelcome. Many of the funniest comedies concern death (Arsenic and Old Lace, The Wrong Box, etc.)But Hitchcock's humor is extremely droll. This, too, in a world of frenetic comedy, is not unwelcome. Hitchcock builds the humor like he build suspense -- gradually, inexorably. So the movie is slow, sometimes long-winded, especially as he develops character. This is a trap for Hitchcock, who was a master of being able to express character say what was going on with images, without words (sometimes you wish John Forsythe would just shut up).So, though the movie is not without many things in its favor, it may be too slow and not humorous enough. And, just as Hitchcock used humor to flavor his suspense movies, he ought here to have flavored his humor with more suspense (of which there is absolutely none).It's a beautiful movie and not one of Hitchcock's disasters, but view it with care and know what you're getting into. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review stands the test of time","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Trouble With Harry is not a laugh-out-loud comedy. But it's cute and surprisingly entertaining given that 50 years have passed. I think the film suffers from the lack of a straight man, and the characters don't have much empathy with the deceased. The plot twists are a little contrived and only somewhat funny. But still worth watching if you've an interest in classics. This was the debut for Shirley MacLaine, and it's in color.Who should see this film-- Only classics lovers. As a straight comedy, you can find much better.-- Goofy wives lacking respect for the dead, and avid gravediggersI think classics should be rated based on their current appeal, not their original glory. I'll give The Trouble With Harry a surprisingly resilient 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"black comedy","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  How to think of this film?  Are you familiar with those short little adverts that Hitch did for his movies?   They were pleasant little genial clips, with Hitch talking calmly about his next film, actually walking the viewer through the set (for Psycho) or discussing it abstractly in a cheerful way (for the Birds).   At the end of the clip, it switches to an actual segment of dread which never fails to make my hair stand more on end.  Even now, just thinking about it, I'm getting goose bumps.That's what The Trouble with Harry (1955) is all about.  It's designed to put you at ease with an uncomfortable subject.  Is there suspense?  I'm not sure.  Maybe the suspense is in getting two loving couples to meet and marry over such an occasion.  Wondering exactly what is going to happen.  It's clear they fall in love, but will they go to jail?  Will they get narcoleptic?  Just how sick and depraved can they get and still keep a straight face?Must see this film?  No.  That's reserved for Psycho, Vertigo, North by Northwest.  And Led Zeppelin IV.  ha ha "},{"Title":"Hitch, I'm worried about the Beaver!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A bit dull for a Hitchcock film; half the cast was out-acted by the corpse. The only real fun came from little Jerry Mathers, which makes me wonder, as I often do when writing these silly little comments, would any of Hitchcock's other films have been improved with an appearance by young Jerry? Or anyone from the cast of Leave it to Beaver? Ooohhh, I can see it now......STRANGERS ON A TRAIN - While taking the train to Centerville to compete in a soap-box derby, Beaver crosses paths with debonaire psychopath Eddie Haskell. Eddie becomes convinced that if he kills Beaver's hated rival Gilbert, Beaver will do his math homework for him.ROPE - A cocky, arrogant Beaver convinces naive friend Larry Mondello to murder their pal Whitey, then brazenly invites his revered mentor Miss Canfield to solve the crime.REAR WINDOW - Confined to his room with the chicken pox, Beaver gazes out the window and thinks he sees Fred Rutherford club his wife to death with his prized nine-iron. Beaver enlists the aid of his beautiful, high-society girlfriend Judy Hensler to bring him to justice.SHADOW OF A DOUBT - A visit from beloved Uncle Billy pleases Beaver, until he begins to suspect his uncle is actually Sid Gimp, the Mayfield Weasel Strangler.VERTIGO - Traumatized by his near death experience inside a giant coffee cup high above Mayfield, Beaver develops a fear of heights. This fear renders him helpless when local thug Lumpy Rutherford chases him up a light pole for spilling chocolate milk on his best comic book.PSYCHO - Beaver's attractive young teacher, Miss Landers, is on her way to a passionate rendezvous with her lover, Gus the Fireman, when she pulls into the Cleaver Motel for the night. There she meets polite, mild-mannered proprietor Wally Cleaver, who seems unusually preoccupied with his mother June. "},{"Title":"Clever, if a little laborious","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The trouble with Harry is that, in short, he's dead.In fact, throughout the entire film he is dead - you never see him alive!Featuring John Forsythe and Shirley MacLaine in the cast, the tale follows two couples who are trying to solve who caused the murder, at one stage they are all blaming themselves for it, and this really becomes quite funny as they continuously bury and dig up the body again.One of Hitchcock's quirkier films, this one does feel like it drags on despite being just over 95 minutes in length.  Perhaps the story needed more to it, but an interesting film all the same.The interesting thing about much of Hitch's films is that if you are watching them for the first time you really can see the influence he has had on cinema.  You can even see similarities to his films in such awful B movies as Weekend at Bernie's, in this case. "},{"Title":"Must-see for Hitchcock fans, but others may be disappointedd","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unusual Hitchcock black comedy/mystery about a motley group of New Englanders who each think they are responsible for the death of man and they don't know what to do with the corpse.  The story and characters are extremely offbeat, even for Hitchcock, but the film will hold your attention to the very strange ending.  Crisp Technicolor cinematography highlighting autumn in New England stands out.  Debut of MacLaine.  "},{"Title":"A very entertaining movie","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i'm so glad i had the opportunity to see this movie, its so quirky.  great performances all around, and excellent direction by hitchcock.  i could only hope they release it on dvd soon.  rent it tonight, and if you like it, you may also like drowning mona, the plots are vaguely related, but with the same feel.   "},{"Title":"This film will never grow old!","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this film at least a dozen times! I will never get tired of it. My only complaint about this film is that it is hard to find! I have had to tape it from cable! All of Alfred Hitchcock's films made it here on his 100th birthday, except this one! This film was Alfred Hitchcock's personal favorite. Sam is seen drawing the deceased, the deceased pictured in the drawing is none other than Vincent Price! Who was always interested in art! "},{"Title":"Gold-prize Hitchcock","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  'The Trouble...' is a wonderful counter-type to 'Rope'. While the latter is a 'must' for any cinema-based Ethics class, depecting the sheer ugliness and perversity of murder, the former is a delightful reminder that everything is in the hands of God (Alfred was schooled by the Jesuits as a child) and that death is not as important as life. The film, beautifully shot in superb colour, on location in an isolated northern New England hamlet, is in perfect accord with the same impicit message 'Thou shalt not kill!', but in an entirely different way. Edmund Gwynn and Elsa Lancaster were idyllic - listen carefully for The Beaver's brilliant incite into chronology, and the debuting Shirley MacLaine the only Shirley I'll ever love and remember. John Forsythe was the only actor for his role; in fact, the casting in the film is, in itself, an act of Hitchcockian genius. One enjoys this film every time it graces his experience. "},{"Title":"New England cozy from a skewed viewpoint","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Boy, what a vision of our society Hitchcock had... he never tired of reminding us that normality was a lot more twisted than we liked to pretend.  "},{"Title":"Thud!","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" One good thing to come from the movie is Shirley MacLaine. She was totally out of the 50's sexpot circuit, so her pixie look and slightly kookie manner got her noticed right away and the rest is, as they say, history.Nonetheless, Harry is a flop, an honorable flop, but a misfire nevertheless. The trouble with Harry, in my view at least, is that it takes a slender premise and tries to stretch it into 100- minutes of black humor. But like some rubber bands, it just doesn't stretch. As a result, there's a ton of erratic talk and very little else, unless you count overturned shovels. To echo other reviewers, the material would have made a heckuva half-hour on Hitchcock Presents, which is where it belonged instead of in theatres.I know, some apologists claim the screenplay is littered with profound nuances. Now I'm not the sharpest tack on the carpet, but I figure I shouldn't need a magnifying glass to enjoy a movie. But neither do I need to be hit over the head. For example, consider the great gallows humor of Dr. Strangelove (1964) and what it implies about government; or at the other end, Corman's Bucket of Blood (1959) and what it implies about the art world. Both are entertaining and meaningful without being either obscure or obvious. So, I'll leave the possible sub-text of Harry to its midnight study group, while I catch up with Hitchcock Presents. "}{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" In Alfred Hitchock's The Trouble With Harry, the old geezer pulls our leg a bit, offering a sweet but rather cynical black comedy about how best to dispose of a dead body found by an old sea captain. Actually, none of the characters in the film give a hoot about the dead man but are only seeking to protect themselves from scandal.The film, however, is a delightful entertainment, beautifully photographed amidst the Vermont fall foliage, and filled with indelible performances by Shirley MacLaine in her first screen role and veterans Mildred Natwick, Edmund Gwenn, Mildred Dunnock, and John Forsyth. Even though Hitch portrays people at their most loathsome, there is still something so charming about them that you can't help but smile and forgive their all too human foibles. "},{"Title":"AHA! this is the film that made Hitch own Paramount a pic!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After seeing the extra material of The Man Who Knew too Much it was said Alfred felt that he owned Paramount a movie. and after seeing extra material on DVD of The Trouble with Harry you can get the reason for the remake in 1955 of Man Who Knew too Much! I Like The Trouble with Harry I think it's cozy and I love those Vermont views.Rather early one knows that this is some old play for theaters, since not that many persons would stumble upon a corpse without the FBI being around.It's nice to see Shirley Maclaine, she must have seem a fresh face at the time! Morbid! Just Happy Harry is dead! John Forsythe! Long before his role in Dynasty. He's actually good playing a stiff person Mildred Natwick! Who doesn't give a damn if she has killed a man or not, more important is have a coffee cup for a man! Edmund Gwenn! won and Oscar in 1947 playing Santa Claus, and was around before in Hitch's Foreign Correspondent! After this he only did a Lassie movie and a movie in Spain.Bernard Hermann! The best is the soundtrack you never cares about but yet feels.Hitchcock is visible himself somewhere! But that is something you gonna find out yourselves! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock directs a comedy... in his unique style, and with his trademark dark humor","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Yes, the master of suspense actually directed a comedy... a romantic one, even... but naturally it has many of the same elements as his other films. There are a few scenes of suspense, but most of it is humor. Some of the humor falls flat, tries too hard, but the vast majority of it works perfectly. The laughs came every few minutes, at times only seconds apart, even. The score underscores the comedy nicely. The plot is interesting, and the way it constantly develops is great. There are plenty of twists and turns, as the characters try to figure out who killed Harry and what to do with his body. Throughout the film, there's quite a lot of confusion about his death, until it's finally revealed at the end. I haven't really seen an awful lot of comedies from this era(actually, only this one and Some Like It Hot), so I don't have a real basis for comparison... but I really enjoyed the humor in this film, probably because I've always enjoyed Hitchcock's distinctive sense of humor, seen often as small touches in his other films, and particularly evident in interviews. It's definitely worth watching for any fan of Hitchcock. I recommend this to fans of Hitchcock and/or black comedy. Just don't expect the typical Hitchcock film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A comedy from Hitchcock?  You bet!","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just love this one.   After 50 years, it still holds up well.  that's to be expected from a Hitchcock  mystery, but a comedy?  Absolutely.the humor is quite subdued and cerebral, non of that Jim carrey over-the-topnonsense.   The cast is perfect.  The editing (of course) is spot-on.If you need lots of bathroom jokes, semi-naked teenagers, and massive over- acting in order to be entertained, then you will HATE this movie.  If, however,  you have actually read a newspaper once in your life, you will probably love it. "},{"Title":"bulldoggies to the previous review...this one's really a gem!","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This droll, quant black comedy has everything; good performances from John Foresythe, Edmond Gwenn, Shirley MacLaine, as well as bunch of the best character actors around at that time; Royal Dano, Mildred Natwick, Mildred Dunnock, and a very funny performance by the young Jerry Mathers (who went on to TV's Leave It To Beaver).The pacing is indeed slow, but the story unwinds naturally, organically.I didn't know his film for years and when I finally saw it, I was really impressed.Anyone who loves Hitchcock will like this. "},{"Title":"Classic dark comedy from Hitchcock...","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film as a child and it's stuck with me ever since. I remember being very entertained by the way it moves along with twists and turns and still manages to make the audience laugh. Probably one of Hitchcock's lesser-known films, but that doesn't mean it isn't as good as some of his other classics. It's no Psycho or 39 Steps, but it's one of the best comedies of all time.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"one of the two best black comedies I have seen","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The other being Arsenic and old lace. Superb stuff.Excellent scenery, terific performances and perfect ambiance. One of the best Hitchcock films. Too bad some people do not appreciate the beauty. "},{"Title":"Dead men tell no tales, but they can still create stories.","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock exploits the spectacular scenery of autumn in New England in a semi-macabre comedy about naive people finding a dead man and not figuring out what to do with the body but fearing the consequences of involvement with the stiff. It's a whodunit with the most unusual twist possible.First on the cinematography not until Hoosiers does anyone approach it. I'm surprised that more people haven't tried to exploit autumn in New England or the Great Lakes states for its beauty; perhaps directors are too fussy about leaves? Maybe it's the weather. Those places get cold and offer little sun.Suspicion falls on just about everyone until the real secret is revealed. As simple as the plot line is, it is still attractive and entertaining. "},{"Title":"But who killed Harry?","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This Alfred Hitchcock movie went unnoticed when it was released in the USA in 1955. However, it was highly successful in France. Then Hitchcock's talent was taken seriously. Although, I'm French, I don't regard this movie as one of his best movies. I'd rather rank it among his minor works. Hitchcock obviously tried his hand at black humor but according to me, the result doesn't work and it's hardly convincing. The black humor is very laborious and often badly exploited. Moreover, I honestly think that the characters are dumb they try to persuade themselves that they are Harry's murderer but they know they aren't. The trouble with Harry is also a film that drags on and is terribly talkative. But nevertheless it's worth for its excellent photography, its gorgeous Maine landscapes and Bernard Herrmann's imposing music.But it's also supposed to be a black comedy but in the long run, it isn't funny at all.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful little trifle....","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I hadn't seen this film in ages. And one day, while on a Hitchcock kick, I popped in my copy and watched it. I spent the next 90 some odd minutes howling like a loon. This is a very funny, well-acted droll little film, showing a different side to Hitchcock. It was an film well ahead of it's time -- like the underrated Marnie -- and has aged well. Methinks if this film had come out in, say, the 80's, the humor would have been appreicated more.Try to watch this one without preconceived notitons, and I think you'll be surprised "}{"Title":"I can't believe it's that Old 1955","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe it's that old - 1955, but I had not seen it until about 1968 on TV and I did record it on VHS.  This is the perfect Hitchcock mystery movie, and it is so bellylaughingly funny, anybody could enjoy it.  Edmund Gwynne is truly a winner, and I'm surprised he never won an Oscar for this. At least I'm not sure he did.  He is truly one of the best character actors in movie history. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the sort of film that people in America didn't go see because they were told they weren't smart enough to like it.  Basically it has the backstory of a limitlessly skilled and talented director who was known for only two things in England and only one thing in America.  In England there was comedy and suspense, here there was only suspense.  This is the film that perfectly merges the two, and Hitchcock spent several years getting it made (or getting around to getting it made).  Then he put together much of the team that did it, and assisted (uncredited) on the screenplay himself. He also decided to set it in New England instead of...the old one. Bernard Hermann's first score for Hitchcock would be called among his best, if they weren't all among his best.  The score does for the movie what Hollywood sensibilities could not, it deepens and expands it until it emerges as somewhat of a meditation on other ways we might treat death if we weren't automatically horrified by it, especially in America.  The idea is preposterous and the treatment is hilarious, and disturbing.  Never more so than when the old captain asks if they hadn't better say some words over the grave of the thrice buried Harry and Shirley MacLaine in her first film role says straight, It's too late to say prayers.  Besides, wherever he was going he's there now.  Even though Hitch's movies are peopled with tons of monotone-reciting precocious child characters, and this one is the Beaver himself, in the trappings of this film he actually achieves cute, instead of the anticipated vomitous.  Shirley MacLaine as the mother of Jerry Mathers.  Ah, Hollywood.  The shots of Vermont are excellent, the script is a mix between excellently witty one-liners and very subtle and honed British situational comedy.  It blends together perfectly Hitchcock's two preferred styles, shooting it as though it were the most serious of thrillers avoids insulting the audience and respects the material.  Altogether, it's what may come closest to the quintessential Hitchcock movie, next to North by Northwest.  "},{"Title":"The most delightful dialogue I've ever heard in a movie","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie again yesterday for the umpteenth time and never cease to smile at the wonderful dialogue full of witticisms throughout the picture.  There are three perfect things about this picture.  The screenplay as I have just mentioned, the breathtaking scenery, and the marvelous casting.  Where in Vermont was this movie filmed?  And are all of those lovely places the same as they were in 1955 or have they been taken over by development and the urban sprawl of the last couple of decades?      John Forsythe and Shirley McLaine in early roles were the perfect low key hero and heroine of this picture.  Anyone more well known at the time would not have come across the same as they did.  Mildred Natwick and Edmund Gwenn were also perfect.  But back to the dialogue.         The wonderful scene in the General Store when Miss Natwick  admired the large teacup, the scene on the porch when Shirley was explaining about her failed wedding night and how she had worked herself up to a certain enthusiasm, and don't miss all of Edmund Gwenn's comments as he waits behind a tree in the woods for all of the people, who have stumbled across Harry's body, to leave.  These scenes are just a small mention of the perfect dialogue in this picture.       Hitchcock's sense of humor and subtlety was very prevalent in this film.  I consider it one of his very best.    "},{"Title":"an unexpected delight!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  All I can say is Hitchcock's versatility shows in this delight of a black comedy. At first glance it doesn't look like it would come from the same mind that gave us Psycho, Lifeboat, or The Birds --- but stick with it, and prepare to see what the old master was up to! Several folks have posted negative reviews, but it must have to do with the perspective they brought with them to the viewing. This is a charming, devious black comedy, right up there with Bringing Up Baby in my book. Not a landmark film, or even Hitchcock's best, but it does what I imagine he intended, and does it devilishly well. To those who didn't enjoy it, I say my condolences; perhaps saying they didn't get it would be more accurate, if less kind. "},{"Title":"Less is More!!!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There seem to be many mixed reviews regarding this movie.  I personally find this movie greatly entertaining.  Most of the actors in this film are easily recognizable but not to the point where their names detract from the film.  As with most of the other reviewers I find the scenery beautiful.  Perhaps the greatest thing about this movie is the story line. Many of Hitchcock's films revolve around a male who has been wrongfully accused and has to clear his name.  Usually the male lead encounters an attractive female who gets dragged along in the chase and during the chase grows fond of the male lead.    This film has a drastically different story line.  A man has been found dead and several of the townspeople have motives for wanting the man dead and now these would be suspects have to work together to  hide the body and figure out if he has been killed and if so who did it.This film is great.  The story line held my attention and the light tongue and cheek humor really holds the film and characters together.  Also, the song Sam is singing as he first approaches town is catchy.  I am still searching for this song  Flaggin the Train to Tuscolusa(sp). "},{"Title":"Scenic Overlook","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN UNINTENTIONAL SPOILERS. PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK.THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY is definitely among my favorite Hitchcocks of all time. So many elements combined to make a truly visual and auditory feast.First of all, my favorite aspect of this film is the lush, vibrant, colorful autumn cinematography, which was shot in Barre, Vermont. This adds a breathtaking background to the hilarities which ensue. The movie wouldn't have been quite so memorable had it not been for the use of this setting. Adding to this wonderful scenery is Bernard Herrmann's exceptional score. The music enhances the background as it also does to the story. The excellent use of strings highlights the score, which is underscored by brass and woodwinds. One of Herrmann's best that deserves to be placed in the same ranks as PSYCHO, VERTIGO, and NORTH BY NORTHWEST. Next comes the story and dialog. Absolutely brilliant. John Michael Hayes in his third collaboration with Hitchcock adds smart witticisms interwoven with Hitchcock's trademark macabre black comedy to create a masterpiece script, highlighted with unique characters and original dialogs. Also, watch for an excellent twist in the surprise ending! The acting is superb. In her first role, Shirley MacLaine does something far from TERMS OF ENDEARMENT in brining to life the carefree Jennifer Rogers, a lemonade-loving small-town mother. Also in the cast are John Forsythe (as a struggling artist more interested in Jennifer than making a sale,) Mildred Natwick playing the charming, young-spirited Miss Gravely, and finally the best of them all, Edmund Gwenn as the kind-hearted Captain Wiles.All in all, many, many excellent elements combine to make THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY a very memorable (and lesser-known) Hitchcock classic. If you like black comedy with a light twist, you must see THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY. "},{"Title":"Very funny black comedy. Being dead is not easy.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A very unusual Alfred Hitchcock film. A dead man is found in a beautiful Vermont meadow. The deceased is believed shot by a rabbit hunter; discovered by a water gun carrying little boy; sketched by an artist; tripped over twice by the same hiking reader; buried, unburied, buried and unburied...the subject of shallow remorse and weak guilt.This is laugh out loud funny. Very unlike the stable of Hitchcock masterpieces. John Forsythe and Edmund Gwenn star. You see Shirley MacLaine in her debut and a very young Jerry Mathers, before he became 'the Beaver'.  "},{"Title":"Very witty","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  With the zany humor and minimalistic reactions of the characters to something as serious as a dead body, one would think this is a British comedy.... and it is!  Very funny offering from Hitchcock, whose sense of humor gets a starring role.  Likeable performances by the leads, including one by young Shirley MacLaine as the mother of Jerry The Beaver Mathers. Definitely a keeper; one you'll watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike today's fast-paced films, this one moves slowly and deliberately. It's quiet and quirky; a black comedy of errors.  It's a gem!  I'm not a collector of older films but this one and Harvey are both in my library. It's delightful! It's also a real hoot to see Shirley MacLaine, John Forsythe and Jerry Mathers in their early days..... give it a try. "},{"Title":"Reasonably amusing fare but the restrained approach weakens the material once the novelty of it has worn off","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Harry Worp is not really known to the locals in a small village in New England, but he is about to have a massive impact on their lives on a mild day in early autumn. Out trying (and mostly failing) to shoot rabbits, Captain Albert Wiles stumbles over Harry's dead body lying with gunshot wound to the head. He decides to hide the body but before he can move it others have already stumbled over the body but have taken a surprisingly uninterested approach to it. As he waits for his time, Captain is discovered by local artist Sam Marlowe, who offers to help cover it up. When they work out who he was, they also find that there are a couple more people in the village who think they are responsible for the murder.One of the missing Hitchcocks this is, in my opinion, the least of the five films although it is still interesting and amusing to a point. The interesting setup could have been used to much better effect although Hitchcock does enjoy the contrast of murder set against the rather nonplussed residents of New England. The film's score underlines this approach by being constantly upbeat and flying in the face of the macabre events on screen. The narrative does take some time to get going and spends far too long with Sam Marlowe early on but when it gets up a bit of energy by the middle stages it is a bit more fun. The problem is that other than being fairly amusing it isn't actually that interesting a story all told. The spirit of restraint that is inherent in the characters and place cannot help but slow and rather damage the film to a degree. I know some people shudder to criticise Hitchcock but he cannot bring enough pace or humour to the film to make it as good as his other impressive films.What he does do very well is direct although it helps that the cinematography is so lush; the rich New England reds and golds work well with the subject of death in the air. His direction of the cast is misjudged though and most of the performances are pretty poor. I don't want to be unkind to the cast but for some of them I felt that Harry himself was more natural and convincing than some of them. Forsythe is the leading man but he isn't that good and is rather dominated by a so-so but enjoyable turn from Gwenn. MacLaine is pretty lively in her debut performance but Marfield couldn't have been more wooden if he had been provided by IKEA. Dunnock and Natwick are reasonable. The restrained air that they produce does work to generate some nice moments of humour but I felt it also held them and the film back from doing more and I didn't think it worked that well.Worth seeing for Hitchcock fans then but perhaps not strong enough for a wider audience and surely I can't be the only one that viewed the conclusion as just one big weak cop-out? "}{"Title":"not top-notch Hitchcock","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  One of the lesser works in Alfred Hitchcock's peerless filmography, this occasionally droll black comedy isn't really as much of a departure for the master of suspense as it has often been made out to be. Hitch's best films always had healthy doses of mordant humor, anyway. And while this film does have its virtues--including lovely cinematography of the New England countryside in autumn and the usual fine musical score of Bernard Herrmann--they are offset by the fatally slack pacing and a miscast leading man (a thoroughly blah John Forsythe). In her film debut, Shirley MacLaine gives a somewhat tentative performance, though the off-kilter beauty and charm that have given her one of the longest-running careers in films are very much evident here.  "},{"Title":"a colossal disappointment","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The trouble with Harry is woven around a dead body( of harry) which is found in woods by a wandering kid,then by an old man who is shooting around rabbits,and consequently by few more people. They all have a different way of their own of responding, concluding and acting. They end up digging in and digging out the body thrice and at the end leave the body at the same spot, the very next day.and the caption comes the trouble with harry is over.frankly i watched TTWH twice, first time i could bear it only for 5 minutes and deleted it. today I again downloaded it by accident after two years, the moment it started i got the flashbacks of this movie,but i decided to watch it ,thinking hitchcock would surprise me in the end like always. after watching rope,strangers on train,psycho,vertigo,dial m for murder etc etc i was a die hard fan of hitchcock, but this movie is a colossal waste of time,a torture, a blot on cinema ,a shameless ridiculing the feelings of us,a sheer trash. i beg you plz plz plz..do not watch it..!!!never..ever..ever..!!the worst creation of hitchcock..!!! "},{"Title":"The oddest Hitchcock film, which doesn't really work","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Bearing the seal of the Master, I thought this one was guaranteed to bring thrills and quality. Instead, this was a rather hastily done comedy. The dark ironic element is still there, but it seems somehow out of place in this light-hearted effort. It didn't work for me, but at least it doesn't take itself seriously. Only for die-hard fans who want the complete collection. "},{"Title":"A big waste of  time","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Very pretty New England scenery etcetera but that's about all this stinker has going for it. I saw this when it first came out and by the end of the first reel I expected there would be some sort of wry humor would emerge out of it but no, it just went on and on, and got sillier with every scene. I always wondered why Paramount didn't stop production when they saw the final script and I can imagine it would now be just an embarrassment for the entire cast. Like most of Hitchcock's post-Psycho movies it should have finished him in Hollywood but then he redeemed himself with the very watchable To Catch a Thief. This tiresome load of nonsense ranks high in my personal list of the ten worst movies of all time. "},{"Title":"An alternative critique of this classic comedy.","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" All the subtlety and detail imbued in this screenplay matters little when it is lost in tentative and banal acting. Comedy is particularly satisfying when it deals with the shortcomings of human nature, not when it denies natural emotions and intellect as this story does so inexcusably. This could have been good, had the story adhered to a few requirements for good storytelling. First, develop characters so that I care about them. Second, in all good fiction, always tell the truth; that is to say, the story must be believable. Third, do not appall the audience with lackluster, passionless actors who mete out stilted lines and gestures. I think this movie could have been twice as effective had Hitchcock used cardboard cutouts of the actors with stop-motion animation. "},{"Title":"Diabolical","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" In 1952 Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac published a novel entitled Celle qui n'etait plus (She Who Was Not) somehow it came to Hitchcock's attention and seeing the potential for a film he tried to buy the rights but was beaten by Henri-Georges Clouzot (Hitch had more luck with another Boileau-Narcejac title D'entre les morts (1954) which he turned into Vertigo. However he was not only an indifferent film maker but a bad loser so he shot Celle qui n'etait plus anyway and released it the same year as Clouzot released his version, Les Diaboliques. In a clumsy attempt to muddy the water Hitch shot The Trouble With Harry as ho-hum comedy rather than the classic thriller that Clouzot released as Les Diaboliques. By far the best thing about Harry is the location shooting in Vermont. The casting was eclectic to say the least with acting honours shared between the two great Mildreds - Natwick and Dunnock - of American stage and screen, Edmund Gwenn phoning in his 'quaint' persona, Royal Dano about as far East as he can get from his natural habitat the Western and two mediocre efforts from John Forsyth and Shirley MacLaine. The peripatetic corpse is present in both films and for good measure Hitch has Harry end up in the bathtub as did Paul Meurisse. See it for the foliage "},{"Title":"From the title, I was afraid that this movie . . .","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" . . . might be some sort of polemic against unshaven European women, but I was relieved to find out that it was a delightful period piece featuring the Beav himself, Jerry Mathers (in the role of Jennifer's son, Arnie). Shirley MacLaine makes her film debut here as Jennifer, and the nonchalance with which she approaches the part endows both her character and her future public persona with that wacky anything goes quality which defies the traditional cookie cutter plastic ladies Hollywood normally churns out, on-screen and off-. The fact that nobody gets their noses out of joint over the haphazard way in which Harry finally gets gotten rid of toward the end of this story shows how America in the 1950s was much less contentious than the country of today. Back then people disappeared all the time without a peep or an Amber Alert. Today, Nancy Grace would be yammering to have at least three of the cast members of this flick brought up on criminal charges, and the rich guy would be less apt to be wasting dough on Sam's art, and much more likely to be finding some pretext to sue the local medical examiner for civil damages over the ME's callous dismissal of Harry's demise as being due to natural causes. "},{"Title":"The Trouble with Harry","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" From director Sir Alfred Hitchcock, I was mistaken by the phrase the corpse who won't stay buried into thinking something different, but it didn't matter. Basically young Arnie Rogers (Jerry Mathers) is walking through the Virmont woods and hears gun fire ahead of him, and when it is quiet he goes to investigate, and soon enough finds the dead body of Harry Worp (Philip Truex), and he runs home to tell his mother. Then along comes Capt. Albert Wiles (Miracle on 34th Street's Edmund Gwenn) who holding his shotgun believes he may have accidentally killed Harry, and he tells passing spinster Miss Ivy Gravely (Mildred Natwick) the same thing. After many other passers by, including Arnie and his mother Jennifer (introducing young BAFTA nominated Shirley MacLaine) who confirms the identity of her ex-husband, and she doesn't react much, artist Sam Marlowe (John Forsythe) stops and sketches the face of the dead man, and helps the Captain bury the body. Captain insists on digging him back again to check exactly how he died, i.e. whether his head injury is a bullet wound, it turns out it's not. When they return to town, Sam tries to get a sale from his artwork, and the Captain spends teatime with Ivy before they go to dig up Harry again so she can confirm how he died. Eventually all four characters, three feeling they may have caused Harry's death, come together to decide what to do with him, and they decide to bury him again in a mini funeral style thing. They return to the house, and when Sam strikes a deal to sell all his paintings to a Millionaire (Parker Fennelly), instead of taking money he asks each of his new friends for things they most want, and for himself something that may involve a certain someone dead. Sam is very eager to marry his newfound love interest Jennifer, but that would mean having to dig up Harry, again, for the law to confirm him dead. So they take Harry back to the house to clean his clothes and make his death from a club on the head look natural like it never happened. In the end, after a near catch by Deputy Sheriff Calvin Wiggs (Royal Dano), Harry put back where he was found, clothes and shoes back on his body, and little Arnie pretends like it is the first time he sees the body to report. Also starring Mildred Dunnock as Mrs. Wiggs, Barry Macollum as Tramp, Dwight Marfield as Dr. Greenbow, and Hitchcock's cameo is Man Walking Past Sam's Outdoor Exhibition. It is both understandable and surprising that this was a cinema flop, especially from the master of suspense, but with great wry humour and laughs made from the circumstances of getting rid of a dead body, it is a quaint and likable black comedy. It was nominated the BAFTA Film Award Best Film from any Source. Very good! "},{"Title":"Cutesy-wutesy","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Lovely scenery but you know if you get Edmund Gwenn, you're going to get whimsy and lots of it. (He did, after all, play Kris Kringle in the original Miracle on 34th Street.) John Forsythe basically got lost among the rest of the cast who were all stronger and that includes The Beaver himself, Jerry Mathers.As at least someone else mentioned, it did remind me very much of Arsenic and Old Lace which had a stronger story and, in the film, Cary Grant. It's interesting that, at one point, Edmund mentioned that he might have elderberry wine before he was went over to Mildred N's and this was the drink that was used for poisoning in the other story.I found it contrived but fairly entertaining and mildly funny. Worth a view but don't go out of your way.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Strange Hitchcock movie","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This seems to me to be a very odd choice for Hitchcock, and not altogether successful. The movie has a nice feel for small-town New England in the fall (at least as well as I recall it from my teens), and it is quite funny occasionally, but overall it is just pleasant. You know that the characters are quirky because the script says they are, but it often seems forced. Shirley MacLaine is quite good at what was a trademark of her cute period, but casting John Forsythe as a painter seems very strange. Also, every print of this movie that I've ever seen is quite muddy-looking, but I have no idea if this is intentional.If you like Hitchcock (and who doesn't), you will probably enjoy this if your expectations are low enough. It's no Rear Window, but it's not Topaz, either. "}{"Title":"Weak comedy from the master of suspense","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The only interesting thing about this movie is fact that this is Shirley Maclaine debut. Other than that it's a completely forgettable movie. The acting is decent and some jokes made me half-smile and that's it.The humor is forced or outdated (depends on your point of view). I like black comedy , I like the humor in Hitchcock films , but this one was just boring. The idea seems interesting , but the writer didn't do anything interesting with it. The only thing that kept me interested was the mystery &#x96; how did he died , who killed him , who is he and how will it end. Other than that there's nothing interesting in terms of humor or plot.For devoted fans of Hitchcock or fans of mild black humor . I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"The trouble with Harry is ... its awful.","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm a big Hitchcock fan everything from Blackmail 1929 to Frenzy 1972. The Trouble with Harry is by far his worst movie. Dull doesn't begin to describe the hollow, cringe worthy clunking amateurish quality of this film. Its as if Hitch had forgotten everything he had learned from making movies in the U.S. for the last 16 years. He has gone back to making one of his less than successful British clunkers from the early 30's. The characters are life less ,forced, the plot a one note joke. Just how long has Edmund Gwynne been napping by that log? Please avoid this movie unless you need to confirm that even a cinematic master could screw up now and again. "},{"Title":"...is that it's a tedious story even with its droll humor...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  On the plus side, you have gorgeous New England scenery and brilliant autumnal colors, a nice score by Bernard Herrmann and a likeable enough cast that is unfortunately lacking a big name star to carry it. It needs carrying. The distasteful story is about as tedious a lark as has ever been the subject of a movie that drags on for what seems an interminable length about a body being buried and dug up again.No matter how quaint some of the dialog and situations are, you are left with the impression that Hitchcock made this film purely to satisfy his own droll and somewhat macabre sense of humor. John Forsythe is no Cary Grant and cannot deliver the humor inherent in the situation. Shirley MacLaine established herself as a light comedienne in wacky roles with this film debut--a rather good debut in lightweight material. Mildred Natwick and Edmund Gwenn are thoroughly professional but it's all to no avail.Sorry, this is one Hitchcock movie I could easily have skipped without missing anything. Notable only for the gorgeous technicolor photography. Brings to mind the 1989 comedy, Weekend at Bernie's, an even worse and more tasteless excursion into black comedy. "},{"Title":"He's terminal...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" One of director Alfred Hitchcock's groaners, a COMEDY which takes place in a sleepy New England town where a Bostonian man lays dead in the woods from a gunshot wound; the thin plot revolves around a handful of kooky residents who each have a run-in with the corpse. A very fine cast (the always-excellent Edmund Gwenn, John Forsythe, Shirley MacLaine in her debut, Mildred Natwick, Jerry Mathers as MacLaine's son) can't do much with this hackneyed script, and surprisingly neither can Hitchcock. The Master's pacing is so sluggish that he seems to be not quite present, yet the autumnal scenery is beautiful and the characters would be amusing if they had peppier lines. MacLaine is a fetching gamine, but she seems intent on pushing lemonade on everybody (she's overtly 'natural'). The song Flaggin' the Train to Tuscaloosa is memorable, and the basic theme of the movie (the troublesome corpse) is ripe for terrific possibilities which aren't quite realized here. It's cozy but bland. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Don't let Hitchcock play with your brain","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" What's most surprising about this film is the date, 1955. It is a nice criminal detective comedy since all ends well that had started very grimly and so bad. If we take this film like all films by Hitchcock should be taken, that is to say as a metaphor of real life, of history, of fate, then we might be less surprised by the date. After all the worst is gone, is behind. The war is finished, the second world war and the Korean war, and even McCarthy is dead and buried, politically I mean. We can breathe. The future is clear. The complications are all behind. We are finally getting out of this dark hole in which we had been buried for a long time. The famous post war thirty glorious years and its baby boom generation are starting to bring in the fruit of our suffering, sweating and efforts if not travail. What we have produced is being bought by some millionaire. Our work is recognized and valorized. We are going to be famous, great, rich, beautiful, who knows what else. So we can bury the past. We can un-bury it, and then bury it again, and eventually un-bury it a second time, but why not re-bury that poor past in order to finally get it out once more and discover it was not so bad and it was nothing but some kind of sad heart disease, a disease of the heart, a weak heart crushed by passions, love passion, dreams that me made into nightmares, and maybe some anger. But the film is surprising because Hitchcock manages to have absolutely no staircase, no flights of steps, with or without mezzanines, and yet don't believe me that easy because it is not flat country indeed. And so up they go and down they go, the roads and the tramps, and all the other people in that village, uphill and downhill, upstage and downstage, upriver and downriver, up the strokes and down the strokes to paint and paint and paint reality till no one recognizes it or sees it. And if it were not enough to constantly go up and down lanes and paths and trails and tracks, you go up and down into and out of the ground, you dig out and fill up and dig in and refill up and dig out again and fill up a third time and dig up this time and fill down for the last time. All that vertical movement around a man who is dead and lying horizontal in the middle of the auburn and russet leaves of the fall. Hitchcock is still with us. And he is all the more with us because he explores the psyche of the human species. When they meet with death, their first reaction is to feel guilty for a crime they assume at once they have committed. Paranoid species. Then they feel relieved because someone else assumes the crime they have committed till they feel guilty again and reveal their own doing in the crime. Neurotic, psychotic and schizophrenic, all in one same species. But then they try to forget and wipe it out to go on with the present and their lives. But that is to no avail because life is stronger than illusions and death is even stronger than life. So the crime comes back because it has to be brought out and registered for the life of the living to be able to go on. And it is then that it is all revealed that human beings are as dumb as my thumb and instead of having thought and thought again and pondered, they jumped to conclusions without even thinking one second. And it is the crazy doctor who trips on cadavers all the time and beg their pardons for having disturbed them who finds out all that death was natural and the hullabaloo was nothing but a mid summer night's dream in the middle of the fall. In other words Hitchcock is questioning us on the real value of life when death is no longer a crime. There seems to be little left in life if that is the case. Crime and murder are the real spices of life which is so banal and tasteless otherwise.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Ages well, but nothing special","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  While this film has aged well, it's not especially well made. It's watchable, maybe even entertaining, but I wouldn't say that it's worthy of the mystique that Hitchcock has aquired. Having also seen Rear Window, I'm wondering if that reputation is deserved at all. This is, however, a decent film, and better than many things being released in the present day. "},{"Title":"Boring and unfunny black comedy","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst Hitchcock movies I've seen. It is boring and unfunny. Only good thing in this movie are the actors. Too bad this movie is so unfunny, because the plot could have made it funnier. But now funny scenes only include the characters burying, burying the body over and over again.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"Dark Humor Too Dated For Today","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a strange film because it's black humor, something you didn't see much in classic films, at least up to this time, but would be more prevalent as years went on. It's also an Alfred Hitchcock movie which means it got more attention from critics than it probably deserved. It really wasn't all that funny; more stupid than anything else. John Forysthe's character Sam Marlowe led in the stupid department. However, Edmund Gwenn - a reliable actor when it came to entertaining us back in the '50s - somewhat saves the picture with an amusing role as Captain Albert Wiles. He is particularly good in the first 12 minutes. That first dozen minutes are the best part of the film anyway. It goes downhill quickly afterward. Dark humor is better today. Perhaps it only works in the era it is being presented. I did enjoy the pretty New England fall colors that are in this movie and I liked this movie when I first saw it. But as years go by, this movie gets slower and dumber and not good enough for any future viewings.The movie is of note for two other actors Shirley MacLaine and Jerry Mathers. This was MacLaine's first feature film and Mathers, only about 4 or 5 year old, went on to big television fame as title star in Leave It To Beaver. "},{"Title":"I guess this is why Hitchcock didn't make many comedies","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" At least Sir Alfred Hitchcock knew early on that comedies weren't his forte, and that thrillers and mysteries were where his strengths had lied. This film was completely unfunny, and I don't think it's just 50's sensibilities not working in the 21st century. I enjoy many of Hitchcock's films, and Vertigo is probably in my All-Time Top 20. But this is probably the worst Hitchcock movie I've ever seen. John Forsythe was so bad and unfunny that he was actually annoying and irritating. The only positives I can say about this film is that it had beautiful Vermont scenery, and it was fun to see Shirley McLaine in her first movie, as well as Jerry Mathers before he made it big on Leave it to Beaver! "}]