[{"Title":"There's Majesty For You!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"88 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  We are all killers, on land and on sea, wrote Herman Melville more than 100 years ago.  But the artistic failure of a recent television adaptation of his greatest work shows that some are killers, too, on screen.  Movie makers.  Butchers.  Their guts are now gorged with Moby Dick.Majestic raved TV Guide about USA Network's production of Melville's book.  Reading that review I had a fantasy where Captain Ahab, with his sublime limp, walks into the magazine's office, shoves director John Huston's 1956 film of Moby Dick into the VCR, points to the screen and defiantly exclaimsThere's majesty for you . . . . . .  in the faces of men.  Huston's film benefits from its intelligent casting of the seamen.  The actors in the recent production are just pretty-boy imports from Los Angeles, rabble-rousers lacking the dignity that is gained from a lifetime of duty.  But that dignity is plainly visible on the rugged faces of the men in the earlier film.  One rarely sees that anymore.. . .  in the faces of women, too.  The images of the women suffering as they watch their men go off to sea are utterly devastating, they hold so much emotional depth, so much beauty.  The attention to detail in Huston's film is striking  the hairs on the chins of the old women, the tired, thick-skinned expressions of the wives and widows, the heavy shawls covering their heads.. . .  in the performances.  Over 40 years ago when Orson Welles gave his performance as Father Mapple (a role which only a person with a special kind of magnificence could successfully take on), Gregory Peck might have been busily preparing for his role as Captain Ahab in the same film.  What a testament to Peck's stature as one of our leading actors that throughout his career he could play not only Captain Ahab but also, in the recent production, Father Mapple.. . . in the color.  Huston's film is in Technicolor, a technique which produced colors not even seen in nature.  The sky is now blue now red now green.  The water is brown, pink, gray. Colors blend. Colors clash.  By comparison, how banal the colors of our post-Technicolor world!. . . in the mouth.  The seamen have the exquisite mouths of pipe-smokers. The upper lip tight and stiff after so many hours pulled down in the puff.. . . in the eyes.  My favorite scene is where Peck as Captain Ahab famously proclaims Speak not to me of blasphemy.  I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.   The lighting, the acting, everything here is superb.  The camera is focused tightly on Peck's face.  The stark appearance of his eyes --  the tense, black irises all surrounded by gleaming white -- seems to reveal the subtext of the story.  His eyes electrify!John Huston's film says more in its two hours than USA Network's says in four; it suggests a lot and explains little, whereas the latter tries to explain a lot but says nothing.  A great film, it doesn't butcher Melville's Moby Dick but adds to its power. "},{"Title":"Better and better each time you see it","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"61 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Some critics panned this pic when it came out - Peck too wooden, the script too cliched, etc, etc. Don't believe a word of it. I saw this one when I was 8 or 9, and for years I watched it every time it came on TV - even in B&W! Peck isn't wooden, he's intense and fascinating (my favorite scene in his cabin, saying to Starbuck, That bed is a coffin). The language may sound stilted, but it's MELVILLE'S, and the cast sink into it with conviction.Some critic (I don't know which) has said that Moby Dick (the book) is an uncomfortable masterpiece - or something like that - meaning that it's a hard pill to swallow. The movie is bound to be a hard pill for many viewers as well. But that's their loss. Huston's movie is a great big powerful thing - you believe in Peck's crazy passion, in Starbuck's gentleness, in Ishmael and Quequeg's bond, in the evil of the whale, even. Another favorite sequence the Pequot becalmed, the crew lying about under the intense sun, slowly going crazy. The climactic chase is superb and thrilling, of course; what it all adds up to is a film about the elements, and our relationship to them. The whale is just the biggest of a whole slew that constantly threaten to destroy us. Nature, our natures - all the things we fight against with our intelligence, that threaten to engulf us.Beautiful film, one of Huston's best. I find the analogy with Hitler/Nazis in an earlier comment very interesting. Another would be with an earlier Huston film, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre - another film about people taking terrible chances for reasons that don't stand up to a lot of examination, whose biggest obstacle turns out to be themselves. By the way, will someone please rerelease Moby Dick in a restored version so we can get a really good look at all that glorious Technicolor? "},{"Title":"A Fine Job of Filming a Challenging Novel","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"46 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It would be impossible to make a movie that came up to the standard of the novel Moby-Dick, but this film does a fine job of capturing some of the most important themes, and of telling a selection of the key parts of the story in an interesting way. It would be a temptation for any film-maker to put the focus on the action and the special effects, and thus ruin the heart of the book by downplaying its themes, as so many recent films have done with other classic material. Instead, John Huston's version concentrates on bringing out many of the complex internal and external conflicts of Captain Ahab, in sketching the crew members and their reactions to Ahab's monomania, and in portraying the atmosphere of frequent tedium, growing tension, and occasional dread aboard the 'Pequod'.Richard Basehart's mild, pleasant demeanor makes Ishmael an appropriate mirror for the events and characters on the ship. Gregory Peck does rather well in the very challenging role of Ahab. Ahab is one of the most carefully-designed and demanding characters in literature, and lesser actors would simply be an embarrassment in the part. On screen, there is much to Ahab that just does not come across, and Peck's performance has to be judged with that in mind.Leo Genn makes his scenes as Starbuck count, and several of the other crew members are portrayed well, albeit in much smaller parts. As Father Mapple, Orson Welles has only one scene, but it is an important one, in that it sets up some of the vital themes of the story ahead. Welles was an ideal choice, and his scene in the church is one scene that does come up to the high standard of Melville's novel.While there may indeed be some areas in which this version falls short, and it's fair to point them out, it would be pretty difficult to improve on it in a cinema version of the story. And if taken on its own, it fits together well, making generally good choices as to what material would fit together and would work on screen, and in using the photography and settings to create the right atmosphere. For those who appreciate the depth of the original story, this has more than enough to make it worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A classic like none before or since!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"50 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you have ever read the Herman Melville story of Moby Dick, then you will know how hard it must have been for John Huston to turn it into film. Thanks to Ray Bradbury's screenplay and great acting, this film became a classic. That it is not in the top 250 IMDB rated films is a shame. I hope that this is due to it's limited showings and therefore not being seen by many of this site's users. From the start to the finish the film is well paced. The casting of Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab was wise. He commands the role well. Orson Welles appearance as the minister is also a treat to behold. Welles shows that he can add so much to a film whether it be a small role or a large one. Special effects are the only thing that could have been a bit better done. However, in 1956, depicting a great white whale with an attitude was not an easy accomplishment film making wise. This film does go into the relationship between man and God, so some folks will no doubt be prejudiced against the film. Keep in mind the story's time period and locale. The seafaring men of New England really did once hold God close to their heart. Melville's use of a whale to depict the struggle was good. Huston getting it onto film was even better. Sorry, I like the film better than the book. MM "},{"Title":"Moby Dick Huston's Masterpiece","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Moby Dick is one of the great adventure films of all time, and one of the greatest psychological stories ever told. Ahab & his quest for the White Whale have reached the status of a cultural icon, but this film was wonderful when it was released, remains wonderful today, and will I think stand the test of time well into the future.I'd heard that even Gregory Peck himself had been talked into believing that his performance was 'wooden', but that is hogwash. This is probably Peck's greatest performance, and that's saying something.Moby Dick takes us into two strange and unfamiliar worlds--that of the 19th-century whaler and its crew on a global hunt for whale oil on the high seas, and that of Captain Ahab's mind. A great adventure and a great obsession intertwined, inseparable.The script was a brilliant adaptation of a difficult book. John Huston & Ray Bradbury put this together and managed to use a number of lines directly from the book in the sometimes odd vernacular of the period that gives certain scenes and dialogue such presence and authenticity.From the odd first spoken line in the film, the voice-over of Richard Basehart saying Call me Ishmael, the brilliantly constructed initial scenes that brought us, the audience, down to the sea as they brought the young Ishmael to it, the wonderful scenes in The Spouter's Inn where Ishmael meets innkeeper Peter Coffin and some of the Pequod's crew, notably Stubb, who goodnaturedly challenges Ishmael's seagoing ambition and, when convinced that he is authentic, introduces him to the inn's customs and celebration. And the unforgettable, wonderful and strange Queequeg with his head. Who wouldn't want to join a whaling voyage with this lot?! Peck's Ahab is one of the most compelling and memorable characters ever portrayed on film, and the transformation of the crew to carry out Ahab's obsessive search for the White Whale even against their better judgement was wonderfully portrayed and is the singular most important element of the story & of this script.It is absurd to describe what happens in this film, and I will not. Suffice to say that this is a great film, one I can watch from time to time with almost the same frequency as 'Casablanca'. "},{"Title":"Gotten Better With Age","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" When John Huston was casting for Moby Dick he got to make it on condition that he get a name actor to play Ahab. He went to Gregory Peck who was surprised by the offer. Given his image and the roles he had played up to that time, Peck thought he'd be better cast as Starbuck the first mate. Nevertheless he agreed to do Ahab.Peck got mixed reviews at the time, but over the course of 50 years his performance has gotten better with time. The film itself which was shot in Ireland and Wales has also aged well. It's a nice depiction of life on a whaling ship in the 1840s and the crew of the Pequod are nicely cast in their roles.Orson Welles was set to do his own adaption of Moby Dick and canceled his film when he heard his friend John Huston was doing Moby Dick. Welles asked about doing Ahab, but was given the small role of Father Mapple, the minister who blesses the Pequod's voyage. In fact Huston gave Welles a free hand to do the scene as he saw fit and the results are gratifying.Of course Herman Melville's novel is about obsession and vengeance. I've always thought the point of Moby Dick is that the evil white whale who Ahab so personalizes and demonizes is just a whale doing his whale thing trying to stay alive. It is in fact the whalers who hunt him and his kind. And Ahab losing his leg is what we would call an occupational accident. The evil is how Ahab seduces the whole crew into his own madness, even first mate Starbuck, played winningly by Leo Genn who is the voice of reason and civilization.Other cast members to note are Harry Andrews as second mate Stub, Friedrich Ledebuhr as Queequeg the Pacific Islander harpooner, and of course Richard Basehart as Ishmael who tells the tale. "},{"Title":"Calls you to the sea again...","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that becomes part of you.  I used to watch it over and over again on TV when it was shown during my childhood in the 1960's, and I never tire of watching it.  And whenever I find myself living somewhere away from the ocean, the longing is intense to find water again.  Call me Ishmael.The screenplay was written by Ray Bradbury, and it was his first.  In his lectures and interviews, Bradbury always seems to tell the story of how John Huston contacted him out of the blue for this assignment.  Evidently, he flew Bradbury and his wife to Ireland, where the science fiction writer was holed up in a hotel for a few weeks, in a wonderful agony of creation.Bradbury has always been enamoured with classic novels.  His book Fahrenheit 451 told us how great literature somehow becomes subversive, in a controlled society.  Under fascism, individuals are not encouraged to understand what it is to be truly human.  Life becomes flat, and it is a deliberate process.Before I had a VCR, I taped this movie on an audio cassette.  It was an amazing experience to see it unfold in my mind's eye.Bradbury put his whole heart into this screenplay, and the result can never be matched. "},{"Title":"no remakes - - PUH-LEEZE!!","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This version of the Melville classic should, without question, be  regarded as the penultimate screen adaptation of a masterwork of American fiction.  Everything - absolutely everything - about this film works, from John Huston's brilliant direction, to the screenplay ( co-written by Ray Bradbury ), to the powerful and believable performances.  Gregory Peck IS Ahab; if anyone defined and crystallized so megalomaniacal a character, it was Peck, hands down.  Not that this should be interpreted as a slight to any of the supporting cast; it isn't.  The casting is so good, in fact, that now we find it difficult, if not impossible, to view the supporting cast members in any other light, especially Frederich Ledebur his choice by the producers as Queequeg was nothing if not dead on the money, as was the small but significant part of Elizah, as portrayed by Royal Dano. Granted, some liberties were taken with the book ( so what else is new? ), such as the squid being written out completely, but this was, and continues to be, necessary in order to make a movie that doesn't take five hours to play out.  Yes, okay, it's a Cliff's Notes Moby Dick, but if what you're after is good direction, outstanding ( one could say tour de force ) acting, and a tight screenplay, then this is the movie for you.  Believe us, this is the one, NOT the remake with Patrick Stewart.  Stewart's Ahab is basically Patrick Stewart playing Patrick Stewart playing Ahab or, to put it another way, Huston's Moby Dick needs to be remade about as badly as the rest of us need leukemia.  'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"A great Ray Bradbury screenplay!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ray Bradbury wrote an incredible screenplay for this work. Instead of trying to capture Herman Melville's actual brilliant leviathan sprawl (and who COULD succeed at this?)-- a novel jammed with fantastic,bigger than life characters, many events of great symbolic significance, not to mention barrels of whaling information-- he carves out the tale of Ahab and his obsession with the white whale. Bradbury makes great impact with Ahab's symbolic sacraments and rituals, showing a man who spits in the face of his own and his crew's doom, binding his men to his will with any means necessary. It's hard to believe, but Ray Bradbury takes this glorious wild child of a book and makes it work. The music by Phillip Sainton and the cinematography are great, too, but nothing would have saved this movie from a bad screenplay. "},{"Title":"All you mast headers, now hear me. You're to look for the white whale...","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" At the new moon in April, Ahab will be ready. Captain Ahab, the god of the Pequod, champion of darkness. Gregory Peck brings life to Herman Melville's crazed and vengeful seaman, earning his title among men as supreme lord and dictator. He will also earn his place at the end of the story, as head piece on the big marble tombstone known as Moby Dick.Aside from the action and adventure, what I found most enthralling about the film was the rhythmic and romantic chanting of the sailors, especially at the outset as they prepare to go to sea. Their confidence belies the look of dread and concern on the faces of family and sweethearts, as if their fate could be known in advance. For one crew member, that may be the case, as Ishmael (Richard Basehart) carries with him the prophecy of the mysterious Elijah (Royal Dano).I know it wasn't my imagination because I went back and checked. The facial scarring of Queequeg (Friedrich Ledebur) never looked quite the same from scene to scene. Generally they were of a simple pattern, but one scene in particular on the open ocean offered a symmetrical set of circular whorls over Queequeg's brow. Perhaps it was Ray Bradbury's way of intimating a bit of The Illustrated Man into the character, I wonder.Here's one thing I can tell you. Watching those flimsy boats in pursuit of whales, even forgetting about the great white, I can't imagine a more horrific way to earn a living. Personally, I've never been on a roller-coaster in my life, but given the choice against being dragged around the ocean by an enraged animal of dubious tonnage, I'll take my chances at an amusement park. And stay dry.If there's one thing that didn't work for me in the film, it would have to be that electric green Stephen King effect that Ahab summons during the typhoon - what was that all about?All in all though, my first viewing of the film found it to be an effective character study of a mad and tortured individual. Ahab successfully bends the will of his crew to follow him into the mouth of hell, including lone hold out Starbuck (Leo Genn) by the time the whale claims his final victory. The Captain's demise in pursuit of his maniacal goal finds resonance in the limply waving arm that beckons his men to follow, to a watery doom in the shadow of an island unto himself, the great white whale. "}{"Title":" Just Because  we see it,  don't mean  it's  real ","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are many stories of the sea and the men who are drawn to it in ships. If one is looking for a film which awakens the ancient memories of the ocean, it's awesome power, it's ability to beckon and then destroy them,  Moby Dick  is such a film. In 1956, director John Huston passed up the opportunity to play the self-destructive Captain Ahab, and chose instead veteran actor Gregory Peck. Despite the fact many thought Peck was not the right man for the part (including Peck) the end product proved naysayers wrong. The film itself contains several direct passages from Herman Melvile's novel, which literally urges it along. From the beginning, with the main character stating Call me Ishmael this film invites the audience to witness whaling at the turn of the 19th century. It is the beginning of a young man's search for adventure and experience and encounters 'Elija' (Royal Dano) who warns him and his friend Queequeg (Friedrich Von Ledebur), that death awaits the 'Pequod'. Shipping from the port of New Bedford, the ship sails out to hunt whales for their oil. What Ishmael (Richard Basehart) learns is that his Captain is hell bent on personal revenge on one gigantic white whale called Moby Dick who crippled and disfigured him. Driven by incessant hatred, the Captain will not rest until the whale is dead. To that end, he will gamble his life, his crew, his purpose and ultimately his ship. Leo Genn plays Starbuck, the second in command, who will try and stop his Captain if he can. Harry Andrews plays Stubbs, the second mate. When the ship finally encounters the White Whale, it's a war of wills and makes for drama at it's very best. Perhaps that's what makes this movie a true Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant  Adaptation","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Very minor spoilers ahead. John Huston did a fantastic job adapting Melville's masterpiece for film. Ray Bradbury did an excellent job adapting the dialogue and exposition from the novel for the film. he took giant and important chunks of essential dialogue, without needing to take up the extraneous scientific jargon or soliliqiues that are better suited for the printed page than the screen. He remains faithful to Melville's vision, and the important symbolism is there. It's a very difficult job, and Melville's novel is a very difficult book to adapt, but Bradbury, who apparently hadn't read the book before adapting it, did one hell of a job.The actors are great, and it's a shame they didn't win any Oscars. Gregory Peck is excellent as the sullen, vengeance-driven Captain Aheab. He made the role his own, and knew when to be passionate and when to be calm and quiet. Some parts of the novel may seem wordy to viewers, but are important in conveying Melville's meaning, such as Father Mapple's sermon on man's obedience to God. If you have a short attention span, and only like action films that are short on substance, this movie is not for you. Everyone else must do themselves a favor and watch this classic. This is an adaptation for the ages. "},{"Title":"Intriguing Gregory Peck Perfomance","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gregory Peck gives a riveting portrayal of Captain Ahab, a man obsessed with hunting down the white whale, Moby Dick, who disfigured him years earlier. I haven't read the Herman Melville novel on which this film is based so I can't comment on it as as adaptation. Standing alone as afilm however, it was very entertaining. Peck draws the viewer in and makes him believe in (and fear) his obsession. The audience instantly becomes familiar with the hard life and the hopes of Ahab and his menas they engage in the ageless confrontation between man and nature. The special effects are suprisingly good for the era in which they were created. Very good film, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Huston's Treasure of the Sea","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the 1960s English professors and film critics delighted in bashing  this film.  The professors took the line that the movie wasn't Melville, while the critics dismissed Peck's interpretation of Captain Ahab as stiff.  Neither view holds up well today.Huston's Moby Dick isn't the whole book, but what film is?  Though he doesn't give you the breadth or the depth, Huston does deliver much of the spirit and heart of the novel.  The production values are splendid and the supporting players outstanding.  No one can top Orson Welles as   Father Mapple, but Leo Genn's Starbuck comes close.  My only complaint is with Richard Basehart, who was a good actor but at 42 much too old for Ishmael, who I believe is in his early 20s.  Stray thought - I wonder what James Dean would have done with Ishmael?    As for Peck, who else could have attempted this role in the mid-50s?   John Wayne?  Gary Cooper?  Let's be serious.  Sterling Hayden (who actually was quite a sailor) had the proper face and frame, but Hayden was never a box office draw and likely wasn't considered.  More to the point, Peck was a much better actor.  Though a bit young for Ahab, he certainly conveys both the man's insanity and his magnetism, which of course are inseparable.  In so many films (Twelve O'Clock High, Pork Chop Hill, The Guns of Navarone), Peck was nothing if not a leader.  Here he leads convincingly, which is essential, for Ahab is not Captain Quegg.  In spite of everything Ahab's men do not mutiny, they follow him down, and with Peck in the role you accept it.  Was he stiff?  Well, try walking around with a pegleg.  You'll probably feel a bit stiff yourself.  Better to call Peck's Ahab rigid and unflinching, qualities that are central to the character.  I have not seen Patrick Stewart's interpretation, but I doubt his Ahab achieves either Peck's demonic fury or his stone-hearted resolve. There have been few better films of life at sea and few better interpretations of classic literature.  Moby Dick is a treasure grown richer with age. "},{"Title":"flavour of the period","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I do understand the criticism of Gregory Peck. His character seems too young and not nearly tortured enough to do Ahab full justice.The book obsesses about the religious significance of everything. You get a flavour of that with this film too, with superstition seamlessly blended in as well. Orson Wells awesome cameo as the preacher sets up and supports this important plot element. Important because, this is how men thought and dealt with the ongoing risk associated with seafaring. They were literally at the mercy of nature & the elements for months & years at a time. An enduring image of the film for me is the scene where a member of the crew is seen carving patterns on Queequeg's (already heavily decorated) body using a knife. Queequeg himself is stoic and resigned to die at this point. Ishmael though, is outraged on discovering this abuse of his friend. This is unique to the screenplay, and is a brilliant dramatic instrument. Ahab 'From hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee.' This line was also borrowed by Ricardo Monteban's Khan in 'The Wrath of Khan'. Melville was inspired to write his tale by the personal account of Owen Chase, the son of a survivor of the Ship Essex, sunk by a whale in the Pacific. The whale charged twice; knocking itself out the first time. Houston's film seems to capture a flavour of the period. It's probably substantially inaccurate, but it's nevertheless convincing. No other version of Moby Dick I've seen has been able to pull that off. "},{"Title":"Over-the-top rendition of Herman Melville's high seas saga with a sensational Gregory Peck as unforgettable captain Ahab","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This oceans saga features the sole survivor of a lost whaling ship who relates the tale of a white whale and the captain Ahab's obsession with desires for vendetta upon the greatest animal . It starts in New Bedford , Massachussets, where arrives a novice named Ishmael (Richard Basehart) who signs aboard the whaling ship Pequod and befriends a Polynesian native , harpooner Queequeg (Friedrich Ledebur) . He meets captain Ahab (Gregory Peck) who has a self-destructive obsession to hunt the white whale , Moby Dick . Ahab consecrates his life to hunt it full of hating and vengeance . Soon enough Ishmael aware about the great white whale who claimed the captain's leg and Ahab's determination to seek avenge on the beast that crippled and scarred him , no matter what the cost to himself , his crew or ship .This impressive adaptation based on Herman Melville's 1851 classic novel is vividly brought to screen . Suspense and tension of the ocean is completely captured , including enduring images as the storm with the 'fire of Saint Telmo' . Climatic final battle is an overwhelming piece of cinema as you are likely to watch . Huston, along with prestigious Sci-Fi author Ray Bradbury wrote a screenplay that was faithful to the novel , stamping this movie with epic images and thought-provoking dialogs . In his memories , Huston wrote that it was his most difficult and enduring film . Huston decided to do the opening sequences at a small village called Youghal located on Irland coast and the maritime scenes were filmed in Islas Canarias , Spain . The FX experts created a great whale made with gum and plastic and moved by means of remote control . Huston bought to Walt Disney the ship used in 'Treasure Island' (by Byron Haskin) and was modified as Herman Melville described the Pequod . Top-notch main cast who realizes extraordinary performances . Peck is fabulous , though Huston had wanted to make the movie 20 years earlier and star his daddy Walter Huston . Phenomenal support cast as Bernard Miles as Manxman , James Robertson Justice as captain Boomer , Harry Andrews as Stubbs , and Leo Genn who steals the show as officer Starbuck . Cameraman Oswald Morris's breathtaking color cinematography splendidly conveys the bleaker qualities of the chase . Exciting and rousing musical score by Philip Stainton and well conducted by the usual Louis Levy . Rating  Above average , quite a few moments that click make this top-of-the-range movie more than watchable . It results to be one of the most thrilling and moving see sagas ever realized .It's remade in 1998 TV series by Franc Roddan with Patrick Stewart ,Henry Thomas , Bill Hunter and Gregory Peck who takes on the character of Jonah-and-the-whale sermonizing Father Mapple who in this classic adaptation was vividly played by Orson Welles . Furthermore recent lousy rendition full of computer generator FX starred by Barry Bostwick and Renee O'Connor . "},{"Title":"The first movie of my life","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie since I was 5 years old. Sometimes I watched it three or four times per week and I never got tired. It was a beautiful adventure and Gregory Peck was (and still is) one of my favorite actors. Only after, I understood all the philosophical connections, which are in the movie, but I'll think forever of it as a great adventure. Moby Dick is very frightening, especially when she jumps out of sea and falls with the mouth opened on the screaming crew of the Pequod. But also Captain Achab is terrific with his obstination and foolish obsession. I love when he appears, dead, bound to the whale, and makes that sign to his men to follow him and also Starbuck, who seemed the most quiet is captured by his captain's obsession. This movie will remain forever in my heart. "},{"Title":"A decent adaption of the Herman Melville classic","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A good effort by John Huston at adapting Herman Melville's classic tale of obsessed whaler captain Ahab. Certainly entertaining enough,some excellent scenes, plenty of action, and a great climax.Leo Genn stands out as Starbuck, while Gregory Peck is just adequate as Ahab. I'm still not convinced he was the man for the job. In fact its said that Peck thought Huston himself should have played the role.Considering when the movie was made the whale actually looks pretty effective.(although they apparently had quite a few problems with it during filming). But its certainly on a par with the shark in 'Jaws', and no body complained about that.Moby Dick is one film I think would be really great for a big budget remake (Though I've not seen the recent TV movie). Make a good job of it with the right cast it could be a real blockbuster, especially with todays digital technology. CGI whale anyone?So if there are any bigwig movie execs reading this, go to it chaps.Who would you get to play Ahab though! I've thought about that too!  Sean Connery, or Robert De Niro would be my choice. (with Guy Pearce as Ishmael)In fact give me the money and I'll do it!!     "},{"Title":"Frothy","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" A terrific film. It can be messy, dated and continuously overwrought. But it's never less than entertaining, spirited and behind all the high-seas, biblical-vernacular romanticism is a very tough, serious action drama. Much of the film is close framed, including the hunting sequences. It's so dramatic this way, literally drowning the audience in the action Huston also manages to catch Ahab's claustrophobia this way - no doubt he suffers his ties to the whale and would excise it physically to win himself some peace.The cast is super. Gregory Peck's soul-scarred Ahab manages his Melvillian diatribes well - he's damaged goods but no hallucinating salt. Leo Genn's Starbuck is probably the pick of the rest as Ahab's quiet, earthbound, Chrisitan doppelganger. The cast continues in strength right down to the tambourine wielding page of Tamba Allenby. 7/10 "},{"Title":"On age-appropriate actors","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed the heck out of this movie. It's an honest attempt to bring the great novel to the screen, and there is no reworking or Hollywoodizing of it. The story progresses and the characters are believable.There is, however, a continuing flaw in many movies when an actor of the wrong age is cast for a particular part. This gives us things like a 22-year-old kid playing Superman and 70-year-old Robert Mitchum playing a World War Two Navy captain. (Captains are typically in their early 40s.) That happens here. Gregory Peck effectively conveys the obsessive madness of Ahab, but he is just plain WAY too young. Melville's Ahab is 58, which was considered old in the middle of the 19th century. Peck himself is said to have noted he was not right for the role and that it demanded more than he had in him at that age.Here's a thought.This happens in reverse in another superb seagoing film, The Caine Mutiny (1954). Humphrey Bogart, then over 50, plays a 30-something Navy LCDR. Again - Bogie nails the part, but he's just plain WAY too old.What if we go back in time and have Bogart play Ahab and Peck play Queeg? Bogie would be marvelous as the mad, obsessive Ahab, and Peck could bring off the dark, disturbed, unbalanced Queeg just right.Both are marvelous movies with terrific lead characters - but both stars are twenty years wrong in age.Get the DVDs and view both and see what you think. "}{"Title":"Easier  to Watch than the Book to Read","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I red Herman Melville's book Moby Dick some years ago and though the story was really captivating and I enjoyed it very much but somehow it seemed too long to me. This film version by John Houston lasts a couple of hours and I think it works very good as a resume of Captain Ahab's revengeful chase of the white whale. Don't get me wrong the book is a classic and a very good one too but it is movies we're talking about here.Moby Dick is a real good adventure film and Houston's direction is pretty accurate. He delivers the plot slowly but constantly up to the moment we are all waiting for the appearance of the whale (huge as mountain of snow). In the meantime he shows the different characters on board the Pequod such as the professional Mr. Starbuck, the second in command; the tough and at he same time friendly Mr. Stubb; the mysterious Queequegg with his body covered by tattoos; and Ishmael the newcomer in search for adventure.But the center of the whole thing is Captain Ahab with his leg ripped of by the white whale and living with the only purpose of taking revenge of the beast. Nothing else matters for him. And so obsessed Ahab is that he finally passes his madness into his men too.Gregory Peck brings a fine performance as the tortured and insane Captain and he shows perfectly he has been a dead man long before his meeting at sea with Moby Dick. Leo Genn is good too as well as Harry Andrews as Stubb (I can't recall a bad performance from Andrews in all his many appearances as a supporting actor). Richard Basehart is correct in the role of Ishmael, though perhaps his acting is a little too light here.The final battle between the men and the white whale is outstanding or even more if you consider it was made with the special effects of the 50's. Huston shows his skill here too.Watch this film if you missed it (don't go for that recent too long all computer TV version starring Patrick Stewart as Ahab); you'll sure enjoy it if you like high classic adventure with psychology in the characters too. "},{"Title":"Sorely disappointed.....","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, after reading the book for the first time, I decided to search for and download a movie version. This is the only one I could find available. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm no stranger to the movies from this era (production value, obvious painted backdrops vice real-life backgrounds, et cetera), and some of my favorite movies (I've seen and own literally thousands of movies) were made then as well. But with this one, I couldn't even make it through the first half hour. At first I was slightly annoyed by the dozen or so completely wrong details and dialogue, but I kept going because I know that always happens when a movie is adapted from a book. What finally killed it for me and what I simply couldn't bear was the ab....so.....lute....ly... TERRIBLE, HORRIBLE acting of Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab. It honestly reminded me of when an adult film star acts in a movie. I don't believe I've seen many, if any, of his other films, but given his very long career, I have to assume this was just one of the let's just move on and try to forget about it movies that all long-term actors seem to inevitably make at some points in their careers. For those who wrote those extensive, raving reviews, if you honestly believe what you wrote, I envy you and the ease with which you are satisfactorily entertained, though I suspect many were written simply in an attempt to break in to the business by sucking up to someone or another. "},{"Title":"Great effects, beautifully shot, and a tall tale","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Moby Dick (1956)Stunning low key color, remarkable special effects, a stern Gregory Peck as Ahab, and a cast of ruffians and odd characters from the world 'round. This is about as good as you can do with the novel, which is huge and which depends often on long passages of brilliant writing. Some of the monologues are here, and they are a high point of the script. The tale is amazing, filled with metaphors of man's free will, his relationship to God and Nature, his duty to captain and to self, and his fighting for survival. It's also about legends and myth, and it transports us to a time mostly gone where the seas were more mystery than mere vastness. Everything is done by hand, and one pleasure of the movie is seeing an accurate depiction of the times, and the industry.You do wonder now and then why the movie isn't even better. Why doesn't it really shake you to the bones, or make you question the meaning of life, or get weepy for the whale? Maybe it's because the language and the ideals are 150 years old. Times do change. The currents are the same, the big ones, but they get put forward (and illustrated) in a way that feels, well, illustrative. Allegorical. Which is terrific, but something less palpable. Interesting to see Ray Bradbury helping Huston with the adaptation.I also don't know how to view Peck's job as Ahab. There is something perfect about him, very consistent, and strong (and that voice). But maybe Ahab was a little scarier and more mysterious than this (that's my memory from the book). Ahab was not just large, in life, but larger than life. Like the whale.A remarkable effort, for sure. John Huston's manly ethic finds a perfect palette here. And without Bogart, but with a small part for a Walter Brennan-like bit actor Royal Dano, and great sermon by Orson Welles. "},{"Title":"An Admirable Effort, Marred By Casting Decisions","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" If Gregory Peck at 38 was too young to play Ahab, the juvenile role of Ishmael should not have gone to 42 year old Richard Baseheart. Casting for the part of South Sea islander Queequeg would have presented a near-insuperable problem in 1956. John Huston's solution unknown actor and personal friend Joseph Ledebuhr from Austria of all places. In the important role of Starbuck the first mate, torn between his duty and his Quaker faith, Leo Genn is tortured in spirit but looks more like the lawyer he started out as than a seafaring man. The scenes aboard ship were appropriately briny and muscular. The best sequence, as another commenter noted, was the departure from New Bedford with its slow panning of the crewmen's wives, from blonde maiden to old crone with sprouting facial hair, in silent array at dockside. On their faces is etched the knowledge that some will be widows ere the whaling ship **Pequod** sails back. "},{"Title":"whale I'll be...","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Gregory Peck gets the role of a lifetime as Capt. Ahab, hunting for the cetacean title character who bit off his leg. This movie really gives one the feeling of going out to sea and getting swept away in everything; it was back in the days when epics actually meant something (Alexander has unfortunately ruined that). Equally as good as Peck is Richard Basehart as narrator Ishmael, who begins to question Ahab's modus operandi.All in all, Moby Dick is a tour-de-force in every way, and affirms John Huston as one of history's great directors. Granted, the part about calling Queequeg a savage makes us cringe a little bit - especially since he wasn't played by a Maori - but that's how movies were back then. This is definitely a movie that I recommend to everyone. It almost makes one nostalgic for 1850s New England and everything associated therewith. "},{"Title":"Impressive And Exciting Adaptation Of Classic Mad Sea Captain Yarn","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ishmael, a young seaman, signs up for a voyage on the whaling-ship Peaquod, captained by the legendary Ahab. Once at sea, Ahab announces his real purpose - to catch Moby Dick, a monstrous and terrifying white whale no whaler has ever managed to kill.Herman Melville's classic seafaring novel is a fantastic adventure story, with some of the best sea-dog characters and lingo ever written (For hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee ... ), and John Huston's film is an exciting and spectacular adaptation. Technically, it is quite superb, primarily due to Huston's sheer devotion to the project, but also because Oswald Morris, Freddie Francis and Arthur Ibbetson, three of the greatest British cameraman of all time, all worked together on it. The depiction of the voyage and the realisation of the whale are terrific, as is the script, by Huston and the great fantasy writer Ray Bradbury. Peck is an unusual choice to play Ahab, who is of course as mad as a brush, but his performance is unforgettable, even though he doesn't appear until the fourth reel. He manages the difficult task of making Ahab seem tortured and human and yet also thoroughly deranged in his obsessive quest to confront his enemy and his fears. The rest of the crew are equally bonkers, and just as much fun - Genn as the mild-mannered first mate Starbuck, Andrews as the grinning Stubb, Miles as the doomy Manxman and especially Ledebur as the giant tattooed Queequeg - and good old Welles throws in a cautionary sermon from the book of Jonah at the start just for extra measure. Avast ye lubbers, splice the mainsail, kiss yer wimmen goodbye forever, down the hatch and enjoy the adventure !! "},{"Title":"Call me......confused","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Richard Baseheart looks and sounds more like a steward on the Q.E.2 than a crewman on a whaler.Orson Welles doesn't so much chew the scenery as liposuction it.He had played Ahab in his own production on the London stage and it might have been a good idea for him to have exchanged roles with Gregory Peck who really lacks the juice that it needed. Sundry British character actors rhubarb around cheerily and the set of the whaling town looks like something left over from Greyfriars Bobby. Despite these rather fundamental flaws John Huston kicks arse and takes names to such good effect that Moby Dick is a much better movie than it could have been given what he had to be getting on with. The Pequod is well-realised,it looks and sounds right.Some of the shipboard scenes are reminiscent of a badly-made pirate movie however. I must admit I am a little confused by the highly laudatory reviews on the previous pages.Many of them seem more concerned with the book than the film,but,compared to the novel,no filmmaker on earth could ever produce anything more than Moby Dick Lite because of the obvious limitations of the medium.Like Howard Hawks,John Huston is most effective portraying a predominantly male environment and the women in this film have little to do but stand around looking sad.Mr Huston's greatest achievement here is to coax a sympathetic and quietly stirring performance from Leo Genn,a steady but hardly charismatic actor. The sound recording is outstanding,well mixed and well balanced. Like many Huston films it is a mixture of the good and the ordinary,the director seeming to lose interest before the end,thinking ahead perhaps to his next project. If you think of it less as an adaptation of a great novel,more as a movie about catching whales it's not so bad. "},{"Title":"A Whale of a tale","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The seamen are in a frenzy of blood, slaughtering whales as fast as they can be processed, when Ahab recalls them to the ship. They do not hear him when first he beckons- they are in such a state that, as Starbuck states, we would not hear the last trump! Then hear me now, replies Ahab. Thus does an obsessive quest for a single rogue whale become a battle for the souls of men. Distilled from one of the most stultifyingly boring books ever written is the pure, engrossing tale of Ishmael and his shipmates, enthralled by their enigmatic captain, chasing the accursed Leviathon Moby Dick. Gregory Peck is riveting as Ahab, but the entire cast is superb and the direction flawless. Steeped in symbolism and shot in black and white, it is a truly memorable film experience. I consider it a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"The whaling scenes&#133;","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Warning - some mild discussion about some of the action in the final scenes of 'Mody Dick' are discussed in the paragraphs following Early in the picture there were scenes of whale hunting that were so real, they simply had to be stock footage of actual whaling. Even so, they seamlessly cut together with the rest of the movie.The scenes involving the whale, Moby Dick, were very good too, although obviously a special effect using miniatures. When compared to films like 'Jaws', or '20 Thousand Leagues Under the Sea', however, this film holds up very well; in that no storm was necessary to help hide aspects of the final action scene; the way that '20 Thousand Leagues' made use of a storm to help along its Giant Squid scene. Also, the shark in 'Jaws' was a full-scale recreation, and a very good one, but being full-scale didn't necessarily help it in the realism department; when comparing it to the whale in 'Moby Dick'. &#150; Moby Dick was made some twenty years before 'Jaws', and yet, perhaps its scenes hold up better when you factor in the period with which it was made. "},{"Title":"widescreen version - please","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Until today,June 2,2007 i had thought that a widescreen version of this film did not exist.I wondered if it was shot in widescreen by John Huston back in 1955 or 1956.Now, as i type this commentary, i am surprised to be watching this 1956 version of MOBY DICK in widescreen on Turner classic movies. I hope that a new DVD is released of this movie, in this widescreen format.I have the full frame version on DVD,but widescreen is a must.In my opinion,it is this film or 12 O'Clock High that Gregory Peck should have won the Oscar for best actor.Peck is certainly very good in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD but he is dynamic in MOBY DICK.He dominates the screen and is great as Captain Ahab-one of the great characters in novel history.John Huston's MOBY DICK is a wonderful adventure film aided by a terrific music film score.The film also has a great look about it and is a realistic looking period piece.Huston takes the meat of Melville's big novel and makes a top notch movie.P.S. once again- Kudos for Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab. "}{"Title":"What a film!","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, Moby Dick was playing on the tele tonight. Even though I have the DVD I watched both showings. I'm glad to read so many positive comments, all of which I agree with. I am disturbed by the box some want to put Gregory Peck in. I liked his Ahab. Stiff, wooden? What would Ahab have been like? My guess is stiff and wooden, eaten inside by his obsession only to have it burst out in moments of passion. I think his or Huston's interpretation fits well with the period the novel is set in. I also agree with all those who like the varied cast with many good character actors and not pretty faces. My favorite none action scenes are those between Peck and Leo Genn who raises this piece to Shakespearean levels. As with most of Genn's roles I now cannot picture anyone else playing Starbuck. As you can tell I love this movie. There are so few films these days that aren't reaching for the lowest common denominator. This film has the feel of repertory theatre. "},{"Title":"A Gigantic of a Classic","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Here's another film that I'd give 20 stars if they'd allow it. Gregory peck is simply someone who CAN'T make a bad film, and Moby Dick is one of his best! Someone said that Moby Dick was not evil, and he wasn't! He was a creature doing what creatures are supposed to do-LIVE and enjoy Life! Us humans, in our vain and smug superiority, convey our attributes (as Evil) onto animals for our own poor purposes, and this Ahab did with the White whale. It is a stunning movie, incredibly well-acted and scened. Some idiot reviewer in the 50's criticized it for not having any women or a love interest in it! Well hooray for Hollywood, for a change. Women don't belong in EVERY movie--Oh what did I say! Well, in this one, they'd be as out of place as a Christmas Carol on the Fourth of July! It's one of my personal all-time top ten favorites, along with Mr. Peck's CAPTAIN NEWMAN MD, and is a GREAT film. Don't miss it, and get the DVD!!! "},{"Title":"Gregory Peck's performance deserved and Oscar","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just saw Moby Dick and it is by far Pecks greatest performance. I found him completely captivating and charismatic as the obsessed Capt.Ahab. And as a huge Peck fan I can't understand how he didn't win or at least be nominated that year for his outstanding portrayal of Ahab. The movie is one of the best at sea type movies I've ever seen. A movie that has much dept and thoughtfulness in each scene. The characters are rich and meaningful. Yet it has a simplicity that escapes most modern movies that I miss. I watch a lot of old classics for this reason. John Huston really knows how to bring the real man out in his characters, which is why Gregory Peck was so awesome. "},{"Title":"Colorful, poetic film almost captures Melville's mystical quest","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the strict, literal sense, it is impossible to make a movie out of Moby Dick. The best that one could hope for would be an intelligent condensation of the story's main events, with a reasonably close approximation of the book's characters.In this, Ray Bradbury's screenplay and Huston's direction succeed admirably. Though the motivations of the characters have to be simplified, and the story streamlined to fit the running time of a movie, there are scenes that come remarkably close to the spirit and atmosphere of the original. The scene in Ahab's cabin, when he argues with Starbuck about his reasons for wanting to destroy Moby Dick, and Starbuck declares that the idea is blasphemous, Gregory Peck and Leo Genn rise to the almost Shakespearean tone of the novel. An even more dramatic scene occurs near the end, when Ahab, in a relaxed and even cheerful mood, shows an unexpected side of himself, as he describes the beauty of nature that surrounds them. But in a masterful bit of adaptation of Melville's original dialogue, Ahab shows his madness once again, as he begins to ramble about Fate and destiny. Starbuck pulls a gun and announces his intention to kill Ahab, but can't go through with it. The closeup of Peck gazing into Genn's eyes, and saying solemnly,  The act's immutably decreed. T'was rehearsed by thee and me a billion years before this ocean rolled , is pure Melville captured on film. It's almost the essence of Moby Dick in one short scene.This is a wonderful film, full of adventure, humor, suspense, strange characters and unearthly mysteries, just like Melville's novel. The acting is of a high order, the music and cinematography amazing. I defy anyone to sit through the scene where Ahab nails the gold coin to the mast, and declares it a reward for the man who first sights the White Whale, and not be as excited as the crew, when they pass around the flagon of rum ,and wave their harpoons and shout  Death to Moby Dick! "},{"Title":"One of the all time greats","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love this film. It captures the mood and poetry of the book perfectly.The opening scenes are particularly effective in evoking place and time. In fact I can't think of any other film which achieves this difficult task so well. One sequence stands out in my mind the Pequod's leaving the port of New Bedford. There is no dialog during this sequence and very little on the sound track except the sounds of a whaling ship as it makes its way out to sea. The entire thing is presented as a series of vignettes which is among the finest in movies. I'm a bit surprised by the low rating. (I guess 7 is pretty good) Probably this is due to Peck in the lead and perhaps the special effects of the whale itself. But I've scene documentary footage of real sperm whales feeding and they actually do move that way. Enough said. The real kicker is could anyone dare to re-make it... I don't consider the Patrick Stewart t.v. version a remake so much as a sub-standard replica. Film students everywhere should see this Huston's definitive version and the director's best film. "},{"Title":"Another Flawless PECK Classic","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Is Gregory Peck capable of making less than a great movie!?!?!? If he is, I've NEVER seen it, and MOBY DICK sure isn't it! If I don't watch this movie 3 or 4 times a year, I go into Classic film withdrawl; it is GREAT! Everyone in it is so darn good that this film is one of the few  I can think of that entertain me from second one untill the last - it CONSTANTLY keeps my attention. I cannot recommend this film enough-you MUST see it every year!  "},{"Title":"Royal Dano and visual meal","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The best thing here is the spectacular imagery -- imagery which I suspect has given this movie a worthwhile reputation.If the characters are interesting in the novel, then this hasn't been translated to the screen. What tedious dialogue! That most incapable of American movie stars, Gregory Peck, impotently strains to pull off his magniloquent lines. Orson Welles would have been the perfect choice for Ahab, but the profitability factor overrode such a consideration. The one memorable, albeit brief, performance is given by Royal Dano as Elijah.I'm somewhat surprised that Hollywood hasn't taken a new stab at this book in the era of racial political correctness. Many of the principal characters are nonwhite and are positively depicted. Hollywood usually jumps at the opportunity to film any material written in past centuries that features nonwhite characters. Perhaps the significance of the white whale plays some part in no new filmic adaptation.Richard Basehart surprisingly landed a couple plum roles in the 1950s, as Ishmael in this movie and as The Fool in Fellini's La Strada. I wouldn't say he's a run-of-the-mill talent, but his worthiness for big roles in notable movies strikes me as odd for some reason. Perhaps it's a lack of charisma. His first wife was Jewish (and perhaps his 2nd and 3rd as well) and this Jewish connection may explain his unusual connections. He starred in a crude Hitler biopic, but gave a pretty good performance. "},{"Title":"Boring, Drawn Out Story","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Moby Dick (1956) ** (out of 4) John Huston's adaptation of Melville's novel about whaling in the 1840s as Captain Ahab (Gregory Peck) heads out to the sea but soon loses focus and goes after the mysterious white whale known as Moby Dick. Many people watch this version of MOBY DICK and call it a classic but the film just doesn't work for me. There are certainly a few good moments scattered around but for the most part the 115-minute running time just offers one boring scene after another. I've only read parts of the novel years ago so it's probably not fair for me to compare the two but I remember it being rather long-winded and boring. Perhaps this is why I didn't care for the film as I also found it to be long-winded and boring. Even the start of the film is rather strange because we're going on this journey with Captain Ahab yet he doesn't appears until well after thirty-minutes in the film and by the time it happens the drama of his appearance is pretty much gone. The opening thirty minutes contains several scenes that really don't add up to anything. I'm guessing that they were meant to build up the supporting characters but it just didn't work for me and this includes the bit with Orson Welles playing the preacher. Peck, who will always be remembered for playing good guys, does a nice job here in the role of Ahab. I thought he really delivered some fire and passion into the performance and it remains one of the few reasons to watch the film. Another reason to watch are for the final fifteen-minutes once Ahab finally gets to go after Moby Dick. The special effects don't always hold up too well but for the most part they're good. Technically the film is impressive with some strong cinematography and the overall look of the film is quite nice. With that said, the story itself is just downright boring and I was shocked to see how little energy or excitement Huston brought to the film. I'm not sure if this is the fault of the Melville story itself or what but MOBY DICK just didn't do it for me. "},{"Title":"This is an evil voyage, I tell ya","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" John Huston's Moby Dick is one movie that I have personally always looked forward to seeing, but it's also one where I always read harsh and occasionally downright mean comments about. Supposedly Herman Melville's masterpiece novel was completely impossible to turn into a film script. Supposedly director John Huston was too tyrannical and stubborn during the filming of Moby Dick and spent a lot more time and budget than he was allowed to. Supposedly none of the actors playing the most crucial roles deliver good performances and don't bring any justice to their characters as described in the book. These are just a few of the coarse criticisms I've encountered on the movie Moby Dick, but let me immediately assure you that this is all sheer nonsense coming from sour people that simply cannot accept that classic books sometimes CAN be turned into classic movies. Right from the phenomenal opening sequences, when narrator Richard Basemark appears over a hill, addresses to the camera to say Call me Ishmael and then wanders onwards towards a little seaside town called New Bedford, you just know that this will be a masterful and continuously captivating motion picture with stunning photography, an intelligent screenplay and dialogs that almost resemble poetry. The story of Moby Dick is already widely known, I presume. The adventurous Ishmael and his newly found friend Queequeg sign to board a whaling ship named Pequod, of which the commander is the infamous, feared and heavily traumatized Captain Ahab. There's good fortune to make in trading whale oil, but Captain Ahab also has a different reason to sail the Pequod around the world with all of its crew members on board. Ahab is hunting down a humongous and devilish white whale named Moby Dick. This insatiably monstrous whale was already responsible for the loss of Captain Ahab's leg and he has since then developed a deep hatred towards the animal. So deep that his only last remaining mission in life is to kill the whale, even if that means sacrificing the ship, his own life and that of his crew members. The first mate Starbuck still attempts to revolt against the self-destructiveness of the Captain, but Ahab is so charismatic and powerful that the entire crew blindly follows him in his personal vendetta. Moby Dick is a landmark of a film, as far as yours truly is concerned, and there are countless of sequences that qualify as genuinely brilliant and unforgettable. The entire intro, for example, where Ishmael is subjected to a bizarre kind of initiation ritual in the small New Bradford pub where all sailors and whale hunters gather to drink and sing songs about the sea. Or the truly fantastic cameo appearance of Orson Welles, who portrays a local priest and recites the biblical story of Jonah from a church-throne shaped like a ship! That speech was so mesmerizing that I looked up the actual Jonah story on Wikipedia! If Orson Welles had taught religion class back when I was in school, I definitely would have paid more attention. Once the Pequod has left the New England harbor, the film is simply a never-ending series of exciting action sequences (the whale hunting footage! The typhoon!), although with plenty of psychological interludes and truly baffling monologues and dialogs from the main protagonists. In spite of the often heard comment in the first paragraph, I personally thought that Gregory Peck gave a staggering performance as the robust and obsessive Captain Ahab. Admittedly he looks a bit young for the role, especially when he mentions at one point that he has been sailing around the world for over forty years, but his facial expressions and angry charisma are as good as genuine. The supportive performances in Moby Dick are all impeccable, notably Leo Genn as the deeply religious and concerned first mate Starbuck (the ideal character to name a chain of successful coffee shops after!) and Harry Andrews as the boisterous but always enthusiast second mate Stubb. The fake whales and special effects are very impressive, especially considering the period of release, the colors and photography are dream-like and John Huston's direction is righteously surefooted and tight. Huston was undeniably one of the greatest directors who ever lived and Moby Dick is one of the most perplexing films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A champion of darkness","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Post-war Hollywood was a battlefield. The old vertically-integrated studios were starting to lose their grip, while a new breed of independent producers, often producer-directors, were gaining ever more prominence. For many of these eager independents, the desire to get a personal project off the ground was sometimes so strong it overrode conventions and even good sense. And so we get little oddities like John Huston's production of Moby Dick.Huston was already something of a maverick among Hollywood directors, not to mention a surrealist. He was fond of eerie close-ups, bizarre faces and nightmarish shot compositions. As a screenwriter he was fatalist and pessimistic. On those occasions when he wore his producer's hat, he tended to favour material that was grim and depressing, but also outlandish. Moby Dick is his kind of story, and he really seems to have relished the opportunity for over-the-top atmospherics. Huston captures the atmosphere of dread that is true to Melville's novel, but also very typical of Huston himself. He takes a very literal approach to clich and hyperbole, for example showing the town of New Bedford as packed with widows and relics of wrecks. But Huston's collaborators deserve as much of the credit. Particularly effective is the washed-out cinematography of Oswald Morris, which gives a stark, hollow look to the image. This is complemented by the very sparse musical score &#x96; very refreshing for a picture of the 50s &#x96; and sound design of shouts and wooden creaks.In keeping with the oddness of the overall production, Huston seems to have encouraged extreme and stylised performances from his cast. This is a fairly sensible response to the archaic prose of the novel, which is not really supposed to be naturalistic. Accordingly he seems to have chosen most of the supporting players for their weird physicality rather than their dramatic credibility. We get people like Harry Andrews and Seamus Kelly to provide us with suitably craggy faces. That is not to say this is a crew of freakish bad actors. It's great to see Bernard Miles as the prominent but not directly referenced Manxman, adding his usual touch of folkish authenticity. Leo Genn is a welcome addition to any cast, here as always a little island of calm amid the chaos. Perhaps the most intelligent bit of casting was Orson Welles as the preacher. Welles has the kind of presence that can overwhelm a small picture, but his small yet significant appearance gives a necessary weight to the opening scenes. Still, when James Robertson Justice (a.k.a. the poor man's Peter Ustinov) turns up as Captain Boomer, you know there's been some barrel-bottom scraping going on.The casting decision that has caused controversy down the ages is of course that of Gregory Peck. Of course, Peck was far too young to play Ahab, but other than that he is not as silly a selection as he might at first seem. Just like his crewmates, Peck did have a rather strange look to him, with piercing eyes and angular features, not to mention his stern vocal delivery. The trouble is, to follow it through Peck would have needed a capable level of theatrical hamminess. And despite his appearance, Peck was first and foremost a naturalistic dramatic actor, and try as he might to play the boggle-eyed weirdo, he just can't quite manage it. Of course there was one alternative to play Ahab who would have been nigh on perfect, and this was John Huston himself. Peck said as much, although it's doubtful the distributors would have allowed anyone less than a big name to take the role.Moby Dick was clearly a picture produced with a certain aim. Rather than just do a decent and entertaining adaptation of a popular novel as the major studios would have done, Huston's mission seems to have been to recreate some of the spirit of the original with his admittedly more limited means. It is reasonably faithful, although the omission of the devilish and mysterious character of Fedallah is a mystery to me, and this somehow seems indicative of the general feeling of dissatisfaction the picture gives. Huston's Moby Dick is lovely to look at, brilliantly done in places, but it is not the great story that Melville's book is. "}{"Title":"Deforestation","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" For those folks that want great literature without having to read a 500-page tome, then this Readers Digest like condensation might be the ticket. All the high points of Moby Dick are touched on starting with 'Call me Ishmael, and so on.As all have already pointed out, Gregory Peck has nailed the Ahab character. You got me how he managed the whalebone peg leg. The obsessive rush to take vengeance on the great whale boils in crazed Ahab's head and certainly his crew one by one catch the fever for either greed or blind allegiance. Therefore, our allegorical story full of biblical references mete out large portions of philosophical sophisms, enough for the entire Humanities Departments at fifty Universities to burn the midnight whale oil; oh, the reams of paper written about poor Moby, we're talking deforestation here.If ever there was a story to get young men to read Lit, Moby Dick is the one. "},{"Title":"Peck is Ahab","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies. Gregory Peck's portrayal of Capt Ahab shouldn't be missed. He has this look of a dark storm brewing behind his eyes through out the film. He sucks you into his crazed vengeance, sailing to the ends of the Earth to find the mountain put to sea. This is Peck's best role. He does a fine job at any film he stars in be it Sam Bowden or Atticus Finch, but Ahab is his greatest in my opinion. I'm also a big fan of John Huston. His movies always have an invisible quality that separates them for all others. You can tell when you are watching a John Huston movie, even if you missed the opening credits. Moby Dick will go down as his best work. I even think it tops The Man Who Would Be King. I'd also like to thank them for adding in lines from the book to give it that Melville feel. Moby Dick is not an easy book to work with but Huston and Bradbury do a fantastic job. I can't say enough good stuff about the film. Be the judge yourself, read the book and see the film. "},{"Title":"A revenge against a white whale","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Looking the way the captain Ahab behaved with his crew, imposing anything he wanted just to accomplish his ambitions of killing the whale, I was comparing him more with dictators of small countries, where everybody has to do the same as Ahab's crew did. The crew even died for a non sense cause. Power is a poison and it is well shown here. More than to see the film as an adventure I tried to penetrate a bit into the Ahab's mind. He was intelligent, literate but thirsty of revenge, inhuman, and unable to consider and respect the opinion of the rest. There was no respect for him as such because the people were simply afraid of him. Ahab was selfish and able to kill himself to get what he wanted, the lives of the rest here did not count. Peck's acting was really good and gives the right personality to his role.  "},{"Title":"Faithful to the Novel","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One movie that actually tried to reproduce the sense of the book.  Moby Dick is one of my favorite books, so this film version means a lot to me. It was also the first movie I saw as a child of five.  Huston really captued Father Mapple in casting Orson Wells.  It has been reported elsewhere that Wells was well-lubricated for the final filming of this scene. He was still considered controversial in 1956 owing to his depiction of Hearst in Citizen Kane.  Wells' monologue, Father Mapple's sermon, was one of his finest moments in acting.In the early 1970's I met a technical advisor for the whaling scenes.  He was an old time mariner (in his 80s) with the improbable name of Spike Africa!  He was one of the last U.S. seaman to hunt down and kill whales with a lance thrown from an open boat.  He offered me a pair of lances he used to kill whales (harpoons hook the whale to drag the whale boat through the water after the whale. Lances are used to kill).  I declined his offer owing to squeamishness.  Spike was impressed with the detail that Huston followed to create the thrill and terror of the chase.  Much original footage was edtited out of the movie. Gregory Peck's portrayl of Ahab was so definitive that Patrick Stewart seemed to copy his moves and inflections in the recent TV remake.A great period movie although it could have been longer to capture more of Melville. "},{"Title":"A Disney movie","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" And I don't mean that in a good sense. It's slightly better than Treasure Island from 1950. A movie that is old doesn't make it a classic, you know. Yes, it was the first and most important movie version of the acclaimed book, but the directing isn't particularly good in the dialogue scenes, they are too stiff and unnatural&#x97;I'm guessing the tone and spirit on the set wasn't the easiest (an assumption). Not going to call it over-played, I instead blame it on the director. On the flip-side the filming on the ship is fantastic, technically speaking.I heartily recommend the 1998 made-for-TV picture with Patrick Stewart instead. But don't forget to watch this for historical reasons, and to be able to answer yes when people ask you if you've seen it.If you like this review, I'll buy you a glass of rum. - Thank you for reading! "},{"Title":"Above Average Adaptation","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Captain Ahab (Gregory Peck) commands the whaler Pequod in 1842 and convinces the crew that they should pursue and kill the giant white whale, Moby Dick, instead of doing their jobs. Ahab has vengeance on his mind, the whale having divested him of a leg on a previous voyage. But it goes beyond that. The whale stands for Something with a capital S, but it's not clear exactly what. He haunts me, says Ahab to his first mate, Starbuck (Leo Genn). He heaps me. Yet he is but a mask. 'Tis the thing behind the mask I chiefly hate. Whatever the thing behind the mask is, it's not a sled named Rosebud. The story is a impasto of meanings, some personal, some theological, and some positively mystical. Ahab's quest is at bottom blasphemous. A dumb brute has taken his leg, more or less in self defense, and Ahab refuses to accept his fate.A couple of observations. At the turn of the last century, Max Weber, a German sociologist, wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism, in which he argued that it was Protestantism, with its idea of a calling, that facilitated the development of industrialism. A truly religious man worked hard to make a lot of money or, as Starbuck puts it, the whalers of the time provided the world with oil, which was good for society and was therefor a service to God. Melville was also right in making Starbuck a Quaker because Quakers valued humility before arrogance. (Massachussetts has given us more presidents than any other state; Pennsylvania has given us one.) That's from E. Digby Baltzell, not Weber. I mention Weber's insight though because it's kind of important to our understanding of how shocking Ahab's decision was, to put aside what was a service to God in order to satisfy his individual desire. Nowadays we accept self satisfaction as worthwhile in itself. In 1842, it was like giving God the finger.Undoubtedly, the whale oil lobby of the time would have endorsed this religious sentiment. The whale oil interests fought like the devil to keep the street lamps from being lighted by kerosene or gas.There are obvious Biblical parallels too -- Ishmael and Elijah -- but it's not clear exactly what they mean. Elijah in the story is a raggedy man who predicts the crew's fate before they sail, so he is a prophet, as in the Bible.The performances are pretty good. Gregory Peck is surprisingly effective as the half-mad captain, considering that lunacy is not his strong point. The rest of the crew are up to par. Orson Welles as Father Mapple gives a terrifically hammy sermon from his ivory pulpit. The use of music is pretty well done, though the score itself is unexceptional. At the first sighting of Moby Dick, there is no sound at all but the hushed rushing of sea water from the beast's field and the whoosh of water from his spout. In a modern film we'd expect the scene to be overscored. The editing is a little clumsy. A shot of Pip, the ship's boy (who plays a much larger part in the novel), seems to come from another movie. And the special effects are not what they would be today, but we have to give them a pass because everyone in 1956 was working within technological limits, as we are today. It would have been nice, though, to have a Moby Dick as realistic as the shark in Jaws. Maybe Hollywood will still come around to the idea that it is time to remake the movie, so many remakes of so many earlier films having appeared in the last two decades that one wonders if the industry has run out of original ideas entirely. The next version may be a sequel Moby Dick, Part Two Ishmael's Revenge.Ray Bradbury's script makes a couple of changes from the novel, almost all of them necessary, since the novel is over 700 pages long and no movie can be infinitely long. I didn't understand some of the changes though. Starbuck, the Quaker first mate, tries unsuccessfully to steer the Pequod away from the murderous whale. In the movie, he shouts to the others that Moby Dick in only a whale, and we kill whales, and they attack Moby Dick and die. There's also a suggestion in the movie that Moby Dick dies. That would be ridiculous. On the whole I didn't find the real scenes of harpooning and killing whales (shot off the Irish coast) to be very satisfying. Whales are mammals, the biggest on earth, and harmless to us. I was walking along the shore of Chichigoff Island in Alaska, miles from any human, and was startled by a long, loud, echoing crack of expelled breath as two huge whales pushed placidly to the surface, maybe one hundred feet away. The experience had me shivering. Maybe that's part of what Melville was trying to get at. Isn't it a bit blasphemous to tear apart the planet we live on, instead of treating as a God-given trust? I don't know. I'm just wondering if Melville may have had, among his other concerns, some sense of living in harmony with Nature, with a capital N. It's hard to pin down exactly what inscrutable thing Melville and Ahab were dealing with, except that it was more than just a big cetacean. "},{"Title":"Moby-Dick's irony curse.","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Call Me Antonio, before I'm judged for my opinions, all I have to say is that I've been comparing the novel to it's adaptations, and I was surprised at the only thing they had in common when first released, Melville's magnum opus novel was given scathing reviews so bad it started his literary lifetime obscurity, This is due to being first published in england in a botched way that omits the epilogue, not to mention that it was published after when the main American focus had moved from whaling and maritime to the western gold rush. If these 2 things had been reversed, it would've gotten the results Melville wanted and perhaps it's adaptations would have the same reaction. In the case of this 1956 classic, 2 things would have saved it from the failure at the box office The role of Ahab should've been given to George C. Scott (I got the idea after reading about Orson Welles' own version with Rod Steiger playing Ahab & Steiger losing the chance to play Gen. Patton to Scott) and Huston should've used the same team He had for his 1951 classic The African Queen for this film. "},{"Title":"Not a major classic, but still memorable","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is interesting to compare John Huston's film to the 1998 Emmy nominated TV movie. Both of these films I saw when I was young, long before I became an actual movie goer, (back then I was more of a biology goer) Whales are among the most fascinating of animals. When this film was made in the mid fifties, most species were on the brink of extinction from hunting. It wasn't until the international ban in the early eighties, that the great whales began to recover, although they are still highly vulnerable today. Anyways back to the movie.I saw the TV movie first, so the fact that I was able to appreciate this after seeing picture quality and visual effects five times better clearly means that either I have good taste, or this is still a very good movie, regardless of what you have or have not seen, (I think it is a bit of both). The biggest different between the two films, is actually pacing. They follow very similar plot lines, This one has a couple of scenes that the latter doesn't and vice versa. In this film, the whale hunts are a little too slow and repetitive. We pretty much see the same three or four shots over and over again for two or three minutes (shot of this boat shot of the whale, shot of another boat, shot of the whale). This version is far less scientifically accurate. The movement of the whales is fairly unrealistic. I wont go into great detail but Id like to mention one visually shocking but ridiculous moment where Moby Dick breaches clean out of the water and does a flip in the air like a dolphin. This is A whale as big as an Island to quote one of the characters. Not even a forty ton whale could do that manoeuvre let alone a hundred ton whale.Filling the shoes of Captain Ahab is legend actor Gregory Peck. He and Patrick Stewart takes very different approaches. Peck plays Ahab more subtly, and next to Stewart some might say he was lazy. In some scenes, It feels like Peck is doing it the right way but you never really think him mad the way you do with Patrick Stewart who is more theatrical. Both have their ups and downs.Both movies as a whole have their ups and down, but I think they are both memorable films and definitely worth watching. My advice, is you should probably watch this one first or else it is liable to be upstaged when you see the 1998 version. Moby Dick is one of the novels that everyone mentions but no one has read. Thanks to cinema however, a new generation can appreciate the greatness of the story if it perks interest. "},{"Title":"Distant dream","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The ocean is wide as the world is and dangerous and unpredictable as God's will but there is a man who is not afraid of its power. His name is captain Ahab. No storm, no wind, no waves, no death is to frighten him. He is blinded with only one aim and he will ruin himself in his endless pursuit. His nightmare's name is Moby Dick. Great, white and vicious whale that lives in the depths of the cold and merciless sea.Herman Melville died in 1891 and never seen his most famous novel's (published in 1851) 3.000 copies first print sold out. At the time it was considered a failure but one century later is labeled as one of the most important American books.John Huston brings Melville's novel to the screen with an extraordinary result. Darkness, mustiness and awe of the ocean. Scenes full of excitement and tension. Nervousness and fever is seen in character's eyes. This movie lives its own life.Thanks to wonderful Gregory Peck for creating captain Ahab's figure. Mysterious and obsessed man, driven by vengeance, restless in his hunt for the whale that haunts his thoughts. Captain had turned his life into a never-ending chase which consequences are tragic.Inexpressible power and weight of the ocean is the thing to imagine after the show of Moby Dick. It will move spectator's mind and make him realize that no man can challenge the ocean. It's beyond human's limits and it's a war he cannot win. Apart from that, there is always a person that must follow his goals and aims at any cost. One of them is Ahab. He is an epitome of an idealist, tyrant who conforms everything to his desires what finally makes him an extremely dangerous man. Man who fears the people. Man who chose his own way. "},{"Title":"A fine adaptation of Meville's most famous novel with excellent casting.","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sci-fi novelist Ray Bradbury was chosen by director John Huston to do the screenplay of Melville's Moby Dick, a book that Bradbury had little liking for. None the less he came up with a top notch screen play with a fine cast of actors including Gregory Peck (who personally thought Huston should have played the part himself) James Robertson Justice, Richard Baseheart, Leo Genn and in a fine cameo Orson Welles as Father Mapple. (An interesting tid-bit. In the Patrick Stewart remake Gregory Peck performed the role of Father Mapple) A rousing tale of revenge and life on a whiling ship of the nineteenth century, and very unusual for those days, not one starring female role in the cast. The later version was almost as good, but this one is the definitive version. "}{"Title":"The Best  Ahab","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Actor Gregory Peck felt he was totally miscast at Captain Ahab. He felt his quiet personality was at odds with the mercurial temperament of the crazy sea captain. Peck felt that the persona of John Huston was much closer to the lead character. But a funding decision had much to do with the casting of Gregory Peck, who was bankable. (as they say) Moby Dick was not a great sea story. It was a great story of Ahab's megalomania. This is why so many great minds were drawn to the character. John Barrymore, Orson Wells and John Huston were all drawn to Ahab. I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. All of life is but a pasteboard mask. Ahab, beware of Ahab ! These quotes from Herman's Melville's masterpiece show why the writing is held in such high regard today. Thats why- to my taste Melville's classical blank verse prose is best done in MOBY DICK (1978) staring Shakespearean trained Jack Aranson in the role of the crazy wily sea captain. And the great shroud of the sea rolls on,- as it has for 2000 years. Final words of Herman Mellville's masterpiece MOBY DICK. "},{"Title":"Yes, this film has great audio impact.","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I noticed one of the commentators of the film mentioned that they made an audio tape of it. I did the same thing years ago because of the great detail in Peck and Genn's performances, the nuances and rhythms are extraordinary. Only Genn could match Peck at his best as he was here. Not only this, the entire film is quite enjoyable as only an audio recording. A film of great stature in terms of the cast. I'd love to see it revamped with superior special effects but I guess that will never happen. There's better big whales in subsequent adaptations but no one anywhere comes near to Peck's Ahab and Genn's Starbuck. Great, great stuff. "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seen today for the first time, wanted to see it since long time ago but never had the chance to do it. Beginning with an applause to the novel, mix of allegoric hints of Shakespearean, Greek tragicomedy and mythology of almost any religion or culture, I think this film is at the same time an amazing exposition of a very hard worked script, understandable and captivating for any kind of audience either being young (the adventures story of a group of sailors with spectacular images of the ship Pequod) or mature and old people (the desperation and frustration of a solitary man utterly obsessed with a symbol -the whale- that leads to compare him with the man who reveals against what could be taken as an omnipresent and infinitely powerful God, after being challenged by him in a life or death duel) ending with the magnificent (to me again, since not many people agree with that) performance of G.Peck and the classic J.Huston's direction.As a resume, a deathless masterpiece of the classic period of Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Just Back From Mystic","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For all my fellow movie buffs , especially those who loved this movie a trip to Mystic Ct is a must. I went there as a child and long remembered the claustrophobic feeling aboard an actual whaler that was probably the size of the Pequod. The Charles Morgan , which is berthed there is a six-boat whaler typically manned by a crew of 35-36 men. The bunks for the crew are 6 feet long and about 18 inches high and jammed togetherThe movie which I first saw in a drive in  when I was five years old still affects me and all everyone in Mystic talks about is the accuracy of the 1956 film. My girlfriend , who has not seen the movie, will be forced to watch this movie after being regaled with unending stories about this movie. The many comments about this movie all contribute to to give a good overall view and I really don't have much to add but I did really like  this movie. Hopkins as Ahab would be good or Oldman. DeNiro , who I love , I fear would give a repeat of his horrifyingly bad performance in Frankenstein and the amazingly bad remake of Cape Fear. The former smacks of John Wayne's unforgettable performance as Ghengis Khan. Robert Mitchum is unapproachable in the role of Max Cady in the original Cape Fear. Well anyway, watch this movie. Dream about a remake. I will not comment on the Patrick Stewart version which I believe was filmed in my neighbors round above ground pool over the summer a  few years ago. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watching Moby Dick if you've read the book is really quite satisfying -a few things are switched around but it's still the ol' whalin' tale of the sea. Of course, it doesnt have all of Melville's subplots and connotations you study in school, and thankfully, none of Ishmael's technical rants. You know, about the size and color of whale's livers. What I was really anticipating, though, was Ahab - Would he be crazy enough? How do you capture the pure insanity of the character? I concluded that Gregory Peck did as good a job as is humanly possible. The previous comment was right, he did look like Abe Lincoln. "},{"Title":"Powerful Version","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was obsessed with whaling and whales when I was a kid and read every book in our public library on the subject. Way too young to comprehend it, I fought my way through Melville's Moby Dick and luckily went back to it when i was older and it is still one of my favorite novels. Agreed, it is almost impossible to adapt such a massive, insightful, rambling, too much detail-ridden book and even though there have been many versions, Huston's still shines. Sure, it is flawed but so much of it really works. I'm glad to see mostly praise for Peck's work here because I have always been fond of his performance as Ahab. In fact, you put his Atticus Finch and then his Ahab together and this is one fine film actor (not to mention the underrated yet brilliant Gunfighter). Most of the whale effects are stunning and in many ways, still better than the ill-fated recent USA Cable attempt. This film does get better with age. It's powerful, potent and passionate. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Huston's adaptation is still the quintisential one.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie frequently growing up. All these years later I'm still struck by how genuinely good it is. I think the cast is one of the best ever assembled. I think the soundtrack composer Phillip Sainton wrote a beutiful score (which can now be obtained on CD!!!), John Huston chose excellent locations, and, in an age of Hollywood glamour, all of the actors went for a 19th Century look. The result is a movie of striking historical accuracy and resonance. This should be recognized because Hollywood, especially in these days, treated historical accuracy as a trivial matter (just watch any John Ford movie of the period).  Gregory Peck was not considered the best man for the role of Ahab. This is a criticism that still has followers to this day. I for one, disagree. I thought Gregory Peck was wonderful. He had the necessary mannerisms of a domineering guru capable of using this dark charisma to enlist disciples. Patrick Stewart (whom I love) played Ahab as simply a giddy, peevish, little madman. Appropriate perhaps for the role of Renfield in a Dracula film, but not Ahab who is one of the most complex characters ever created in American Literature. I will applaud Stewart who said that Ahab was the greatest Shakespearean charater that Shakespeare never wrote. True true!!!! Queequeg might say. Richard Basehart was a good Ishmael but I think the real treat is his narration throughout. This is a movie filled with little treats. Peter Coffin, owner of the Spouter Inn, The encounter with Elijha, The Quaker owners of the Pequod, The ships sombre departure from New Bedford, and of course Orson Welles as Father Mapple. I should also mention that in the post-Matrix age of digital animation, where just about every fantastic concept can be brought convincingly to the screen, John huston and his mechanical rubber whale made a believer out of me. Ironically the computer animated whale from the 1998 TV version was highly unconvincing. The only thing I did like about the latter version was it's inclusion of Fedallah. He's a rather important character in Melville's book and represents Ahab's dark alter ego. He is the perfect manifestation of Ahab's obsession and serves to effectivly counteract Starbuck, who is what Ahab might have been had he not been consumed by......dare I say it....the dark side. I forgive Huston's omission.   "},{"Title":"He tasks me","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Of course, I read Melville's novel many years ago (voluntarily, not on assignment) but didn't care that much for it. The vast majority of it seemed to be a college course on 19th century whaling. Huston's version here is masterful. Gregory Peck pulled off Ahab masterfully. If this were made now, I'd have to nominate DeNiro for Ahab. Grade A "},{"Title":"Still the best adaptation of Melville's classic.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A few points of clarification for some of the last few comments.  The film was indeed shot in Technicolor but with a special process developed by cinematographer Oswald Morris involving a desaturation of the color to resemble hand-tinted steel engravings of the 19th century - like the artwork plates that accompany the opening titles.  The MGM/UA laser disc has restored the color well.  If the sky looks almost grey (and not green or even magenta, as in faded prints) it is correct.  The dialog is part Melville but mostly Bradbury and Huston trying to sound like Melville That bed is a coffin and those are winding sheets, I do not sleep Mr. Starbuck, I die... is not Melville, but it's great... This is still the best adaptation of Moby Dick, the recent USA network version not withstanding.  Patrick Stewart is not scary enough to be Ahab.  If another version is made I would recommend Anthony Hopkins or Gary Oldman for the role (just dreaming...) and I would spare the audience nothing with regard to Melville's language - his words are as beautiful as Shakespeare's and should be treated with the same respect.   "},{"Title":" I spit my last breath at thee ","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Last Time I watched this movie I was a young boy,so I viewed it with a child's mind. Having just watched it again,I enjoyed it very much and rate the 1956 version highly.Though there where certain things left out of the 1956 version in comparison to the book, it did not take away from my enjoyment of the film,though Nantucket being referred to as New Bedford did annoy me a little, but I soon got over that.Still trying to decide who said this line best I'll follow him around the Horn, and around the Norway maelstrom, and around perdition's flames before I give him up. Ricardo Montalban (Wrath of Khan) or Peck !Overall this is an absolute classic movie and for me one of Pecks best performances. For the younger people out there, don't be put off by this being an old film, it is well worth watching, but try to read the book first to fill in the gaps. "}{"Title":"Captain Ahab Instills his Obsession","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The beauty and strength of this version of Moby Dick is first of all it was originally filmed in black and white. You know they say when you photograph/film a man in color you photograph his clothes. When you photograph a man in b/w you photograph his soul.Secondly, and most importantly, is the ability of the film to capture the very essence of Ahab's obsession and how he is able to instill that obsession into the very souls of the crew, as if they were lined up, with anticipation, waiting their turn to be possessed . Total mesmerization. Even after Ahab's death.The fear you have as a viewer is watching the enigmatic space between the crew and Ahab slowly shrink till he has consumed them and they will follow his quest blindly with no sign of logic or reason.Obviously the writer hopes we identify with Ishmael, the only survivor, which he is, not because of any luck or good fortune, but because he is supposed to represent the thin line between free will and whatever demon any man can become obsessed with to his utter destruction. "},{"Title":"Ahab beckons!  He's dead, but he beckons!","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" No one will ever match the performance Gregory Peck gave to Ahab in this movie. Patrick Stewart didn't even come close.But that's not all. Is there anyone that can match Leo Genn as Starbuck, or Richard Basehart as Ishmael? But there are too many great performances to count. Royal Dano as Elijah always stays with me. I used to try and imitate his strong voice (despite the fact I'm a woman) Elijah! They call me, Elijah! Orson Welles in a cameo part as Father Mapple.This film is an undisputed Masterpiece. It does not matter if the whale doesn't look real, or the special effects aren't up to today's standards.I would rather have poorer special effects today, rather than poorer actors. Unfortunately, we have traded spectacular special effects for actors and acting that will never come up to the standards set by films like this.It is an age, I fear, of which, we will never see the likes again. Thank the Good Lord we can still see these films and my hopes are they are always preserved. "},{"Title":"Peck miscast? I don't see it.","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have read quite a few reviews that claim that Gregory Peck was miscast as Ahab in this version of Moby Dick and that he often looks ill at ease in the role. I have never understood how anyone would see his casting or performance in this way.Throughout my life, I have loved reading sections of Moby Dick and I loved this film from the moment I saw Richard Basehart walk over the hill and in voice over invite me to Call me (him) Ishmael. The screenplay is evidence of Ray Bradbury and John Huston's craftsmenship. If anything, they improve upon the storyline of the novel whilst retaining the story's mystical and metaphorical qualities.As a child, I thrilled to the grandeur of the language. This act is immutably decreed. It was rehearsed by ye and me a billion years before this ocean rolled. What a thought for a 10 year old! The look of the film is so distinctive. It's as if you are looking at those old sepia pictures of your ancestors' weddings that used to sit on the mantelpiece.Peck became Ahab for me. It didn't matter and still doesn't that he was too young to play Ahab who at one stage claims that he struck his first whale 40 years ago. To me, Peck seemed old and bowed and this is the art of acting and film. When asked how Cary Grant is to be believed to be a Frenchman by the audience in one of his films, Howard Hawkes said that at the start of the film Grant's character has a passport stamped that says he is French - so he's Frenchman! Since then, Sean Connery has played a Russian sub commander with a Scottish accent. If the actor engages you with the performance, you suspend disbelief. "},{"Title":"Moby dunks Peck","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Everyone has heard of Moby Dick, even people who never open books. How many have actually read Melville's opus? I suppose some have, but not that many. Some reviewer writes that Ray Bradbury hadn't read it. Difficult to believe. Nevertheless, there's something missing in this film, and it's not easy to say what. In spite of a lot of merit it does not seem to truly deliver the goods, and several reviews suggest what's wrong. Basehart is not exactly bad, but he is quite definitely too old. This part should have gone to someone like Billy Budd. A lot of reviewers rave about Peck's performance, but for me he just didn't nail it. He was far too civilized, a gentleman. He might have gone melancholy insane, but not viciously and self-destructively carpet-chewing bananas. A good part for a Hitler clone.The whale effects were surprisingly good. I remember a friend of mine coming back from seeing Jaws, and ridiculing that ludicrous rubber shark. Here, however, the whale was rather convincing, and I kept asking myself how these scenes had been achieved.It was also rather enjoyable seeing all those well-known British actors Harry Andrews, Bernard Miles, Noel Purcell, James R Justice, Mervyn Johns, Leo Genn, Arthur Mullard for goodness sake! Joan Plowright --- Lady Olivier for crying out loud! What was going on here with that cast list? Queequeg had great presence.Still, I really don't think it all came together satisfactorily in the end. Six out of ten stars. This rating system no longer seems to be working. "},{"Title":"Casting Against Type","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Herman Melville's Moby Dick is one of those many works of classic literature which everyone has read and I haven't, so unlike some of those who have posted here I am unable to compare the film with the original novel. The story is too well-known for me to summarise the plot here, but it revolves around the obsession of a nineteenth-century whaling captain with killing an enormous white whale which, on an earlier voyage, was responsible for taking off one of his legs. When the film first appeared in 1956 there was some criticism of the casting of Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab; he was not the first choice of director John Huston, but the studio insisted on a big-name star for the role. Certainly, this was a case of casting against type. Peck was generally known for playing thoughtful, rational characters (a reputation which was to be strengthened after 1956 when he appeared in films like The Big Country and To Kill a Mockingbird) so he was not perhaps the most obvious choice to play a man dominated by a single insane obsession. Peck was apparently dissatisfied with his own performance in this film, but I have always thought that he was doing himself an injustice. I can think of some actors who would have turned Ahab into a ranting, carpet- chewing maniac, but Peck's interpretation is very different. He plays Ahab as a handsome, charismatic individual, capable of winning the loyalty and affection of his crew, who are happy to support his pursuit of Moby Dick, and only irrational on the subject of the whale. The other key performance in the film comes from Leo Genn as Starbuck, the first mate who acts as the voice of reason on board the Pequod. (He is in fact similar to the roles that Peck himself played in many of his other films). Starbuck is the one man among the crew to oppose Ahab; he is calm, rational and deeply religious, and regards Ahab's obsessive pursuit of the white whale in search of vengeance as being both insane and ungodly. Starbuck's protests, however, have little effect on the rest of the crew. Other fine contributions come from Orson Welles in a cameo appearance as Father Mapple, the priest who blesses the crew before they set off on their voyage, and the little-known Austrian actor Friedrich von Ledebur as the South Sea islander Queequeg. Apart from the acting, what makes this film stand out is the fact that it combines action and adventure with a highly literate screenplay. (It was adapted from Melville's novel by the distinguished author Ray Bradbury). As an action-adventure film it is a very good one with excellent special effects considering the period in which it was made. The final scenes in which Ahab and his crew try desperately to kill the whale are particularly well done. There is more to the film, however, than just an exciting adventure story about life aboard a Victorian sailing vessel. The script touches on matters of philosophical import such as the relationship between man and God, the relationship between man and nature and the relationship between reason and irrationality. Huston was in some ways the Captain Ahab of the movie industry, a man who could often become obsessive in pursuit of his goals. He could also be a difficult man to work with; he is reported to have clashed with several others involved in this film, including Peck and Bradbury. At his worst he could turn out some very second-rate films; he was, for example, responsible for that dreadful Bond spoof Casino Royale. At his best, however, he was one of the cinema's great directors, and Moby Dick must rate as one of his greatest films, up there with the likes of Treasure of the Sierra Madre, The Red Badge of Courage and The African Queen. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This film captivates you from the beginning, and all of it's aging is ignored.","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" As long has the art of film as existed, people have made film based on classic novels. Some of them are pretty good, but most of them fail to capture the heart of the the story. This film does not fall under the latter category. This must the one of the best film adaptations of a book I've seen. I admit I have not read the book, so for you who have this might be a disappointment, or maybe you'll love it, I don't know. But as a film, this deserves the title as a cinematic masterpiece.I rarely expect much from such movies. I was expecting a simple film about an obsessed whaler seeking revenge. But I failed to predict the dept of this movie. The many character, all the individual conflicts, the dialogue, the symbolism, and the narrative was handled which such excellency. John Huston really did a marvel job with this film. I've seen equal and even better skills, but there are very few of them. And that still sets this film above hundreds of not thousands of other films. I guess this is a bit of a clich, but still valid thing to say they don't make them like they used too. Despite it's age, and some cheesy effects, it is all forgotten and ignored, as this film captivates you from the beginning.this film deserves nothing but a 10/10. "},{"Title":"the perennial whale-of-a-tale made into an epic two-hour adventure drama with a 'Wrath of God' spectacle at its core","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Moby Dick is one of those novels that is so highly touted one wonders if it's worth all the hype. I haven't read all of the book (there's still some time, hopefully, before I die to get it all in), but from just skimming the surface it is legitimately great literature, a kind of simple-yet-profound sense of the essential flaw of human ambition, and of the horrors with a wrath of God in the form of a vengeful sea captain. It might not be the easiest read- and some of it's authentic 19th century language has been brought over to the screen without much change (lots of 'ye's and such). But it is a bona-fide classic for all times, and John Huston doesn't disappoint even as he crams in the film for a two-hour Hollywoodized treatment. His film of Melville contains the God-fearing and God-abiding that is brought into question, making it a lot like a very powerful modern religious parable as much as an adventure picture- without making it seem preachy. It's a handsome epic, with a punch of a ride for its last half hour, and a helluva crazy, determined force to be reckoned with at its center (not talking about the whale, of course, the captain Ahab).And there's the wonderful characterizations Huston and Bradbury capture so well. From Queequeg, with his tattooed body and placid face and cannibalistic tendencies (he sells his heads, after all, before going on the ship with Ishmael), as played by Friedrich Ledebur with a quiet level of enthusiasm and a deep sorrow when he realizes he will die and makes up his coffin. To Starbuck, the one sane character on the ship, who will abide by God's bidding- which is to do the whaling that they've been placed by God to do- and tries his best to have order with his one-track-minded Captain. To the host of supporting characters by Stubb and Peleg. And of course Ishmael, who, by default as the observer of all things on the ship, stays a lot of the time in the background with his narration reflecting his wide-eyed view of this new way of life he's apart of and the realization he faces when there's no going back (Baseheart might be the only so-so actor in the picture, doing what he can to make him a believable presence, though I pictured someone younger in the part).But none is more amazing than the big Captain himself. Gregory Peck was thought as being a little not right for the part of Ahab, that a star who's played many a good hero plays this ultimate bad-ass, one of the quintessential figures of self-destruction manifested by the scars he carries and makes his marks to face off against the white whale. Peck fits in it, somehow, as such a force, who gives him soul when there shouldn't be any, and just those touches of conflict that get brushed away from completing his doomed quest (watch his face when they come across the other ship, where the captain's children have died, and Ahab just freezes up and leaves them to go on with the hunt). It's hard for an actor, especially of Peck's talents of focusing all of the energy and humanity (however in this case soured) in the eyes, to not soak up a character like Ahab. He's a symbol as much as a hero-turned-bad. He leads those under him right into the path of the big beast, who takes away their (possible) God given choice for his own determination. Killing the whale, for Ahab, is like killing a part of himself, what's underneath the mash which he can't stand. Allegory? Why not?It's such rich material that it would need a director like Huston to pull it off. And while I'm sure there would be detractors for a film that didn't contain all of the scope of the novel, there's enough put in that it doesn't feel compromised. It's often beautifully shot by Oswald Morris, a typical but still very rousing score by Philip Sainton, and the special effects and sea action pack a wallop some five or so decades later. Who wouldn't I recommend Moby Dick too? Probably Green Peace people; they'd be the first to take Ahab out. "},{"Title":"Best whale tale since Jonah.","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" How could this not be a classic. John Huston's adaptation of Herman Melville's 1851 novel Moby Dick fascinates still to this day. This high seas saga has the sole survivor, Ishmael(Richard Basehart),of a lost whaling ship, The Pequod, telling of its merciless Captain Ahab(Gregory Peck)and his total obsession with hunting down and killing the infamous white whale Moby Dick. The giant creature left Ahab bitter, scarred and with a leg made of whale bone. The novice Ishmael is befriended by the tattooed Polynesian harpooner Queequeg(Friedrich von Ledebur). The ship's crew will learn that Ahab will sacrifice them and the Pequod just to deal his revenge on the elusive Moby Dick. Also in the cast Leo Genn, Harry Andrews, Royal Dano, Bernard Miles and Orsen Welles as the sermonizing Father Mapple. "},{"Title":"We Seek The Great White Letterbox","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I swear to god I was once at a record store and they had a used copy of a widescreen version of Huston's Moby Dick, RESTORED with the original sepea tones the film had on it's original release. I decided I didn't have enough on me; that I would come back later. I did. It was gone. I have never seen or heard about this edition again. This film should clearly be widescreen, and to see it in the way it was originally released would be great. It's an uneven movie, yet quite underrated and featuring brilliant sequences. I love the cameo by themysterious Royal Dano. Wither Criterion? "},{"Title":"Great film making!!!!","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a film where everything just comes together, the writers, by taking the main elements of the novel,and leaving out most of the subplots and narratives leave us with a excellent paced adventure. Ishmael(Richard Baseheart)goes to sea seeking a new experience, he decides to ship with a whaling vessel,he soon finds himself on a journey far from routine, as Captain Ahab(Gregory Peck) makes his motives known, he has set sail for revenge on Moby Dick, the whale who left him maimed physically and mentally, persuading his crew to join with him in seeking his vengence, and all seem willing to follow, except for the first mate, Mr. Starbuck.(Leo Genn) this film is quite entertaining and believable, Gregory Peck sucks you in, and is beautifully filmed. the special effects are convincing for their time.I highly recommend this for anyone looking for a good movie to watch. great film making and leaves you satisfied. "}{"Title":"It's grown better with the years","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I caught up with the John Huston version of Moby Dick the other day after a period of many years. It was never a film I very much cared for, too much of the man-versus-insuperable-odds genre which I generally find more of an ordeal than a pleasure. However, a shot at reading the Herman Melville original drew me back to Huston. Although the film is still fatally flawed by a Captain Ahab which, in Gregory Peck's hands, suggests hammy posturing rather than the genuine suffering necessary to give credibility to his obsessive quest, it is in every other sense a a film that has somehow improved with time. It looks superb with Oswald Morris's specially devised colour photography - all light blues, greys and browns - suggesting old whaling pictures and the montage, particularly in the sequences where the whales are attacked by the harpooners in small boats, is quite breathtaking.But my favourite moment in the film occurs at the very beginning where Richard Baseheart stands alone on a hillside before starting his valley descent towards the sea. His voice-over declamation of Melville's first line Call me Ishmael has a similar haunting resonance to The past is a foreign country; they do things differently there of The Go Between and the huntsman's Gone to Earth in the glorious film of that name. There is a wonderful cameo early on of Orson Welles delivering Father Mapple's sermon on the Jonah story. Now there was an actor that could command the type of authority that the part of Ahab cries out for. Although I am not suggesting that Welles would have been ideal in the role, it is certainly not the part for one of Hollywood's most personable matine idols. I note that another user comment mentions Klaus Kinski in the connection. Now that could have been quite something! Certainly it might have raised what is merely a good film to a possibly considerable one. "},{"Title":"You can taste the salt air (possible spoilers!)","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film as a child and it has haunted me ever since Ahab's first appearance in a flash of lightning, dead Ahab waving his crew on lashed for eternity to Moby Dick, Ishmael being kept afloat on a coffin, the only survivor of the 'Pequod'.This is one of the finest films about life at sea, quite apart from the overpowering hunt for the white whale. The scenes of the Pequod leaving harbour, where toothless old women in shawls watch their men leave for another three year voyage have an incredible feeling of truth. At sea we hear the swoosh of the sea at the ship's bows, the squeal of pulleys and the rattle of chains which bring the story itself to life.The whaling scenes were filmed off Madeira where men still hunted from small boats. Some of these scenes seem slightly disturbing now our conservationist consciences have been roused but they are exhilirating nonetheless. The final battle with Moby Dick never ceases to make me catch my breath as Ahab (from hell's heart I stab at thee, for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee, thou damned whale!) attempts to destroy his destroyer.Finally I want to second the thoughts of the previous reviewer Klaus Kinski as Ahab, *that* I would like to see! "},{"Title":"A study in megalomania","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" John Huston does an excellent job bringing Melville's  frightening story of human ego to the screen. Gregory Peck  is able to personify Ahab's obsession in a spell-binding  performance. The rest of the cast is excellent also  including Orson Welles giving the sermon about Jonah.Ahab is the essence of human pride. He cannot stoop to the simple act of forgiving and forgetting. What plays out as a result of his egotism is truly horrifying to watch -- but we must watch because Ahab is in each of us. "},{"Title":"Decent version of all-time greatest sea yarn","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This old-fashioned classic is satisfying to watch but viewers used to glitzy, high-tech special effects may find the great white whale in this film almost tame.And while it was refreshing to see Gregory Peck in a bad-guy role, he too seemed a bit understated and too classy for my taste.I thoroughly enjoyed Orson Welles in the cameo role of maritime-town preacher in his ship's-hull pulpit. The foreshadowing on the church-wall plaques was powerful.With a little arm-twisting, I convinced my two electronic-toy-obsessed boys to give this film a glance and it did manage to keep their attention throughout.Not a bad foreshadowing of some great American literature in their futures, I hope&#x85; "},{"Title":"Not an Easy Story to Convert to Film","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" If one were to read the book, they would see that you have a story in the beginning, story at the end, and about 200-300 pages of it reads more like a whaling manual with some pantheistic philosophy thrown in. It's hard to really do this story justice. I thought the movie humanized the characters more than the book did. In the book, Captain Ahab is the only one who seems to have much to do or say, and sometimes, Starbuck, but even they fade into the background. The most memorable character in the story other than Ahab is Queequeg. And after the first few chapters, he doesn't have much to do, either. But in the movie, they take on a more pro-active roll. I thought Gregory Peck made a fine Captain Ahab. Better than Patrick Stewart, that's for sure. It makes you feel like you're really on a whaling voyage. My biggest complaint was casting Richard Baseheart as Ishmael. He was too old. They couldn't even make him look convincingly younger. Other than that, the movie did a pretty good job with Melville's classic. There were instances where I thought Moby Dick looked like Bruce in JAWS. Perhaps he was a forerunner? Anyway, enjoy. Not a bad movie for what it has to work with. "},{"Title":"For hate's sake I spit my last breath at this movie","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is an interesting failure. Gregory Peck is not very well cast as Captain Ahab. He tries to make his performance as the monomaniacal captain work. However some scenes with him in it are just hilarious. For example I find his final confrontation with the giant white whale the funniest part in the film. He literally climbs on the back of Moby Dick and begins stabbing him with his harpoon while yelling obscenities at the whale. The whale is poorly constructed. It looks like a maniacal whale puppet come to life and then set in a bathtub with a bunch of model boats. One scene is even screened in so badly that I was surprised with how bad it looked even for its time. The only thing I liked about this film is Starbuck. I forget the name of the actor, but he does a lot better than Peck. He makes this film come close to working. However I feel that the most recent adaption of Moby Dick, a miniseries made in 2011 with William Hurt and Ethan Hawke, superior in every sense. True the whale in that film isn't really realistic, but comparing it to the one in this version you'll see the improvement. If you want to see a good adaption of the novel watch the 2011 miniseries. I haven't seen the adaption of Moby Dick with Patrick Stewart and Ted Levine, but it looks a lot better than this movie. The only adaption that seems beneath this one is the one made in 2010 by the SyFy channel called 2010 Moby Dick. This movie has horrendous casting, special effects that make Jaws 4 look realistic and a whale that can walk on land. What more can be said about 2010 Moby Dick. Another problem I found a problem in this adaption of Moby Dick is Ishmael. In the books it is hinted that he is a young man of about 20 or so. In this adaption he is portrayed as being in his late thirties or early forties. This film in the end is not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of Herman Meville's classic novel","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Great adaptation of Herman Meville's classic novel. The story of Captain Ahab and his constant quest to hunt and kill the great white whale, Moby Dick.A timeless tale on the irrationality, unproductiveness and futility of revenge.Gregory Peck is excellent as Captain Ahab, and shows that he can act the villain. Excellent direction by John Huston - the pacing is perfect and the drama is built beautifully. Good special effects, for 1956. The dialogue, especially Ahab's, is a bit overly melodramatic, but that would be the only flaw. "},{"Title":"Widescreen or Not?","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This has long been a favorite of mine, but I have a question about the aspect ratio of this film. IMDb's Technical Specs page for Moby Dick lists *two* different aspect ratios 1.371 (DVD release) and 1.66  1.Now - we all know that many films that were originally shot in widescreen (1.661) were then cropped to 1.371 for television. For many years, I searched for a widescreen version of Moby Dick on DVD or Blu-Ray. I had all but given up, when a user review of Moby Dick appeared on TCMDB which claimed that a widescreen DVD *had* been released in Europe (PAL & region 9). Another reviewer on the same page claimed to have seen the film in widescreen on TCM. A search of TCM's website turned up four clips from this film - and sure enough, they're in widescreen. At least one of these clips (Fr. Mapple's sermon) is also available on youtube - BUT - the youtube clip is *not* in widescreen; it appears to be have been copied from the DVD. If you compare them, you'll find something very strange. Normally, pan-and-scan DVDs are produced by cropping out the left and right sides of the original widescreen images. But in the case of Moby Dick, it appears that the opposite has been done - the widescreen images were produced by cropping out the top and bottom of the 1.37-1 images. In other words, it appears that Moby Dick was originally shot in 1.371, and then cropped to create a widescreen version which has never been released on DVD (at least not in the US). Can anybody shed any more light on the original aspect ratio for this movie? Is there really a widescreen version of this film? And if so, does it contain more information than the DVD version? Or less? (The TCM reviews that I referenced are here http//www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title/17660/Moby-Dick/user-reviews.html TCM's widescreen clips here here http//www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title/17660/Moby-Dick/videos.html and the youtube clip of Fr. Mapple's sermon is here https//www.youtube.com/watch?v=2rWV8sBZ9ho)-----------------------------Followup Amazon is selling an imported Blu-Ray which claims to contain the widescreen version of the 1956 version of Moby Dick. There are a bunch of screen shots from the BluRay on home theater forum.com (see note below). I compared those screen shots with similar images from the DVD (which is in the old academy ratio). Sure enough, the widescreen images on the Blu-Ray appear to have been created by cropping the top-and-bottom off of the DVD images. (Tilt-and-scan instead of Pan-and-Scan).For some reason, IMDb won't let me post the name of the website with the Blu-Ray screen shots. They say it's a very long word, which is not allowed. If you want to see the screen shots, paste the link below into your browser, delete the spaces from home theater forum so that it's all one word - then hit enter.www.home theater forum.com/topic/332782-moby-dick-1956/ "},{"Title":"Legendary Movie - Moby Dick","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film comes from one of the best books ever written, the tall task of taking such an iconic classic and making it into a film, no small order. Yet thanks to Ray Bradbury for writing the screenplay than enabled John Huston to make this film worthy of the book.I think maybe this film just hasn't graced the TV Screens more than it has is just a shame, it makes me wonder is this the reason that its not one of the all time greatest movies. There are so many timeless classics I know its impossible for them all to make it but still a shame.Gregory Peck as Ahab, Orsen Wells as the minister, both performances make this a stand out movie. Both actor's brought so much to this film, maybe some of the special effects let the film down a tad, but that's why its an 8 not a 10. Still well worthy of a watch. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"This movie ages quite well","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" After seeing the trailer for Ron Howard's upcoming flick, IN THE HEART OF THE SEA, I had an urge to rewatch a movie that I thought was a classic from my childhood - John Huston's 1956 production of MOBY DICK.Boy, I'm glad I did.It is always a worry when I go to revisit a movie that I fondly remember from my childhood. I was trying to remember the last time I saw this movie and I think it has been at least 30 years. Did this movie hold up? Did it age well?I am glad to say the answer to both questions is YES!Huston's production has aged, for me, like a fine wine. I think that some of this is because it seems to me that he took the dialogue right from Melville's novel, which means the dialogue was dated back in 1956. It is not anymore dated now, it just seems like it was dialog that was actually spoken back when the activities of this movie took place.Huston's direction is strong and sure handed. He, obviously, had a vision and drove hard on this vision. I particularly liked his use of pastel colors (especially in the background), it gave this movie a washed out, old look to begin with and that look has aged well. True, the special effects are dated, but to me, that just adds to the old time charm.I've heard negative comments on Gregory Peck's performance and I just don't agree. I know Peck, himself, said he wasn't old enough to play Captain Ahab. I disagree. He commands the screen in every scene he is in. He is someone that I believe these other sailors would follow no matter what. Richard Basehart makes a fine narrator to this story. His Ishmael is an observer of the events that he is recording. This made sense to me. Special mention should be made of Orson Welles' 5 minute scene as Father Mapple. He gives a sermon that shows the strength of Welles as a performer. It was fun to watch it.8 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis). "}{"Title":"Gregory Peck IS Captain Ahab in this respectable adaptation.","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The classic seafaring novel by Herman Melville gets adapted for the big screen by author Ray Bradbury and producer / director John Huston, and is just as entertaining as another big budget literary adaptation of two years previous, the Disney production of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. A likable Richard Basehart stars as the narrator Ishmael, who signs on as a crewman on a whaling ship, feeling an irresistible urge to go to sea. His captain is the stubborn Ahab, a man blinded by his need to get his vengeance on Moby Dick, the enormous snow white sperm whale who maimed him. As we will see, Ahab is willing to go to any lengths, and push all of his men to their limit, in the pursuit of his goal. His first mate Starbuck (Leo Genn) is dismayed, believing no good can come of such an obsession. Meanwhile, Ishmael comes to discover a good friend in the stolid cannibal Queequeg (Friedrich von Ledebur). Worth a mention is the fact that this dark, ultimately downbeat tale was initially a hard sell in Hollywood without any substantial female roles, and that Warner Bros. only agreed to make it on the condition that a big star like Peck should get the main role. Even Peck himself had felt that he was miscast, not having enough years on him (he was 38 at the time), yet he shows a real commitment to immersing himself in the role and reciting the prose from the novel. There's much to enjoy here, from an atmospheric recreation of New England in the 19th century, to the production values (the Pequod is vividly created for film, having previously been used in the Disney version of Treasure Island and gotten a makeover), to the quite good special effects (I was wondering how Moby Dick himself would look in this film, and came away satisfied) to Philip Saintons' thunderous score to a cast full of very talented actors. Basehart and Genn are excellent, as are James Robertson Justice (as Captain Boomer), Harry Andrews (as Stubb), Mervyn Johns (as Peleg), Seamus Kelly (as Flask), Royal Dano (as Elijah), and Orson Welles in a memorable, captivating cameo as Father Mapple, whose speech about Jonah and the whale sums up the themes of the story. The desaturated pastel colour effect of the movie is the work of cinematographer Oswald Morris, and it helps to give this movie a wonderful old fashioned feel. Hustons' insistence on shooting on an actual ship on the actual ocean would cause cost and time overruns, and while this would unfortunately result in a less than successful film in a financial way, it stands up pretty well today and does deserve some respect. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Moby Dick still rules","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Movies set in the age of sail used to be a Hollywood staple. Unfortunately the ships were often under the command of captains who revealed the inadequate screening procedures of their superiors. The moment they sailed, the captain's repressed mania and anger management issues came to the fore.The Sea wolf, Two Years before the Mast, Wake of the Red Witch and the 1935 version of Mutiny on the Bounty all featured despotic if not actually deranged ship's masters. By the time Moby Dick came along in 1956, the genre was familiar to movie audiences that knew sea monsters were more likely to be found on a ship's bridge wearing gold braid on their caps. John Huston's Moby Dick is about the last voyage of the whaling ship Pequod, and its captain, Ahab, who obsessively hunts a huge white whale that had taken off his leg in a previous encounter. Ahab subverts the crew to his cause but the final confrontation between man and beast leaves only one survivor, Ishmael played by Richard Basehart who also serves as narrator of the tale.Moby Dick is so full of weird characters that they would not seem out of place at a Star Trek convention. Apart from Ahab, there is Queequeg the tattooed Polynesian harpooner, wharfside prophet of doom Elijah, and Orson Welles as the ominous Father Mapple.Huston, who had struggled to make this movie for years, enlisted science fiction writer Ray Bradbury to help craft a screenplay from Melville's novel. They made many changes including a significant one to the ending with Ahab entangled in the ropes on the whale's back. In the novel this was the fate of a lesser character while Ahab's death was not as spectacular &#x96; the movie version works better.Moby Dick had two obstacles to overcome; the first was the casting of Gregory Peck as Ahab and the second was the demand placed on the technical crew to deliver a believable, final confrontation with Moby Dick.Huston wanted his father, Walter Huston, to play Ahab, however, the studio wanted a more bankable name. Peck was a popular, romantic star of the 1950's, but critics questioned his suitability for the role. 60 years later, the baggage that Peck carried is gone. Now his performance can be evaluated on its own terms, and Peck has grown into the role.The other challenge was to make the White Whale convincing. Unfortunately most of the action had to be shot in studio tanks. Splashy and artificial, the tank scenes lack the scale of the real ocean. Despite this, many of the scenes with the whale still have power, especially Moby Dick cruising along with old harpoons sticking in his back with ropes trailing behind him.The result was a unique movie experience. Huston's Moby Dick breathed life into its strange story and unusual characters. The movie was inspired by a great work of literature, and was made by a great artist of the cinema. It is a flawed masterpiece, but a masterpiece nonetheless. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Literary Adaptations","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE FILM One day, famed science fiction writer Ray Bradbury got a call out of the blue from John Huston. Huston asked Bradbury to help him write a film adaptation of Herman Melville's Moby Dick. Bradbury confessed that he had never managed to finish reading the book, but Huston handed him a copy and told him to read what he could. Then Bradbury headed over to Ireland with his wife to write. Even after the screenplay was completed, it took Huston two years before financing could be arranged.Indeed the film lacked a female star, and was about a bunch of men hunting whales. As part of the film's financing arrangement, Huston was forced to cast a big name in the part of Captain Ahab. He chose Gregory Peck, who no one thought would work in the role, including Peck. The shoot was plagued by production issues and multiple Moby Dick's were lost. Indeed Peck almost drowned during a scene. On release the film made next to nothing, and critics were generally indifferent to the film. It has yet to make it's budget back.THE PLOT Any English major could tell you the plot, Ishmael is a stranger who takes a need for the sea. He heads to the town of New Bedford, where he rooms for a night with a mysterious stranger with whom he later befriends, named Queequeg. Together they strike out on a whale-hunting voyage on the Pequod. The Pequod's captain, is the mysterious Captain Ahab whose leg was taken by the infamous white whale Moby Dick, and whose is rumored to have half a heart.It is Ahab who clarifies the Pequod's true mission. They are not to hunt whales, they are to hunt Moby Dick.THE CRITICISM I have not read Moby Dick, although I have tried. The story was not as familiar to me as it is to many, so I will just clarify something. This is the definitive screen adaptation of Moby Dick. Huston gets everything right. Peck, who has been criticized as wooden in many things, is magnificent in this. His Ahab is an intensely foreboding portrait of evil. Richard Basehart may have been a little old, and his performance may be average, but he allows you to reflect your own feelings and opinion through the character of Ishmael.I hope I do not alienate literary fans who dismiss this as an inadequate adaptation when I say that the film does a great job of condensing the story into an enjoyable film experience. Ahab has been corrupted by the whale, and he has lost more than his leg. He has lost his soul. This is brilliantly conveyed in the performance by Peck, his foreboding glance and scars make him visually scary, but I never found myself to be afraid of him. He most certainly is not 'wooden', the dialog is old fashioned, and I am sure that part of it must have come from the novel.Baseheart does good work, but we never really focus on his character. His character is the lens through which we observe the tragic story of Ahab. The film can feel like an ensemble in parts, and we get time to explore some of Ishmael's shipmates. However, in one of the best scenes in the film, Orson Welles delivers an absolutely sterling monologue containing a parable. Welles dominates in that one scene, although apparently he was so nervous before delivering the monologue, that Huston had to hide a bottle of Brandy on set for Welles to sip from during nervous spells.The screenplay is terrific, melancholy and dark, while containing a mysterious edge that Bradbury and Huston exploit terrifically. Credit must go to Melville's novel, for giving us a beautiful story. However it is the screenplay that condenses the novel without losing it's edge. For some reason I found the film to be slightly satirical, although it is certainly very darkly satiric if this is the case.The cinematography is incredibly interesting. It looks and feels like no other Technicolor film. The colours are not garish as is the case with many films of that era. In fact, even the scenes at sea look like they are actually taking place at sea, and not in a tank or against some kind of backdrop. The film invokes a somber melancholy tone, through the muted pallet of colours. I have heard that the day for night (shooting in day, and darkening the image to make it look as if it takes place at night) technique was used, and it certainly makes sense.Finally to the direction. Huston once again delivers a great film. While the direction may not be as energetic as Wise Blood, or relaxed like The Dead. His direction is key to the success of the film. It's a good thing he does well, admirably. The tone is slow, though not nearly as slow as the novel. It certainly feels that by the end someone is winking at you. That someone may very well be John Huston.Moby Dick, 1956, Starring Gregory Peck, Richard Baseheart and Leo Genn Directed by John Huston, 9.5/10 (A)(This is part of an ongoing project to watch and review every John Huston movie, you can view this and other reviews at http//everyjohnhustonmovie.blogspot.ca/) "},{"Title":"Call me impressed","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Captain Ahab(Peck, in one of his best performances) lost his leg to a great white whale, the legendary Moby Dick. Many have seen it, some have wounded it, none have claimed it. He can neither forgive nor forget this loss, and travels out to sea, hunting the creature like a predator stalks its prey, risking the lives of his crew, with no other gain in sight than to destroy it. His pride and his hatred seals the fate of all of them. Based on the Norman Melville novel(which I have not read(so I can draw no comparisons), albeit I do know the gist of it... who doesn't?), this is a truly epic picture. It's gorgeously shot, with astonishing FX(I have no idea how they made it appear so real back then... the exceptions being the green-screens). Gregory is not the only one to nail his given role... everyone is compelling in this. The lines, dialog and monologue alike, are delivered with a true passion that makes the flowery prose(much of it straight from the book, as it should be) even more effective. Ray Bradbury's script is phenomenal. The pace is tight, with every scene providing development and/or excitement. You get a real sense of how harsh the conditions were back then, and how much worse still they are on this journey. It feels like you're there on the quest with them. The characters are all memorable. They got some perfect types, physically and as far as attitude goes. The three harpooners seem like they could have entire stories devoted to them that would be captivating. This explores the themes well, of not putting petty desires before all else, of madness and its infectious quality, of accepting your place and your destiny. There is a bit of disturbing content and bloody violence in this. The DVD comes with a trailer for this, and one for each of the following The Harder They Come, Mississippi Mermaid, Quest for Fire and Gregory's Girl. I recommend this to everyone, once they can handle the subject matter and tone of this. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A whale of a tale","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Maimed mariner, the reclusive Captain Ahab (Peck) leads the Pea-Quod into self inflicted oblivion on the obsessive pursuit for a mythical white whale. Peck's tortured soul is the dark and brooding central character of the Herman Melville novel, an interpretation that some critics panned for its overstated intensity. Judge for yourself. The juxtaposition between the live backdrops and stunningly elaborate sets is well balanced, while the script is poetic in its period accent, but stills translates well to the screen medium.A superior cast excels in their characterizations, in particular the likes of Andrews and Miles as seasoned harpooners, and Welles, typically unrecognizable as a fire and brimstone bible basher who sets the tone of things to come. Royal Dano is also a standout in a brief but memorable bit as the prophet with a sinister prediction for naive adventure seeker Basehart and his reticent cannibal companion Ledebauer.Huston's taut, well-paced treatment depicts well the mental torture under which the characters gradually disintegrate, the by-product of the antagonistic tactics used by their psychotic skipper to motivate his crew in search of the elusive white whale. In some ways, the allegorical undertones almost sodden the fantasy, the biblical references painted so dominantly, that the mood often conveys a dark, passive anguish. Fierce squalls and the incessant flapping of mainsails against the simmering tension, underscore a vivid sense of isolation that is wonderfully captured in the rich tonal cinematography.And while it's sometimes difficult to hang on Peck's rigid delivery, it emphasises an asymmetrical tension with Genn's fractured nobility, which teeters on the brink of mutiny. Despite the appearance of the great white behemoth being somewhat puerile by today's standards, it doesn't diminish the impact of this very mature rendition, masterfully layered and textured by the expertise of legendary film maker, John Huston. A classic adventure. "},{"Title":"Contained in its 1950s time, Moby Dick is big","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" With 6,300+ viewers and 88 reviewers ahead of me on this one, I'm surely low on any list for readers. Nevertheless, a good film seen again deserves a few repeats. And an opportunity for self-expression. This film deserves praise. For one thing, Gregory Peck is true to the role. That fuller-face makeup helps - and the scar. Leo Genn is as fine an antidote as was ever put next to an obsessed man. But Genn's Starbuck can't help but fall into the obsession. It's the way Melville wrote it. For most of us, this film plugs the hole in our reading of classics. I think this anecdote is a jest, but it goes like this. A fifth grade bright boy chose Moby Dick for his outside reading. Maybe the teacher thought he'd get a version intended for young readers. But he didn't. And he wrote the shortest review on record Moby Dick told me more about whaling that I cared to know. When Jaws was published, a very good reviewer saw a greater potential than Peter Benchley gave it. The critic saw a modern day Melville story. And why not? Well, here's probably why 1) Benchley didn't have that talent; 2) he knew the modern day reader and was satisfied with making a whale of a killing on the best-seller lists. As for the movie, this is intended as praise Much of it appears to have been filmed in a bowl. That takes talent John Huston had. As wide as the plot seems to be because of the open seas story line, it's contained within a few heads and guts on one ship. It is shot in tight scenes, even the scenes going after whales. It requires the best special effects of the time because there ain't no white whale to cooperate. All in all, I think I'll accept the special effects of the 1950s over those of the present time. Which are vastly over-done, over-rated, and are supposed to BE the story rather than be PART OF the story. Oh, how I'd liked to have been the fella who had the talent to begin a novel with Call me Ishmael! Call it pen-envy if you want to. I'm getting old and have to get to work on that great American novel in my imagination. -- Call me Tom Jode. Should I settle for Tom Sawyer? Call me Huckleberry Finn. "},{"Title":"a spectacular achievement","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Herman Melville's classic novel of literature, Moby Dick was and still is, indeed, a very difficult book to understand. One finds it hard to both read and comprehend the book at the same time. I myself read the novel before I saw any of the film adaptations. Why? I don't know. I just had a curiosity for the book. And while I did find it difficult, and I mean VERY difficult to read, I found it kind of fascinating and it became number one of my list to try and find and view the various film versions that had been adapted over the years. The first one I managed to see was an infamous, rare version from the 30s starring John Barrymore. It was a very loose adaptation and not exactly faithful to Melville's original writing. The second version I saw was this popular and well-praised version starring Gregory Peck as the madman Captain Ahab hunting for the white, disfigured whale that took off his leg. The 1956 version of Moby Dick is a true masterpiece, a very well-done and splendid sea story that manages to stay faithful to Melville's original novel. And being a film done in more modern times, it can make it easier for others to understand what was happening all the time in the novel.The film was perfectly cast in all regards. Gregory Peck, more famous for playing the popular cinema hero Atticus Finch in the film adaptation of To Kill a Mockingbird for which he won his only Oscar in his career, played quite the opposite of a character in Moby Dick. Here, he is the wild and vicious Capt. Ahab whose primary concern to hunt down the notorious whale responsible for the loss of his leg. Peck's performance was exactly what I wanted. It reminded me very much of Robert Shaw's performance in another sea story classic Jaws (1975). Unlike the 1930 version of Moby Dick, this version depicts Capt. Ahab just as I had imagined him after reading the book. I had pictured Capt. Ahab as being tall, wearing dark clothes, never changing his expression, and being at a state where you couldn't possibly imagine what he was like before he first encountered the white whale. I can't imagine what Ahab could have looked like or acted like prior to losing his leg and becoming a hysterical madman obsessed with gaining his vengeance.But what I love most about Moby Dick is that it has substance. It's a film that knows what it's suppose to be and does a great job at it. It was meant to be a great sea story and while it does not really provide for all of the symbolism that Melville wrote into his book, it doesn't need to. The film was not suppose to be an allegorical masterpiece, but just a simple sit-back-and-enjoy it masterpiece. Director John Huston even stated in an interview that he never could understand Melville's style of writing and therefore, I assume he did not see a need to incorporate allegory into the film. Really, it works out better, because it's about the hunt for a dangerous and powerful animal. It's not suppose to be trying to give lessons for the future generations. And it doesn't.Special effects wise, the film was a triumph for its age. True, by today's standards, it's not the greatest. The lighting on the characters in the green-screening was a bit flawed. But then again, today's standards did not exist in 1956. Moby Dick himself and the other whales seen on the screen were all created using mechanical creatures that would simply rise up and down in the water and in some cases, open and close their mouths or even leap into the air. The final battle with Moby Dick is spectacular. We don't see the white whale for a long time and he is just referenced countless times by Ahab and the others about how enormous, powerful, and legendary he is. And by the time we see him at last, he almost seems vulnerable and typical, except for his paleness of the skin. But when attacked, he becomes a vicious monster that matches his reputation or even exceeds beyond it.In short, Moby Dick is a very good movie and for its age, a true masterpiece. Today, it still holds out very well and I highly recommend it. Fans of Melville's novel, this is the version to see. "},{"Title":"..this epic film of Melville's classic didn't move me..","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was never interested in reading Melville's Moby Dick, so I can't compare it to the film - many well-written comments posted here can do that for you. I just happened to click-on TCM and it was already playing. I told myself I wanted to watch it. I found it to be a chore.Not too many weeks ago, TCM presented the original-speaking version of Moby Dick, which I watched. Geez! what a bunch of ugly sailors!! I can't remember how it ended; seems lilac I remember Ahab going home and his wife saying Ahab! Ahab! with utter disbelief.This version of Ahab (Gregory Peck) assures you the ship will be destroyed and all of the sailors drowned. I felt that Ahab had a sadistic approach to his sailors, and his only wish was to be killed by The White Whale - which I found difficult to accept this ugly whatever-it-was. I suppose it's head had to be that large to crush the ship. I don't think whales with that kind of head could slip through the ocean very easily.So, while I rate this as 10. it is solely for the realness of the movie, so far as the other sailors go. Peck didn't impress me; unlike many other users posted here, I thought he was totally miscast. All that yee and thee stuff must have come from the novel ? I think Richard Basehart (Ishmael) was the only truly-drawn character; I keep wanting to relate Moby Dick with Arabic origins, because of the names of the characters.Leo Genn played his role with conviction, and was only one of the characters I could connect with. I guess John Huston deserves all that adulation others give him; ditto, Ray Bradbury. I'm going to think twice when I tell myself I want to see this........ "},{"Title":"A Must Sea Classic","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the best movies I've ever seen. It's a true epic and in some ways better than the book. Peck gives a tour d'force performance as Ahab. The screenplay is written by Ray Bradbury - One of the all-time greats of science fiction (Author of The Martian Chronicles, All Summer in a Day, etc.) He manages to add a few details to Melville's story that actually improve on the original. The camera work and casting, even of the extras, is of a caliber that makes every shot a painting. If you are a fan of sea stories, literary classics and fine acting and direction then this is a must see movie! I own a copy and have lost count of the number of times I've watched it, yet it still seems fresh every time. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" John Huston's Moby Dick is an epic, a masterpiece, a unique and essential viewing experience. Some reviewers have said that Gregory Peck was grotesquely miscast as Captain Ahab, or that his acting was terrible. I think just the opposite, that he is the perfect Ahab. His face, his voice, his physical presence are the very backbone of the picture, and it would be hard to accept anyone else in the role after seeing Peck's Ahab. The entire movie is at the pinnacle of drama, sometimes at the edge of collapsing into self-parody while never quite doing so, and Peck's performance is entirely in keeping with this approach. It is risk-taking, by director and by actor, and if Peck goes over the edge in his scenery-chewing once or twice, far more often he is intensity restrained-driven in the very way that we want to see Ahab. The other actors are up to the challenges Orson Welles as Father Mapple is one of the most memorable performances in his great career; veterans Leo Genn and Harry Andrews are well suited to their roles as the quiet and prim Starbuck and the boisterous Stubb; Royal Dano as Elijah is creepy and amusing; and Frederick Ledebur is a convincing and attractive Queequeg. If the cast has a weakness, it is in Richard Basehart as the 'young' Ishamel, but he is at least adequate and his voice is suited to the task of narrator. The music provides a lyrical background to the sailing scenes and a unique punctuation and highlighting to the dialog, adding weight and grandeur to each pronouncement-most especially those of Ahab-making the whole seem profound and poetic. Regrettably, the special effects are vintage 1956, making some of the great whaling scenes look like what they are toys. That one quibble aside, this is simply magnificent entertainment that encourages thought.Alan Nicoll "}{"Title":"Where's the wide-angle lense?","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has always been a favorite movie of mine but I have never understood the aspect ratio used. In 1956 wide-screen lenses were commonly in use. Just think what this movie could have looked like with a wide-angle lense! I have looked carefully but never found any indication as to why Huston chose 1.331. The DVD package indicates that the film has been modified from its original format. However, I have never seen any other copy that hints of a wide camera. MGM may not have allowed it. Some directors dislike the wide angle but Huston did use it in later films (Heaven Knows Mr. Allison for one.). Given the scope of this film it is a shame if it was overlooked. Beyond this shortcoming I am a big fan of the story and this adaptation.  "},{"Title":"A WHALE OF A TALE","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  John Huston's MOBY DICK ranks right up there with any film this master director ever made...........Huston managed to strip Melville's novel of all of its endless whaling trivia, and deliver just the pure poetry..........a classic saga that overcomes the difficulties of filming at sea and stands as the greatest aquatic adventure movie ever.......this film has none of the dated look and attitudes that are all too prevalent in period films made before 1960.......Gregory Peck's performance here is every bit the equal of his Atticus Finch in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.......in dealing with his demons, Ahab's intensity drives this tale of madness careening toward its inevitable conclusion...........  "},{"Title":"Whaling captain risks ship & crew to wreak vengeance on whale.","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gregory Peck is excellent at Captain Ahab, Herman Melville's proud, vengeful whaling captain.  Leo Genn and Richard Basehart lead the brilliant supporting cast.  Students of Melville must excuse some minor deviations from Melville's novel.  However, the essence of the story, Ahab's unreasoning pride and the resulting disaster, are true to the original.  "},{"Title":"I never read the story....so what?!","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The fact that I never read the novel and yet am writing a review of this film isn't surprising. After all, reportedly the screenwriter (Ray Bradbury) didn't read the book, either! And, I assume there are only about 24 people (other than Melville and his mommy) who read the tale! I happen to have a good friend who is an English teacher and he advised me not to even try to read this ponderous book--though he also indicated there is a lot of religious allegory in the story that simply isn't in the movie.The film starts oddly, as the main character, Ishmael, enters a pub and talks with a very odd barman. That's because I immediately recognized the barkeep's voice as that of the film's director, John Huston. I guess Huston didn't like the actor's voice and substituted his own! Ishmael meets up with a very unlikely character in the pub--Queequeg--a heavily tattooed man from some unnamed island. The two decide to become friends and ship out together on a whaler. By chance, they pick the Pequod--the fated ship helmed by the monomaniacal Captain Ahab (Gregory Peck). Apparently the Ahab of the novel was a lot older, but I really didn't care--it just seemed odd that the nice-guy actor was playing such an unlikable role. What also was odd is that although he was such a central character to the story, he didn't make his appearance until over half an hour into the film! Talk about making a dramatic entrance! You knew it was coming but just kept waiting in anticipation until he appeared--a very smart device, actually.Ahab's monomania becomes apparent halfway through the film. In the midst of a huge pod of whales, the Captain learns from another captain that Moby Dick has been sighted a month earlier. While this other captain also lost a limb to this white sperm whale, he didn't have an all-consuming need to kill the creature--but Ahab did. So, in the middle of a huge haul of whale blubber, he orders the crew to discard the carcasses and head toward Madagascar! It's pretty obvious he's a loony at this point--as the ship's mission to fill its hold with whale oil seems irrelevant to Ahab! Will the men survive this nut-case's consuming passion? And, will the audience survive the many long-winded soliloquies that Ahab bellows during the last third of the film (it's doubtful)?! As far as the look of the film goes, I was very impressed. The color palate is very brown and gray and works very well with this film--setting a very somber and appropriate mood. Likewise the camera-work is excellent. In essence, it's a very well executed film--with lots of technical prowess. But the story, while fascinating, bogs down towards the end simply because of the over-acting and long-winded nature of Ahab. Whether this is Melville's fault or the film makers' I have no idea. Regardless, it's a very good film but one that taxes your patience near the end. "},{"Title":"John Huston brilliantly adapts Herman Melville's classic.","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Moby Dick' is probably one of the most famous and time-preserved novels of all time. Written in 1851 by Herman Melville, the book became in instant classic, due to its revolutionary style and amazing descriptive power. And John Huston, one of the best American directors that appeared on the 1940's, decided to pass the novel for the big screen. By the time, Huston had already an incredible solid career, with classics like 'The Maltese Falcon' and one of my favorite movies of all time - 'The Treasure of Sierra Madre'. This combination could only possibly result into something good.If if you haven't read the novel, you sure are familiar or have heard about its story due to its popularity. The story of an obsessed captain that wants to haunt down and kill a big white whale that ate his right leg a few years before. It's a story about a man's obsession, but it goes more deeper than that. The text is already excellent, and it's adapted brilliantly. Of course there are book parts missing, but everything that it's important remains here, so you do understand the story only with the movie.All the supporting cast here does a nice job, but Gregory Peck is amazing on the role of Captain Ahab. If you can get past the fact that he was too young to play the part (he was only 38 by the time of the filming, and Captain Ahab is described on the novel as an old man), he provides a great interpretation of Captain Ahab, and I don't think he was miscast at all. Orson Welles only one scene is also very interesting.I always liked the directing style of John Huston, and in this one it isn't different. There intelligent, yet simple shots, open shots of the sea, and the first scene of Captain Ahab is great, the character is excellently presented by Huston. The work of Oswald Morris as the cinematographer is very nice, with a very beautiful pastel tone that really sets the mood. The scenes with the whale are the ones that really shows the talent of Huston, with good close-ups that simulates the fight in the sea, even if most of it wasn't shot in the sea. The only negative point is the musical score. Quite normal and forgettable. But this doesn't takes away the merits of this picture - an excellent adaption of an excellent book.9/10 "},{"Title":"Classic and Faithful Adaptation from Literature","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw John Huston's cinematic version of Herman Melville's Moby Dick on Sunday afternoon television when I was a kid - I remembered enjoying it, but did not see it again for years. I finally saw it again last night, and was delighted to be able to revisit it again.Firstly, the film is as faithful to the novel as could possibly be. This is definitely not a big-budget product aimed at a low common denominator of viewer intelligence! While it is obviously impossible to directly film much of Melville's long and discursive novel, consisting as it does of asides and Transcendentalist-style meditations, Huston more than adequately captures much of the content of the non-narrative content within the context of the novel's plot. He also remains faithful to the basic structure of the plot, in which the narrator Ishmael and his partner Queequeg appear to be the main protagonists at the story's outset, but fade into the background as the tale progresses, while Captain Ahab and First Mate Starbuck become the central characters. Given the fact that Moby Dick was the production of a major Hollywood studio, this is a daring use of an unconventional plot structure. Best of all, Huston and screenwriter Ray Bradbury faithfully preserve Melville's Shakespearean dialog (especially between Ahab and Starbuck) and really make it work on screen.(What didn't make it to the screen is the novel's fairly overt homo-eroticism, but of course this was made in 1956.) The casting and performances are excellent, particularly by the leads Gregory Peck and Leo Genn (as Ahab and Starbuck, respectively). Peck makes the charismatic and tyrannical Ahab's monomania frightening and believable, and he is adept in his delivery of the poetic dialog. Genn's portrayal of the intelligent yet ineffectual and doomed Starbuck is quite moving. Not having heard of Genn elsewhere, I researched him on the site, and found that he had an interesting filmography; he's a very good actor, and it's a pity that he's not better known than he is.The brief appearance of Elijah (Royal Dano) is also effective. Up until the point where he confronts Ishmael on the docks, the film - like the novel - had been mostly light-hearted, even sentimental. Dano's Elijah is genuinely creepy (like the captain against whom he prophesies), and marks a shift in the film's tone, which becomes increasingly intense and serious.*SPOILER* Probably the portion of the film which will be most difficult for contemporary viewers to accept is the final confrontation with Moby Dick himself. It goes without saying that Moby Dick is a mechanically animated model and the Pequod and her crew are miniatures - to many contemporary viewers who are used to CGI, the special effects are going to seem antiquated. I'm not a big fan of CGI, so this wasn't a problem for me. I felt that the direction and cinematography in the final scenes were of such quality that the whale's assaults were intense enough to have me on the edge of my seat, and Huston & Co. successfully imparted the sense that Moby Dick really was not just any whale, but a kind of malevolent or demonic intelligence.Now if only there could be more literary adaptations of this caliber in the movies ... "},{"Title":"An enjoyable and strong version but with some questionable casting","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Travelling to a remote whaling community, young Ishmael joins a ship heading out to sea under the command of Captain Ahab. A frighteningly convinced man gives a dread warning from a vision but Ishmael shrugs it off &#150; unaware that it is to be the first of many bad omens. The crew enjoy a couple of good kills and the profits are looking healthy but Ahab is driven by more than the love of money; crippled by an attack from a pure white whale years ago, Ahab wants revenge and desires to hunt it down and kill it. With news of a sighting, Ahab abandons the whale harvest and sets sail deeper into the ocean to catch his prey &#150; every step becoming more dangerous for the crew and has Ahab stepping further from his own sanity.With this version of the famous story, it is really hard to fault the effort because so much of it is good. That the story is an enjoyable chase, a tense nautical thriller and containing interesting characters is a given and the film tells it well here with a script that does manage to bring out a lot in a short time. The delivery of this tale is classy as well &#150; the effects may look less impressive with time but it is all convincing as being at sea and the work on the sets has paid off by producing the feel of being on the ship and not a soundstage. Like Jaws, the actual appearance of the creature is a weak spot in terms of looking like a rubbery cork but by then the film's real driver has had time enough to engage us &#150; that being Ahab's madness. The script brings it out well and the inevitable result of his senseless quest is given an almost biblical conclusion.However, I wasn't totally convinced that Peck was the man to deliver the character and in fact he himself was not that sure about his casting either &#150; but the studio apparently wanted a name. Despite this he does well but didn't convince me that he was this person &#150; just that he was really trying to be. It is hard to describe, but, although I enjoyed his performance, he wasn't as convincing as some other actors could have been &#150; Peck couldn't quite carry the bitter, senseless anger and madness deep into the core of his character, even if he did wear it on the surface. Basehart is also miscast, although fortunately he becomes less important as the film goes on. He is too old for the role and is not good enough to be our wide-eyed observer as he looks into the abyss that is Ahab's madness &#150; Basehart seemed too confident, too wise and a bit too much like he had already seen a bit of life. The support cast is good and has quite a few well-known faces; Welles is as imposing as ever, Justice is good in a very small role while Ledebur, Miles, Genn and others are strong in support.Overall this is a strong telling of the famous story. The direction is strong and it looks good &#150; with only the actual whales themselves looking rather dated and rubbery when exposed. The script does the story justice, producing tension as well as bringing out Ahab's madness well but, despite the mainly strong support cast, the main roles aren't as good as I would have liked, with neither Peck or Basehart fitting their roles as well as I would have liked, although both were still good. "},{"Title":"A tough one to decide on........","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Meaning it was so well done BUT Peck certainly was miscast. I credit him for giving it one hell of a try that almost was there but missed. I understand that Peck knew this and even wanted Huston to play Ahab but the studio bosses wanted a big name.My choices for Ahab were Raymond Massey and Boris Karloff for their portrayals of insane characters. Karloff definitely would have been the ultimate as he strikes fear in young and old with just a look.This version is certainly worth seeing as the cast performs brilliantly.Just one more criticism....... Richard Basehart was too old for the role of Ishmael. Ishmael is around 17/18. Basehart was in his forties. It was silly to see a mature man give the lines of a naive teenager. Despite these criticisms, see it. "},{"Title":"Politics of the time","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps I am reading too much into it, but the film appears to present the Pequod as a seaborne Third Reich, with Peck playing Ahab as Hitler, swaying the mass of the crew by the force of his oratory and the power of his obsession, while ineffectually opposed by the liberal rationalist Starbuck. That strikes me as a pretty natural reading of Moby Dick as of 1956. "},{"Title":"Disappointing but not absolutely terrible","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know that there are people who cherish this film, so take this review with a pinch of salt, and I hope I don't upset anybody. I didn't hate Moby Dick, I was just disappointed. It is definitely worth watching, especially if you love John Huston. Speaking of John Huston, I think he is a terrific director, and I think he directs decently here. Some of the cinematography is very nice and a number of scenes throughout the course of the movie are very nicely shot. The score is also good, not overpowering but atmospheric, while the great white whale is adequately menacing if not terrifying, if anything I found Moby Dick much more frightening in the book. In terms of acting which is a perfect case of the supporting players being better than the leads, Orson Welles comes off best as Father Mapple, he is quite excellent.However, despite these good things, there were some disappointments too. Herman Mellville's book is absolutely brilliant, if you haven't read it, do. While I am not going to try comparing, I'll be frank- the book is better, much more complex and suspenseful. The film does make a very noble attempt to keep true to the spirit of the book which I appreciated greatly, but there are some assets where the film fell short. The pacing is very slow at times, so some scenes feel very draggy and drawn out, and the script is perhaps too wordy, a valiant attempt to stick close to the source material no doubt. What hurt the film most though was the miscasting of Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab. Captain Ahab is a very complex figure, very demonic in his presence, a man who is bitter, angry and mad to his core, there were times in the book I was more frightened of Captain Ahab than Moby Dick himself, but Peck doesn't come close to reaching these character traits. In fact, he was rather dull here, and I don't think it helped he was too young for the character- it was if he was overwhelmed slightly by a character that was a little out of his league. Peck once thought that Huston himself should've played Captain Ahab; actually thinking about it that mayn't have been too bad an idea. Richard Basehart tries his best, but he is playing a character that is too young for him, so he doesn't quite convince, though I will say he was better than Peck.Overall, this was a disappointment, but it is definitely worth seeing. 5/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Very poor adaptation of a classic novel","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Having read Hermann Melville's brilliant novel when I was fourteen I was naturally hoping for great things from this movie. Unfortunately, it does not deliver on any level. The film is too slow and takes too long to get going, while the script should have been shorn of some of the novel's prose to give it some life. However, what really lets it down is the complete miscasting of the two leads. Richard Basehart, aged 40 but looking older, was clearly far too old to play the youngster Ishmael. An actor under thirty like Stanley Baker would have made an excellent choice. Far worse though is the casting of Gregory Peck as Ahab. Not only was Peck much too young for the part (Ahab was 58 in the novel), he simply didn't have the requisite talent to play a deranged villain convincingly. If only a better, older actor had been cast like Fredric March, Spencer Tracy or even the director John Huston himself. Orson Welles comes of best in the cameo role of Father Mapple.Worth watching, but certainly no classic. "},{"Title":"Eat your spinach! It's good for you","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This esteemed production has it's fans. But to paraphrase the classic bad review of 'Mary Reilly,' Moby Dick is like a painting, only slower.This is because the philosophical grounds for a movie production are never to make a great film, rather it's to substitute the lack of a strong guiding idea (in this case for a books transference to film) with a list of hopelessly atomized, undynamic but dazzling conceits in an effort to trick viewers into thinking they've seen greatness. As viewers & critics are apt to fall for this, Oscars follow, feeding the whole dumb equation.I don't share in the pleasure all these reviewers found. Moby Dick is stunningly uninvolving. Actors dutifully recite essays about Jonah, Moby Dick, the ocean, Moby Dick, Moby Dick... all things that can't respond, and not one of which is absorbing in the slightest. It's dramatically inert. It doesn't build. In narrative terms Moby Dick (as a movie) is little more than a foregone conclusion in search of an actual story. After half an hour I was muttering Oh terrific... another oath ...another 4 minute soliloquy!In the failed effort to involve you, it's a pretty campy overacting showcase. A lot of grey hair here. Starbuck is supposed to be a golden god. (!)One knows one is looking at a great director when he makes the medium his own rather than trying to replicate the feel of someone else's paintings & palette, or reverently embalming a classic as Huston does here. Paintings and books are nice but they're a different mediums. A movie like this fails to grasp that an honestly enjoyable piece of crap (Village of the Damned) is better in most respects than an insufferable piece of culture. This is the Eat Your Vegetables school of film-making.One appreciates the work that must have been done to make the movie, but not the narrative. Only a few segments reflecting maritime research are interesting; the recording of shanties as a means of structuring work & various sea efforts; and the technology of whaling. And that doesn't call for a two-plus hour movie. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" it is one of rare adaptations who can win the competition with its source. and it is not a surprise - the collaboration between John Huston and Ray Bradberry, the convincing Ahab by Gregory Peck, the inspired technical solutions to novel challenges makes the film not exactly a successful work but an admirable lesson of cinema, courage and admirable adaptation. a movie who impress at whole - the atmosphere, the acting, the white monster, the splendid scene , mixture of tension and wise manner to use the book opportunities. basic rule - to not ignore than it is a movie from 1956. sure, for many it is only a detail. but significant to understand the difficulties to make it and for admire the solutions. because its virtue is the science to preserve the spirit of one of greatest literary masterpieces and to be not only a good adaptation but a profound tribute to the heroism and to a great writer. "},{"Title":"Starbuck","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" If Captain Horatio Hornblower was Gregory Pecks most noble role as a sea captain, captain Ahab must be his most vile role in his career. His portrayal of Ahab is almost creepy at times.I didn't know that this movie was directed by John Huston until recently. He did a masterful job of portraying the life at sea, and the nature of the crew as seamen. The highlight of the movie is when Moby Dick appears and Ahab launches his attack. The cuts goes from studio shots to location shots in rapid succession, but the transition is smooth, and it's difficult to tell that locations have changed. For 1956, the special effects are first class, and you really get the feeling of Moby Dick coming to life.The movie is very satisfying in that you really get the feeling that you've seen Moby Dick, and lived the life told in the story with the sailors. John Huston gets high marks for his accomplishments.First Mate Starbuck is of course the namesake of the coffee chain Starbucks, so this story continues to have world wide effect in our society.One of the most important movie, and novel of all times is executed perfectly, and I doubt even with today's CG technology, a better one can be made. "},{"Title":"Peck's Performance","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Directed by ... John Huston! Excellent! Screenplay by ... Ray Bradbury!!! Wow!!! Ishmael played by ... Richard Basehart. Okay... Ahab played by ... Gregory Peck?!?!? How can that work? Peck is urbane sophistication personified. Aesthetic distance dissolves.It is distracting at first. But what do we know of Ahab, anyway? Is he a downtrodden proletarian who has always been at war with the world? Or could he be an aristocrat (he does get 10% of the profits) who has had his soul torn from him? That could be even more compelling.The stiff performance? How will a man with a peg leg and a deep scar from brow to toe move? With economy of motion, that's how. First his head moves, then his body follows, or doesn't.Overall, a treasure worth repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Incomparable adaptation","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Of course the critics panned Moby Dick in 1956, just over a century after the book's appearance they weren't ready for so adept a distillation of Melville's ruminative, free-associational quasi-novel. What they seem to have expected, even wanted, was a two-fisted sea saga with native girls in leis.Not that Huston's film lacks action. There's plenty. But there's at least as much philosophical complexity, which means heavy-duty talk (all of it thought-provoking even if not entirely sensible) and a lot of significant throwaway lines that you'll overlook if you're unfamiliar with Melville (Ex. If God were a fish, he'd be a whale!) I first saw this movie on ABC-TV in 1966, and I watch it every time it comes on. In comparison with the original, which I once got to see in a theater, TCM's print needs big-time restoration. The original colors were somewhat muted to give the images an antique feel, but as shown on TV today (tonight, in fact) they are washed out at best and just weird at worst.A short review can't do justice to this magnificent film, which includes one of Orson Welles's best later performances and one of Gregory Peck's best, period (no matter what he said later). The early scenes ashore, shot at Mystic Seaport, Conn. (the name is coincidentally perfect), are loaded with period atmosphere. Getting in the proper frame of mind may be a challenge for fans who haven't passed American Lit 201, but the right frame of mind and the ability to use more than just the ocular parts of your head truly is key.The film's approach and intellectuality can be summed up by two quotes. First, the one above. The second (possibly the greatest line screenwriter Ray Bradbury ever wrote) comes when crazy Captain Ahab points to his charts and says, Moby Dick will surface here! His finger goes directly to Bikini Atoll, site of the first test of a hydrogen bomb. Not in the book, but completely in line with Melville's dark vision of humanity and the universe.One of the best-crafted movies ever made, IMHO. Time for the gurus to quit raving about, say, Grand Illusion, and take another look at a real masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Too bad","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gregory Peck pretty much murders a great directing effort by Huston. It seems like Peck's approach to the character of Ahab was to act as wooden as Lincoln's portrait on the five dollar bill. In fact, he would have made a great ship's figure head. Just about every other element of the film is strong. It's too bad. Peck was a great actor, but this role should have been played by someone else. "},{"Title":"Its hard to do a film of such a long book but this is entertaining!!!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Good camera work and very well done. Of course not Hustons best film. Gregory Pecks acting as Captain Ahab is good. Give it a chance see it!!RATING4/5  "},{"Title":"Except For Very End, This Was A Snoozer","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" For a two-hour adventure film, this is Boring, yes, with a capital B. Only the last 10 minutes of the movie, with Captain Ahab (Gregory Peck) being attached the big whale, provides any excitement. The latter winds up destroying everything in sight and every one but one person, Ishmael (Richard Basehart).The start of this film is extremely slow, way too talky, and doesn't really provide any adventure until that final confrontation. As good as that scene is, I can't see keeping a tape of two-hour movie just to watch the last 10 minutes. This is another case of a '50s movie that is too much talk. This is an adventure, not a melodrama, for cryin' out loud. "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You can't film Moby Dick.  Or anything else by Melville, for that matter. As much as we would appreciate a sturdy filmwork of Ahab & Co, we must accept the distaste for adaptations inherent to Melville.  A weak Ahab, as good as he is in everything else... "}{"Title":"Very Huston.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  More a lean Hemingway adventure than Melville's mad encyclopaedia - and even more, a typical Huston fable about men, monomania and failure.  Ahab the maimed tries to recover wholeness by destroying his destroyer, a non-starter of an idea.  It needed someone with less cautious imaginative reach to make this, someone not so bothered about plot or coherence, who could plumb the depths, soar the heights, the rites, the lunatic, magical, incantatory pagan/religious/philosophical mish-mash.  David Thomson's account in 'Rosebud' of Welles' stage version makes me impatient for heaven and front-row seats.  Only Queequeg's decision to die even comes close.  The whaling sequences are the best, full of a real, almost documentary danger that brings the film closer to Herzog.  Herzog doing 'Moby Dick'?  Kinski as Ahab?  Now, there's a thought... "},{"Title":"Moby Dick-Not Really A Whale of A Movie-Non-Magnificent Obsession **","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not even Gregory Peck's wonderful performance as Captain Ahab can save this 1956 film.Peck is absolutely overly obsessed, possessed and who knows what else at slaying the Moby Dick, the whale, that maimed him. Evidently, it was much more than maiming which has affected Ahab. He is absolutely insane, a fanatic who uses religion as a justification to slay the whale.Amazing that the much under-rated actor, Richard Basehart, shines at the beginning and then totally becomes subordinate to Ahab as do the other men.Peck's movements within his eyes reveal an extremely troubled man. I'd be troubled to because besides the fanaticism he shows, the picture is basically going nowhere. We know that he will conquer the whale or the latter shall consume him. "},{"Title":" GREGORY PECK MADE THIS MOBY DICK A REAL CLASSIC FILM!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"                      Viewed many Moby Dick films over the years, however, I recently watched this film and enjoyed the entire way that Peck portrayed the Captain.  He put his heart and soul and entire body energy into his character as a tormented creature who cared about nothing but doing in Moby Dick.    This film showed the hard work involved with sailing a clipper ship and the way in which whale oil and by-products were finalized on board the ship.  There was a devotion to their sea captain and it seemed to me at times that I was watching JAWS.  However, I must say that I liked the 1930 Moby Dick with John Barrymore, at least there was women in the cast, namely Joan Bennett.    The ladies were left out of this picture and I am not sure if the ladies in the audiences around the country enjoyed this picture unless you were a WAVE in the U.S. NAVY.  I had a Whale of a time seeing the WHALE DO HIS THING! "},{"Title":"nothing special for me","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is just your typical idiocy. It's an anti-religious moron trying to make religious believers out to be stupid, and only filming scenes found in the 1847 novel. Why can't people like him leave well enough alone? Religion doesn't have such harmful effects on the world as people like this fool think. What goes on in this movie doesn't show the whole story, and it doesn't prove anything. People need to learn to shut up and keep their stupidity to themselves. He tries to play it off as a comedy when he is clearly trying to make a statement. A statement that shows only how immature he is. If god is a whale than why all the efforts to harpoon it? If you like this unintelligent stupidity, then simply look all over the internet for more of it. There are people like this everywhere. "},{"Title":"An existential yet boring movie","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Religion and whaling and redemption and existentialism. Next please. Indigenous voodoo and warm family values. The unerasable scar of failure. Whales and the pitiful humans who hunt them. Avuncular tattooed weird illiterates and The Long Arm of Fate. Leviathans and the people who love them. Stiff acting, and the corpses who direct them. Ray Bradbury as a writing corpse. Blubber for the millions. Russia/USSR as a white whale. Talk amongst yourselves. So who directed this movie anyway-John Huston? This is a whale of a tedious script. I guess in 1956 the special effects were pretty cool. This is a creaky movie that glorifies in big-ass composition. I guess it's a classic. Gregory Peck is a stiff who has acting talent-all erased by the moron John Huston who told him to act like a retard. What was the point of destroying almost all of Peck's great range as an actor? This movie doesn't respect Gregory Peck's acting power. Orson Welles is a hoary and great minister who is weird and sickly powerful. Welles gets to act. Peck gets to act like a clod-hopper, hemmed in by a director who doesn't understand directing. Lay off the martinis Mr. Huston, and let the actors do their job! "}]