[{"Title":"Good, grim, post-Quatermass horror/sci-fi","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot In the remote Scottish Highlands, a living radioactive mass seethes out of the depths of the earth and kills everyone in its path as it seeks fresh radioactive energy. Luckily an American scientist is about the place and kicks the 'thing' back down from whence it came.X the Unknown, while not having the innate intelligence of the Quatermass movies, is a good example of 1950's British pulp science-fiction cinema. While most of its American counterparts visited fantastic worlds inhabited by outlandish monsters and gorgeous 'space-babes', X the Unknown was a truly British effort our monster was dollop of mud out of a hole in the ground doing a slow crawl around a dingy moor.It's effective though. It has the same austere, grim intensity which made the Quatermass movies so memorable. The film also benefits from moody, high-contrast black and white photography, a typically acerbic score from James Bernard, and a good cast; Leo Mckern turns in a very good, naturalistic performance, much like his turn in The Day The Earth Caught Fire.I first saw this movie when I was about six and the extraordinarily graphic scene depicting the monster 'devouring' a hospital doctor gave me a few... err....sleepless nights (there's a particularly ruthless zoom-in to the poor guys hand as it expands and melts!). Perhaps I should have stuck to Bugs Bunny.Overall, a decent chiller, well directed by Leslie Norman (late father of the superb British film critic Barry Norman).One last memory of a six year-old's first viewing of this picture I remember sitting there stunned and horrified as the end credits rolled; I was not looking forward to a good nights sleep. The statutorily paternal BBC announcer came on and cracked the following nervous joke Well, I'll never eat cheese on toast again (see the film and you'll know what he meant). I laughed with relief and my childhood was thus saved a terrible trauma! Thanks Uncle Beeb. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Sci-Fi, & Well-Crafted For Such a Low Budget Movie","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes these low-budget science fiction features are amusing for unintended reasons, but this one is enjoyable because it has an interesting story and because it is well-crafted for such a low-budget movie. Since its effectiveness comes mostly from the story and from the solid acting, even with a bigger budget it might not have been significantly better.The menace of X the Unknown is based on a far-fetched but interesting concept, and the story gets good mileage out of the premise, without pushing it too far. There are a couple of plot holes, but not so bad that they pull it down, and in general the story has the kind of internal logic that holds it together as long as you grant the premise for the sake of a good story.The cast does surprisingly well. The characters are not the kind of roles that are particularly difficult to play, but they are the kind of roles that are easy to overplay, and that often are overplayed. Here the actors make their characters lifelike without trying to grab the attention, and it works pretty well.Dean Jagger has good presence as Professor Royston, yet he avoids the kinds of stereotypes that sometimes make such characters annoying. Some of his little habits and mannerisms help to make the professor more human. Leo McKern also turns in a good performance. Edward Chapman's character is quite one-dimensional, yet he does a creditable job with it. It's also rather fun to see a very young-looking Anthony Newley in a small but entertaining role.All of the cast members do a good job with a script that is plain but workmanlike. The special effects are rudimentary in technique, but they are good enough, and it's certainly preferable to have plain-looking special effects and a good story than to have flashy visuals and a dreary, pointless story. As a whole, X the Unknown delivers good science fiction without frills or padding, and it's easily among the better of the 1950s low-budget sci-fi movies. "},{"Title":"Another Great Hammer Outing","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hammer Films was known mostly for its horror outings like the Dracula, Frankenstein and Mummy films. It did, however, score well in the science fiction department with such hits as the Quatermass series, The Lost Continent and this movie.The film was originally pitches as a potential sequel in the Quatermass series until author Nigel Kneale objected. Thus, the scientist became Alan Royston (played by Dean Jagger of Twelve O'Clock High fame) who worked at a nuclear plant instead of a rocket base and the location was moved to Scotland to avoid comparisons to Quatermass.Ironically, the film still kept the same black & white photography, as well as the creepy string score.The story involves radioactive mud (sounds silly unless you actually stayed awake during physical science class) that makes it way up to the surface of the earth every so often looking for new energy. Previous trips found nothing but fossil fuel. Now, however, nuclear energy is abundant. The race is on to not just figure out what is turning people into crispy critters, but how to stop something made of pure energy.Dean Jagger as Royston is quite good and the exact opposite of Brian Donlevy's Quatermass. Leo McKern (of The Prisoner) is on hand, as is the late British pop star and actor Anthony Newley as a soldier unfortunate enough to be on guard duty when X, the Unknown strikes.The special effects are adequate, although British films still couldn't show explosions that didn't look like match heads flaring. The visual effects are really creepy, from radiation burns on a boy's chest to a doctor's face melting like wax to a security guard's body literally deflating like a balloon. The ending features a surprise, as well, leaving the viewer with the feeling that, although man appears to have triumphed again, something may still be amiss.All in all, a good film, especially late on a Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Y should you see this film","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dean Jagger battles radioactive goo from the center of the earth in this 1956 Hammer outing. Unlike The Blob, released 2 years later, this creepy little horror story is played straight; no attempt at camp here! Dean Jagger, Leo McKern, and Anthony Newley play their parts with a subtlety and professionalism that's rarely matched in similar period pieces. While this film was overshadowed by it's American counterpart (see above), it remains one of Hammer's better efforts and should be judged on it's own. Yes, the premise is a bit hard to believe, but, once you get past that, everything else in this film works, from the direction to the score to the dialog, and of course the acting. In short, this is an underexposed, tight little chiller that has just the right amount of genuine suspense and believable characters. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A Hammer Films Classic","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Often overlooked even by those who enjoy the sci-fi films of the fifties, X The Unknown is one of those sleepers that real afficionados will watch over and over.   Starring Dean Jagger, the cast also features a very young Anthony Newly as a British Army corporal.There's not much that professional critics would find either amusing or compelling about this film, but when considered in its place as a landmark movie both for the sci-fi genre and for Hammer films, it shines somewhat brighter.As has aready been mentioned, this film occupies a prominent role among those that feature a blob monster.  The special effects, incidentally, are not bad for the year (1956), and the concept of a radioactive blob is perhaps even more interesting than one that merely gobbles up people.I understand that this was one of the early films produced by Hammer, as a step toward making more sci-fi entries.  I'm glad they took the chance.  This film and those that followed it enriched the genre for all fans of 1950's and 1960's sci-fi films. "},{"Title":"A nice early outing from the nice people at Hammer studios","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This early offering from the studio that would go on to become the greatest force horror would ever see lacks the vibrant colours and pseudo-Gothic style that would go on to epitomise their later output, but it retains the British charm and wit that Hammer became famous for. The film also succeeds in being entertaining, and that's what Hammer Horror has always done best. X the Unknown is your classic 50's B-movie, and it follows a seemingly bottomless crack that has opened up in the Earth. This is not all, as adding to the Earth's woes is the creatures that have come out of this pit; which are made of mud and feed on energy. For the time it was made, the effects certainly aren't bad and this was an obvious blueprint for several b-movie 'classics', including most notably; The Blob. Seeing the huge mud creature fumble over telephone lines and rooftops is very fun to watch, and is a good early indicator of the sort of film that Hammer studios would go on to mass-produce.One thing that X the Unknown is notable for is the believability regarding the scientists researching the 'creature'. Too often in this sort of film, the scientists realise what is going on and everyone just accepts it, no matter how ridiculous it is; but here there's a bit of opposition and it's nice to see. The film remains interesting throughout thanks to the way that the plot is developed, and the fact that it doesn't go over the top with detail. It attacks the premise from lots of different angles, and seeing the army do it's best to thwart the creature is always amusing. The cast keeps the film afloat at all times, and the acting isn't bad at all; and certainly much better than I was expecting. Most of the cast are unknowns, but one standout is Hammer regular - Michael Ripper, who puts in a small appearance. X the Unknown isn't a brilliant film, and Hammer would go on to better this ten fold; but it's good for what it's worth, and I definitely recommend this movie to fans of classic 'B' cinema. "},{"Title":"Hard SF classic creepy from start to finish","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Back in the days when Prince Valiant still covered most of a page in the Sunday funnies, I first saw this wonderfully creepy SF sleeper. From the opening scenes of a stretch of the Scottish moors opening up under a British soldier's feet, I was hooked. I was very lucky that my parents didn't send me to bed then(although they did right in the middle of From Hell It Came, but that's another story); I was resolved to catch it again just to get that creepy feeling! The ominous P.O.V. shots of the X monster shambling through the barren woods at night, the outrageous melting death by hard radiation of the medical tech in the X-ray room, Dean Jagger as Dr. Royston, describing his new invention that can (theoretically) speed up decay of radioactive materials without causing flare-ups(!) simply by leeching away its' energy, and the film's creepy, near-ambiguous ending (We did destroy it...didn't we?) showed just what you could--and can!--still do with a small budget and respect for the material.  "},{"Title":"Excellent early Hammer science fiction","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  X the Unknown is an excellent sci fi movie from Hammer.  It was made a year after The Quatermass Experiment.Drilling at a remote location in the Scottish Highlands attracts a strange force from below.  It turns out to be a blob like creature that feeds on radiation, which gets bigger as a result.  After several people are killed by it including a young boy, a scientist finds a way to kill it and succeeds at the end.This films stars American actor Dean Jagger and is joined by several familiar British stars  Leo McKern (The Day The Earth Caught Fire), Anthony Newly (Killers of Kilimanjaro), a young Frazer Hines (Dr Who, Emmerdale) and Hammer regular Michael Ripper (Curse of the Werewolf, The Mummy).The movie has a very creepy score and location photography, a lot of which was shot at night.This movie is a must if you are a fan of 1950's science fiction and Hammer.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Scary As A Kid!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First saw this excellent British Sci-Fi film when I was 10 or 11 at our local neighborhood theater. It seems like yesterday, since the invisible monster scared the Hell out of all of us.This was the first of many other Brit Sci-Fi movies we would scream our guts out at. They were far ahead of U.S. film makers in suspense and realism. The casts were also superior in their acting skills for this genre.I hope to locate many more movies like X The Unknown to see how I view them now as an adult. The initial impact may be less than it was originally. "},{"Title":"Great scary fun!","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A really neat Sci-Fi/Horror item about a superheated blob creature that haunts the Scottish moors.  Believably acted by a cast of veterans, and loaded with terrific suspense.  Hammer Films once again demonstrates what can be done with a small budget and lots of imagination.  Watch for this one! "}{"Title":"And I love it because...","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love it due to the mercifully unmusical appearance of Anthony Newley - yes, *that* Anthony Newley. Appearing as L. Cpl. 'Spider' Webb, he disappears midway through the film without singing a note.I too saw this as a youngster and had the crap scared out of me by the blob monster and the radiation induced deaths. As a former technician who used to work with isotopes and x-ray machines (non-destructive testing), it took a few years to get over my fear of working with radioactive substances.One of the best of the early sci-fi pics - right up there with the Quartermass trilogy. Definitely worth the time and a bowl of popcorn! "},{"Title":"Intellegent Quatermass Spinoff","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was originally set up as a sequel to The Quatermass Experiment(1955). Things were changed around when the author objected to the use of his character.  Its about a nuclear mass of energy that runs loose after absorbing a small amount of radioactivity.  The scientist played by Dean Jagger is not a mad scientist but a humane and thoughtful person who wants tocreate and not destroy.  The original director of the film was Joesph Losey who was fired during production for artistic differences.One of my favorite scenes is the one where the doctor is exposed to the nuclear mass to the point of his flesh melting right off him.  The British version is two minutes longer than the American release.  The creature of the flick is a blob like substance.  The filmmakers of The Blob(1958) must have been influenced by X the Unknown(1956) when preparing for their project.  Dean Jagger is perfect as the Quatermass like Dr. Adam Royston.X the Unknown(1956) comes between The Quatermass Experiment(1955) and Quatermass 2(1957).  Leo McKern is down to earth as Inspector McGill.  X the Unknown has more intellegence and thought then many of the mega blockbuster flicks like Independance Day(1996) for example.  Its a shame that no one makes films like this anymore.  X the Unknown is a minor classic of Hammer Science Fiction.  "},{"Title":"It's A Blob!","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dean Jagger is a scientist working at a lab in Scotland, trying to find a way to render radioactive materials (like a bomb) harmless. The earth splits open nearby and a rude lump of glowing stuff comes pouring out, lethal, crackling like bacon in a frying pan, and conveniently built of the kinds of radioactive stuff that Jagger is working on.The blob -- for the most part unseen -- manages to kill several locals by radioactive poisoning before Jagger and the authorities are able to deploy a full-scale replica of their laboratory model. It may not work because the fans are out of synch. Or it may explode, like the tiny lab model does.Will it work? Is Jagger's fantastic theory of blobby organisms having been forced underground as the earth's crust thickened correct? Is the short, squat dilatory figure who runs the lab correct when he calls the whole thing balderdash? Will the whole mess blow up? Why does hail always have to be the size of something else? Did the Masons really design the first dollar bills? It starts off slowly and mysteriously. That's the best part. Then it gets fast, complicated, scientifically inaccurate, and very loud. Sometimes the suspenseful musical score, on top of all that crackling, as of cellophane being wrinkled, literally drowns out the speech so you can't hear what the characters are saying.It's not terrible. It's just a routine example of those 50s Briish SF movies that used an imported Yank as the main figure -- here Dean Jagger, there an improbable Gene Evans -- and sometimes they worked quite well -- Brian Donlevy as Quatermass. In this one, the performances aren't bad but the script has a tendency to lose itself once in a while. In the very last scene, there is a blinding explosion from the creature's fissure. Knocks everyone flat. What was that, asks a soldier. Jagger is staring thoughtfully at the smoke wreathing out of the fissure. I don't know, he replies, but it shouldn't have happened. Camera draws away. The End. It should have happened if you'd decided at the last minute to end the movie with a big bang in order to use up the left-over special effects explosive. "},{"Title":"How do you kill mud?","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another of those films that I watched as a child, and shouldn't have! We owned a large Philco console TV set that had two knobs On/Off/Volume and Channel Selector. It sat in the living room, so all my late-night monster movie viewing had to be done on the sly. X - The Unknown had me hooked at the title. The black and white photography made the action doubly spooky. In the Scottish Highlands, a routine British Army exercise in radiation detection results in one soldier dead and another badly burned. That night, a large crevice opens at the test site and something makes its way to the surface. Thereafter, a series of baffling deaths have the authorities scratching their heads. The one that scarred me forever was the demise of the doctor who used the radiation-treatment room of the hospital as a trysting place with willing nurses. While the good doctor and his latest conquest are snogging, the electronic gear comes on by itself. Doc investigates and recoils in horror. As the hapless nurse watches, the young doctor's face melts down to the bone!There are solid performances from all here. Dean Jagger as the American scientist, Leo McKern as the police inspector are outstanding. Also, look for a young Ian MacNaughton (of Monty Python fame) as Haggis. I guarantee you'll never look at mud the same way again. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you tell someone that there is a creepy little horror film about an ooze coming up from the earth that will kill you on contact, odds are good they are going to laugh at you. Odds are also good that should you actually show them said film about ooze they are going to be riveted to their seat when the film turns out to be XThe Unknown.I know it sounds daft that film about what amounts to killer mud is going to be scary, but it is. There is something about the way the film is done, how its all so matter of fact and that the plot keeps things from ever really spinning way out that really makes this work. Trust me on this this is a super film that will hold you tight for its entire running time. Will it scare you once the film is done and make you dream of killer mud pies? No, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't see this you should. its one of the best scifi horror films ever made and a really good thrill ride to boot "},{"Title":"X... the unknown...","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a corny title. I love those strange, out-of-the-blue collection of letters and words. Back then, these kind of titles were intimidating or even scary. Now they are just goofy. And I collect these goofy movies, because they have a certain charm.X the Unknown is a movie just like that. It's a very straight-to-the-point movie about radioactive mud melting people. Didn't see that one coming, did you? The acting, effects and music all work for this movie. Sure, it gets cliché at times or just dumb; but like I said these kind of movies have a certain charm.So if you are a fan of movies in this genre, check it out. You won't be disappointed.On a side note it was my first black-and-white movie of Warner bros.6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, imaginative British science fiction thriller from Hammer","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A somberly realistic background of small Scottish towns, atomic laboratories and bleak moors provides the setting for this suspenseful film.A force of unknown origins and intent has somehow made its way out from the earth's center to seek nourishment on atomic radiation in any amount. People unfortunate enough to encounter this slithering thing end up being melted or fatally burned. The mysterious deaths, and unexplained burglaries of research labs where nuclear material is stored, cause various scientific investigators to join forces to locate and destroy the unknown power responsible, before it becomes totally unstoppable.Excellent acting from a fine cast, good writing and gripping direction all add up to an effective and thoughtful science fiction adventure. Dean Jagger is especially good as a benign but somewhat unorthodox American scientist working with British researchers. Leo McKern is also very good as the special investigator from the Atomic Energy Commission. Highly recommended for fans of Fifties science fiction movies. This early Hammer picture is unusually intelligent and thought provoking at a time when most American science fiction movies tended to be pretty silly. Though the plot gets far fetched at times, it always remains believable, thanks to the good script and above average performances. "},{"Title":"Great Hammer Sci-Fi!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies! I remember seeing it on TV when I was very young...and it scared the beejeezus outta me!  I still remember the first time I saw the scene where the radioactive oil blob broke through the church wall and was advancing on the small child.  Now that's something a kid can relate to...well, at least I did in my nightmares for a few weeks.Dean Jagger is pretty good as the head scientist at the nuclear facility...though now it is a shame to look at it and see how his career was starting to deteriorate...at least he was still starring in movies, albeit British ones.Even now, I think this is a very atmospheric and creepy movie.  The plot and resolution definitely shows the age of the thinking surrounding the movie, but it is still a nice terror romp! "},{"Title":"Functional Sci-Fi Horror But Not Much More Than That","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the success of THE QUATERMASS XPERIMENT Hammer films immediately decided to do a sequel and this is that film but Nigel Kneale wisely decided to have nothing to do with it and was adamant the company weren't going to using his character of Bernard Quatermass to appear . I say  wisely  but X THE UNKNOWN isn't by any means a bad film but lacks that little something and one wonders if involvement by the visionary and oh so intelligent Kneale would had lifted the screenplay above being merely average and in to undisputed classic British sci-fi horror ? It's a film you may remember from years ago but upon seeing again realise it's the sum of its parts rather than a consistent wholeDirected by Leslie Norman ( Barry's dad ) the scene is set in the opening sequence with a bleak cold winters day in the Scottish Highlands and a unit of the Royal Engineers on training maneuvers . In those days Britain had a conscript army and if nothing else the film does make a point that forcing young men in to routine military duties seemed rather senseless . It also contrasts a rather mundane setting with the horrors about to come . Norman is rather effective but his job is relatively easy in using night filming , scary music and a build up of people about to be killed by a blob of radioactive mud . Let's be honest and say it's not to difficult to frighten an audience via this type of convention . May be we should also be charitable and point out the melting effect is rather well done but it's difficult to be scared by something that's just a pile of mud The cast are okay but nothing more than that . Reminding ourselves this was originally supposed to be a QUATERMASS film Brian Donlevy's much maligned performance would have probably been an improvement than Dean Jagger's rather flat substitute role . At least Donlevy would have been a bit more brusque and arrogant and a scene where the father of a dead child condemns the men of science might have had a bigger impact . That said the characters throughout the film are rather non descript and lack a spark to them X THE UNKNOWN works well enough as a science fiction horror film . It's a good idea on paper and does contain a few scenes that are more than efficient but you're left with the nagging suspicion that more could have been done with the premise , characters and perhaps most of all the big bad monster . Sometimes you wish Nigel Kneale could have written a few more QUATERMASS teleplays "},{"Title":"A blob in Scotland","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X The Unknown from Hammer Films was intended to be a sequel to the film, The Quatermass Xperiment, but objections from the writer Nigel Kneale meant that the plot of the film was reworked.The original director was slated to be the noted American blacklisted Joseph Losey who started shooting the film but due to illness had to be replaced by Leslie Norman (Father of film critic Barry Norman.)This is an unpretentious film dealing with issues with nuclear radiation very much in vogue in the 1950s in horror and sci-fi films. The films also predates The Blob by a few years which is more campy.Soldiers in Scotland discover a bottomless crack in the ground with a mysterious source of radiation activity. An explosion kills a few of the soldiers from radiation burns. Soon several more people die of radiation burns.American actor Dean Jaggger plays Dr Royston from an Atomic Laboratory who hypothesises that a form of life from pre-history trapped in the crust of the Earth, tries to reach the surface every 50 years depending on the alignment of the sun and tidal waves in order to find food from radioactive sources.As the entity which is a glowing blob feeds on radiation its mass increases as it tries to make its way to nuclear plants to find more radiation.The film has a mix of good special effects especially with people melting and some ropey ones as the blob moves taking over the town or with fire explosions that look like a match going off. A lot of the horror is off camera but the film maintain its thrills.The acting from Dean Jagger and Leo McKern is straightforward. It has a fair amount of thrills such as a little girl being left behind in a church as the blob approaches or at the climax when a jeep gets stuck in the mud. "}{"Title":"Blobby, blobby, blobby","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hammer didn't delve into science fiction much&#x97;their blood and butter was always the horror genre&#x97;but when they did, the results were generally good. X the Unknown, the tale of a dangerous Blob-like creature and it's battle against the British Army on the moors of the Scottish Lowlands, was one of the studio's earliest sci-fi outings and remains a firm fan favorite. Yank Dean Jagger stars as Adam Royston, an atomic scientist who theorizes that X is searching for, and absorbing, as much radioactive material as it can find. With the assistance of Police Inspector McGill (Leo McKern), Royston develops a plan to take down the amorphous entity, but it's a risky endeavor which threatens to endanger the entire world. Jimmy Sangster's screenplay is reasonably intelligent (well, at least as intelligent as you can hope when your subject is a radioactive blancmange), but the film suffers a little thanks to its cheap shot-in-Bray look. Nonetheless, I've watched X the Unknown on multiple occasions since I was a wee lad, and recommend it without hesitation. "},{"Title":"Jimmy Sangster delivers first screenplay","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hammer Films had done a few low-key genre features before they struck gold with a science fiction horror called The Quatermass Xperiment, from 1935's Mystery of the Marie Celeste (starring Bela Lugosi), 1950's Room to Let (a Jack the Ripper story), 1952's Stolen Face (a plastic surgeon models a convict's face into that of his former lover's), 1952's Four Sided Triangle (another scientist clones a duplicate of the woman he loves), and 1952's Spaceways (the first British sci-fi set in outer space). After numerous discussions about subject matter, production manager Jimmy Sangster was instructed to compose the screenplay for X the Unknown, their followup to The Quatermass Xperiment, because he was the one making most of the suggestions. This was the beginning of a long and fruitful career as a screenwriter and producer (and director of 3 Hammers in the early 70's-The Horror of Frankenstein, Lust for a Vampire, and Fear in the Night). This initial script is typical of Sangster's work, strong on character and building tension through the fear of the unknown. A good cast performs well despite a director, Leslie Norman, who was most unpleasant (and never did another for Hammer). Genuine moments of terror proved too much for many audiences, and this was before the phenomenal success of Sangster's second script, The Curse of Frankenstein, which was criticized for excessive gruesomeness. Following X the Unknown, Hammer did the sequel, Quatermass 2, before casting the coveted Peter Cushing in his first co-starring film opposite Christopher Lee, repeating his Baron Frankenstein in 5 sequels. By the early 70s Sangster had moved to the US, thereafter working almost exclusively for television (GHOST STORY, KOLCHAK THE NIGHT STALKER). "},{"Title":"Good, creepy and smart","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X, the Unknown is not some great work of cinema, it is simply a monster movie. But, given that, it is refreshingly clean of all that anti-Man, anti-science, anti-technology commentary that pollutes so many science fiction movies that base themselves on science and at the same time attack it. And the hero of the film is a scientist in the best sense--logical, clear-headed, never acting on emotion, and never trying to defend the monster in this picture in the name of animal rights. The creature in X, the Unknown is an immediate danger to human beings, and must be stopped. But to do this Dr. Adam Royston (Dean Jagger) must identify the nature of the thing he must find a way to destroy. He must discover what it is, what it feeds on, how it moves, and how it defends itself.My favorite moment is in the hospital after a technician in a treatment room has been micro-waved to death by the creature, a radioactive blob of mud that nobody living has yet seen. The only apparent place the thing could have entered the room is through a grill in the wall, but nobody else believes that possible. Well how small is ten thousand gallons of oil?, Dr. Royston asks. The others who have arrived on the scene don't understand. Well, ten thousand gallons of oil would have to take up a pretty big area, wouldn't it? Yes. And yet ten thousand gallons of oil could come through the holes in that grill, couldn't it? Again, agreement. Then that's how it got into my workshop it came in under the door. Obviously, this thing can take up any shape it needs to.All the performances are good, even down to the old, drunken bum in the old watchtower. The music is also notable; good and creepy, like the mud creature it's supposed to sound like. "},{"Title":"How do you destroy a thing that feeds on energy?","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X The Unknown is directed by Leslie Norman and written by Jimmy Sangster. It stars Dean Jagger, Edward Chapman, Leo McKern, Anthony Newley and Jameson Clark. Director of photography is Gerald Gibbs and James Bernard scores the music.During a British army training exercise in the Scottish Highlands, mysterious fissures open up in the ground and unleash a radioactive being. The authorities call in atomic scientist Dr. Adam Royston (Jagger), who sets about defeating the entity before it destroys mankind.Following the success of The Quatermass Xperiment the previous year, Hammer Film Productions quickly realised that a market was open for some sci-fi horror from the British Isles. Wanting it to be a sequel to Quatermass Xperiment, producer Anthony Hinds was dealt a set back when Quatermass writer Nigel Kneale refused permission for the character of Bernard Quatermass to be used. Undaunted he fetched in Sangster and paired him with exiled American director Joseph Losey. American actor Dean Jagger was brought in to play the Quatermass like role of Royston, but he refused to work with Losey on account of his suspected sympathies to communism; the reason the director was in flight from America for. So in came Leslie Norman and the film was finally made.Sangster brought a new spin to the 50's craze of sci-fi schlockers and creaky creature features. Having observed mankind come under threat from all manner of aliens or beasties, from space, land, sea, air or otherwise, Sangster hit on the idea of having the threat come from the Earth's bowels. Thus X The Unknown was spawned, in a big blob of malevolent alien energy. Photographed in shadowy monochrome by Gerald Gibbs, X taps into the general unease that was pulsing in America and Europe at the time. The Cold War was gathering apace and the threat of a nuclear based WWIII was at the back of everyone's minds. 1956 was also the year of the Suez crisis, the makers of X had pitched their film at just the right time.It proved to be a hit with critics and cinema goers alike. Sangster's script is tight and intelligent, but never losing the necessary sci-fi schlock factor, and it's very well acted, especially by a straight faced and serious Jagger. Bernard scores it with strings and percussion, creeping menace style, while the effects team provide good 1950's style ick and grue. It may not have the quality of the Quatermass films, but it makes for a nice companion piece to that series. While it for sure towers above the bubblegum candy floss that was The Blob that followed two years later. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Quite-a-mess","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When troops practice locating fallout in a remote Scottish quarry, an apparently bottomless fissure opens in the Earth, critically injuring a soldier with radioactive burns. As radioactive goo oozes forth, destroying everyone in its path, scientist Adam Roysten (Jagger) formulates a theory that the living mass, dormant for millennia, now seeks fresh radioactive energy (energy can only be fed with more energy) and, to this end, is heading straight for the military's own nuclear reactor.A film of what-ifs and could-have-beens, X The Unknown was originally devised as a Quatermass sequel - until Nigel Kneale, miffed over what he felt was a lousy adaptation of his BBC serial, refused to co-operate (he would, however, go on to co-write Quatermass 2 after leaving the BBC).More intriguingly, X The Unknown was also to have been directed by the legendary Joseph Losey (The Servant), then on the run from Senator McCathy's Un-American Activities Committee. Obliged to carry the pseudonym 'Joe Walton', he was forced to bow out after leading man and rabid anti-Commie Jagger rumbled Hammer's ruse. (The studio's US distributors considered Jagger's involvement crucial to the movie's commercial appeal overseas, so he had considerably more sway than the director.) Replacement director Leslie Norman does his best within the budget's limitations, aided by a faintly literate premise cobbled together in an hour by 27-year-old Jimmy Sangster (in his major screen writing debut), along with a shipload of tapioca pudding. But, sandwiched between the two classic Quatermass films, this can't hope to replicate Val Guest's achievements.Faintly ludicrous scenes of soldier boy Tony Newley firing blindly at a tsunami of pud sit uncomfortably with some genuinely shocking moments - faces melting, exposing skulls. There's a sense of treading water here - Bernard's score lazily re-working familiar themes, although some naturalistic performances (particularly from Newley, as Private 'Spider' Webb) go a little way to absolving the film. "},{"Title":"Ghoulish Horror Film That Gains Much of its Force Through Implied Effects","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X-THE UNKNOWN is a low-budget film from Excelsior (the precursor of Hammer) which was clearly designed to cash in on the success of THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT (1953). With the obligatory American star, designed with foreign sales in mind (Dean Jagger), the action derives much of its interest from the way in which it contrasts the mundane life of a remote Scottish village with the abnormal forces operating within it.Life proceeds as normal - apparently. A group of National Service recruits are engaged in a routine exercise; the locals happily drink at the local pub; while two young scallywags (Michael Brooke, Fraser Hines) go out late at night to cause mischief. However none of them are quite prepared for the shock of encountering the 'thing' that feeds on energy, and appears to be resistant to any human attempts to repress it.The film gains much of its force from the contrast between such shocking events and the matter-of-fact way in which they are investigated. Leo McKern turns in an urbane performance as Inspector 'Mac' McGill, who maintains his sang-froid while people around him are becoming more and more hysterical with fear. Together with Dr. Royston (Jagger), he patiently tries to solve the mystery of what happens.In sociological terms, X THE UNKNOWN makes some trenchant points about the destructive effects of scientific discovery. If Royston had not decided to practice his experiments in the area, perhaps the Scottish village might have been spared. The point is trenchantly made by Jack Harding (Jameson Clark), after learning that his son Willie has died as a result of an encounter with the terror.Shot in atmospheric black-and-white on a low budget, Norman's film gains much of its force from the way it shows how people are affected by the terror within their midst. Making clever use of reaction- shots and atmospheric music, it is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Interesting British b-movie which reflects the concerns of its' age","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently this was supposed to be the fourth instalment of the Quatermass series and you can definitely see the influence here, British location, American scientist character in order to give it some transatlantic appeal, bumptious military types, disbelieving bureaucrats (Dr Beeching?) and young and handsome earnest assistants. This time however the threat does not come from outer space but in a neat twist from inner space, a prehistoric creature that feeds on radioactive energy and has now emerged as the development of nuclear power/weaponry has finally provided it with enough food source to return to the surface. A great concept which unfortunately the special effects can never live up to, I envisioned something more akin to Morbius' creature of the 'Id' from The Forbidden Planet. Speaking of which this must have been quite shocking in its' day, the sight of the creature's victims melting away must have been truly disturbing to a 50s audience. They also kill the kid which must have been taboo at the time. One thing that stuck in my craw a little was the nurse who was rendered mute after witnessing her lover's death, I half expected someone to exclaim 'Well of course she's hysterical, she's only a woman'. Underpinning this all is an early form of environmentalism, atomic energy had been sold to the masses as the great white hope but now people were beginning to have second thoughts as the grieving father's rant against the scientist illustrates. That the creature resembles an oil slick may also be a metaphor of sorts. The ending is somewhat underwhelming, the creatures defeat depending on a tyre getting out of a rut and you wonder if there wasn't supposed to be another scene before the titles run but all the same it's an interesting and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"'My name is Mud - Radioactive Mud.'","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw 'Quatermass 2' (the film, not the series) once and that had a similar 'oily ooze monster' in it; that one was filmed partly in a Shell (yes, the oil company) location. This one wasn't, as far as I know, though both did come from the legendary Hammer Studios.This is an enjoyable little horror sci-fi flick with some melting corpses, the aforementioned radioactive oily oozer, a brilliant, headstrong professor, some impressive army machinery, some scientific watchemecallits, and several 'look aghasted and scream into the camera'-victims. Some scenes are particularly cute, such as the ones with the mischievous boys and the wandering toddler. And, of course, there's lots of jibber jabber about the origins of the monsters and how to exactly - finally - destroy it. Och!A small 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hammer's Early X-Files","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The always reliable Hammer Studio would find its Artistic, Money-Making stride the next Year, but before that there were offerings like Quatermass and this follow-up and it was obvious that there were rumblings of Greatness afoot.It would take Classic Monsters, Color, bloody Violence, Cleavage and smart Production all around that would take Moviedom in a new direction and announce that Hammer Studios would be an unforgettable force for the next twenty Years.This was before all that and is an eerie, quite effective, very low-budget, brainy, anti-nuke Movie that has great and gloomy Atmosphere with believable Characters experiencing Horrific situations. There is a good deal of Scientific Explanation and is a bit talky here and there, but this nonetheless remains a very good Shocker that is much better than the overrated Rip-Off, The Blob (1958).Definitely worth a view for B-Movie and Horror Fans and even for those who like to laugh at this kind of stuff. Even they may be impressed at its doom laden, Cold-War seriousness and overall quality. "},{"Title":"Okay, but Unexceptional","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two years before an alien blob of Technicolor jello menaced Steve McQueen and American teenagers, this b&w glob of radioactive mud menaced all of England. Except the alien blob was all for fun, whereas this power-hungry seepage from inner Earth is in deadly earnest. It's 80-minutes of unrelieved what-the-heck-is-this-stuff and how-the-heck-do-we- kill-it type dialog. Good thing actor Dean Jagger is on loan from America so his scientist can figure things out and save the trans-Atlantic alliance.Certainly can't say director Norman doesn't use about every suspense trick in the book, from screaming close-ups to unseen monsters to stricken hands reaching for an alarm. Trouble is that it's a movie of good parts that somehow doesn't add up to a memorable whole. I suspect two reasons hold back the end result. Let's face it, there's just nothing very scary about mud, even when dressed up in radioactive glow. So when the culprit finally reveals itself in all its gooey glory, it's more like yuk than yikes. Then too, there's no one the audience can really identify with. Jagger's scientist is the hero, but too technical to identify with. As a result, we watch him, but don't participate with him.Nonetheless, those empty gravel pits are unusually gloomy and a real eye catcher for a backdrop. All in all, it's a decent thriller, but nothing exceptional. "}{"Title":"There is a bottomless crack in the earth.","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a British science fiction flick that gets better each time you watch it. If you are a Hammer Films fan, you have a treat in store; even if this film isn't in that vivid Hammer color everyone loves. British soldiers are on a training exercise near a Scottish village, when they come across a mysterious radioactive mud. An atomic scientist, Dr. Adam Royston(Dean Jagger)is flown in to investigate. What you soon have is a large bottomless crack in that muddy Scottish soil; and it allows a giant radioactive blob to surface that consumes everything in its path. Is humanity in peril? Atmosphericlly suspenseful. Besides popular character actor Jagger, the cast also includes Leo McKern, Edward Chapman, Anthony Newley(yes, the singer), Peter Hammond and Michael Ripper.NoteIt is said that director Leslie Norman was so not liked by cast and crew that Hammer never gave him work again. "},{"Title":"This tale of radioactive ooze won't make you snooze","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Hammer really hit its stride with regular outings starring Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee as adversaries, came this well crafted little piece of science fiction. It's subtly anti-nuclear in its theme with good suspense and action throughout despite a limited budget. Also, unlike most American sci-fi films of the same era, there's no romance in this film at all. A common subplot in American 50's sci-fi films was a romance between a woman scientist and lawman or fellow scientist where the man wanted the female scientist to pitch that Ph.D. in favor of dishpan hands. There's none of that here - all of the central characters are men. There's not even the usual conflict followed by partnering of the rather geeky scientist with the gung-ho sceptical lawman, also a common fixture in American 50's sci-fi. Everyone here is pretty much cooperative from the start, all dedicated to finding a solution to the mystery of random thefts of nuclear material coupled with a sudden epidemic of people with radiation sickness and burns.Dean Jagger is probably the only actor you'll recognize here as the main character, Dr. Adam Royston, who is employed in a Scottish lab doing various experiments on nuclear material when this mystery takes him, at first unwillingly, out of his lab and into the field. Jagger is not even trying to feign a Scottish accent, and oddly no explanation is ever given as to why an American scientist is working in Scotland, as all of the focus is on the mystery, with very little left over for character development.I highly recommend this seldom seen little film for fans of 50's science fiction films. "},{"Title":"It's on the way to the biggest meal of it's life!","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In American hands, this would have been The Blob. But how can you not have fun with something like X The Unknown? You know, most of the time in these monster sci-fi flicks, there's some kind of pseudo-scientific rationale for the feature creature. Yet with Dean Jagger in the lead role, you could listen to his analysis of what was happening and it sounded like just the most rational series of events you could imagine. You would think he'd get tripped up by a question like How do you kill mud?, but he just kept on coming. He probably could have taught Bela Lugosi or Lionel Atwill a thing or two.I don't know if 1950's audiences were ready for things like melting people, so I'm sure this must have caused quite the fright back in the day. Maybe somewhat tame by today's standards, but hey, you have to start somewhere.Notwithstanding the concept of radioactive mud needing even more radiation in order to survive, the idea that intrigued me the most was the amount of concrete that would be needed to fill that hole in the ground. Come on, it was bottomless, right? Meaning you'd need an endless supply of concrete. But there it was, nicely troweled over right after Peter Elliott (William Lucas) got pulled out of the hole. Now there's a picture I would love to have seen, all those cement trucks pulling up and unloading fill after fill. The movie would still be going. "},{"Title":"How do you kill mud?","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While doing exercises on the using a Geiger counter and locating radiation, a group of British soldiers runs across something that leaves two of their members severely burned as if they had been exposed to high levels of radiation. In no time at all, citizens nearby begin suffering the same fate. What's behind these attacks? Based on the available evidence, Dr. Adam Royston (Dean Jagger) puts forth a theory that some kind of energy based creature from the depths of the earth has come to the surface in search of radiation that it uses as food. But how is he gong to stop something that seems so unstoppable? Compared with some of the more cheesy sci-fi movies of the 50s or some of the big budget modern sci-fi spectacles, X The Unknown seems like a very quaint little movie. It may not be quite as fun or exciting as those other movies, but it is an enjoyable, low-key experience. In the lead role, Dean Jagger gives what I would describe as a solid, but understated performance (much like the rest of the movie). I appreciate that for a change he plays a scientist who admits he doesn't have all the answers. My biggest problem with Jagger (and it really has nothing to do with him) is that I've seen White Christmas so many times that he will forever be General Waverly in my mind. I joked with a friend that throughout X The Unknown, I kept waiting for Rosemary Clooney to come out and sing Sisters. The rest of the cast gives similarly strong but mostly unmemorable performances. This being Hammer, Michael Ripper is quite naturally on board. There's something very comfortable about seeing Ripper in a movie. It's like knowing that for an hour and a half, you're in good hands.Technically, the movie is very strong. The direction is what I would call very deliberate &#150; nothing flashy, just telling a story. The cinematography is quite nice. Unlike some of Hammer's more famous films, X The Unknown was filmed in beautiful black and white. And the B&W images look good to my untrained eye. James Bernard, who would go on to compose some wonderful scores for Hammer, created a very fitting musical track for the movie. Finally, the special effects are a real highlight for me. Sure, you could probably do more with CGI, but as I've said any number of times, there's something about the miniatures and other process shots like those in X The Unknown that shows a real craftsmanship missing from today's movies. "},{"Title":"Passable low-budget sci-fi flick, helped by sincere performances.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the tremendous success of The Quatermass Experiment, the folks at Hammer give us this sci-fi/horror flick with American Dean Jagger in the leading role. In the 50's it was not uncommon for an American actor to top the cast in a British film, as this was how the British companies ensured their movie would attract a Stateside audience. Jagger had won an Oscar just a few years previously for his work in Twelve O'Clock High, and he brings that kind of authoritative performance to his role here. One of the strengths of X The Unknown is that the characters behave, react and speak in a plausible manner - something that can't be said of the majority of films in the genre - and this is entirely down to the believable character nuances fashioned by the stars.In Scotland, one army soldier is killed and one severely burned when a mysterious crack appears in the ground. No-one is quite sure what has caused the crack to appear, nor how deep it is, nor even why those in the immediate vicinity seem to develop serious radioactive burns. An American scientist, Dr Adam Royston (Dean Jagger) is working in the nearby area, carrying out unofficial research into ways of neutralising radiation. Royston recognises that science and technology rely more and more on radioactive materials, and is worried that mankind might be slowly but surely poisoning the planet with radiation. When news of the soldier's death reaches Royston he investigates&#133;. from the available evidence, he soon concludes that some kind of subterranean organism has been awakened which feeds off radioactivity. With mankind using increasing quantities of nuclear energy, the unknown organism &#150; basically a moving, oozing mass of goo &#150; has been attracted up to the surface. Since the ooze feeds off radiation and cannot be destroyed with weapons, the only hope of stopping its destructive progress is if Royston's experiments on neutralising radiation can be put to use against it. Joined by the sceptical Inspector McGill (Leo McKern), Royston races against time to find a solution to the threat&#133;..Some have interpreted the crack that releases the ooze at the beginning of the film as a symbol for Mother Earth's vagina, opening to give birth to a natural monster from its core (or should that be womb?) Such an interpretation is amusingly interesting, but I'm not so sure that scripter Jimmy Sangster and director Leslie Norman are really using symbolism to such an extent in this film. To me, it's more of a straightforward story &#150; science awakens a fearful force, fearful force threatens the world, scientists try to figure out the nature of the threat, scientists try to destroy the fearful force. Leslie Norman (father of revered film critic Barry) invests the film with some effectively stark images and Hammer's most prolific composer James Bernard provides an appropriately creepy score. Within its parameters X The Unknown is a fun sci-fi romp, very much of its era, but not a film that resonates in your memory for years and years after seeing it. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction and Horror fans don't need to see this, but they ought to.","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very solid early outing from Hammer - I always thought of them as the lurid color horror studio, but X (and the Silent Scream) proves they could put together an impressively tight and well told tale that didn't involves breasts and blood. The Quatermass influences are all over this, of course, but that's not a problem - the screenplay and the production are crisp and energetic even during the expository scenes. And Dean Jagger is almost the antimatter version of Brian Donlevy. His character plays the Quatermass role, but he's infinitely more likable (if a little odd and preoccupied) and humane. (There were moments in the Quatermass films that you had to remind yourself that Donlevy was not actually a jerk, just impatient and arrogant.)The movie does have a little problem with making a monster that is essentially radioactive mud look and sound menacing, but they wisely limit the actual screen time of the beast and concentrate on its effects and its victims. The result is a little potboiler with some eerie and disturbing moments that are well worth your time if you don't insist on big budget special effects. If you like Hammer films, classic horror films, or black and white 60's British entertainment,take the time to see X the Unknown if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"Too many scientists, playing in a puddle of mud","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My expectations for X The Unknown were big, especially when I read that writer Jimmy Sangster modeled his scenario on the previous year's Hammer milestone The Quatermass Experiment. That film, as well as its two sequels, is an undeniable masterpiece of Science-Fiction and just plain and simply features one of the most intelligent and absorbing screenplays ever penned down. This Hammer entry honestly can't hold a candle to the Quatermass series, but naturally you can't call it a failure either. The story is less suspenseful, less sophisticated and a lot less memorable than Quatermass, but it still remains high-quality science fiction with solid dialogs and scary themes. Also, Sangster may have based his ideas on The Quatermass Experiment, but X The Unknown inarguably was a role model for many other late fifties paranoia sci-fi flicks itself, most notably the legendary The Blob starring Steve McQueen. British soldiers stumble upon a highly radioactive terrain up in Scotland and, following a bit of drilling, they unintentionally create a seemingly bottomless pit that goes all the way to the earth's core. Out comes crawling (after quite a while, at least) a shapeless mud creature that feeds on energy and slowly blobs itself towards the nearest village. Many prominent scientists, army officers and various other authority figures gather together, but can't find a method to destroy an already lifeless puddle of mud. Author Jimmy Sangster put a lot of time in detailed character portraits and scientifically accurate theories & dialogs, so please don't expect an outrageous monster movie with non-stop spectacular action and crazy special effects. X &#x96; The Unknown is primarily atmospheric and talkative &#x96; but there's a continuously menacing mood &#x96; and we don't get to see the actual creature until quite late in the film. By that time, it already made a handful of victims of whom we only witnessed their hysteric reactions and fear-of-dying facial expressions. That's how traditional cinema builds up genuine tension! My main complaint here would be that there are a bit TOO many main characters and their discussions and quarreling somewhat consumes too much valuable screen time. The few featuring special effects (swollen body parts, radioactive burns, etc..) are very convincing and unnerving, and so is the actual monster that appears near to the climax. James Bernard's moody score, the sober but efficient black and white cinematography and the straight-faced performance of Dean Jagger also contribute in making X &#x96; The Unknown a terrific, albeit imperfect, Hammer classic. "},{"Title":"A better than average 50s sci-fi monster film.","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What's with Leo McKern's voice?! I've seen Leo McKern in many movies and TV shows over the years and his deep resonant voice is one of his trademarks. However, in this film with a younger McKern, his voice is nothing like it was in films made just a few years later. He must have had a lot of voice lessons, as I've never heard an actor's voice change THAT much.And, speaking of voices, you'll notice that Hammer Films put an American, Dean Jagger, in the leading role. They never even mentioned why everyone in the film but Jagger had British accents. He wasn't bad in the film--just a bit out of place.The film is about some sort of monster from below the Earth's surface. Whenever it comes out, it emits enormous amounts of radiation and turns many people into something resembling KFC! Overall, it's better than most monster films of the 1950s. While you might laugh when you finally see the atomically charged creature, for the time it wasn't bad--plus the rest of the film was played quite convincingly. Plus, it's worth seeing just so you can see cameos with Ian McShane and Anthony Newley--but watch close, as the both snuff it soon after they are introduced! "},{"Title":"Good Old Fashioned Sci-Fi","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  X THE UNKNOWN is a fun science fiction movie to watch. While the premise is never entirely believable, there is a nice Quatermasslike feel to the proceedings. The film starts off extremely well and is well-paced with some haunting visuals. The ending is a little anticlimactic but the film is good entertainment nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Superior sci-fi/ horror.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one awesome movie. The plot about the radioactive blob monster is just plain cool. Could have been the inspiration for The Blob. Dean Jagger is by far the best actor in the film, although I have to say the rest of the cast was well chosen. A great sci-fi/horror film, one all fans of the genre should see. "}{"Title":"THE FIRST BLOB MOVIE  ATMOSPHERIC.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film released was released in 1956, the year following THE CREEPING UNKNOWN.  This creature, however, is more BLOB-like.From it's sinistre title effect to the excellent sound, lighting and minimal use of music, THE CREEPING UNKNOWN is a gloomy, atmospheric and ultimately creepy music.The film opens with British soldiers practicing locating radioactive fallout with a geiger counter.  During the practice exercise, a fissure opens, and two soldiers are injured, one critically, with radiation burns. A scientist (Dean Jagger), whom has been working on a method for neutralizing radioactivity, investigates, discovering a radioactive monster which hunts and feeds off radioactivity. The story has several implausibilities.  If the monster is attracted by radiation, why didn't it break through the earth at a hot spot, such as a nuclear test site or dump, rather than an area where the only radioactive source is a harmless test sample?  Once the creature broke through the earth to get to the test sample, why didn't it pursue the soldier carrying the sample?  Still, the strength of the narrative propels the viewer over the plot holes. The radiation effects are very good, and quite grisly (think microwave cooking). However, the monster itself is a disappointment (virtually every other blob movie has a better monster).  Also, there is one stupid scene, in which a parson rescues a small child only inches from the monster, when several scenes have established that the monster can fry someone with radiation from several feet away.Still, with deft, thoughtful performances, engrossing writing, and excellent sound and cinematography, X, THE UNKNOWN is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully watchable and  enjoyable...intense.","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- X, the Unknown, 1956. On a secret atomic energy British instillation, some mysterious local murders occur with horrific results to the bodies. The scientists investigate to find a strange underground living 'putty' that is attracted to all things radioactive, but kills.*Special Stars- Dean Jagger, Edward Chapman, Leo McKern, Anthony Newley, Ian MacNaughton, *Theme- Be careful about opening that door for our atomic age. *Trivia/location/goofs- B & W. A Hammer film from UK. Originally to be a sequel to the big film, Quatermass Xperiment ('55) but the scientist was renamed and re-cast. Look for the British pop singer, Anthony Newley in one of his first screen roles. The film's performers and production staff was affected by the era's Hollywood Blacklist.*Emotion- A wonderfully watchable, enjoyable, and dramatic film. The plot is well produced and easy to follow so the viewer. They can experience some terror and mystery. I would like to own this film.*Based On- Atomic bomb fears and speculation. "},{"Title":"The McBlob","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A bunch of half-wit Scottish soldiers are bumming around in an old pit while practicing how to use a gigameter. A horrific giant turd of radioactive underground goo monster appears topside at that exact moment and goes on a killing rampage, hungry for radioactive material. Dr. Royston, an expert in radioactive stuff, investigates said monster and devises a way to kill it.If this movie seems familiar it's because it is extremely similar to Quatermass II, which is odd because the script for X the Unknown was a recycled rejected Quatermass sequel. Also, it foreshadows the plot to the blob by a whole two years.The effects are passable and the occasional moment of atmosphere makes it worth it. The movie is set in Scotland but not one frame of it is shot there.There are worst 50s b-movies out there, many of them accidentally more entertaining. This one just coasts by on mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sci-fi romp","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made in the heyday of radioactive sci-fi monster movies, 1956's X-The Unknown is all at once archetypal and original. The plot is very creative, concerning a mass of energy which feeds on radioactivity and can take on any form it wants. All of the familiar characters are here. Soldiers who become food for the monster, scientists, and other assorted victims who are typical of this kind of film make appearances. Dean Jagger plays an atomic researcher who attempts to destroy the monster by removing it's radiation. He turns in a dignified and respectable performance, in spite of the pseudo science he speaks throughout the film. There is plenty of action and monster slop to go around, and, this being an English production from Hammer Studios, the dialogue and story seem a lot more intelligent than it should be. The film is much gorier than most 50s sci-fi movies, featuring scenes of burn victims, and even a couple of melting bodies, (Check out the scene with the doctor in the hospital) with some great special effects. Near the end of the film, the monster takes on the form of a big pile of oozing mud which resembles chocolate mousse , and you can see where The Blob may have got it's inspiration. My only problem with this film is, if it can take on any form it wants, couldn't it have taken on human form? Maybe it just wasn't intelligent enough to. Either way, it seems like that could have been a neat plot point.Still, this is fun fare that any fan of 50s science fiction shouldn't pass up. "},{"Title":"Sublime Would Be Quatermass Film From Hammer","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X the Unknown is an immensely enjoyable Horror flick produced by Hammer Film productions in 1956. Scripted by reluctant screenplay writer (he was originally a Production Manager) and regular Hammer contributor Jimmy Sangster and starring an obligatory American lead (to ensure American distribution) in the form of actor Dean Jagger, playing Dr. Adam Royston, a character a bit like Professor Bernard Quatermass. There is a good reason for these similarities. Following the success of Hammer's 'The Quatermass Xperiment' the year prior (a film adaptation of the 1953 BBC serial 'The Quatermass Experiment' scripted by Nigel Kneale) the folks at Hammer were hoping for a quick return and the opportunity to cash in on that first film. Besides which they had also begun carving themselves a niche in the British horror/science fiction market and films such as this paved the way for the glossy Gothic colour Hammer films that were to follow with pictures such as 'The Curse of Frankenstein' in 1957 and 'Dracula' in 1958. Although 'X the Unknown' is a Jimmy Sangster script it was hoped that Nigel Kneale would give the filmmakers permission to include the character of Professor Bernard Quatermass thus making it a Quatermass picture. Although Kneale would allow Hammer the rights for their three film adaptations of his Quatermass TV serials and his unrelated serial 'The Creature' (made by Hammer as 'The Abominable Snowman') he did not allow Hammer to use the character for this production. Thus the character of Dr. Adam Royston was born and in a way it's a pity that Dean Jagger did not portray the role of Quatermass in the first two Hammer pictures, the aforementioned 'The Quatermass Xperiment' and 'Quatermass 2' because he is a lot better at portraying the curious, meticulous scientist Royston than fellow actor Brian Donlevy ever was at playing Quatermass. 'X the Unknown' concerns a radiation hungry monster that appears in a Scottish gravel pit during a routine military exercise searching via Geiger counter for a harmless radiation source. Its forces create a fissure in the ground of the gravel pit at the start of the film and later its true power in unleashed. In traditional fashion it runs amok across the fictional Scottish village of Lochmouth, which also happens to be home to Dr. Royston who works at a nearby Atomic Energy Laboratory. The film is solidly directed by Leslie Norman and benefits from some atmospheric night shoots on location. 'X the Unknown' is notably quite graphic for the time in which it was made, allowing the filmmakers to secure the desired X certificate that the 'Quatermass' pictures also enjoyed. At the time this gave the film a certain notoriety and the melted faces of the victims of 'X' are highly effective and predate the famous sequence from 'Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark' (namely the death of Major Arnold Toht) by 25 years. It is worth noting that the film's original booked director was Joseph Losey, who went on to direct the classic Hammer film 'The Damned' in 1963. An American director, he had moved to the UK (initially working under the name of Joseph Walton) to avoid the Hollywood Blacklist after he was blacklisted for allegedly being a 'Communist sympathiser'. This was not unusual for 1950's Hollywood and many directors, producers and actors suffered under McCarthyism for simply having left wing leanings. Nevertheless actor Dean Jagger refused to work with Losey due to his politics and although a couple of his sequences appear in the film he was dropped (officially due to 'illness') during the picture's first week in production.The performances of Dean Jagger and the supporting cast are generally excellent but special mention must go to Australian actor Leo McKern as Inspector McGill. A young Kenneth Cope (later of 'Randall and Hopkirk Deceased' fame) appears here as the first victim of 'X' Private Lansing. An even younger Frazer Hines (credited here as Fraser Hines and just 11 years old at the time of filming) plays local boy Ian Osborne here. An accomplished little actor Hines would later appear as the longest running Doctor Who companion to date (alongside Second Doctor Patrick Troughton) from 1966-1969 and later as a long running regular character in 'Emmerdale'. The film's main let down is the ridiculous sequence with Neil Hallett as Unwin and Marianne Brauns as Zena, a lustful Nurse who is after Dr. Unwin. They are both at a hospital where a boy who had come into contact with 'X' has succumbed to the radiation burns caused by the incident. Marianne picks this moment to get close and personal with Unwin who ultimately meets the same fate as the young boy. The sequence is demeaning to one of the very few women to appear in the film and was clearly crassly included purely for the benefit of the 'X' certificate rating. His death scene though is very well done. The special effects are actually very successful throughout and there are some memorable sequences, particularly when 'X' almost envelopes a small child, only to be saved by the local priest in the nick of time. James Bernard's spooky, dissonant and minimal score (his second for Hammer following 'The Quatermass Xperiment') nicely counterpoints the action and all in all 'X the Unknown' is great fun. Sangster treats the scientific subject matter with great seriousness and sincerity, and although it is inevitably pseudo-science it has believability and does not patronise its audience. It is also an unusual film in that the threat is not man made, but a natural occurrence, a refreshing change from the much repeated idea of man creating its own enemies by meddling with things it does not understand. This production is leagues above a great deal of the American and British science fiction/horror product of the decade, not to mention the following three decades too and is no doubt one of Hammer's best early Horror pictures. "},{"Title":"That's all it is. Just mud. How do you kill mud?","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Writer Jimmy Sangster, the man behind Hammer films such as Dracula and The Curse of Frankenstein, and Paranoic, watched earlier this evening, also penned this sci-fi/horror/mystery gem. Sangster, sadly, departed our presence last month, but his legacy of films lives on.Scottish troops are practicing with uranium when one discovers a mysterious opening in the ground. Oscar winner (Twelve O'Clock High) Dean Jagger plays the scientist called in after the discovery. I really liked him in Elmer Gantry and Bad Day at Black Rock, as well as the General in White Christmas. The monster is hokey, and the science is probably bad, but it was fun anyway. "},{"Title":"Gore Mongral's Movie Review X The Unknown","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X The Unknown starts off with a group of soldiers doing some Geiger counter training. Without warning an earthquake creates a crack in the earth releasing something that causes 1 soldier to die and another to be severely burned. Enter our star Dr Royston an Atomic Scientist who is brought in to help solve the riddle of what has caused this.After several bizarre deaths and some apparent stolen items in his lab the Dr begins to suspect that there is something living behind all of this...and it ain't human. After a foolish attempt by the military to seal the whatever back in the crater it breaks out and the Dr. and the Military try one more time to get rid of this thing before it is too late.The best way to describe this movie is that it's a A Thinking Man's Blob. As the creature is really a gelital mass that absorbs anything...especially anything Atomic and does a nice number on people as they get within a 15 feet radius of it. Some early gore effects are on display in this one as several of the victims are shown dissolving before your very eyes.The scientific aspect of this movie really brings another dimension to this movie that makes it that much better than the average muck run amuck movie (im patenting that one). Really fun performances as well make this a cut above the rest. Fans of old school sci-fi will really dig this as well as those who like their monster flicks with alittle brains.In the end Hammer fans or not if your into the Quatermass style films you are going to dig this one Score 7/10 Good Stuff from the early days of Hammer This movie has been on DVD from Anchor Bay for awhile. While the single disc release has been put on moratorium there is still a 2 disc set that is packaged with another movie The Four Sided Triangle. However Netflix does have this movie for rent as well as Creepyflix who I highly recommend for the horror crowd!!! Until Next time remember if the glob is glowing do not touch it or you'll end up with one nasty complexion!!! "},{"Title":"A somewhat different monster for the time.","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X The Unknown marks the first, and thus legendary, first screenplay for noted genre writer Jimmy Sangster, one of the creative forces for Hammer Studios for the '50s, '60s, and '70s. It perfectly fits into the Atomic Age with its story of a rampaging thing loosed from the bowels of the Earth and going in search of the radioactive energy upon which it feeds. A leading scientist, Adam Royston (Dean Jagger), with the help of others, tries to figure out what authorities are dealing with and the means of stopping the menace. A top notch cast is well utilized in this reasonably intelligent and suspenseful sci-fi thriller that works as something of a precursor to The Blob, especially in scenes where it finally becomes necessary to show the monster. And the special effects are in general pretty good. The makeup effects are especially great for the time as we get to see flesh melting off bodies. And the movie isn't particular about who it kills off, either. Taking place in rural Scotland, the atmosphere is strong and the tension undeniable. It gets our imagination going before finally paying off the premise, and the result is not nearly as cheesy as some viewers might fear. American star Jagger is fine in the leading role, and he does a good job at keeping us watching through various scenes of exposition. (Originally, Nigel Kneale's character creation Bernard Quatermass was to be the centre of the story, but Kneale objected to this.) Edward Chapman as John Elliott, Leo McKern as the intrepid Inspector McGill, Anthony Newley as a soldier, William Lucas as Elliott's brave son, and Michael Ripper as Sergeant Grimsdyke are among the wonderful supporting cast. One wouldn't know from the efficient final result that director Leslie Norman, brought in to replace Joseph Losey, really didn't want to make the film; cast and crew and Hammer executives found Norman disagreeable enough to never want to work with him again, despite the positive feedback the movie received. It's a testament to the talents of the filmmakers that they could still make a solid and gripping story despite this turmoil. It's good stuff and worth seeking out for Hammer enthusiasts. Sangster, who also served as production manager here, pleased the Hammer brass enough that his next project would be The Curse of Frankenstein, and so a great writing career was born. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Life As We Know It","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hammer Films had scored some great success importing American actor Brian Donlevy to star in its two Quatermass films and in that tradition had Dean Jagger as an American atomic scientist starring in X The Unknown. It was a Quatermass film in everything, but name.Some British Army troops out on maneuvers in Scotland get themselves in an earthquake and one of them is unaccountably burned to death. A giant fissure is left in the earth and then there are some other deaths involving radiation burns. With no atomic weaponry being tested there is no rational explanation for the mass of radiation that is needed to cause these deaths.Life not as we know it is the reason. An energy creature which feeds on the earth's magma core for life, but finds none when occasional earthquakes bring it to the surface. Until now because the atomic age is upon us.Jagger plays the nuclear scientist who is on the scene and has to figure out how to kill this thing which is made of radioactive earth. The science here may be at bit shaky, but the suspense is present in abundance.Such fine players as Leo McKern and Anthony Newley are in the cast, you can't go wrong with X The Unknown. One of the best of Hammer Films science fiction works. "},{"Title":"XThe Unknown","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Solid sci-fi chiller regarding radioactive mud(I promise it's not as silly as it sounds)deriving from pure atomic energy having surfaced from underneath the earth's crest through a fissure on barren Scottish land and it's up to a scientist, Dr. Adam Royston(Dean Jagger)and his colleagues to find a way to stop it because to do nothing means for the creature to grow more in mass as it continues to feed from whatever energy source is available. As seen in this film, human flesh melts into skeletal remains when anyone comes in close contact with the creature(kind of reminded me of the Blob). Others who are in decent proximity of the atomic mud become sick with radioactivity, eventually suffering from burns and sores, succumbing to death later. That's why it's important for Royston's experiments with cobalt and scanners in disintegrating atomic energy is of great importance because if he can destroy the creature when it returns to it's home within the fissure, then mankind may be spared a terrifying fate. What separates this film from a something like THE BLOB(which is considered cheesy by many)is that XTHE UNKNOWN is grounded in science, with the characters mostly of a scientific variety. Leo McKern is Inspector Mac McGill, sent from London to provide details about the creature terrorizing the Scottish area near the discovered fissure. While others find Royston's theory of an atomic energy monster far-fetched, McGill believes he's onto something. Several suspenseful scenes including a child who walks over to a churchyard cemetery as the mud monster draws near, and a scene where John Elliot(Edward Chapman), a doctor, can not get his jeep to spin out of mud, holding the cobalt near the fissure as the creature begins to rise from it. Cool scene where an unfortunate soul's face melts to it's skull after encountering the creature. There's also a scene making a vocal statement(parents grieving over the loss of their child who encountered the atomic monster)about man's use of atomic energy to kill each other. "}{"Title":"well done if not dated","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sort of British version of the Blob with equally low budget special effects, does contain a literate and thought provoking script. And how can you fault any picture with both Anthony Newley in it and Leo Mckern. Full of a few intense scenes and a surprisingly involving story. A definite popcorn piece for a rainy weekend. You don't need to be a big sci fi fan to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Time wise","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Considering it was shot in the 60s, it is pretty graphic for that time. Then again, Night of the living dead came a few years later and put a new level of gore out there. This one is tame obviously in todays time. It didn't age well in some departments. People are used to more by now. Some of the acting also seems very wooden.This British effort is still a good movie, that build the blueprint for other similar (and I guess more successful) movies. The acting is nice and the effects are pretty decent too, although you should be aware that most of the time it's more what you imagine, rather than what you actually see on screen. If you don't mind the age, try it. You might even like it (which shouldn't be a surprise) "},{"Title":"Nice Hammer Film","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" X The Unknown (1956)** 1/2 (out of 4)Effective Hammer film set in the highlight of Scotland where the Earth's crust cracks open and soon some sort of radioactive mud-like creature begins killing people. An atomic scientist (Dean Jagger) and a police inspector (Leo McKern) are called in to try and determine what the creature is and how to destroy it. This sci-fi entry is more Cold War propaganda than anything else but the screenplay by Jimmy Sangster has enough in it to make it one of the more interesting low-budget films of the decade. The screenplay touches on a lot of interesting subjects and I think it's fair to say that the film tries to work on the fears of people who might have been worried about nuclear attacks and various other things. I think Sangster's story, at many times, doesn't make too much sense and one could argue that it's incredibly stupid but I think at the same time you could say this about countless items from this genre. I think the film allows some very good build-up early on as the attacks are all off screen and this really allows the viewer to imagine something that is probably much worse than when we actually see the creature. One of the most memorable sequences is also the more eerie and that's when a small child goes into the woods and stumbles across this thing. The characters are also well-written and we're given some rather decent development but I think the performances are a tad bit too laid back. Both Jagger and McKern play the roles just fine but I think it would have helped had they added more energy and helped keep things moving. The wonderful B&W cinematography by Gerald Gibbs certainly creates a nice atmosphere and the music score by James Bernard gives a nice sense of dread. I think there are a few too many dry moments in the story but for the most part this is a nice entry in a long group of films that deal with man's science and how it could destroy life. "},{"Title":"The attack of the radioactive mudslide","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" **SPOILERS** Hammer Studios excellent follow-up to The Quatermass Experiment the year before about this radioactive mud coming from the center of the earth looking to nourish itself, in order to stay alive, on radioactive material that's mostly in and around this British Atomic Laboatory in Scotland. Were told by the star of the film Dr. Adam Royston, Dean Jagger, that this Thing has been around since the birth of planet earth some 4 billion years ago and every 50 or so years when the suns pull on the earth is the greatest it comes alive and breaks through the surface looking for a meal. Now in 1956 with the dawn of the nuclear/atomic age there's a lot more for it to eat, living exclusively on nuclear material, then ever before.Making it's unannounced and unwanted appearance in the Scottish Highlands the thing, that's called the X Factor by Dr. Royston, cause havoc all around the countryside eating or absorbing everything in it's way as it zeros in on the Atomic Laboratory where Dr. Royston works and does his nuclear experiments. Looking like a glowing mudslide the X Factor coming and going from it's base of operations, a deep fissure in the highlands, leaves a trail of death and destruction by melting anyone unfortunate enough to get in its way.Dr. Royston realizes what the thing, or X Factor, is up to when it breaks into his lab, through the air ducts, and eats the little jar of nuclear material that he's been experimenting with. Dr. Royston sees that it took the jar with it on it's way home, to the bottomless ditch, and then dumped it at this deserted tower, occupied by a local hermit Old Tom, Norman Macowan, after t sucked out all the radiation. This made Dr. Royston conclude that the next place that he X Factor is going to strike at is the Atomic facility where he works at.Sure enough the thing makes it's way to the Atomic facility that evening and catches two of the workers Harry & Zena, Ian MacNaugton & Marianne Burns, making out in the restricted radiation room. It then attacks and kills Harry, by melting him into a blob of blubber, and drives the shocked and hysterical Zena, in what she saw in what happened to her boyfriend Harry, insane. Dr. Royston desperately trying to figure what to do in stopping this thing as it gets bigger and bigger every time it has a meal of radioactive material comes up with this concoction of scanners that when in sync can neutralize the rampaging radioactive mudslide. Thus causing it to enclose on itself, like a dying star, and then explode into total nothingness.Not really knowing if he has the right frequency, in the scanners, to destroy the X Factor but not having enough time to find out Dr. Royston sets up a trap for the thing or X Factor at the base of the ditch when it came from and made itself at home. Dr. Royston having placed an atomic isotope with the director John Elliott, Edward Chapman, of the Atomic facility's son Peter, William Lucas, doing the placing the whole world waits for it to come up, from down under, to either eat or absorb it. It's nail biting time as we all wait to see if the right frequency is turned on by Dr. Royston to destroy the thing from the underworld as it shows itself, in all it's radioactive horror and glory. The world waits to see if Dr. Royston's was right in all the time he played around in his lab with a hunk of radioactive mud, and neutralizing it with high frequency sound waves, by doing the same thing to the uncontrollable radioactive mudslide; or as it's named in the movies title X the Unknown. "},{"Title":"Documentary-type thriller gets stuck in the mud...","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" But try is all I can say about the outcome of this obviously low-budget B&W thriller with DEAN JAGGER looking uncomfortably out of place among a cast of British actors portraying soldiers in Scotland dealing with the menace of creatures made out of radioactive mud.Since all of the scientific explanations for this whole concept were over my head, I tried to cope with the story angle which is done in semi-documentary style and is generally well acted by a serious-minded cast. At first, with most of the action confined to off screen terror (we never actually see the threatening mud creatures), there is the sense that the film might live up to its frightful aspects. But as the story goes on, intensity is only modest and it fails to grip the viewer the way Hammer would do in most of its horror films.Somewhere along the way, the film gets stuck in the mud, literally, and that's not good. Even the usual good score by James Bernard can't breath real life into the doings, and a tired looking Dean Jagger can't do much with a lackluster script. "},{"Title":"Mysterious Radiation.","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Leslie Norman directed this science fiction film from Hammer Studios about British commandos in Scotland on maneuvers in a marsh who become ill from radiation. Dr. Royston(played by Dean Jagger), an atomic scientist from a nearby research station is called in to investigate, and discovers a strange new life form that seems to be a living radioactive mud from the depths of the Earth that needs more radiation to feed on, as it continues to grow in size, and will kill anyone who gets in the way. How to kill such an unusual life form? Effective film with good script and direction, and makes imaginative and plausible use of its unusual menace. Underrated thriller. "},{"Title":"Another poor 'B' movie","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I keep telling myself that I am not going to watch old time 'B' movies, but here I am yet again watching another one that I am once again rolling my eyes at throughout the entire film. I know these type of 'B' movies are all about the fun and the tongue in cheek but for me they just simply don't work.This one is about radioactivity. Whilst on a routine exercise, a squad of Scottish Army troops stumble across high radio activity that ends up killing a soldier and causing a bottomless crack in the surface. After the crack is quarantined strange deaths continue to happen and nuclear energy seems to be going missing. After weighing up the facts, a scientist discovers that this is an evolution that is scouring the earth for energy, and the more it gets the more it grows. The only problem is that it is a form of mud, that is right mud, that can break into particles and creep into science labs and steal their energy. As the 'mud' grows it begins to go after bigger sources and the scientists and police must find a way to stop it before it gets out of control.The premise is very typical and the idea is achievable but they are talking about mud. If they made this film today and substituted the 'mud' for an alien being searching for nuclear energy it may work, but the fact it's 'mud' that is squirming over hills and across the moors just makes it really stupid. 'B' movies aren't supposed to take themselves seriously and to be fair this one doesn't, but if I can't take it too seriously than I'm not interested.With this film we experience very typical 'B' movie characteristics. We get the poor special effects which are obvious that they are miniatures with some kind of thick liquid pouring over them, the poor acting which doesn't draw you into any character or the story, and the unbelievably stupid story which I don't buy. A film can be surreal as long as it brings me into that world. This film really didn't. The entire opening half is dull and slow with nothing really happening. The second half is more entertaining despite the real poor effects and acting. Oh and the ending. The film finally got me interested and then we have a big explosion, ten soldiers hit the deck and a cop says to the scientist, 'your theory worked, you should be proud', and then it ends. Credits roll. What about the poor guys who are laying on the floor after this explosion? I was in complete shock that the film just ended. Considering there was no tension, no atmosphere and no horror throughout the film I can't say I'm surprised though. Is it no surprise as well that the film is probably the shortest film I have ever watched? I have to say thank God for that however because I wouldn't have taken much more.The second half is a little more entertaining. The 'mud' makes its way through the town and over inflates a soldier and melts four people in a car. The stakes are raised, this thing is growing and rapidly. The problem in this half though is still the effects and instead of being fearful for the characters I was laughing at them. The funniest part is when a small child walks towards the mud and stops, completely unaware she is supposed to be acting or being filmed, so a priest runs over to save her but it isn't intense! He just jogs over, picks her up and stands and stares at the mud, which is clearly a miniature super imposed on the background. Where is the tension? This is becoming a reoccurrence with the 'B' movie genre and maybe I should stop watching them but I will continue till I find at least one I like. This one I'm afraid was not it.1 / 5Check out more reviews at www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.com Or follow the blog @WorldofMovies "}]