[{"Title":"What is wrong with everybody, this is a good movie!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"52 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't help feeling that everyone is jumping on the bandwagon saying this is the worst film ever made etc.I viewed this film for the first time on laserdisc on a video projector in a darkened room with some mates and we found it to be entertaining different atmospheric in parts. John Agar for once has some good lines and does well. The script is a fairly complex one far more than other film of its vintage and budget. We thought the writers should be commended for using such plot devices as intolerance to light and the sub-culture within a sub-culture. Even the ending is unexpected and different. It even has an opening prologue which is a lot of fun. While this film does not hit its target on everything it tries to do, we thought the creators had a pretty good go at it.I do not honestly understand why so many people think this film is so bad. Maybe seeing it projected on a big screen in a darkened room made a difference, I don't know, but if you have never seen the film before try it with an open mind you may well enjoy it as much as we did. "},{"Title":"Great 1950s semi classic sci-fi monster movie.","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this movie several times over the years. It's a real semi classic, great example of 50s sci-fi monster movies. You do get a good look at the actual mole monsters and see quite a bit of them. As good as the mole monsters are, they are only a small part of this film. It's also an adventure movie about exploring for a lost civilization. Most of the plot involves this civilization which also happens to include the Mole People. This is good stuff. The stuff that used to scare and entertain in the 50s. The thing is, if you've seen a decent amount of horror/sci-fi films from the 50s and early 60s and haven't found much that you liked, The Mole People is not for you. If you're a fan of 50s B movies, you'll love this one. It's a real must see. "},{"Title":"Tunnel Vision","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Coming from 1956 is another of Universal-International's science-fiction pleasures. They made about twenty of them in the 1950s, brought on by the enormous successes of It Came From Outer Space (1953) and Creature From the Black Lagoon (1954). An interesting prologue with a real professor on the Earth's interior cores is followed by a great title sequence accompanied by a superb score. John Agar leads an archaeological expedition in Himalayan mountains to search for an underground lost civilization. Eventually they find them, an albino tribe (although I think, they would be blonde, not with dark hair, due to lack of melanin), who have trained the half-human Mole People to be their slaves. Agar falls in love with the lone pigmented character, lovely light-haired Cynthia Patrick, who brings a quiet dignity and gentleness to the part which is most appealing. She's beautifully photographed, appearing simply radiant in her close-ups. Her part is like the eye of a hurricane in story terms, and her scenes are the only ones that permit the audience to relax. Sacrifices, revolt and chaos ensue, with the Mole People actually the sympathetic characters, an unexpected ending, shadowy cinematography, and solid direction by Virgil Vogel, make this enjoyable. And it started a mini-trend of ..... People movies The Gamma People (1956), Attack of the Puppet People (1958), Invasion of the Animal People (1959), The Alligator People (1959), The Slime People (1963), the Twilight People (1972), The Bat People (1974), more. "},{"Title":"Maybe we were more innocent back then.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing 'The Mole People' when it first came out and I haven't seen it since - it's never been shown on TV and has never had a video release over here in England. So my memories of it are those of an 8 year old. It's the only film I've ever seen that gave me nightmares - real, waking up screaming that the molemen are going to get me, nightmares. 'The Exorcist', 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' and all the rest had no effect on me whatsoever, but 'The Mole People' remains for me the scariest film ever made. "},{"Title":"Down Under...Everything!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now this movie gave me nightmares when I was about eight years old. But when I saw it again in my thirties, it still kinda creep-ed me out, but it also gave me a laugh attack. Though no doubt innovative for it's time, it has lost some...OK a lot...of that now. Still, I recommend this movie because it does evoke an atmosphere of delicious creepiness, laced with just the right amount of claustrophobia (it takes place down under...everything), and afraid-of-the-dark-jitters. Strictly low budget fare, but interesting ideas, cool camera work, along with effective lighting make it work. I don't remember the music, but I am sure it is pretty standard for such a flick of the mid 50's. When the Mole Men come up out of the...well I don't want to spoil it for you, but it really scared me as a child for weeks on end. Nearly drove my parents crazy with that one. It has a pretty decent ending unlike most B-flicks of that era. Check it out if you can find it, and have plenty of snacks on hand. You may want to throw some popcorn at the screen to try and distract Wally and The Beav's dad, Hugh Beaumont, so the Mole Men will thankfully get him, and relieve you from his, now this is where I clear my throat, acting. James Van Pelt from Tulsa, Oklahoma "},{"Title":"I don't care what anybody says, this film is a hoot!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's cheesy bw 50's sci fi. But it's GREAT cheesy bw 50's sci fi! The Mole People would be campy if it weren't so earnest. It takes itself so seriously it even begins with a pseudodocumentary prelude explaining the hollow Earth theory.Part of the fun is seeing future TV faves Hugh Beaumont (Beaver's dad), and Alan Napier (Alfred the butler) teamed with legendary 50's hack actors John Agar and Nestor Paiva.Mystery Science Theater 3000 gave Mole People the full treatment and it was one of the funniest MST3K episodes ever. For the full effect I'd suggest you view the straight version first and then try to find the MST3K episode.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of all the silly 50's sci-fi flicks why was this one singled out as one of the worst? What about that silly Peter Graves movie that had killer shrews but was actually collies with wigs? This one is silly but I still enjoy a low budget movie like this. It has one of my favorite B movie stars like John Agar and I thought Cynthia Patrick was pretty and charming. And the beavers dad Hugh Beaumont gives his usual stiff performance. It also has a non-hollywood ending, so it surprised me in that regard. And why do the mole people wear sweat shirts? Anyhow, I admit its slow moving and very silly. But I can enjoy it on that level! "},{"Title":"Intriguing story elements undercut by typical cheesy 50's sci fi production and acting","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is just enough 'oomph' to Mole People to mark it as a minor classic (50's Universal B flick division). The idea of an lost ancient civilization sealed away from the modern world by time and catastrophe and buried far underground is a powerful one (dating back to the Greek Hades/River Styx days), and there are elements of interest in the exposition and the plot - a slave race of mutants, a decadent people so accustomed to the dark that a flashlight is a source of overpowering pain, a society that must limit its numbers due to the limited food supply and sacrifices its youngest (and heretics) to the mysterious power found in a mystery chamber.Too bad this heady brew, which could have made for a powerful, disturbing experience in the hands of someone like Neil Gaiman or Alan Moore, was handled with the usual manner of an under-budgeted 50's B flick. It's not that the lead actors (Agar, Beaumont and Paiva) are so bad...well they ARE bad, but they are at the mercy of the script (which sinks the plot with indigestible wads of exposition) and direction (long dull sequences where nothing much happens and over-packed action sequences where nothing believable happens.) The actors do their best, but to no avail.BTW, I can accept the idea that this lost civilization is declining and decadent, but judging by the fight sequences, their soldiers and enforcers have the muscle tone and fighting skills of prepubescent girls. This tends to undercut the dramatic value of the scenes where Agar and company make a break for freedom, or the revolt scenes where the mutant mole people finally rise up against their overlords. And someone needed to educate the film makers that decadent is not the same thing as effete.In Mole People's favor the first shot of the huge cavern our heroes emerge into is very nicely done indeed, one of the best matte effects of its day. The surprise twist which reveals the truth of the iconic symbol worshiped by the lost society and the sacrificial chamber is a nice little bit of writing. The cruelly ironic fate suffered by Agar's love interest made me wince a bit (she deserved better). And a nice closing shot that writes Finis to the move wraps things up nicely.Worth seeing once, if only for the historical interest. You just KNOW that a modern remake is being developed somewhere right now, but production values aside, it won't have the classic factor this one does. "},{"Title":"Different 50s film!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The film is quite fun to watch and the Mole People are a little on the wired side but nonetheless they looked good especially for the 50s!If you like the Universal Monsters movies then check this out soon!I think you'll like it! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sci fi from Universal","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although The Mole People isn't the best of Universal's 50's sci fi movies, I rather like it.A group of Archaeologists discover a strange world while exploring in a part of India. They discover a race of albinos living here and they use a strange life form as slaves, mole men. They are afraid of light and a torch is used as a weapon to scare them away. As the movie progresses, most of the team gets killed and one of the survivors falls in love with a woman who happens to be down there as well, but this proves short lived as she is killed in the earthquake at the end in which the world is destroyed.The movie stars 50's sci fi regular John Agar (Tarantula, The Brain From Planet Arous) and Hugh Beaumont, Cynthia Patrick and Alan Napier.This movie is worth checking out.Rating 3 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"a surprisingly good film","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I picked this up at a car-boot sale on VHS for a £1 purely because I remember seeing it advertised in the back of Famous monsters of film land in the 1960,s and wondered what it would be like, Well! it,s a lot better than I thought it was going to be.It stands up pretty good when compared to other 50,s shockers like Tarantula .it came from beneath the sea etc and has some genuine spooky moments .If you like 50,s monster / sci fi films .I recommend you give this one a chance although to my knowledge Universal have not released it on DVD,you may have to check out e bay for a copy or setttle for a VHS version.Well a lost classic in my opinion ,well worth hunting down! "},{"Title":"A haunting childhood memory","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw The Mole People when it first came out. I was just a tyke and I loved 'scary' movies. (Still do. Problem is, movies aren't scary any more.) MP haunted me as a kid and I have always loved those rare times when it was shown on late-night TV. It is very camp but it is still one of my favorites. Now I rather enjoy finding all the scientific and historical inaccuracies in those old movies about giant insects, shrews the size of dogs, and an underground civilization that lives on mushrooms and speaks English. THE BIGGEST ERROR in MP is the statement by Hugh Beaumont that Noah's flood is a proved historical fact. Of course, all the evidence proves exactly the opposite. "},{"Title":"A nifty 50's subterranean creature feature flick","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An anthropological expedition in Tibet led by John Agar discovers both an ancient primitive race of pasty, light sensitive, superstitious albinos and the browbeaten, grotesquely unsightly burrowing mutants called the Mole People whom the albinos cruelly exploit as slave labor deep within the bowels of the earth. Competently directed by Virgil Vogel, with a fanciful and intriguing script by Lazslo Gorog, handsome photography by Ellis Carter, admirably sincere acting from a solid cast (Agar is his usual reliably stalwart self while the lovely Cynthia Patrick makes for a charming heroine and Alan Napier has a grand time as an evil high priest), a steady, if less than stirring pace, nifty and impressive special effects (the matte paintings are beautiful), a properly eerie and claustrophobic atmosphere, funky monster make-up by Bud Westmore (the Mole People are truly gnarly-looking subhuman beasts), a rousing last reel revolt by the Mole People against their mean oppressors, and a surprisingly downbeat ending, this baby sizes up as a hugely enjoyable golden oldie fantasy horror picture. "},{"Title":"The Fires Of Ishtar","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mole People is one of those science fiction cheapies that you wish had a bigger budget. I found it to be one of the most imaginative of science fiction films of the fifties. It would get a far better rating from me if a few more dollars had been put in.A team of scientists on top a mountain in what would be ancient Mesopotamia, today Iraq find on top the mountain a cave leading to an ancient Sumerian civilization which has survived their almost for 5000 years. Probably the greatest archaeological find ever, imagine finding some ancient Egyptians hidden away, clinging to their cultural traditions. The greatest opportunity ever to research a culture.Of course some of these are not quite human, they've returned to being mole like humans and they're the slaves. It's a slow punishment for the bad, a quick punishment is the hated fires of Ishtar. You're sent into what looks like an oven and you're burnt away to ashes.The film does a marvelous job in building up the viewers fears of the fires of Ishtar so in the end when the scientists are flung into it, we're scared witless.John Agar, Hugh Beaumont, and Nestor Paiva are some of the scientists and the high priest of Ishtar is Alan Napier. What is the fire of Ishtar? That's not a question to be answered here. See the film and find out. "},{"Title":"dig it","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mole People isn't your usual '50s sci-fi flick. It has a slightly more intellectual side to it a combination of the Hollow Earth Theory and a look at ancient civilizations. The plot is that a pair of archaeologists uncover an underground civilization consisting of descendants of the Sumerians. The ancient culture takes the archaeologists for gods after the archaeologists' flashlight hurts their eyes, since five millenniums underground have made them photosensitive.Yeah, it's pretty far-fetched. The title characters are the civilization's slaves burrowing creatures with arachnid heads and webbed hands. Overall, the movie is pretty original, and very enjoyable.Starring John Agar (Shirley Temple's first husband), Hugh Beaumont (the dad on Leave It to Beaver), and Alan Napier (Alfred on the 1960s Batman).By Asia at the beginning of the movie, I'm guessing that they meant either the Middle East or Central Asia. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected really.","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mole People starts in Asia where a team of archaeologists are busy at work doing archaeological stuff, a young boy brings top archaeologist Dr. Roger Bentley (John Agar) an old lamp with an intriguing inscription carved on it talking about the ancient god Ishtar. The boy claims he found the relic atop a mountain nearby, on a hunch Bentley decides to organize an expedition to the mountain top to see what's there. Bentley along with a few other men climb to the summit of the mountain & are mazed to discover the ancient ruins of a 5000 year old Sumerian city, in an accident one of the team falls down a large hole with the other's making their way down to help him. Once at the bottom a cave in traps three survivors down in the dark caverns & tunnels but help is at hand when they find a small number of albino human beings living there, the remains of the ancient Sumerian civilisation. Also living down there are the mutant Mole People but who should the archaeologists be more afraid of?Directed by Virgil Vogel this black and white Universal Pictures sci-fi monster film was probably better back when it originally came out in the mid 50's, watching The Mole People today (as I literally just did) I can't say I was that impressed with it although having said that it passes the time I suppose. I guess I was expecting a fairly straight forward monster film about Mole People but they are more of a side issue, an afterthought by the makers who maybe decided they needed a monster of some kind & The Mole People is more of an adventure film where some archaeologists discover an ancient civilisation & become political pawns for power as they try to survive & get back home. At only 77 minutes long at least it's short, it moves along at a decent pace & the story is solid enough but I couldn't help but think the film as a whole was dull. It never really grabbed me, it never got my imagination going & I wanted to see more Mole People. The script actually makes the Mole People the victims rather than the aggressors & it's them we are supposed to sympathize with in an unusual twist for the period but because the Mole People are silent creatures who just seem to stumble around it's hard to feel that much for them & why didn't they revolt & fight back against their captors earlier? The often asked moral cinematic sci-fi question of who are the real monsters, them or us is asked but only in passing & without much conviction. There's the obligatory romance between the leading man & woman & one or two nice moments but overall I though The Mole People was pretty average.The shots of the expedition climbing the glacier are taken from the German adventure film Die weiße Hölle vom Piz Palü (1929) while itself was later edited into The Wild World of Batwoman (1966). The Mole People look alright actually, I'm not sure why they wear suits but who cares. They are among the better monsters from this period although rather underused & aren't the villains. The film looks pretty good with decent sets & costumes, the make-up on some of the albino character's make them look like they are covered in wax but hey, it was 1956. There film goes for adventure rather than horror or suspense, there are a few scenes of Mole People dragging people under the dirt but otherwise there's nothing scary here. A bizarre introduction hosted by someone called Dr. Frank Baxter has him talk about strange theories about the Earth & it's core.Filmed on a supposed budget of about $200,000 this is well made & looks quite good, you can tell it had a major studio behind it even if they didn't spend too much on it. The acting is a bit wooden like a lot of films from this era but the material they have to work with isn't exactly inspiring.The Mole People is a decent enough little film, there's some monsters, a lost city & civilisation & some action too but I found it rather dull & the Mole People don't feature enough. Watchable enough if you can catch it on telly for free but there's no need to spend good money on it. "},{"Title":"A pretty good B sci-fi that anticipates Planet of the Apes","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Surprisingly good B sci-fi. John Agar and Hugh Beaumont star as archaeologists who gets trapped in a world below the Earth's crust. They discover two intelligent species there, a race of Albinos apparently descended from Sumerians and the mole people. The mole people are initially the scarier race, with their ugliness and their big claws, but the superstitious, ultra-religious ways of the albinos prove more threatening in the long run. The script is fairly intelligent, and anticipates Planet of the Apes in many ways. Yes, the B-movie production level is at times risible, and the ending is very odd &#150; read IMDb's trivia section for an explanation (though avoid it if you haven't seen the film, as the one piece of trivia is an enormous spoiler) &#150; but otherwise it's a fine movie. I was racking my brains to understand why it was rated so low &#150; only 4.4 &#150; then I figured it out it was featured on Mystery Science Theater 3000. That show really is a bane to real movie lovers. So far, this is the only film in Best Buy's sci-fi set that I've really liked besides The Incredible Shrinking Man. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly bland horror film","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Considering that I love sci-fi and horror films from the 1950s, it is very surprising that I rate this film as low as I do. It just happens that of a string of these type movies had by Universal, this is about the dullest one.I group of scientists are exploring when they stumble upon a huge crack that leads to underground caverns. When they descend into them, they are captured by the subterranean people. Because they have lived under ground since ancient times and are look much like albinos, as it turns out their civilization was swallowed into the earth along with them.At first, everything seems just peachy, but later these underground people turn out to be major jerks who keep incredibly ugly creatures as slaves. They beat the poor mole-like things and when the scientist complain, the ancient dudes attack. However, the above ground people assist the mole people to fight back against their evil overlords and they return back to the surface.Aside from a less than inspiring script with few things to scare you, the acting and direction are pretty dull as well. It is amazing that a film called MOLE PEOPLE could be as static and uninteresting as this one was. "},{"Title":"A hit in Suffern, New York!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film played on a double-bill with Curucu Beast Of The Amazon, during the summer of 1956. I was an usher at the time, and, along with a friend (Leo Tonkin), used to memorize movie dialog during the week or two that a film was presented at the theatre. In the case of The Mole People, we had more fun lip-synching the actor's lines from the back of the house.This is not a really bad movie, simply a low-budget film representative of the time...and it was fun to see for a teenager. On seeing it recently (on American Movie Classics TV), I was almost amazed at how banal were the text and the acting. I guess you had to be there in 1956 to appreciate this one. Nonetheless, if you get a chance to see it, do so -- it shows how both story and presentation have developed little in the intervening years.What we've gained is the power of convincing special effects...not improved stories. "},{"Title":"Don't Dig This One Up!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Mole People is certainly one of Universal's least accomplished horror/science fiction films.  It basically tells the story of a group of scientists finding a lamp that points to a lost civilization on top of a nearby Asian mountain.  Like Noah's Ark, this civilization created a similar means of escape from the flood and developed a great society on the mountain and within the mountain.  The scientist soon discover that within the recesses of the mountain...hundreds and hundreds of feet down...this civilization still lives and thrives.  Supposedly it is an ancient Sumerian culture still functioning as it did thousands of years ago.  Okay..so far the plot is pretty wild but interesting, but what happens when scientists three(John Agar, Hugh Beaumont, and Nestor Paiva) get down to the place starts to crumble what little credibility the film might have had.  It seems that this culture exists on mushrooms as its primary source of food.  The mushrooms are gathered by mole men...hideous, huge-skulled creatures that did through the earth for no apparent reason.  But at another point we are told that the Sumerians(by the way they all speak perfect English) also consume fish and goat products, yet when their population exceeds a certain number they kill off people in a ceremony by letting them fall into full sunlight.  Seems that hundreds of years underground has made them super-sensitive to light.  This explains why the scientists are perceived as gods because they bear a flashlight.  The whole story is complicated, and there are some entertaining aspects of this very incredible story.  The biggest problem is that none of the information is really discussed in depth. Too much is attempted and the film becomes very transparent in terms of action, motivation, and acting.  None of the actors do a particularly good job.  John Agar gives a tiring performance as a scientist with all the answers.  Hugh Beaumont just takes up space, and Nestor Paiva overacts madly.  Cynthia Patrick as a beautiful slave girl is a treat on the eyes if nothing else.  Also look for Alan Napier as the high priest out to get the visitors.  The most unsatisfying aspect of the whole film is the ending. In fact this is one of those films that is pretty good for the first half and then just disintegrates into garbage at the end.  The end in incomprehensible, and I was left wondering what moron would script something like that.  The mole people are at least interesting figures and one wishes more was done with them.  A huge script-lift might make this material for a newer film.  Some of the aspects of the story are very interesting.  "}{"Title":"Classic movie with big themes","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am consistently saddened by the shallow reviews people give 50's monster movies here on IMDb. Sci-fi is a vehicle for making comments about problems in our society, so that we can grow into a better, more tolerant race.This movie deals with slavery, intolerance, monarchy vs. democracy, and a pagan religion that uses human sacrifice. Those are some pretty big issues to deal with, and nobody is talking about them in their reviews! I think the problem is that Mystery Homo Theater attracts the kind of people that are like Comic Book Guy on the Simpsons. They are losers, they've been picked on their whole lives, and they have absolutely no chance of having sex with another human - EVER! These people have no depth and don't understand the big ideas dealt with in these old sci-fi, horror films. For once in their sad lives, they unite with a group and get revenge for everything they've had to endure from cool people. They take out their frustration by attacking these movies, but in the process they fail to see the deeper meanings and make themselves look like unintelligent, under-educated fools.The ending (even though it is sad) is totally consistent with the theme of this movie. This race should've been erased by the Great Flood. God was trying to get rid of a humanity that had lost its way, but these guys cheated death. They should not exist. In 5,000 years, they didn't grow into kinder people. They were the same morally bankrupt society that used slaves and worshipped false idols with human sacrifices. They were living on borrowed time and they had to go. ALL of them, even the girl at the end.I think this is an awesome movie for its budget. Watch it like you were watching Citizen Kane, and try to appreciate what the producer and writers were trying to accomplish. "},{"Title":"Not bad, very entertaining!","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This isn't exactly a horror movie, more like an adventure movie actually, but nevertheless, it's a lot of fun! Sure, the prologue is pretty dumb and the first twenty minutes or so are typical of a 50- 60's-B-movie, but after that, it sure gets good! The king of the people living under the ground is amusingly played by Alan Napier and slightly outshines all the other not-so-good actors! The mole people look cool and it's nice to see a monster movie where you can feel sympathy for the monsters instead of being scared by them, as that was pretty unusual for old monster movies. The dialog is cheesy but kinda funny. The ending brings mixed feelings to me though and the majority of the acting is crummy, but when it's good, it's really good! Thumbs up for the mole people! "},{"Title":"What you don't want to find digging in your flowerbed.","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A group of scientists find passage into the core of the earth where they discover a society of people who have monstrous mole creatures for servants.Probably the lesser of the 50's monster movies from Universal, but it's enjoyable for those who enjoy these kind of campy era films. Others will likely find it to be a dull monster flick. Over all, The Mole People is a fairly well-made venture and has some memorable monsters. B movie hero John Agar heads up a decent cast. It's not the best monster movie of the day, but it's not the worst either.** out of **** "},{"Title":"It's a B-movie at best, and yet . . .","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie with my friend Ross when we were 10. It was probably playing at the old Richland (Washington) Theatre, because the Uptown Theatre was too uptown for a movie like this.The next morning, I had to get up at 4am to deliver the Columbia Basin News on my paper route. I remember turning the corner at the far end of the route, and suddenly getting scared that the mole people were comin' to get me.(By the way Mothers, don't let your sons grow up being early-morning paper boys. It ruins them for school and all hope for a better life. Actually, I survived to have a better life, but the lower GPA I got in late elementary and junior high made it harder. The afternoon routes that my friends got delivering the Tri-City Herald were more remunerative, and didn't mess up their sleep patterns. I stupidly stuck the the CBN because it was the more liberal paper in a John Birch Society area, but even more because you got the late baseball scores right NOW. I've always favored morning papers for that reason -- I just want someone other than some young kid to deliver it.)So anyway, of all the sci-fi/horror flicks of the 50s, this is the one that made an impression on me. More than Michael Rennie and Leo G. Carroll, and The Day The Earth Stood Still and such. For anxiety and horror, only War of the Worlds with Gene Barry compares. For SciFi of that era, only Forbidden Planet. Both those were in color, and I think Mole People was B&W. What made it especially scary was going underground, the darkness, the twisty passages, and nasty surprises just around the bend. Also, there's something wired deep in us about 'things' rising up out of holes in the 'floor', and trying to reach up, grab us, and pull us down to where 'they' live, and do God knows what to us.But the grabber was the cruelty of the overlords towards the 'moles' . Despite their horrifying appearance, the mole people eventually earned my sympathy as an oppressed people. The overlords were using whips and other brutal methods to subdue them, keep them in their holes below the level on which the overlords lived. I didn't make the connection until much later, but at this same time, in the real world, the civil rights movement was starting up, and my parents were talking about it approvingly. But even without that, Americans always root for the underdog, at least until recently.I've talked about this movie to my kids enough times that my son calls my youngest daughter a mole person', because she burrows, unkempt, under the covers and peeks out to watch TV. "},{"Title":"A Dynamic Hugh Beaumont","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I never thought I'd see a film in which Hugh (Ward Cleaver) Beaumont seemed exciting and dynamic. Well, compared to John Agar, Beaumont is quite a bundle of energy in this film.A group of archaeologists find an underground civilization of albinos in Asia. The primary albinos are the king (who appears to be wearing a rack of lamb on his head), the high priest (Alan Napier, Alfred from the Batman TV show), and the chief of the guards (Robin Hughes, better known as the head from The Thing that Couldn't Die). The albinos have enslaved the Mole People, who are subhuman brutes who wear dark jackets and pants.Agar and Beaumont are the only survivors of the archaeological expedition, and spend most of the film trying to find a way out of their underground prison. Incredibly, the two have mystical powers courtesy of their flashlight, which intrigues the albinos to no end, because they can't stand its bright light.The last part of the movie is a blossoming romance between Agar and Adele (Cynthia Patrick), one of the few underground residents who has normal skin coloring, a few gory sacrifices, and a final, deadly revolt by the Mole People. The revolt is pretty satisfying, as the high priest and the king are roughly manhandled by the Mole People and end up dead. Agar, Patrick, and Beaumont escape, but Patrick is immediately crushed by debris from an earthquake, which forever buries the underground civilization. So ends this 1950s sci-fi opus.Universal released quite a few good sci-fi movies during the 1950s, but this one's pretty lame. Agar rarely shows any emotion rather than raising his eyebrows, leaving the heavy lifting to Beaumont, who really turns in quite a good performance as the second lead.This movie is introduced by Frank Baxter, a professor of English who speculates what might be inside the earth. The movie plods along, with only Beaumont--and the Mole People--to give us any decent acting. Not bad, but ultimately disappointing.Best line--The High Priest (seeing the Mole People begin their climactic revolt) Guards! Kill 'em! "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi?","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Marketed as science fiction, The Mole People is just a fiction.  The only science element is the hero's claim to being an archeologist - in which case Raiders of the Lost Ark would be science fiction also.  Really I think The Mole People must be seen as a comedy.  Specialists in Babylonian studies profess a vague familiarity with the story of Gilgamesh.  They discover a race of unmanly albinos living under a mountain.  The albinos don't know about the world above ground.  They harness Mole People as slave labor to grow mushrooms and spend their days whipping and flogging them. Apparently they do nothing else.  The most sympathetic characters are Cynthia Patrick and the Mole People.  The Mole People rebel against their taskmasters; Cynthia Patrick is killed before she can rebel against the will of John Agar.   "},{"Title":"Campy fun","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sometimes bad films get reputations that they thoroughly deserve- like Plan 9 From Outer Space, Santa Claus Conquers The Martians, or Robot Monster. These films are so ineptly staged, directed, written, and acted, that they are actually very funny, if not good. Sometimes bad films get reputations that they do not deserve- in the sense of being thought of as good or even great films. These are notoriously lauded films that do not even have the kitsch factor of the aforementioned films. They are dull, plodding, and preachy- like Brokeback Mountain, Crash, Monster, Million Dollar Baby, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan, or Schindler's List. Then there are films that are thought of as bad, but unfairly so. And it's not that they are particularly good films, but merely solid, serviceable films that entertain.One of the best examples of this sort of film that has been unfairly critically maligned is the 1956 Universal-International sci fi/horror film The Mole People. Yes, with that title and made in that decade, one might think that this short, 77 minute long black and white B film is along the lines of the first three mentioned films, or even worse films that lack humor as a redeemer, such as Killers From Space or Devil Girl From Mars. Yet, it actually is a film that has ideas, and is much better than many of the other films that, like it, were parodied on the TV show Mystery Science Theater 3000. Yes, the ideas are silly, and a stretch, but this attempt at seriousness is portrayed from the start in a three minute prologue to the film where a supposed USC professor, Dr. Frank C. Baxter, gives a history of belief in worlds inside the earth. Whether or not Baxter was really a professor at USC is a subject for debate online. Some critics claim he was (and he seems to be, if one Googles his name), and did the film as a favor to the producer, while others claim it an act, just as was used in several Ed Wood films, to lend authenticity. Yet, it works in a kitsch way, especially when the professor intones about the wonders of modern 'SCIENCE'- that catch-all phrase from the 50s, which could explain any monster, alien, mutation, or horror.Aside from its influence on later sci fi films, Agar gets off a great line that presages the 1960s, when he comments on the Sumerians' habits of eating mushrooms and wonders if they've ever smoked dried mushrooms. It's a small moment, but one that, if seen in the right light, is both comic and subversive, as well as damned insightful into what such a character might be thinking about in such a silly situation. The Mole People is not great cinema, nor even great sci fi in a B mode, and its social commentary is not very deep nor illuminating (yes, slavery is bad), but it has its moments, and it does entertain. It also has John Agar, one of those indelible actors who, for better or worse, is unforgettable in every role he takes on- something even very few A list actors can boast. Besides, any film that can provoke the making of as many quality sci fi films as mentioned, has something going for it. See what it might dig up in you. "},{"Title":"THE MOLE PEOPLE (Virgil Vogel, 1956) **","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At long last, I managed to get my hands on Universal's coveted The Classic Sci-Fi Ultimate Collection 3-Disc Set &#150; and I started off with this film, one of three I hadn't watched before.Following an embarrassing pre-credits sequence featuring a very dull lecture by an overly-mannered University professor, this turns into a fairly engaging piece of sci-fi in the proved Universal manner (from the Mummy and Creature From The Black Lagoon series of films). Even so, about half of this early section &#150; involving a group of archaeologists who climb a previously irreproachable mountain after stumbling upon relics belonging to a legendary 'lost' civilization &#150; is, amusingly, comprised of stock footage (some of it, apparently, from the celebrated German Silent 'mountain picture' THE WHITE HELL OF PITZ PALU 1929)! Unfortunately, the latter stages &#150; when the surviving members of the group (including likable hero John Agar, a regular of Universal sci-fi outings) come face to face with an underground race of albinos and their mutant 'mole' slaves! &#150; which bear strong echoes of another fantasy stalwart, H. Rider Haggard's She, prove incredibly disappointing; curiously enough, this would also turn out to be the case in such diverse, later sci-fi films as THE TIME MACHINE (1960), BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES (1970) and LOGAN'S RUN (1976). In fact, those sequences here come off as downright inane at times (virtually Grade Z stuff)! At least, Alan Napier gives a committed 'menacing' performance as the chief villain...The thing is that the plot does have philosophical/existential interest the species concerned had somehow survived the Biblical flood and, due to a constant lack of sunlight, have degenerated to their current 'form' (with the notion that above them, there's only Heaven &#150; hence, when the 'normal' humans appear, they're mistaken for Gods!). Of course, they still live in the Dark Ages &#150; wearing togas and the like &#150; and regularly sacrifice 'obsolete' members in their midst by frying them to death. However, we're never told how the mutants evolved or, for that matter, just why a normal and inevitably beautiful girl should turn up among them after all this time (and whom they obviously consider a 'freak of nature'!).The supporting cast includes Nestor Paiva (like Agar and producer William Alland, a BLACK LAGOON alumnus) as the hero's elderly companion, who's panic-stricken in the presence of this alternate universe, and soon ends up a victim of the 'Mole People' &#150; thus exposing the intruders' essential mortality! Though Alexander Golitzen's set design per se is impressive, the low-budget afforded the film is most evident during the very mild destruction of the underground city at the climax; the downbeat coda &#150; in which the heroine is stupidly killed &#150; was perhaps unwarranted, though.In the end, I wholeheartedly share the generally-held view that this one's probably the worst of Universal-International's '50s sci-fi movies (to quote Leonard Maltin). "},{"Title":"Lord Deliver Us from John Agar!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To think that John Agar was once married to Shirley Temple....well, maybe she deserved it but we don't deserve to have him forced upon us on the silver screen. What a total dud........and I don't care if he did work for John Ford once upon a time! The Mole People probably isn't that bad....in fact the premise is original BUT what makes it bad is Agar. We expect that 50's sci fi movies are a little bit corny and low budgeted, as this one is. We also expect to see the usual suspects in these films....those actors who pop up time and time again in second unit films and we learn to love them. They keep a straight face while spouting some pretty bad dialogue but have tongue in cheek. John Agar, however, just takes himself too damn seriously....as somebody said on an earlier review, he's a pompous ass. It's hard to ignore him but if you can, on the whole, the film is fairly interesting for it's type and the death of the love interest at the end is a little unexpected. I haven't seen it on MST3K but I bet they had a ball with it!!! Would I recommend it?.......it's watchable and could have been right up there with some of the classic B's (Black Scorpion, Them) except for Agar. If you can stomach him, you might want to give it a go.....just keep some Pepto Bismol handy for the bad ham!! "},{"Title":"Can we call this an Underground movie?","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     This is the movie that ended John Agar's career at Universal.  no, he wasn't hurt or anything, let me explain.  After being a real life war hero Agar became friends with director John Ford and actor John Wayne and they worked together in pictures like SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON and FORT APACHE.  Well Agar decided he liked acting but he did not become a member of Ford's stock company.  Eventually he drifted into B-movies like REVENGE OF THE CREATURE and TARANTULA and this picture about a lost race of Sumerians living underground and the mutant creatures they use as slaves (it's up to you just which of these 2 lost races the title is refering to).     Anyway, one day John Agar's friend Rock Hudson came on the set during a break.  Rock looked around at the cave sets and asked Agar, what are you doing in THIS?  He meant it as a joke but it started Agar thinking he could do better.  He went to the executives at Universal and asked to be cast in better roles in A-movies.  Well the Powers-That-Were decided they had other young, handsome, leading man types under contract and John Agar would not be missed so when his contract expired he was let go.  So much for standing up for yourself!     John Agar went on to do low budget stuff (no, I mean lower than THE MOLE PEOPLE) like THE BRAIN FROM PLANET AROUS which, whether he likes it or not, is the movie he will be most remembered for. "}{"Title":"Hopeless and boring","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Film opens witrh some pompous, overblown English professor (Frank Baxter) overacting and yapping about what could possibly be in the middle of the Earth.  Then we get a story of John Agar and three other idiots discovering (in the middle of the Earth), a civilization of albino Sumarians (no, I'm not kidding) who use the title creatures as their slaves (again, not kidding).  I'm giving this crap a 3 because some of the sets are impressive, but everything else rots.  The story is, to say the least, ridiculous; the dialogue weak and the mole people look laughable (and nothing like moles). As for the acting Hugh Beaumont (why Hugh?) is pretty good as is Cynthia Patrick as the obligatory love interest (for an albino, she looks like she's getting some sun).  Agar is just horrible (but who could blame him?).  He can be good, but not here.  This is a truly stupid, dull movie--one of the worst sci-fi movies of the 50s.  However, if you have insomnia, this'll cure it! "},{"Title":"Would you have us believe that you are Gods?    Agar will","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The King of Smug John Agar is his usual unbearable self in another horrible serving from the folks at universal international pictures, makers of some of the worst films of all time. Agar's archaeologist is so pompous and all knowing that you long to slap him in the chops over and over again. He leads a team of talented men(o.k., talented compared to him, anyway) on an archaeological dig 'somewhere in Asia'. They find an old stone tablet that tells of a lost Sumerian dynasty, then it gets destroyed when they leave the five thousand year old artifact on a cheap folding table during an earthquake. A competent bunch, to say the least. Then a shepherd boy brings them an oil lamp he found on a mountainside, telling another version of Noah's Ark featuring the same King and dynasty the tablet talked of(convenient, no?) Thus begins our hero's long toil up the mountainside. Make that a long series of stock footage shots of men climbing a mountainside somewhere, interspersed with lame shots of Agar and company crawling across a floor dusted with fake snow. They find the hand of a mannequin half buried in the snow(or maybe its Bon Ami?) on the mountain, apparently belonging to an ancient Sumerian clothes boutique. They hurry on to find some extraordinary matte paintings of Sumerian ruins on a plateau(although the ziggurat was out of perspective). One of their members falls through some cardboard flooring into a 'deep hole'. He never even made it to the first plot point.There follows long shots of our fellows climbing endlessly down a rope. (1. Why is this interesting? and 2. why do they care about finding the guy's mangled body down a dangerous, unstable hole? I mean,he's dead. That was pretty obvious considering how long their downward journey is. Are they going to scrape his remains into an envelope and go on?) At the bottom, they're buried alive in a series of caves by an earthquake. But they press on, inspired by the quiet leadership of Agar.Thus enter the mole people, deformed creatures who look like the Hunchback of Notre Dame with a bad skin problem and beaks. For some reason, these primitive things are dressed in pants and little jackets. Who gave them these clothes, since the Sumerian folk who live underground are wearing skirted tunics and gowns? Kinda puzzling, really. Maybe the mole people had a sweatshop somewhere where they make garments for the Sumerian equivalent of Kathy Lee Gifford?Agar and friends eventually meet the Sumerian folks, who look like Keebler elves and are whiter than Micheal Jackson. For some reason, these Sumerian people have Egyptian paintings on their walls, and their King wears a Crown Roast hat. They have the spines of tube worms, as they're sent running by the low level light coming from Agar's flashlight. Or maybe they'd just heard about Agar and were running from him personally, you never know.Alfred the Butler from the old Batman is the head priest of these folks, and he wears a glittering robe, pointed hat with fringe, and a Fu Manchu mustache. So this is how the ancient Sumerian priests dressed,huh? Interesting. He schemes to get the flashlight away from Agar, because he believes it will make him all powerful. Of course, with this lot, it might actually work. They believed Agar when he told them he was a messenger from the Gods, after all. Frankly, I think that he'd be a messenger from a lower place than Heaven, but that's just my thought.Agar eventually becomes the John Brown of the Mole People, helping them to rebel against the guys in skirts who like to whip them just a LITTLE too much. Agar, Beaumont, and a truly dumb slave girl named Adele escape the carnage by the attacking Mole people by climbing up a hole that leads to the surface. Another earthquake finishes off Adele by dropping a pillar on her(and good riddance, says I-why couldn't it have taken Agar with it, too?) and closes the hole, leaving the Mole People large and in charge. So ends the grand saga of John Agar, archaeologist and truly extraordinary pain in the butt. "},{"Title":"Dry and drab","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My pre-viewing research on The Mole People uncovered that it's not that well regarded by a number of fans of science fiction and monster movies from the 1950s. So I was prepared for the worst when I sat down to watch it. After watching it, I can understand why there are negative feelings towards it... though I didn't find it quite as bad as some people have made it out to be. Some of the sets and special effects don't look too bad, for one thing. But production values aside, the movie is kind of tough to sit through. Although it involves scientists finding an underground kingdom, the movie is surprisingly dull for the most part. Don't let the fairly short running time fool you; the movie moves very slowly, with a lot of blatant padding throughout, like the completely unnecessary opening sequence. And there is no sense of awe, wonder, or excitement. Instead, there is an almost casual attitude. A slight tongue in cheek attitude might have added some goofy charm, but there isn't even any comedy relief here. It goes to show that adding major studio gloss does not always make a movie better than low budget independent efforts. "},{"Title":"Seen on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater in 1973","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1956's The Mole People ranks as one of Universal's least appreciated genre films of the 1950s, which befalls anything not directed by Jack Arnold. Virgil Vogel wouldn't be anyone's ideal choice for director, and screenwriter Laszlo Gorog's only other works were The Land Unknown and Earth vs the Spider. Still, this studio produced better looking movies than AIP, Astor, or Allied Artists, and created the most famous monsters of the era, with the Mole People featured here, or the Metaluna Mutant from This Island Earth. They definitely skimped by reusing the same Hyde design from Abbott and Costello Meet Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde for both Tarantula and Monster on the Campus, and apparently wrote this script around available stock footage, seemingly identical to the conception of The Deadly Mantis. Dr. Frank Baxter spends nearly five minutes attempting to bring gravitas to the film, and it takes another half hour to arrive at the lost underground world of albino Sumerians, ruled by Sharu (Arthur D. Gilmour) and high priest Elinu (the marvelous Alan Napier). With producer William Alland still aboard, it's brimming with ideas and excellent set designs, particularly the Mole People themselves, used as slave labor by the Sumerians but able to predictably revolt at the proper time. John Agar is his usual stolid self, in his last science fiction adventure for Universal; after this his films became noticeably shoddier working near the bottom rung of the Hollywood ladder. As the First Officer, whose job is to keep the slaves hungry, we have Robin Hughes, soon to be immortalized as the head in search of its body in Universal's 1958 The Thing That Couldn't Die, and on television, playing the title role in THE TWILIGHT ZONE's The Howling Man. The studio's 'B' unit finally petered out with The Leech Woman, but over a span of 28 years were known to be horror's most dependable factory for classic monsters, introduced to TV viewers by such popular hosts as Bill 'Chilly Billy' Cardille, whose Chiller Theater in Pittsburgh aired The Mole People a total of 5 times Nov 24 1973 (followed by second feature X-15), Dec 21 1974 (following first feature The Black Castle), Aug 2 1975 (following first feature Black Widow), Mar 26 1977 (followed by second feature Curucu, Beast of the Amazon), and Nov 5 1983 (solo). "},{"Title":"Not really bad at all.","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mole People is not top-tier in terms of the Universal-International product of the 1950s, but it's not terrible as some reviews might have one believe. It has an entertaining story, good atmosphere, and decent creatures, although it also has a rather sedate pace. Of course, it's hard to knock any movie of this kind that starred John Agar. He's likable as always, and the rest of the cast does effective work. Some of them have some pretty priceless dialogue to recite (you could play a drinking game for every time the name Ishtar is uttered).As many genre movies of this period did, this one begins with exposition, as a scientist named Frank Baxter educates us on various theories as to what exists below the surface of the Earth. Then we begin the story proper, as archaeologists including Dr. Roger Bentley (Agar) are on an expedition in the Asian mountains. They venture inside a mountain, and eventually climb down so deep as to discover an ancient Sumerian race that thrives in relative darkness. They also discover the mole men beasts that these people treat as slave labour.Agar is well supported by actors such as beautiful Cynthia Patrick, playing the marked one Adad, Hugh Beaumont as Dr. Jud Bellamin, Alan Napier as the evil priest Elinu, and the always engaging Nestor Paiva as Professor Lafarge. The stock compositions are used to good effect, the special effects are generally decent, and the masks for the mole men are pretty cool. The conclusion is a little rushed, but that could be said of a number of other movies of this kind during this era. The resolution is actually a little surprising.As directed by Virgil W. Vogel (The Land Unknown), who mostly worked in TV, The Mole People is nothing special but it *is* reasonably diverting.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mole Revolution.","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Virgil Vogel directed this science fiction story about a group of archaeologists(played by John Agar, Hugh Beaumont, and Nestor Paiva) who uncover an ancient temple after an earthquake that leads to an underground passage that opens to a lost and isolated culture ruled by high priests(Alan Napier plays the leader) who are very suspicious of the outsiders, until they discover they have the power of projecting light(their flashlight!) which makes them honored guests. They meet a beautiful local girl called Adad(played by Cynthia Patrick) who is outcast because she isn't Albino like the others. They also discover an exploited and abused sub-class of Mole People that disturbs them, and they plan to free them, which leads to their falling out of favor... Silly but enjoyable film with good performances and mole makeup. Pulp-like story is fun in this guilty pleasure, and Cynthia Patrick is most appealing(though a sadly tragic character.) "},{"Title":"A Sneaky Subtext","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No need to recap the plot.Okay, I admit to coughing up my teenage dollar for the theatre release of this wacky 70- minutes. But then, in those days, a movie had to sound ridiculous to get me inside. But little did I realize then that there's a sneaky allegory lurking beneath the loony screenplay. The way I got it figured is that bad actors Agar and Beaumont are bringing knowledge in the form of the flashlight from the upper world of light. That challenges the fallen albinos who dwell in an underworld of darkness and ignorance. They can't stand the light because they lose their power over their slaves, the poor mole people who are freed by that same light. So the story's really about liberating the ugly hunchbacks from their bleached-out masters. How's that for a twist on all the monster movies of the 50's. Now if someone could just wake up Hugh Beaumont, and get a 5th-grade art class to draw a better underground city, we might get beyond a drive-in classic. And, oh yeah, ditch that old guy opening. He still sounds like my sleeping-pill high school teacher. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite 1950s Universal Sci-Fi Flciks","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A party of archaeologists discovers the remnants of a mutant 5000 year old Sumerian civilization living beneath a glacier atop a mountain in Mesopotamia.The introduction from Frank Baxter is interesting for two reasons -- one, he is an English professor, and I do not really see how English fits in. But two, some of the theories he presents later cropped up as Nazi theories. I am not sure if any Nazis actually believed them, but the hollow earth idea is not unheard of, nor is the inside out earth.I like the whole concept of the Sumerians going underground, though I am a bit unclear how mole people developed. But in general, the concept is interesting and I liked the twist. This film should be more respected than it is. The writers clearly but some work into it, and the actors all took it seriously... even the lead, John Agar (Tarantula). "},{"Title":"An unearthed film romp here.","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1956, An archeology dig film dealing with lost Middle Eastern civilizations and their religions. Temple and ancient city ruins lead to a discovery of a deep buried Sumerian civilization that made slaves of mole people cave inhabitants to support their society. Above ground lost scientists ally with the 'inhabitants of the dark' to change the oppressive society for freedom.*Special Stars- John Agar, Alan Napier, Rodd Redwing *Theme- Myths are based in explainable facts and truth.*Based on- Biblical myths, Sumerian and Ishtarian religious history from Iraq.*Trivia/location/goofs- The opening location archeology dig sequences were at Red Rock Canyon in Ridgecrest, CA off the 395 Hwy substituting for the Middle East. The stand out acting performance was the kingly role by Rodd Redwing. His story is unique because his was a native American that lived in England but made his fame as a pistol sharpshooter and fast gun artist that taught those talents to many feature film stars for their cowboy roles.*Emotion- An 'out-of-the-ordinary' B-Movie or Drive-in film with an enjoyable plot involving some Middle East religious archeology points and some innovative creature effects. "},{"Title":"Not like moles in a hole...","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A poor man's journey to the center of the earth(1959) (which was yet to happen at the time),it looks sometimes like a parboiled cross between Verne's novel and Welles'  time machine .Made on a shoestring budget ,it's entertaining enough to give the movie an intellectual aura,it begins with a five -minute (you read well) mini-lecture by an earnest professor which explains different theories to us.There are vague hints at the Bible with a dash of Orpheus myth (the end of the movie)thrown in for good measure.The slaves look like the creature in the famous saga of the fifties.And please take this advicenever forget your torch when you travel underground. "}{"Title":"OK Sci/Fi","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mole People is another film in the Sci/Fi series from Universal Studios. Unlike other films like It Came From Outer Space and The Creature From The Black Lagoon,this one is a level down(no pun intended)from those movies. It does feature a good cast John Agar, Alan(Alfred the Butler)Napier, Nestor Paiva and Hugh(Ward Cleaver) Beaumont. The underground sets are good and there are some suspenseful moments. The prologue at the beginning is a nice touch. So, what brings my rating down? The lack of action in the middle part of the film. Also,the dialog lacks emotion except for Nestor Paiva's character. If you're a fan of Universal Studios' Sci/Fi series, this is a keeper. If not, you may find it a bit boring. "},{"Title":"Dull movie, great beginning","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although this movie boasts a great cast (including Hugh Ward Cleaver Beaumont, Alan Alfred the Butler Napier, Nestor Indeterminate Foreign Guy Paiva, and John Agar, the patron saint of cheesy '50's sci-fi films), it isn't much of a movie. The real standout, and the guy who really makes the movie is Dr. Frank C. Baxter, Professor of English at the University of Southern California. His tedious and pretentious introduction to the film, complete with halting delivery and awkward gestures gives the movie an element of risibilty that raises it marginally above mediocrity.What was Dr. Baxter even doing there? He was a professor of English, not a scientist, or even a social scientist. His lone qualification, apart from large bald head and round rimmed glasses, seems to have been a stint as narrator of a series of classroom instructional shorts on science. But whatever may have been the rationale for his being there, I'm just glad he was there. As the good Dr. Baxter himself would say, Down, down, down.... "},{"Title":"No need for the Mole People to Surface any time soon.","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Roger Bentley and Dr. Jud Bellamin lead an archaeological dig in Asia where they search for the remains of Sumerian dynasty, where they make their way up a mountain pass and find the ruins of a temple, but another member of their crew (Dr. Stuart) falls through a pit down to a cavern. The other members of the expedition make their way down (Lafarge and a guide, who like Dr. Stuart, dies after falling down). The remaining three make their way through caves until they find an open area where they are promptly abducted by a strange race of Mole People. The three manage to escape, but are captured by the leaders of the underground city, a race of albinos who use the Mole People as slaves. Elinu, high priest of the albinos, and the rest of the people revere the two doctors as Gods, since their flashlight becomes a sacred instrument to the light-shunning albinos. Adel, a blonde girl of fair skin is given to the doctors as a gift to the Gods, but Elinu believes them to be mortals and wants to have the doctors sacrificed before their influence reaches the albino people and the Mole People revolt. In terms of the Universal monster series, this is a very disappointing effort since they film is not as fun as interesting as previous monster films. The script has various absurd moments and creates little suspense or anticipation. Agar and Beaumont are pretty wooden characters that no actor could have saved. Patrick is beautiful, but her character just seems to a stereotypical what is the outside world like person. Napier is hardly intimidating, and the title characters look ridiculous. The sound recording must have been done by amateurs, but the score fits the scenes well. The film does have some fun elements, but they are few and far between and the ending was really a disappointment. Rating, 4. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Monster Film from Universal","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One expects more from Universal movie monsters than one gets here. This film disappoints on many levels. While the Beasts of the Dark do make for some cool critters, the reasons for their actions at the end are not altogether made fully clear. Plus the ending after the expected ending is such a terrible letdown that it will leave a bad taste in most viewers mouths. Also the film has a terrible slow and dull pace. Even John Agar couldn't save this one and I so wanted to like it. "},{"Title":"Probably only a pleasure for Agar fans","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not very exciting, but with some redeeming touches, it's basically a 19th Century style hollow earth story tricked up slightly with monsters.  Agar is fun as always, Beaumont has no part (except in his hair, of course).  Too bad director Vogel didn't know how to do this anyway but completely straight.  I liked how a flashlight became the only thing keeping them alive through most of the movie -- Mole People really hate light!To be avoided by everyone except John Agar fans. "},{"Title":"The flip side of Lost Horizon","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Charmingly silly and inconsequential monster movie has archaeologists in Asia discovering secluded mountain city run by snarling, villainous humans who have mole people as slaves. Fair B-movie production with good cinematography by Ellis Carter, but a sluggish direction from barely-imaginative Virgil Vogel. Screenplay by Laszlo Gorog may have been intended as an antidote for non-fans of Lost Horizon this city looks like the flip-side to Shangri-La! Not a classic by any means, with predictably wooden performances by John Agar and Hugh Beaumont, though not terrible. ** from **** "},{"Title":"One of the worst pictures ever made.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  But it made quite an impression on me when I first saw it in the theater back in the mid-50s.  For years I remembered the name of the mountain under which the albino Sumerians lived--Kuh-i Tarra.  The scientific introduction is a hoot. "},{"Title":"I am John, the pompous a**!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, he is indeed!  *SPOILERS*Pompous Agar and Ward and The Load go down in a hole and get trapped when a guy gets hit in the head by falling rock.  They find themselves in front of a cavern that isn't natural, or, as Tom puts it, a perverted UNNATURAL cavern!  They go down it and a mole hand pokes out of the wall, which, of course, they don't see, because the Load has the vapors.  They have to practically carry the fat guy all the way down to a big 'ol painted backdrop where they take up residence right where one of the moles pops up to say HEY HO.  Well, after a good shot of Venus the Nothingo, moles come and put sacks over their heads, dragging them into the ground and putting them in a room where they will be nicely kept docile.  Well, here's three lines from the greatest MST3K episode to ever hit TV that explains the next scene.Crow  TERROR ELVES!!!!Tom  Oh, you never would believe where those Keebler cookies come from!Mike  Santa will see you now.Yes, the terror elves come down with their little wooden swords and Peter Pan outfits and take the three away to their king, Lieutenant Crown-Roast and his priest, Alfred the Butler, who wears a snood.  They decide to kill them, and the three don't take partial to this idea.  Well, John the Pompous A** shines a flashlight on 'em and melts some elves, because they run away from 'light that is slightly brighter than what they're used to, NO!!!'  Uh-huh, they do.  And so that begins the fact that they now think that the three are gods and John the Pompous A** loves to cultivate this image.  Anyway, yadda yadda yadda, there is some stuff in between all that, but it really doesn't matter, does it?  Just remember that John knows everything.  He does, he can explain things just like he's known it forever.  Interesting, no?I gave it three stars, partially because it is the genre of B movies, and it deserves it.  And, I give it **********/***** for the MST3K version.  This has got to be their finest.  It has hilarious lines, especially about the entire Load section, and, well, to sum it up, it is a da** fine thing to laugh at.  You gotta see it!!!  Watch it with Mike and the Bots, but only with them. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, yet another appearance by the great John of Agar. However, this is acceptable (this time) since the Mole People is one movie that I enjoyed a lot more after seeing it a few times. I think Hugh Beaumont as Dr. Jud Bellamin really threw me for a loop.BeaverGee Wally, where's Dad?WallyAw, you know he's away on that archaeological trip in Asia. BeaverBoy, Mom sure does miss him.Without going too much into the story (oh, don't worry. John 'I have a line every minute' Agar will take care of that), the fun of this adventure is seeing how these poor dopes got into this fiasco in the first place! Ah, stock footage - the under-appreciated staple of any B movie recipe. You'll find that along with some matte paintings. Although, they do add to the grandeur of the underground dwellings. As the journey progresses, our pre-Indy archaeologists discover pasty faced minions, mushrooms galore, Nike worship, really goofy Sumerian chants, and much, much more. Special mention goes to Adad who provides top notch quality service. She is proof that being a marked one can be a good thing - RAWRRRRR!!What doesn't this movie have? You've got eccentric high priest Elinu played by Alan Napier (best known as stately Wayne Manor's Alfred). LaFarge never fails to cause chaos and hilarity. There's a guilty pleasure in seeing John Agar's failings in the movie...they don't occur often, so I relish those rare moments. The most memorable over-the-top award goes to Frank Baxter as the 'Down Down' Doctor who explains some (totally uninteresting) theories and proceeds to introduce the feature The Mole People as proof. This reminds me why I really don't miss college lectures.So, watch this one. Please, don't disturb Ishtar on the way out. "},{"Title":"One of Universal's Worst","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mole People, The (1956) * 1/2 (out of 4) Here's another Universal flick I've been meaning to see for quite some time but this one here turned out to be pretty bad. Bad B movie King John Agar leads a group of scientists to the Earth's core where they discover a group of evil albino men and a good group of mole people. Whoever's idea it was to have the mole people as good guys should have been shot. The entire story is rather boring and the director doesn't bring any life to the film. The opening segment is rather boring and gets the viewer sleepy before the actual film even starts. The terrific look of the mole people is the only real highlight outside seeing Hugh Beaumont. "}{"Title":"not the best movie, but recommended if you feel like watching a very very cheesy movie","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was not a very good movie. It's probably one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Yes, it did have it's good points, but there were plot holes, story goofs and science mistakes that I actually laughed out loud at. So it starts out with an archaeological team in the 50's that stumbles upon this underground civilization of a lost dynasty of Sumerians, who have apparently failed to evolve over the past 5,000 years except for the fact that they have become albinos.. The plot becomes a but fuzzy here, but pretty much only three people survive. The albinos decide to sacrifice these three survivors, but they escape. One of them dies att the hands of a mole person, but the other two (Dr. Bentley and Dr. Belamin) escape by shining a flash light in the albinos and mole people's faces. But wait- who are these mole people? They are mutant humanoid mole-type creatures that are the mistreated slaves of the albinos and resemble the sand people from Star Wars. Just like the albinos, living underground has made them highly sensitive to light. Anyways, the Sumerian priest believes that the flashlight is the sacred fire of their goddess, Ishtar. They come to believe that Bentley and Belamin are messengers of Ishtar. They give Bentley a slave, a beautiful woman named Adel who is shunned by the albinos because of her tan skin. Of course, she and Bentley fall in love and he says she can come with him if they ever get out. Well, the albinos end up sacrificing our two heroes to the burning light of Ishtar (aka outside; the burning light kills the albinos, but wont harm us). In the meantime the mole people end up revolting against the albinos, and the entire civilization collapses. Literally. Bentley, Belamin and Adel escape to the outside world. Then there is an earthquake, which results in a pillar falling and crushing Adad. Ouch. Then an above-ground deserted temple collapses, probably killing much of the remaining albinos and mole people. THE END. hmm. It's not actually as depressing as it sounds, partially because it happens so fast and its so unexpected. Probably even if you read this. I recommend it for an excellent cheesy movie. "},{"Title":"Comic Geniuses Virgel Vogel and Lazlo Galrog","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, where to begin with a movie like The Mole PeopleI had the pleasure of watching this movie with the aide of the cast of Mystery Science Threatre 3000, explaining as to why I actually could sit through this picture. Actually, if you get a chance, I recommend that episode of MST3k in particular, as it was one of my favorite episodes.In The Mole People Lazlo Galrog and Virgel Vogel proves his comic genius as he casts John Agar as the pompous archaeologist, who somehow comes off as attractive to the female star. The ancient Sumerians come across as more albino girl scouts than warriors in this epic with Alan Napier as their rather unconvincing High Priest. This is the type of comedy that we need in America today. Virgel Vogel and Lazlo Galrog prove from the first scene, which has no bearing whatsoever on the entire rest of the movie, that they have the touch of comic wonder.Note. Take care watching the movie. Preferably, only watch this movie with the cozy filter of MST3k, if you can find it. "},{"Title":"Unintentially funny.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Even without mystery science theater this one would still be full of laughs.  It starts with a professor of some sort explaining all this theories of what is in the center of the earth, and boy are they not even close to the truth.  Then you meet the troops as John Agar and the Beaver's dad and the rest of the team are doing research on artifacts.   They find something that prompts them to climb the mountain and then one of the men falls down a hole so you get to watch men climbing down a hole for a good ten minutes.  Then they get trapped and stumble upon an ancient civilization underground ruled by white elves in dumb costumes.  Of course the logic in this movie is a bit suspect as the men probably didn't go down more than a hundred feet and they were on a mountain so I doubt the place could have been as big as made out to be.  The mole people look especially stupid, but at least there clothes look more normal than the elves.  And the one seen where the elf people are whipping the mole men does sort of make you wanna sing that old Devo song.  And watch for the old man who does nothing, but slow Agar and the Beaver's dad down with his constant whinning. "},{"Title":"Rubber suits","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    This is a classic bad film that seems made to be butchered up by Mystery Science 2000/3000 - and only by that process be made watchable.  The special effects consist of men in rubber suits, and the plot is just comic book material.  Its inconceivable to me that anyone would actually like this movie for its own merit, but it is the kind of movie that becomes funny just by the fact that it was made.  The fact that the movie was featured the cover of The Great Book of Movie Monsters (Jan Stacy and Ryder Syvertsen) shows the movies only merit  its limited role in the 1950's cheesecake style horror flick. The trouble is that this movie is so cheap that it would even disappoint 10-year old kids of the 1950's.  My rating  2     "},{"Title":"The premise held my interest","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I agree with Steve Little's review (somewhat); i found the premise interesting; the music score created a bit of atmosphere, a pretty good ending, the creatures were fairly real by 50's standards. Downside Atmosphere notwithstanding, it's obvious that the film is being shot on some cheap sound stage and the acting, particularly Agar's, is horrendous. Beumont's (Ward goes spelunking) character utters the best line of the film at one point which pretty much says it all I sure would like to get out of here "},{"Title":"The absolute bottom of the barrel","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Promising story of archaeologists who fall (literally) upon a lost civilization under the Himalayas is destroyed by horrible acting and a complete lack of direction. The worst sci-fi film of the decade from Universal-International, a studio recognized as a heavyweight of the genre (It Came From Outer Space, Creature From The Black Lagoon, The Incredible Shrinking Man). At least the people who made the real sci-fi cheapies knew that what they were making was awful! Anyone even remotely associated with this piece of garbage ought to be ashamed of themselves. This one leaves the viewer asking one question How did John Agar ever get a job as a professional actor? "},{"Title":"Science Fiction I guess??","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  From the mid 50's comes this....movie? Well I guess it could be called science fiction. Best if viewed with the aid of the gang of three in the front row i.e. MST3K. I particularly like the nearly ten minutes of the rope descent scene. Again a true delight when watched as an MST3K feature.  "},{"Title":"The Bottom of the Pits","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one shoddy piece of work. Not hateful, because it doesn't actively promote antisocial behavior, and not bad enough to be unintentionally amusing either. It's a straightforward attempt to cobble together a cheap movie, while putting no time or effort into it, and drawing in enough patrons to make a profit.A handful of archaeologists, led by John Agar, are digging up and decoding plaques with cuneiform writing on them, though what we see bears no resemblance to any cuneiform that a Sumerian might have seen. The other scientists look over John Agar's shoulder while he reads a particularly puzzling plaque and rattles off allusions to The Gilgamesh Epic. This prompts them to climb a mountain that looks like K-2 in order to search for more clues. Near the peak, an avalanche almost buries them, but it also exposes a ruined Sumerian city.So far, so typical of Warner Brothers' 1950s SF/fantasy flicks, and not without interest. But then the ice breaks under the feet of one of the scientists and he plunges into a hole so deep that Agar, peering in behind his flashlight, can't see the bottom.I ask you -- the experienced mountain climber -- what would you do under these circumstances? A member of your team has fallen into what appears to be a bottomless pit. Here's what THEY do. With no more than a flashlight and a bit of climbing equipment, one by one, they lower themselves hundreds of feet into the black pit with no way of getting back up except by hoisting themselves hand over hand. How John Agar expects to do that is left unexplained -- never mind chunky Nestor Paiva.The handful of middle-aged men find their colleague's dead body. Nobody bothers to mourn or comment on the loss. They don't have much time anyway because, before you know it, they discover a lost civilization of pale Sumerians who live on mushrooms, except for one beautiful babe (Cynthia Patrick, the best actor in the bunch) who looks reasonably human and has something resembling a tan. The Sumerian king assigns her to be Agar's consort. When Agar retires, she goes with him and he must gently fend her off because, after all, he's a man of principle. It turns out that the Sumerians decide all their visitors must die -- BUT -- they are afraid of the fire of Ishtar, meaning the flashlight.But why go on? It deteriorates into one of Edgar Rice Burroughs' half-schizophrenic novels. Tarzan Goes to Mars, or something. Lots of scenes of beastly half-hominids laboring among the lava pits and being whipped by their Sumerian masters. Sumerian soldiers chasing the archaeologists waving swords but being held back by the fire of Ishtar.I don't know how it ends. I own the DVD and I can't bring myself to finish watching it. I really tried to find it ridiculous enough to raise a smile but I couldn't generate any feeling except a fierce boredom.It's hard to imagine that this was intended to be seen by anyone over the age of nine or ten. "},{"Title":"Ward Cleaver and Alfred the Butler star with the pompous Agar!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Mole People features John Agar endlessly talking about things that he seems to think he knows about.  While on a dig in the far east, Agar and Mr. Cleaver discover a reference to a lost city.  Together, with a rather heavy set man called LaFarge, meaning Load, they set off and discover a race of albinos living under the mountain.  These albinos are ruled by a king who looks like a hood ornament and Alfred the Butler of TV's Batman fame.  Agar meets a marked one, and the two of them sort of fall in love.  She plays the lute and he waxes philosophical.  In the end, they insight an uprising by the mole people, bringing down this ancient, but really dumb, civilization.  Agar's love interest is killed when she decides to run under a large stone pillar that is falling.  Thankfully, the end. "}]