[{"Title":"Better-than-average '50's saucer flick","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ray Harryhausen should have received top billing in this film, since his superb stop-action animation is the real star here. None of this nonsense about wise and benevolent aliens a la The Day the Earth Stood Still! Here, the aliens are nasty and mean business. The mass saucer attack on Washington is a classic scene; swiped by everything from Independence Day to a TV commercial for a nationwide chain of fast-food restaurants. Although the saucer's magnetic propulsion is scientific balderdash (Earth's magnetic field is just about strong enough to swing a compass needle.); still it's thrilling to see the military and the scientists racing around D.C. in 1-and-a-half ton trucks with diesel generators and magnetic disruptor's mounted on the truck beds. (They look a bit like an out-sized Maxim machine gun.) When these are fired at an alien ship, it starts to wobble wildly until it falls and crashes. At one point, a saucer lands on the White House lawn in an attempt to kill or capture the President (Eisenhower) (gasp!) The aliens step out clad in silver spacesuits that act as powered exoskeletons that enable them to walk while under Earth's gravity. Fortunately, these are magnetically powered like their ships and Hugh Marlowe (who played Patricia Neal's lunkhead boyfriend in The Day the Earth Stood Still) arrives on the scene with one of those disruptor's and drives them off.There is an interesting scene earlier in the film where an alien is subdued and the helmet wrenched off of his suit. Before crumbling to dust in our atmosphere, you can see out-sized black eyes, no nose, and a slit-like mouth set in a light-bulb shaped head. I didn't think this idea of an alien occurred to anybody until the 1970's.Despite perfunctory acting and scientific howlers, this movie is still endearing, not only for the fine special effects (CGI is a bit too slick for me.), but also for an innocence that would soon be lost. For the following year after this film was made, the Soviet Union would shock America by launching the first artificial satellite (Sputnik I) into Earth orbit using the first ICBM. This meant that the Soviets could launch a nuclear warhead at the United States. From then until the Cuban Missile Crisis persuaded both sides to back down from hair-trigger postures, fears of nuclear war would put possible interplanetary war very much in the shade. "},{"Title":"Quintessential Fifties Sci-Fi","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"47 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are no dull frames in this remarkable saucer invasion film set directly in the center of the fifties.  Harryhausen met the challenge of animating flying machines.  Sure enough, they whiz, spin, even wobble when need be. Saucers even have a protruding ray-gun device.  The action begins during the credits and never lets up.  Admittedly, it's fifties.  But it was impressive enough to heavily influence Tim Burton's Mars Attacks.  You can't miss the references.  Film is packed with clever and creative touches such as the tape recording including aliens speaking at a speed natural for them, but not for us on Earth.  If you are not terribly put off by 50's, black and white, and (god forbid) stop motion, you can't go wrong with this quintessential sci-fi extravaganza. "},{"Title":"an underrated gem","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While War of the Worlds is probably the most heralded of the 1950s alien invasion films, this one is a lot more fun.  There are none of the heavy-anded quasi-religious sub-texts that weighed down WOTW.  There are no pretensions of any kind.  Earth gets right down to the business at hand...aliens coming to Earth with the sole purpose of kicking our asses. Throw in the always fun Harryhausen effects, in which real life monuments are destroyed (later incorporated in the equally dumb and equally fun ID4), and what's not to like? "},{"Title":"Great 50's Sci-Fi","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ray Harryhausen developed the flying saucers for this film, and they are worth seeing to be sure.  The story is about how a space creature has contacted a professor on Earth, played nicely by Hugh Marlowe, and wants him to talk to his leaders.  When there is a communication problem, the aliens destroy a rocket base.  In short time, the aliens let the Earth and its people know that their intent is to take over the planet.  Marlowe, working in conjunction with the military, develops a machine which renders the space ships incapable of straight flight.  The film is a prime example of what good science fiction is all about.  It has tension, extraterrestrials, fast pacing, and good special effects for its day.  This film is very suspenseful and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"My favorite Si Fi, for obvious reasons","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"37 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I always wondered how they managed to pick the name of the main character in this movie (Dr. Russell A. Marvin). That is my name, and it is very uncommon. When I saw the credits in the IMDB, I realized the answer. The inspiration for this movie was a book by Donald E. Keyhoe, who was consulted on this film. In 1956, Keyhoe started an organization called NICAP (National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena). In 1956, I was a real flying saucer enthusiast, and was one of the very first people to join NICAP. I believe that they picked my name off of Keyhoe's membership list. I was 14 years old at the time. Anyway, it's a good flick with some great special effects (done the old fashioned way) by the legendary Ray Harryhausen. "},{"Title":"Terrific sci-fi movie. Like wine, gets better with age.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a terrific older sci-fi movie. It has all the elements to make it a sold movie; a good variety of characters, an interesting plot, and a solid script. The great special effects are just icing on the cake. Much of the movie is told in documentary style with a voice-over of someone, which adds to the realism. You can feel connected with the main characters and what goes on in the movie. Even most of the characters that don't have much of a role seem realistic, not two-dimensional (like some in Spider-man). The plot has many viable twists and the movie comes to a exciting and feasible conclusion (un-like Independence Day). Many/most people will find it more entertaining than the classic sci-fi invasion movie War of the Worlds.This movie, even though it was a relatively mid-budget movie made in the 1950's, should serve as a message to modern day Hollywood. It shows how a movie if made with a lot of thought and heart, as opposed to just violence and/or sensualism, can produce a real winner. "},{"Title":"Good Special Effects Effort Undone By Budget","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A model of restrained, professional film making, EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS would be one of the best 50s sci-fi efforts had Columbia studios provided more of a budget.  Hugh Malowe plays a scientist attempting to launch earth satellites.  After repeated failures, he discovers that flying saucers are destroying his satellites.  After the destruction of Cape Canaveral by the saucermen, Marlowe discovers a method of toppling the anti-gravity saucers.From there the story pretty much unravels.  The saucermen give Marlowe and his team plenty of time to develop a weapon capable of defeating them.  Worse, the final assault on Washington is as senseless and ineffectual as the typical US Presidential debate.  The aliens pick virtually no targets of tactical or strategic importance. Ray Harryhausen's flying saucers, the alien's exoskeletons and sound effects in this movie are especially standout. "},{"Title":"UFO's AND Joan Taylor Beam ME Up!!!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Certainly, the renowned/redoubtable Ray Harryhausen's special effects are absolutely superb in this 1956 sci-fi film. As several of the previous posters have already pointed out, the late Maj. Donald E. Keyhoe (one-time director of the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenonema, based in Washington, D.C.) served as technical adviser to this film. In fact, Maj. Keyhoe always maintained that alien (?) spacecraft HAD buzzed our nation's capital, during the summer of 1952. Veteran actors Hugh Marlowe, Morris Ankrum and Donald Curtis (who, I believe, portrayed Prince Barron in one of the final Flash Gordon serials) appear in the film. However, the wonderful and voluptuous Joan Taylor also appears as Carol Marvin (Hugh Marlowe's new bride in the film). Now, Ms. Taylor also appeared as the medical student granddaughter (?) of a scientist in another 1950s sci-fi flick, 20 Million Miles to Earth. And, I MUST say that Ms. Taylor looked terrific in those shorts of hers, as she and her granddad were conducting scientific research in sunny Sicily, when that U.S. space ship returned, rather abruptly, to Earth. (Seeing her perambulate through the verdant Sicilian countryside, I felt like singing Dean Martin's That's Amore!) Yet, my favorite scene in Earth Versus the Flying Saucers, was at the film's conclusion, when, Ms. Taylor and Mr. Marlowe are sitting on a beautiful beach as the sun is starting to set, and she says to Mr. Marlowe Do you think that the aliens will ever return to Earth? To which, Mr. Marlowe (looking at his beautiful bride, attired in her extremely-flattering one-piece bathing suit) dreamily replies Not on such a beautiful day as this. And, hands held-together, they both happily and somewhat, saucily scamper into the water! "},{"Title":"Pretty Intelligent For Its Genre, But Lacks Excitement","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was fairly interesting and nicely low-key for a 1950s sci-fi flick....which usually means one thing hysterical women shrieking and screaming. Well, there's none of that nonsense here. Ray Harryhausen's special-effects were lauded and justifiably so for his era, but you can imagine how they look today 50 years later! They look pretty primitive.The acting is respectable considering the three stars - Hugh Marlow, Joan Taylor and Donald Curtis - are anything but stars. I do think the story could have used a bit of humor to spice it up a bit, but you can't always get everything. At least this one was one flying saucer movie that had some intelligence. It might have had too much, because it had very little excitement. "},{"Title":"A solid 1950's B-movie sci-fi with all the weaknesses that come with the genre","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dr Russell Marvin is working on experimental rockets launched into orbit around the earth to help with the advancement of space exploration.  He has so far lost 11 rockets for unknown reasons.  However on a drive with his wife they witness a flying saucer.  No-one believes them but later the same saucers attack and massacre their military base leaving only them as survivors.  They are told that the earth has 56 days to come quietly rather than spark a pointless war against superior forces.  However Dr Marvin and his team begin work on a weapon to repel the forces.With a title like that I didn't need to be told I was in 1950's B-movie `allegory for commies' territory and all that that entails.  The plot is pretty straight forward and the film wastes no time in wading into it.  The meaning of the plot is a little tasteless and blatantly spells out these invaders are &#150; `humanoids'.  The thing that annoyed me was that the film ignored the fact that soldiers opened fire on the aliens first &#150; without knowing why they were there.  True they were coming to invade but the `shoot first ask questions later' message wasn't very palatable.The effects are OK for the time but of course look very shaky nowadays.  However it is still enjoyable and the aliens do look a little creepy despite being very stiff looking.  The action is OK but I never felt tense as the 56 days counted down, and the race for the weapon seemed to happen a little too easily.  The final battle in Washington is pretty cool though.The cast are as wooden and stiff as you'd expect in a B-movie but I suppose it all adds to the feeling of the film!  There are some funny lines and much of the dialogue (and effects) has been spoofed in recent films but it is still worth a watch.  Overall as a film it is pretty poor, but if you're in a mood for a bit of 50's sci-fi hokum then this will probably deliver what you're after. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Nonsense","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The last time I saw this movie was April the first 1982 which was the day before my younger brother was born . Maybe this is the reason why this movie stuck out in my mind and I certainly remember enjoying EARTH VS THE FLYING SAUCERS ( I've always been a fan of this type of cheesy movie ) though I did recall their being some unlikely occurrences like the hero leaving a tape recorder running which sets up the plot for the movie .!!!! SLIGHT SPOILERS !!!! After seeing the movie again for the first time since 1982 I was struck as to how ridiculous everything about it is now . The aliens land at a secret rocket base . Fair enough , and I have to point out that the reason the troops at the base open fire without asking about the aliens intention ( as one fellow reviewer was confused by this ) is to do with the cold war paranoia at the time , aliens in 1950s movies with a few notable exceptions ( The QUATERMASS trilogy for example ) are surrogate communists so it's entirely logical for American troops to blast away at flying saucers . What is entirely unlikely is that the aliens are able to destroy the rocket base and kill absolutely everyone who isn't connected to the plot ie Washington is entirely unconvinced that the base was destroyed by saucer men due to the lack of eyewitness accounts . What ? The flying saucers didn't show up on radar etc . It's also ridiculous that if the flying saucers have powerful ray guns the aliens needed to land in the first place . Like I said this is not an entirely plausible movie . In fact it's a very silly one Despite this EVTFS still remains a very enjoyable movie as long as you take it for what it it - A 1950s B movie . There's an over reliance of stock film footage , plot holes galore , not very good acting and special effects that don't really stand up to the test of time , but it does contain some entertaining moments like the stranded alien stalking humans in a woodland and the final invasion , and despite some of the technical flaws the sound editing and sound effects are very good . If you also want to be pretentious you could point out the phallic symbolism of the aliens weapons but I wouldn't bother "},{"Title":"They Have Their Weaknesses","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this science fiction film is out of the paranoid school so popular in the Fifties, the end message is far from watch out for invaders of all kind. The world, although we don't see it from other than an American point of view actually comes together to help fight off an invasion from a dying race of aliens.As is usual in these kinds of films the aliens have been monitoring us pretty closely, but it also turns out that they're as paranoid as the earth people. They shoot down rockets carrying satellite probes into space, man's first step in that direction. Then they contact Hugh Marlowe, the scientist in charge of the project and want a face to face. Transmission's kind of difficult as they move at a speed far greater than human. This same gambit was used in a famous Star Trek episode. It's a race against time even though the aliens give us two months to decide on surrender which we use in the greatest crash science program of all time. Hugh Marlowe, wife Joan Taylor and scientists around the world discover the weaknesses of the invaders.I think the real star of this film is special effects guru Ray Harryhausen. When the attack begins and it occupies the last twenty minutes or so of Earth vs. The Flying Saucers, Harryhausen steps in and takes the film away from the human cast members. The animated sequences showing the attack on Washington, DC with some familiar landmarks being damaged and destroyed are the highlight of the film.One thing about the film did bother me. I wish they had given the aliens some kind of generic name, Krell, Klingon, whatever. Other than that Earth vs. The Flying Saucers is one of the better science fiction films from the Fifties. "},{"Title":"Restrained but still an effective piece of sc-fi pie.","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reports of flying saucers start coming in thick and fast until sure enough alien invaders begin to attack the Earth. Focal point of their attack is the U.S. Space Programe, can hero in waiting Russel Marvin conjure up a defence weapon to save the day?Obviously a template for many an alien invader film since its release, Earth Vs The Flying Saucers never quite reaches the heights that perhaps it should have. Bogged down by maudlin scripting and restricted by its budget, it often hints at what a great picture it could have been. The lead cast are poor and this hurts the film even more, Hugh Marlowe as Russell Marvin bores us with the scientific speak when really he should be fascinating us, whilst scream queen duties fall to poor Joan Greenwood who forgets that she is actually supposed to emit some sort of terror when the alien hordes attack! However, on the plus side the aliens themselves are certainly creepy enough to grab your notice, and Ray Harryhausen's flying saucers animation is of course top dollar for its time, whilst the final battle across Washington DC is classic gold, an all buzzing assault with splurges of death rays at every turn. An important film in the pantheon of the genre for sure, but it's just a tad too restrained for its own good. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Go to earth on an egg","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Contains SPOILERS*Aliens invade the earth. Ace. A saucer kidnaps Joan Taylor's dad and then lands on a beach, inviting Joan and her scientist husband Dr Russell A Marvin on board for a chat through what looks like a scrunched tissue. They are inter-dimensional beings who have mastered electro-magnetic forces. Their curious need to speak while gargling water suggests a less masterful grasp of public speaking, however.  Inviting our heroes to a round robin on their infinite knowledge they are asked searching questions such as how many soldiers currently serve in the the army and who won the world series rather than a real stumper like why isn't Dana Andrews or Ray Milland in this picture?  If so, they wouldn't have dared invade or talk through a mouth wash.  One of the military accompanying our scientists open fires on the scrunched tissue, presumably afraid of incoming bogeys and is then subjected to a demonstration of the alien's mind reading abilities.  This involves zapping the man's head with a laser beam which turns the side of his head to glass so that you can see his brain and therefore read it.  Now why haven't we ever thought of that?After leaving the saucer but refusing to cooperate, our maverick husband and wife team are chased through a burning forest by the saucer which suddenly chucks out Joan's dad Presumably due to the conspicuous lack of toilet facilities on board.  Joan is understandably grief stricken at the sight of a flat father and vows to do battle with an even flatter script and angrier aliens.Having captured an alien helmet after the aliens are shown to topple over at the mere draft from an opened door, our scientists return to base.  Dr Marvin, replete with eccentric psychedelic tie, is one of those Kennedy hair line boffins who immediately has a convoluted answer to any alien phenomena presented to him without even a moments contemplation needed.  He puts on the alien's helmet and says he can hear someone in the hall.  The generals do not even titter at the sight of a man in a suit mumbling through an egg on top of his head.  It's that kind of movie.  But Dr Marvin hits on a solution faster than it takes to put an egg in a pan, let alone boil it, and our intrepid crew set off for a showdown in Washington DC with what look like hair dryers on the back of cattle trucks. Why Dr Marvin didn't just show them the hairy back he displays in a later beach scene is a mystery. it certainly scared me.Briefly, the couple travel in a jeep with the convoy (check out the driver, Oscar that man).  Subsequently they contribute to the battle by continually jumping out of a truck and then jumping back in again.  A saucer crashes into a lake to the sound of *glug-glug-glug*.  Congress is blown up leaving the military with the dilemma of whether to shoot the aliens or shake their hands.  Certainly it has been a memorable honeymoon for our lovebirds. Sadly though, Tim Burton's Mars Attacks proves the old adage that you can't go home again. "},{"Title":"Pefection","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is a true classic in every sense of the word. It has great effects, the storyline works. So much so, that TIM BURTON steals a good portion of it in his send up of the invasion movie MARS ATTACKS. But I digress, the creature effects are very cool. I kind of wish I saw more of the alien without the helmet other then the dead one. But what can you do. Also, effects genius Ray Harryhausen does a great job. I just wish he never retired. Ray, there are still plenty of low budget movies you can save the only way your can. VILE 21 may not have been so vile if you were doing the stop motion. Hell, even WAR OF THE PLANETS could have been better if they you. Save the B-Movie like you did the first time. Anyway, the perfect Saturday night treat for the kids. EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS gets 10 STARS! "},{"Title":"Exceptional 50s sci-fi flick","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this isn't as good as INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS or THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, it is one of the better sci-fi movies of the 1950s. Even by today's standards, the Ray Harryhausen special effects are pretty good (except in a few spots) and it's great fun watching the city of Washinton, DC being destroyed by these evil aliens. Scenes of the UFOs crashing into the Washington Monument are really memorable and take this film to a higher level of interest. Plus, once the pathetic humans figure out a way to fight these aliens, it's a lot of fun to watch. Yes the aliens are ONCE AGAIN evil and bent on destroying mankind, but the way the film is intelligently written and executed make this a worthwhile picture. For the 1950s, it was a heck of a film and still holds up well today.By the way, at the half hour mark, there is a scene supposedly along the Chesapeake Bay. I grew up just a few miles from there and was surprised to see all the mountains! Obviously this was shot in California and it looked almost nothing like the Bay. "},{"Title":"Among the best space invaders to menace '50's drive-ins","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes aliens are nice like ET; other times they chomp you to pieces like Alien or Predator. Sometimes they zap you to kingdom come with ray guns; and that's the kind this movie features. This drive-in classic is a lot of fun to watch the director treats the sci-fi fan who likes to see lots of War of the Worlds type mayhem to plenty of disintegrator beams, explosions, terrified crowds running in a panic, famous landmarks getting incinerated, and so on. Personally, I love this kind of stuff.But it isn't just unseen invaders annihilating victims in a rampage; there's a great story with well-organized sub-plots efforts by the aliens to actually communicate with Earthlings, minds being taken over, aliens who want to make Earth a subservient colony, scientists and military devising weapons (in a strangely short period of time), and some of those classic Ray Harrryhausen special effects that made these types of flicks so fun.Some of the stuff you see in this movie inspired (a nice way to say ripped off) by other movies the trucks with ray-transmitter machines, the method of disrupting the alien spacecraft in flight, the design of the alien armor, and many more. Imitation is the sincerest form of complement, though, yet another testimony to the entertainment value and creativity this movie offers.These creatures are among the best of the malevolent space invaders that had it in for us Earthlings, especially the Earthlings who were parked at drive-ins. "},{"Title":"A brilliant example of 50s Sci-Fi at its best","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" So why not 10 out of 10? Because there are a few 1950s Sci-Fi films that are actually better than this one... The Day The Earth Stood Still & The Incredible Shrinking Man to name two... but not many. This film has all the hallmarks of classic B-grade 1950s Science Fiction cinema. But let's get something straight right from the start; It does operate on the premise that Earth's (read White American) civilization is under threat from a hostile power, but all that hippie-era reactionary, university-liberal Our old folks were paranoid about the Commies! revisionism is a pathetically dismissive summation of the film's content and intent. Those who subscribe to that view are laboring with a paradigm that is way past its use-by date! Sorry, Baby-Boomers - you're wrong! Now go away and try to grow up so that you don't annoy your children and grandkids any more than you annoyed your parents. Earth Vs The Flying Saucers is one of the first intelligent cinematic considerations of what might be out there and what we might be challenged by. And that's its intent, by the way. The effects by Ray Harryhausen are, for its day, 1st class. The music, appropriately jarring and eerie. The script and acting are serviceable to its intent and its audience - the average popcorn eating, tax-paying American. If you expect this film to be some Spielberg critique of how rotten White Western culture is and how noble and ever-so-much-better anything NON White Western Christian male is, then... don't watch it. It'll just annoy you. "},{"Title":"The Science Fiction Movie Of The 50s","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadFilms are cultural artifacts of their zeitgeist. Look how alien this is to our reality. In Independence Day, even after half the world has been annihilated the effete, decadent president is still trying to communicate. This was made at the height of the Cold War, Dr. Marvin has to sneak out to try and even talk to them. From the moment they arrive, the government only focuses on destroying them. You can see the difference between ascendant and decadent cultures never so starkly delineated; Ascendent values unquestioned, faith unshakable, fights violently and to the death. Decadent; values rotted away, uncertain, no faith in anything, cowardly presents surrender and delay as progressive. The movie has effects that will stun you for the age of the film. It rivals the original War Of The Worlds for great effects for a very old movie. Even when the ships land, watch for the protective force field around the circumference of the saucer. These are temporal aliens also, quite in vogue today, notice, due to the literary audience, we do not have to suffer the same scenes over and over interminably as we do in the age of comic book movies. If the Edge of Tomorrow makers had released that movie back then people would have walked out. Intelligent, literary people simply get bored, believe it or not, watching the same scene ten or twelve times, imagine that?The film has a few cringe worthy scenes, when Dr. Marvin dons the helmet of one of the aliens, everyone in my living room died laughing. Take that off, Phallic Boy, yes be patient it is very old. The aliens are portrayed as mendacious, cruel and ruthless just like the Russian enemy they were stand ins for. Do not believe me? Watch how they take control of the general's brain and begin speaking with his voice. Get the picture? These were the reflections of the Red Menace taking control of brains and speaking with your voice. The other image is the rocket base which is painfully obviously an oil refinery. The means of destroying them is well written and not outside of the realm of the possible. This is the movie Tim Burton is paying homage to in Mars Attacks. I would have used Dakota Fanning's shrieking in the remake of The War Of The Worlds. Marlowe was an excellent actor seen in may Film Noirs. He and Taylor are quite competent and believable. The movie is the quintessential science fiction movie of the 1950s; you can see their ascendant values starkly contrasted to our extant decadent ones on display in Independence Day. They did not wait until half of the country was destroyed before attacking. Now you understand the core of decadence it is not progressive unless you mean progressing off the side of a steep cliff. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My sister took me to this movie in 1956 when I was 8. It shocked me. For two weeks I was afraid to go to sleep at night for fear of nightmares. Some years ago I bought a 16mm print and studied it. It has all the right elements for a nerdy kid with glasses Beautiful Joan Taylor and serious Hugh Marlowe work well together. The lonely laboratory at night is a wonderful location, frightening when attacked. Dr. Russell A. Marvin removing the helmet from the alien is particularly creepy. We know so much more now about outer space, so to appreciate this you have to suspend disbelief and travel back in time when comic books were 10¢. Soon after seeing this movie I was bitten by the movie bug which resulted in a lifelong passion for films and animation, which I have to credit to the intense effect that Earth Vs the Flying Saucers had on my young mind. I still watch this film several times a year and never get tired of seeing it. "}{"Title":"earth vs. the flying sauces","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" in the movie earth vs. the flying saucers, did anyone notice they have a flat screen TV inside the space ship? i was only 4 yrs. old when my mother took me to the show to see this movie. why do all space ships land in Washington? do the space people really expect to talk to the president? why do the earth people fire first and ask questions later? did anyone notice that the space aliens look like they have on boxing gloves? why would you put a space aliens protective piece on your head? what if he could not get it off? i wonder what an updated version be like? not as good as the original. that machine the earth people to bring down the flying saucers, maybe all cities that are plagued with flying saucers, should purchase them one. "},{"Title":"One of top 10 classic 50s sci-fi","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't let today's standards for big budget CGI and special effects jade you. Earth vs. Flying Saucers is great. Ray Harryhousen's stop-action saucers are still very cool and totally classic. They get so much screen time that they almost steal the show. Oh sure, the alien space suits are a bit lame, but look past that. Note that they're dark, stiff and faceless. No friendly ET here.Earth vs Flying Saucers belongs in the top 10 of 50s sci-fi for its bold directness and pace. Most 50s sci-fi movies were expressions of Cold War angst. Many 50s sci-fi movies portrayed a frighteningly powerful alien which we earthlings can't hope to stop, as analogy for the impending nuclear war we feared. In The Day the Earth Stood Still ('51) the alien was invincibly powerful, yet benevolent. War of the Worlds ('53) suggested frighteningly powerful hostile aliens, which we couldn't stop. (WE didn't win, the humble germ saved our collective butts.) The whole Godzilla series depict a huge destructive power which we ourselves awakened and could not stop.Earth vs Flying Saucers, however, reflected a lifting of the doom and gloom sentiments. Maybe we could fight back and win! One exchange between Dr. Marvin and a general summed it up. After hearing that the saucer men plan to descend upon Washington DC in a matter of days, a council of generals meets to discuss their plans. Dr. Marvin Then it's been decided that we'll fight? General When an armed and threatening power lands uninvited in our capital, we don't meet it with tea and cookies. The paralysis of fear (of nuclear war) was giving way to a defender's resolve.Along the course of the movie, the saucers attack and destroy some obviously logical targets, such as artillery or planes which are shooting at the saucers. In the massive climax battle scene, however, things are different. The saucers are a symbolic foe, after all, so symbolic targets are actually more appropriate. When the saucers are firing upon national monuments, they're symbolically attacking the essence of the American nation.Will American spunk be enough? Watch Earth vs Flying Saucers with a couple of the other 50s classics. Between the differences and similarities, you'll see why it's one of the 10 best sci-fi movies the 50s produced. "},{"Title":"Superb Sci-Fi Movie","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is one of the best of the 1950s Sci-Fi movies. It has a good cast, excellent(for their time)special effects and tight direction. Hugh Marlowe and Joan Taylor are scientists working on a project that sends satellites into space. Something or someone is shooting them down. A flying saucer lands and that's when the havoc starts. The film has some fun moments, especially when the government and scientists figure out a way to fight off the invasion. The aliens have these big,rounded helmets and smooth, metal-looking spacesuits. See what they look like after they've been killed! Nice stuff. This is one Sci-Fi film that you will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good representative of B-movie 50's sci-fi","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great example of 1950's sci-fi movies and the flying saucer scare craze that was sweeping the nation and of course parallels the cold war threat and the resilience and ingenuity of American science and military might. Retired Major Donald E. Keyhoe was the author of a series of non-fiction books of the era outlining his belief in the reality of flying saucers and this film draws from his book Flying Saucers From Outer Space. Veteran monster movie writer Curt Siodmak adapted a story based on the book for this film and veteran monster movie screenwriter George Worthing Yates wrote the screenplay. Special effects legend Ray Harryhausen supervised the effects and Josh Westmoreland, a sound veteran of westerns and monster movies, provided the sound. B-movie director Fred F. Sears and B-movie cinematographer Fred Jackman Jr. put it all together on the screen. In what would be a foreboding of things to come on 9/11 American monuments are under attack and destroyed. Aliens from a dying planet come to earth to claim it as their own but earth fights back. Hugh Marlow and Joan Taylor star. It's campy but it's still a good flick and a good representative of it's era and genre and I would give it an 8.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent B-movie and intro to '50s SF","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As has been pointed out by most reviewers on IMDb, this film has all the perceived elements of cold war-period American cinema. However, what also should be considered is the influence it has had on contemporary SF movies and TV.Hugh Marlowe, Joan Taylor and, especially, Morris Ankrum are well-known B-movie actors they appeared in everything from Westerns to SF, with lots of stops in between. Thus, this film (complete with all the other stalwarts of '50s and '60s Bs who appear therein) can be seen as a progenitor of later low-budget productions which rely on a cheap yet capable cast.At the time it was released (1956), Ray Harryhausen was proving his expertise with stop-motion special effects, later to be given much larger budgets in '60s colour productions. Gumby and similar TV items owe much to this man, as does Aardman Productions and, possibly, Dreamworks.It has already been indicated (by others) that Mars Attacks owes its saucers to this film. So, too, ID4 has a debt, as does Dr Who! (Specifically the outfits worn by the aliens - that leaden 'dome' on top of their environment suits belongs to a famous adversary of the good doctor - check out a couple of Tom Baker serials!) Be that as it may, Fred F. Sears does an acceptable job as director; Curt Siodmak supplies a clever screenplay based on Don Keyhoe's book (Keyhoe also wrote 'non-fiction' accounts of UFOs); and some of the dialogue is definitely quotable! IMDb has some ripper examples.Watch it and enjoy it. Strip some of our contemporary SF of CGI and they really do lack substance in comparison with this entertaining and funny movie. OK. You won't gasp and ooooh. If you have a love of '50s B-movies however, this one is a 'corker'! "},{"Title":"Not Cape Canaveral. . .Launch Site is in New Mexico","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Operation Skyhook's (an actual military operation, although the real one dealt with high altitude balloon research) location was at White Sands, New Mexico. Someone here mentioned the aliens blew up Cape Canaveral which may be a fun fantasy but the truth be its New Mexico.I've always liked this movie, maybe because there are so many flubs in it. The special effects are really great for the time period, when digital didn't exist and all they had were screen mattes and stop-action photography.I really get a kick out of the scene where they've just abandoned their laboratory with the new fangled sound weapon. They are running through the woods, in front of a rear projected screen to provide a sense of movement, but they are running at the wrong pace in reference to the projected image. "},{"Title":"Good, representative 1950s alien invasion movie.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a pre-teen during much of the 1950s and remember the general thrust of the 1950s alien movies and TV shows. This was the period in history when rocket technology was advancing and space exploration was being contemplated. Along with that came much preoccupation with aliens visiting Earth, and usually as a threat, and almost always in some type of flying saucer. In this movie people traveling along the roadways in their cars began noticing these strange flying saucers overhead at times. One of them was Dr. Russell A. Marvin (Hugh Marlowe) and his pretty new wife, Carol (Joan Taylor). The scientists and the aliens figure out a way to communicate, and we learn that they need to find a new home, since their planetary system has been destroyed. They now had flying saucers in the air all over the world, and were awaiting the exact location for landing and settling. Their plan was to take over the whole world, but they didn't want to destroy it, they wanted us Earthlings to give it up peacefully.SPOILERS. The flying saucers seemed invulnerable. Ammunition just bounced off them, while their beams could literally vaporize people or objects. However, the scientists discover that very powerful ultrasound could disorient their flying stability, causing them to crash. A big battle ensued in the Washington, DC area, and one by one the flying saucers were targeted and dropped. But, as they went out of control and crashed, they ended up destroying many National buildings and monuments. However, eventually the Earth was saved from these particular invaders. "},{"Title":"People of Earth, Attention! .... Look to your sun for a warning!","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Others have covered the plot in detail; I will share some of my memories and impressions.Even as a school kid, from 1956 on I was well aware of the plans by US and USSR to launch satellites as part of International Geophysical Year IGY 1957-1958 and also aware of the Project Blue Book on UFOs (as well as reading Major Keyhoe in my dad's copies of True magazine).When mom and dad took me and my brother Jeff to Highway 81 Drive-In to see this movie, I was sort of prepared. But not quite. This movie made a big impression on me as a kid and was the second Harryhausen movie I saw after It Came From Beneath the Sea. I began looking for his name on movie posters to choose movies.The ball lightning-like Foo fighters were interesting and tied into the UFO hoopla of the 1950s (having them turn out to be alien spy drones was a nice touch).After the sparse saucer effects of movies like Invaders from Mars, Harryhausen's putting his saucers front and center in detail with lotsa screen time for his stars (the saucers) was a welcome change (most other 1950s movies had a few seconds of good special effects as an establishing shot with a sound effect or musical cue, after that relying on the cue to imply or suggest the danger).The faceless, handless spacesuits of the aliens were spooky. The aliens triggering solar flares to disrupt weather and communications created an atmosphere of helplessness, giving urgency to the search for a counter-weapon.What cre-e-eped me out most of all was when captive General Hanley's brain was scanned for the Infinitely Indexed Memory Bank (we later see him as a mindless zombie and after that, the aliens unceremoniously drop him and another captive into a forest fire; these were not your friendly ETs).The Operation Skyhook in the movie is based on Project Orbiter and Project Vanguard which started in 1954 and 1955, timed to put a satellite in orbit for the IGY 1957.The saucer design, it turns out, was based on several independent descriptions given to Maj Keyhoe of a disc shaped craft with a stationary central cabin and a spinning outer disk with vanes or slots. This design was copied by Tim Burton's Mars Attacks! as homage to Harryhausen.The 56 days to develop a new secret weapon to counter the aliens has been cited as an unlikely plot device. After this movie was released, the first attempt to put a satellite into orbit with a Viking rocket, Navy Project Vanguard, blew up on the launch pad 6 Dec 1957 (erasing the memory that the first 12 Viking test flights had been successful). After that the Army Explorer was rushed into orbit 31 Jan 1958, about 56 days later. Sometimes great things can be accomplished in a crush situation.Some have complained that when the alien saucer landed at Operation Skyhook, the military opened fire before being certain what the aliens' intentions were. However, sensitive military installations are ringed by fences with signs that trespassers may be subject to deadly force; after all, the aliens flew over the gate station without getting proper passes, what did they expect? (Just kidding). In their defense, it might be pointed out that their message demanding a meeting with Dr. Marvin was recorded too fast to be understood until after the landing; but even there, their intent was to demand unconditional surrender or else.Even though Harryhausen considered this the least of all his movies, I consider it one of my all time (nostalgic) favorites. The drive-in, mom, dad and brother Jeff are gone, but I have the memories of sharing this movie with them. "},{"Title":"Plan 9, done right...","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the moment the extraterrestrials buzz newlyweds Hugh Marlowe and Joan Taylor (the Barney and Betty Hill of their generation), Ray Harryhausen's Dynamation helps make EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS (an unofficial version of the H.G. Wells classic, WAR OF THE WORLDS) one of the better UFOs-out-to-get-us entries. These lumbering, warbly-voiced Gort wannabes aren't messing around they skeet shoot satellites at their leisure, win dogfights with Earth aircraft, and use their brain-drain x-rays to get the info they need from the hapless humans in an impressive series of sequences that Ed Wood no doubt envied (sequences in which Real World newsreel footage is expertly interwoven with some great fx). The spinning saucer fx and the sonic solution were both impressive enough to influence Tim Burton when he made MARS ATTACKS! "},{"Title":"The Grandaddy of All Alien Invasion Films","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" While originally a B movie, Earth vs. the Flying Saucers has achieved almost iconic status as the archetypal film about an invasion from outer space.Hugh Marlowe plays scientist Russell Marvin who experiments with space probes, which keep disappearing without a trace. Joan Taylor is his faithful wife Mrs. Marvin, and Morris Ankrum plays (what else?) an army general (Gen. Hanley) who happens to be Taylor's father. It turns out that the probes are actually being destroyed by hostile aliens, who come to earth and kidnap Marvin, his wife, and Gen. Hanley. While on the alien ship, the condescending aliens tell the pitiful earthlings that earth will be invaded and mankind had better capitulate&#151;or be destroyed. Marvin and other scientists race against the clock to devise a ray gun. The weapon shoots down the saucers, which crash spectacularly into various Washington, D.C. landmarks.The focus of almost all attention is appropriately on Ray Harryhausen's spectacular special effects. The saucers, while not up to today's standards, were fantastically done given the standards of 1956. The final destruction of Washington's grandest buildings is still awe-inspiring, when you consider Harryhausen's primitive tools of 50 years ago. The cast is pretty good too&#151;Marlowe, who gave wooden performances in most of his other movies, is very sincere and dedicated, as is his wife, played by Joan Taylor. In the 1950s, women were often given wide-eyed, screaming, hysterical parts to play, but here Taylor is thoughtful and dedicated to her husband and father. Ankrum is solid as usual, and seems born to play an army officer.While not up to the technical standards of today's special effects extravaganzas, Earth vs. the Flying Saucers will always be fresh and involving. Its good acting, very literate story, and the amazing special effects will never go out of style&#133;and just watch out for the infinitely indexed memory bank&#151;it'll wipe out your brain! "}{"Title":"A Brilliant film fr the spotter!","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this film as a sprog and still do. Forget the bad acting, the bad directing and the docu-drama approach. Look for the footage of the aeroplanes, ships, rockets and cars The beginning has a lovely shot of a Republic F-84C Thunderjet, but we soon see that 'Project Skyhook' is a plan to launch 12 mini-satellites. Skyhook was a real secret project, a US Navy program of the late 1940s to develop giant balloons for carrying out photo-reconnaissance over the Soviet Union. Launched partially inflated, Skyhooks expanded as they rose until they reached their maximum size of up to 600 ft. tall and 100 ft. in diameter at an altitude of 60,000 ft. Almost certainly, they were behind many UFO sightings in post-War years. (www.daviddarling.info)The battle-ship that exploded was the SMS Blücher. On 24 January 1915 Blücher was part of the German squadron commanded by Vice Admiral Franz Hipper that was surprised by a superior British force of five battlecruisers, under Vice Admiral David Beatty on HMS Lion, at the Battle of Dogger Bank. Due to a misunderstanding of Beatty's orders, the British ships concentrated their fire on Blücher, the slowest and rearmost ship of the retreating German line of battle. At 1130 a.m. Blücher suffered a major hit which caused her speed to drop to 17 knots. To save the rest of his squadron in the face of superior force, Hipper had no choice but to abandon Blücher. She was bombarded by heavy fire from four of the five battlecruisers and finally sunk at 1313 p.m. by torpedoes. 792 of her crew went down with her. 260 were rescued by Beatty's ships. (www.answers.com - SMS Blücher)The big steam engine is either a Challenger Class 4-6-6-4 of the Northern Pacfic Railroad of 1936 or a Big Boy 4-8-8-4 of the Union Pacific Railroad of 1941. What ever, impressive nonethelessThere's some nice shots of Nike-Ajax, Talos(?) and Aerobee-Hi rockets launching.Look out for the Austin-Healy sports car in the car park (parking lot)Then there's the lovely American 1950's cars and lorries...Look, I could go on, so just watch the film and look for all that classic metal!! "},{"Title":"A saucer full of thrills,dazzling fx and, yes, even food for thought.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Craggy Morris Ankrum is just one of a number of familiar faces that populate the still engrossing after all these years Earth vs the flying saucers. The story concerns a rocket scientist (Hugh Marlowe) and his wife (Joan Taylor) who are contacted by aliens from the great beyond. The aliens just want to be friends,they say.Yeah, right. Before long it becomes apparent that just ain't so. Wanton destruction ensues. On the surface, it sounds like the plot of countless other B pictures from the 1950s, yet Earth vs the flying saucers manages to rise above the clutter. Credit Ray Harryhausen's dazzling special effects for much of the film's appeal; the scenes of the saucers zipping through the atmosphere still look great. The acting is uniformly competent and perhaps most telling-understated. There are no hysterical confrontations or tear up the scenery performances. Instead, Earth vs the flying saucers grabs hold from the beginning and never lets go by spinning a tale...and telling it well. "},{"Title":"A great postwar sci-fi epic","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing this film I can really understand why it is held in high regard. Compared to films nowadays it is very restrained and non-offensive. It is refreshing to have a science-fiction plot filled with storyline instead of sex and innuendo. Further, the aliens in the story are merely a threat that has to be overcome, and aren't particularly vicious or needlessly grotesque. The special effects and scenery shots are quite attractive for the time.The optimism at the end of the movie (akin to that generation) is also refreshing as it has none of the negativity adopted by the lost generation of the 1960s. The story reflects the struggles that I imagine people in the 1940s had to live through, although in a very indirect manner. The special effects in gray scale are very kitchy and will be enjoyed by all.I have to admit that it is somewhat amusing to see a flying saucer crash into the Potomac river. There is a more than a just bit of intentional humor in this story. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the fifties SF","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are only a few standouts in the crop of sci-fi movies, among them the original The Thing, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Forbidden Planet, Godzilla, and Earth vs the Flying Saucers. There's not a lot of philosophizing in this one, just a set of aliens as bad and as weird as they come.With special effects by Ray Harryhausen that still look pretty good today, and a simple but effective and consistent storyline, it didn't get much better than this. Funny how a gazillion dollar budget and all star cast for Independence Day didn't work as well as this black and white B movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Special Effects genius Ray Harryhausen puts together one of the BEST 1950's science fiction movies ever! Earth Vs. The Flying Saucers deals with invaders from another world whose planet is dying and need a new place to thrive...their target...Earth!Jaw dropping special effects fill the screen as the flying saucers paste Washington D.C. with their deadly weapons and crash into National Monuments. Can anyone or anything stop these invaders from space? The movie stars Hugh Marlowe who would also appear in The Day The Earth Stood Still  "},{"Title":"One of the Classics of the Golden Age","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this does not have the stature of The Day the Earth Stood Still or Forbidden Planet, this film is still a classic.  It is so stereotypical of the cold war alien paranoia films that I use it as the example in my film class.  It is obviously the basis for films that came later, such as Independence Day and Mars Attacks.  Any S/F film library is incomplete without this fine film. "},{"Title":"Simple-minded Entertaining 1950s SF.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" See, there are these fragile creatures dressed up in ridiculous dark suits. The bulbous helmets amplify all the incoming sensations because the aliens themselves are wusses and can't make it on their own. The suits have long arms with balls on the ends instead of hands and these balls shoot out white streams that melt soldiers. But the suits don't protect the things inside them because they can be shot dead with an ordinary bullet. At another point in the film, though, the scientists explain that they've examined the helmets and have subjected them to every form of physical insult and it turns out they are indestructible. This may strike some viewers as a little odd since, when Hugh Marlowe is trying a helmet on, we can clearly see from its cracks and ragged edges that it is made out of the same material as an egg carton. I am working on an infinitely indexed memory bank that will explain why the helmets should be so durable and the suits so eminently puncturable.But never mind all that. Joan Taylor made two SF movies in the 1950s that were archetypal and this is one of them. She's certainly an attractive woman, no worse an actress than dozens of others on screen at the time, or now for that matter. The contemporary fashions don't do much for her. I'm certainly glad that women no longer wear girdles (or foundation garments or whatever they were called). I think she may have had dance training and it shows. Her figure is awe inspiring.Hugh Marlowe. Well, he had one role in which he was required to do more than an animatronic figure at Disneyland -- All About Eve -- and he handled it rather well. In this film he is not required to do more than an animatronic figure at Disneyland and he handles it well. The other actors are less animated. One of the supports -- Alan Reynolds? The guy who plays the Major who gets caught up in the story? The poor guy is a positive embarrassment with his penciled mustache and nonplussed expression and his pursed lips. I mean, he can't even stand still in the background and convince us that he's anything other than a Hollywood second-rate player.A few of the SF movies of the time -- The Day the Earth Stood Still or The Incredible Shrinking Man -- seemed to want to teach us something, to make us think. No problem with that in Earth Vs. the Flying Saucers. The first time they land on earth and one of those men in the ridiculous suits gets out of the saucer, they get pounded with rounds from a dual 40 mm. cannon mount. None of this take-me-to-you-leader stuff here. We know how to deal with these undocumented aliens. We kill them, although we don't know who or what they are, or why they're here.There's a refreshing innocence about this movie. It was made in 1956, during the Eisenhower years. We had the Free World and the Communist World, and we were the leaders of the Free World. We could trust the US government to do everything right. The threats were all external, both in real life and in our fantasies. Somewhere along the time line all of that changed. There was Viet Nam and there was Woodward and Bernstein and then Iraq and -- well, it makes one long for the days when we had to keep watching the skies for enemies. You know, maybe this movie has a lesson to teach after all. "},{"Title":"Earth vs. the Flying Saucers","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After his rockets (meant for exploration in space) are shot down (Operation Sky Hook) and a flying saucer flies over his car while on the way to the factory/facility launching them, scientist, Russell Marvin (Hugh Marlowe) is actually contacted by an alien race escaping a solar system that disintegrated. While recording data regarding his rocket program onto audio tapes, the saucer actually communicates to Marvin about a meeting between their race and his own at Sky Hook, but their dialogue is little more than gibberish until the tapes are slowed down (due to slow battery death). Because of not being able to understand the dialogue, Sky Hook security fires upon the flying saucer that appears, with return retaliation resulting in a laser that obliterates them. Sky Hook also is lasered into incapacitation. Later, Marvin is able to communicate with the race (his father-in-law, General John Hanley (Morris Ankrum) is taken prisoner, with his brain raped of all knowledge it entailed), and a meeting arranged (which will include his secretary/wife (Joan Taylor), a military colleague (Donald Curtis), and a cop who follow behind him, hoping to stop him) who want him to get with all the world's leaders in order to let them understand why they are hovering all over the planet earth. With a timetable, Marvin prepares an interference device, hoping that if they need to use a weapon, it will be one that can incapacitate the race's saucers. When spying machines are noticed in the building, studying Marvin and his team's work, this sets off a chain of events that could be irreparable, as a flying saucer overhead attacks them. A stern warning to all races that the aliens would cause atmospheric disturbances through the disruption of the sun, and in doing so, weather misbehaviors wreak havoc on the planet. Can Marvin and his scientific/military team design devices that can stop them before total takeover or annihilation? Simply plotted (but not dumb which is always nice) sci-fi watch the skies B-movie is one of the best of its kind thanks to superior Ray Harryhausen special effects. The saucers are iconically designed, and the movements of them are a thing of beauty, as are the little satellite-formed lasers that emit a powerful charge that explode or disintegrate. The descent upon Washington, and the destruction caused by the alien saucers and the interference devices created by Marvin and his team which down them, is pure razzle-dazzle movie magic. This is often mentioned in the same breath at War of the Worlds and The Day the Earth Stood Still&#x85;and should be. Although this eventually takes the familiar route of stop them before they destroy us, there were signs in the beginning that the aliens might want peaceful co-existence (even if they use violence and drain brain knowledge without much thought of what these acts mean in terms of their inhumanity (although us shooting at them as soon as they land on Sky Hook could be viewed the same)) but once a destroyer is wiped out, planes are destroyed, and the wilderness and secret interference machine facility are leveled, the repercussions lead to all out war. While the plotting looks at the finale as a means to an end, the Harryhausen work sufficiently closes the film with quite the wow. There's the typical earnestness in the performances (these guys were professionals who realized how Hollywood generally snarled in snobbish fashion at these movies but all the same they were serious in their acting), and the characters are mostly suits and military, with scientists, no surprise, turning out to be the ultimate heroes. "},{"Title":"Earth Vs. The Flying Saucers (Fred F. Sears, 1956) ***","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Above-average sci-fi which I had missed on its solitary TV broadcast years ago and one that I had been eyeing as a possible DVD purchase for what seems like forever; I'm overjoyed, therefore, that I managed to get my hands on it at long last.The film is basically an amalgam of THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL (1951) &#150; with Hugh Marlowe convincingly making the leap from despicable villain to intelligent hero here &#150; and WAR OF THE WORLDS (1953) even if its outlook is a naïve one (while also displaying something of an obsession with technology) and the plot rather contrived, it is nonetheless generally absorbing and tremendously entertaining along the way. The special effects (by Ray Harryhausen) must have looked spectacular back then but come off as pretty shaky nowadays; still, this takes nothing away from his achievement and doesn't affect one's enjoyment &#150; or involvement &#150; in the film in any way (the design of the aliens' metallic suits and the briefly glimpsed creatures themselves is also quite impressive).This is actually the first black-and-white Harryhausen film I've watched, and also the only one which doesn't have to do with prehistoric or mythological monsters of some kind; as such, it's not as juvenile as his other work and makes me look forward to the effects wizard's other sci-fi outings &#150; IT CAME FROM BENEATH THE SEA (1955), TWENTY MILLION MILES TO EARTH (1957) and FIRST MEN IN THE MOON (1964). The Columbia DVD includes, among other things, an engaging 9-minute featurette on the making of EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS where Harryhausen is interviewed by genre enthusiast Joe Dante (who recalls first watching the film on a double-bill with the obscure THE 27TH DAY 1956). "},{"Title":"One of my favorite 50's Sci-Fi films.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a kid I just loved this movie and it has actually stood the test of time fairly well. Better than most of its genre. The saucer effects by Ray Harryhausen are top notch and were not really surpassed until the digital age. We are also not subject to the thinly veiled aliens are really communists. As much as I hate to say it this was a thinking mans saucer film. Time has not been kind to all of the film and that has given it some charm of its own. The scene with the universal translator, which was a very, very large mechanical computer with lots of rotating gears and a pen that writes in cursive are all but laughable these days but must of seemed very high tech at the time. Also minus the flying saucers we nearly have all the power that the aliens had in this film in one form or another. Right down to the enhanced vision and hearing, laser and sound weapons and various other devices. Another plus of the film, much like independence day decades later is that the earth takes a beating before the aliens are shown the door. We even see people crushed under the collapsing Washington monument. Good Stuff! Do catch the film if you have never seen it before. It has inspired many, many directors and producers. Tim Burton pretty much copied the saucers for his film Mars Attacks and he borrowed a whole lot more! It is worth it just to see how it influenced all these people, plus it is a pretty good, not very preachy Sci-fi film from the 50's and that is rare! "}{"Title":"Scheduled For Fifteen Rounds","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Some Spoilers) One of the best Sci-Fi movies coming out of post WWII Hollywood Earth vs. the Flfying Saucers still holds up today just like it did back in 1956 some fifty years after it was released. Traveling vast distances in space a fleet of alien spaceships reach earth and plan to take over the planet but want to avoid any conflict with earths inhabitants in order not to destroy it.With their own planet slowly dying the earth is the perfect place for the aliens to live in and they plan to first use persuasion not force but force if necessary if the earthlings dare to resist them. Trying to get in touch with one of the brightest of those on earth to get his government, the US, as well as the rest of the world community of nations to give up peacefully the aliens chose the brilliant Dr. Russell Marvin,Hugh Marlowe, as the person to give their message to. It later turns out that Dr. Marvin isn't as bright as the aliens at first thought that he was. Dr. Marvin couldn't figure out that they were trying to contact him even when their space-craft , that was the size of a battleship, was practically on top of his car as he and his newlywed bride Carol, Joan Taylor, were driving in the wide-open California Desert. Marvin finally gets the message from a audio tape-recording that Carol made, by accident, of he incident with the flying saucer. Trying to get in touch with the earth's governments the aliens who even after destroying the secret US military installation Skyhook, that Dr. Marvin was in charge off,still couldn't convince the US government, and Dr. Marvin, that the earth was under attack from aliens from outer space. Those in charge thought that it, the Skyhook disaster, was some kind of unexplained phenomena. Dr. Marvin finally realizing at last what was going on, after about a half dozen alien attempts to get his attention, has a secret meeting arranged with the aliens at night by the seashore off Chesapeake Bay. The alien take Dr. Marvin and is wife Carol US Army Maj. Huglin, Donald Curtis as well as motorcycle cop Larry Blake, who just happened to tag along, in their space-craft and give a message to bring back to their leaders Surrender or Die. On the space-craft the earth visitors hear and finally meet Carol's father Brig. Gen. John Hanley, Morris Ankrum,who the aliens captured during their attack on Skyhook. It turned out that Gen. Hanley had been lobotomized by the aliens with his brain being stored in the flying saucer as an information data-bank. Hanley just walks around aimlessly with a brainless and zombie-like stare and later together with highway policeman Blake, who also was lobotomized by the aliens, is thrown out the space-craft in mid-flight as if they were yesterday's garbage.Making their stand in the US capital, Washingtn D.C, against the fleet of alien flying saucers the US military, with the help of Dr. Marvin,found the aliens weak-point. With the use of ultra-high frequency sounds the US military knocked out the entire alien fleet of flying saucers but only after the city of Washington was destroyed by them. One of special-effect expert Ray Harryhausens best work with the footage of the movie used in dozens of Sci-fi films all throughout the 1950's and 60's. Remade in 1996 as Inependance Day but the original is still far better even though it didn't have the spectacular computer generated special effects that it's remake had. "},{"Title":"Sensational Special Effects In An Ordinary Film","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even as a long-time horror and sci-fi fan, I have never been overly pleased with animation effects. I acknowledge Ray Harryhausen as a legend and a genius, but most of his creatures move too un-naturally for my taste. However, his work here on EARTH VS THE FLYING SAUCERS is sheer BRILLIANCE. The flying saucers look pretty damned real even today, and must have been astonishing to any lucky child of the 1950s who was priveleged enough to see it on the big screen in their youth.Unlike modern movie nonsense (like MARS ATTACKS, and INDEPENDENCE DAY) the aliens are here for one reason and one reason only not to make you laugh, but TO F**K YOU UP! Unfortunately, aside from Morris Ankrum, I don't care for the cast. I would have preferred a Richard Carlson or Richard Denning in the lead role, and maybe a Faith Domergue or Mara Corday as the girl.I hate to sound like a jaded youth of today (which I'm thankfully not), but when the exciting saucers and aliens aren't onscreen the film is ordinary and slack.   "},{"Title":"Passable little sci-fi B-movie.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The special-effects are clearly above-average for this type of film. The flying saucers do wobble like Ed Wood's but they do so because they are being attacked. The dialog is boring; neither good enough to be interesting nor bad enough to be very funny. I love the way the U.S. immediately starts shooting at the aliens, only moments after their first landing; the implication that Americans (or Earthlings) would just shoot at aliens without thought or a reason is quite absurd - again the tired old cliché of the dumb inhumane government without an inkling of diplomatic caution or common sense. Another amusing thing is how the flying saucers, at the end of the film, always manage to fall on top of or into major/important buildings whenever they were being successfully targeted. The aliens have a rather silly walk. "},{"Title":"Very good Fifties Alien Invasion Flick","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even Better if you've NEVER seen it in Color. The script, the action, the characters are all from the Fifties-- but still watchable, even NOW, as a Saturday night flick.Best to watch with friends so you can tear it to pieces together!If anything, the aliens in TODAY'S films do a lot better job of flying than these do. When I first saw this in the late Sixties (In Black & White)-- I was wowed and awed. NOW-- I keep asking Are those aliens on Crack or something? Don't they know that drugs and piloting don't mix? Take away that AstroLicense!!! "},{"Title":"When an armed and threatening power lands uninvited in our capitol, we don't meet him with tea and cookies. Alright but nothing special.","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers starts as reported sights of U.F.O.'s have become common place, Dr. Russell A. Marvin (Hugh Marlowe) is sceptical but while driving with his wife Carol (Joan Taylor) they too see a flying saucer in the sky. The next day & Marvin is overseeing the launch of a space rocket when the flying saucer returns & lands, being a Government facility an attack on the alien craft is ordered. Met with hostility the flying saucer blows some things up & disappears back into space. Dr. Marvin soon realises that the aliens inside the flying saucer wanted to meet with him & were in fact trying to send him a message when he first saw them. The aliens quickly declare their intention to rule Earth & make it their own, scientists like Marvin & the army work together to try & come up with a way to defeat the technologically more advance alien creatures before they destroy us...Directed Fred F. Sears Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is a sort of cross between War of the Worlds (1953) with it's invading alien race & The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) in that the aliens were initially friendly but due to man's warmongering tactics they just decided to wipe us all out. The script by George Worthing Yates & Bernard Gordon was inspired by the book 'Flying Saucers from Outer Space' by Donald E. Keyhoe (who became the director of The National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) set up by the US Government to examine U.F.O. sightings) & one has to say that when the flying saucers are on screen blowing famous Washington landmarks up it's good 50's sci-fi fun but the rest of the time with Dr. Marvin, various politicians & army officials is pretty dull & hard going. At just over 80 minutes at least it's short & moves along at a decent pace but I was never really drawn into the story, it never really gripped me & Earth vs. the Flying Saucers feels like a forgettable Saturday afternoon matinée that passes the time harmlessly enough but just lacks a certain something. The character's are hard to care about, the dialogue is awkward & forced while you never feel the whole world is at threat since the film almost exclusively follows Dr. Marvin who single handedly saves the Earth.Director Sears does alright but the direction is stiff & a lot of the film feels very theatrical & forced. The good news is that Ray Harryhausen's special effects are pretty impressive even today, there are some nice scenes including a shot of a flying saucer crashing through the window of a train station & one crashing into a lake. Unfortunately Harryhausen is best know for his wonderful stop-motion animated monsters from films like Sinbad & sadly there aren't any monsters here, there's a shot of a dead alien but no huge monsters I'm afraid. Shots of flying saucers in the sky does become a little tiring after a while & they are relatively bland looking, saucer by name saucer by nature.Technically the film is alright, it's functional & some of the special effects are pretty good but when compared to something like War of the Worlds it comes a distant second. The acting is pretty poor, everyone is very stiff & deliberate.Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is a harmless enough way to pass 80 odd minutes but there's nothing deep or meaningful here & nothing we haven't seen dozens of times before or since. Sc-fi lovers should lap it up, more casual viewers may not be so impressed. Available in both original black and white & re-colourised versions. "},{"Title":"Impossible to hate (spoilers)","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As the title of this movie will tell you this is one of those great ol' 50's sci-fi/space invader flicks. And you know you hit a good one when within the first minute the voice-over (who keeps on talking in past-time) says that 'all military installations are to fire on sight at any flying objects not identifiable'.Now, what do these martians (are whatever) want? Erm... good one. They want to take over the world, but in an orderly way, because they don't want to raise panic. But in the end of the movie they apparently changed their minds, as this is just what they do by creating explosions on the sun. Oh well, never mind.The 'plan de campagne' they take is one which becomes well-known all world leaders are supposed to meet in Washington. Aliens took similar actions in 'The Brain From Planet Arous', and, of course, 'The Day The Earth Stood Still'. It's just what aliens do I suppose... Another familiar thing when these aliens fire, they apparently know how to let their enemies disappear like they were never there... they must have learned that technique from those horrid monsters in 'The War Of The Worlds'...But men fights back and won't be enslaved by these aliens! In the center is doctor Marvin, who apparently is the leading scientist in rocketry (AND pushes the buttons to send yet another satelite into space) and his wife. One day, oh wait let me refrase that, the day they get married, they see an UFO hover above their car. I love it that when this huge thing finally disappears, his wife asks 'was that a flying saucer?'.At the end, mankind and alien do battle in the streets of Washington, with some exciting scenes including the destruction of the Capitol building and the Washington Monument. But thank God man made some sort of electronic device that makes these saucers crash. It's got something to do with magnetism I think...Maybe I sound a bit too cynical. After all, I had a great time. The effects were great and the story entertaining, and the pace was kept high. Plus it's hard to really hate those wacky '50 sci-fi movies, whether they're involving aliens, monsters, or Bela Lugosi.On the whole 5/10. "},{"Title":"No gun in the world can shoot that high!","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens in flying saucers have been shooting down rockets as fast as human scientists can send them up. But since people aren't getting the message, the aliens come to Earth and kill everyone at a military base. They contact one scientist (Hugh Marlowe) and tell him to set up a meeting with the world's leaders in 56 days to arrange surrender of the Earth to the alien invaders. With a deadline looming, the scientist works on building a weapon to stop the flying saucers.Great sci-fi movie directed by Fred F. Sears and featuring superlative Ray Harryhausen stop-motion effects. The special effects are really the star of this. The way the saucers look and move is pretty impressive. The aliens themselves are leathery-faced creatures hidden behind cool-looking robotic shells. The action sequences where the saucers attack Washington D.C. are a large part of what makes this movie a genre classic. Even the stock footage used is done so in an effective and ingenious way. Hugh Marlowe is the hero of the piece and Joan Taylor is his helpful wife. Morris Ankrum has a good part as the Army general the aliens take under their control. Ankrum had a face that was made for black & white movies and director Sears makes great use of it in some creepy scenes inside the saucer. It's a fun movie from the defining decade for sci-fi films. Many modern viewers won't give it a fair shot, unfortunately, but it's a must-see for all fans of classic sci-fi and Ray Harryhausen effects. "},{"Title":"High Flying Sci-Fi Fun, 1950's Style","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Blast off into orbit with this classic Sci-Fi Alien-Invasion Flick, featuring some truly remarkable flying saucer effects courtesy of Ray Harryhausen.EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS pits puny, little earthlings against mighty alien humanoids in a violent battle for Earth's survival.When the robot-like aliens arrive at a U.S. Army base in search of help for their dying planet, they attempt to make friendly contact with scientist Dr. Russ Marvin. But the military gets into the act and greets their fleet of saucers with non-stop gunfire, and so, the aliens are automatically forced to retaliate.Can Dr. Marvin invent the ultimate weapon in order to counter their terrible attack of mass destruction and save the human race in this deadly game of beat-the-clock? Well, buckle up and hold onto your seats, space fans, 'cause you're in for an intergalactic joyride of pure Sci-Fi/Fantasy fun, 1950s-style! Shot mainly on location in Washington, DC, this picture would be best described as being a cross between Independence Day and Mars Attacks! (on a considerably smaller scale, of course). It's quite easy to imagine both Directors Emmerich and Burton being inspired by this film for their respective pictures. "},{"Title":"Watch the Skies","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers(1956) is one of those 1950's Sci-Fi movies that seems a bit hokey by today's standards, but yet still inspires the imagination. The movie starts out with two recently married scientists, Dr. Russell and Carol Marvin (played by Hugh Marlowe and Joan Taylor) on their way to see Carol's father, the general, when a flying saucer comes out of no where and hovers over them. Naturally, our heroes our terrified and eventually, the saucer flies off. They soon learn that their encounter with the saucer was no accident, as we learn that an advanced race of aliens are looking for a new place to stay, and what do you know, Earth looks pretty good. The thing that really makes this movie what it is, is the work of Ray Harryhausen. The stop motion animation master works his magic into the story, making you believe that aliens really are invading Washington, despite the hokeyness of the movie. As a kid, I remember play acting, imagining that the saucers were really coming to get me. You can also be sure that this movie inspired the makers of Indpendence Day and Mars Attacks, due to the similarities in story and design. All in all, this is a great sci-fi film, as well as a great Ray Harryhausen movie. Check it out sometime, and remember to watch the skies. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Despite Hugh Marlowe","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" American scientists must figure out a way to destroy invasion from a dying planet.There were basically two kinds of sci-fi movies in the 1950's&#x97;the serious and the tongue- in-cheek. Roger Corman specialized in the latter, with his rubber costumes that turned people into hideous critters, and we all got a good laugh at the cheap effects and wild stories. Then there's the other kind that depended on believable plots and solid effects. This movie belongs in the serious category, and while the two leads are dull enough not to interfere with the action, the saucer effects remain impressive, even for our digital era. Oddly, however, the process shots of the actors riding or running are almost laughably bad-- catch the three leads jogging in place before a moving projection screen near the movie's end. Go figure, given the excellence of the more difficult effects.A lot of national landmarks take an impressive beating, but note for all the destruction, how few people actually die. Then too, I wonder about super space travelers whose soldiers move with all the speed of crippled snails. All in all, the movie's decent 50's sci-fi. It may not reach the first rank, but does remain a tribute to Ray Harryhausen's special effects artistry. "}{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen's special effects help enormously...","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" EARTH VS. FLYING SAUCERS is a neat sci-fi film which obviously shows its '50s origins, the kind of thriller that was much in demand during all the stories in the tabloids about flying saucers and UFOs, not to mention the craze for anything involving aliens from outer space.HUGH MARLOWE plays the hero here in a straightforward way, earnestly trying to solve the riddle behind his rocket ships being shot down by flying saucers that intend to take over the planet, starting with Washington, D.C. JOAN TAYLOR makes little impression as his wife, but nobody in the cast really has a chance against the Ray Harryhausen special effects that steal the show. As Maltin points out Solid Ray Harryhausen special effects make this a winner that belies its B origins nearly every step of the way.A forerunner of all the big sci-fi dramas that came along much later on (like Independence Day) with far more superior CGI effects. It's told with a terse narration by Paul Frees and runs only an hour and twenty-two minutes, a briskly told tale that merits watching from any true sci-fi fan. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of its time.","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth Vs the Flying Saucers, at first, seems humorous to the modern eye. However stepping back to the 50s, and taking into account the technology of the time, it is easy to see that this movie was truly revolutionary in its hey day.Ray Harryhausen's special effects add an unmatched edge to the script. The aliens, despite resembling aluminium postboxes, evoked the feeling of the 'unknown' which related to the fears of infiltration from foreign armies that audiences of the time were familiar with.The acting is, unfortunately, mediocre. This made what could have been a spectacular movie, just a good movie. However overall, the movie did go beyond what could have been expected for a sci-fi movie of its era. "},{"Title":"Superb special effects in a great sci-fi movie.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is undoubtedly one of the best 50's films dealing with aliens attacking Earth. What makes it so great is the black and white photography, the good performances, and the excellent special effects. For a film from the period, the effects can be considered top-notch, proving you don't need to computer animate everything. Well worth the rent. "},{"Title":"Saucers with flair","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ray Harryhausen's effects are what made this movie worth viewing. Like his phenomenal work in King Kong, the effects are not entirely realistic, but have a personality and craftsmanship that can only come from his diligent and skillful work. "},{"Title":"1st in a Great Series of films","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Earth vs The Flying Saucers is chronological 1st movie, in a series of movies all with the same underlying theme featuring the earth under attack from aliens who want to conquer us. The original film is in b&w, to which I will address my comments.   when the movie begins we are treated to various scenes of flying saucers around the globe, While good voice narration covers the action. We are then introduced to Our intrepid hero Dr. Russell A. Marvin, The Head of the United States fledgling space program Operation Skyhook. A chance encounter with a flying saucer, leaves him & his newly wed bride bewildered & stunned. The fact that Dr. Marvin is a scientist of the 1st rank leaves no doubt that what he & his wife saw was real, and not be explained away as weather balloons or figments of the imagination. Later in the film the reason for this 1st contact is explained and needless to say before that explanation, the aliens will have demonstrated a propensity for destruction, as evidenced by the destruction at Project Skyhook. Veteran character actor Morris Ankrum(Gen. Hanley) appears in this film 1st- to prevent the launching of rocket #11(in a series of 12), and report on the fates of the first 10 rockets. 2ndly he's there to witness the destruction of project skyhook and subsequently be taken prisoner by the aliens. Dr. Marvin & his wife are rescued and taken to Washington D.C. to give explanations to what happened at the project. The Aliens intervene again to make worldwide pronouncements, and around the world, decisions are being made to fight the impending invasion. The means of fighting the aliens superior firepower, is developed by Dr.Marvin along with scientific thinktanks from around the world, and by the time the aliens make their attack(taking place in Wash D.C. again), the new weapons make their appearance and defeat the aliens. Dr. Marvin is declared a hero, and again placed in charge of the soon to be rebuilt Project Skyhook. The movie is tight, taut & crisp, with action scenes abounding, and great special effects by one of the Masters of Stop-Motion Animation Oscar Winner Ray Harryhausen, and for this fact alone the movie should be considered a classic.  Other films in this genre include Battle in Outer Space & Independence Day. Earth vs the Flying Saucers begins back the Saturday afternoon matinees and is still great fun after all these years. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Flying Saucer Flick","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If The War of the Worlds is the definitive sci-fi alien invasion film of the 1950s, then Earth vs the Flying Saucers is the definitive flying saucer one. Ray Harryhausen's magic provided us with the prototypical flying saucer; his marvelous special effects are indeed the axis upon which all else in the film revolves. The plot is standard formula and the acting is restrained;but if one can put oneself in kiddie gear, then these aspects don't matter much.  If fact, most of the sci-fi films of themid-to-late 1950s were designed for the child and teenager. I own a copy of this little jewel and have viewed it on numerous occasions and unabashedly prefer the Harryhausen effects over many of the later computer-generated ones. Earth vs the Flying Saucers should be a part of every 50s sci-fi afficionado's collection. "},{"Title":"The title says it all!","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In case you couldn't guess by the title, this is a 1950s era B-movie about an alien invasion.  All in all, it is pretty typical of such movies.  It contains many of their features; scientists, military leaders, death rays, flying saucers, etc.  There are a couple of things of note in this film however.  For one, the legendary Ray Harryhousen did the special effects. Secondly, it features a scene where a flying saucer crashes into the Washington monument, a scene which probably inspired the try to squish the boy-scouts scene in recent film Mars Attacks.  I've always been most amused by the title though.   "},{"Title":"A masterful example of the genre","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Featuring top-class special effects (for the day) by Ray Harryhausen, this mid-50s sci-fi film can still hold its own.  Worth watching.  It would be improved by colorisation.Mars Attacks! pays many tributes to this film -- the saucers, their weapons and sounds are identical, as a many of the locations and saucer blow-ups. Ever wondered why the Mars Attacks! saucers were grey? -- because they're grey in this film! "},{"Title":"A SCI-FI Classic! Great storyline & nifty effects for 1956","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm watching it on TV now as I type. I have seen this one a number of times and never tire of it. Obviously, a bit of research went into the movie especially in small details like the frequency used by Dr. Marvin to contact the aliens (225.6 Mc). The stop-action effects used to animate the saucers were used by many later SCI-FI movies. I once saw a disclaimer by the USAF after watching this movie years ago debunking UFO's. Why would this movie upset them?  "},{"Title":"I'm supporting the Flying Saucers","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is actually wonderfully done.The special effects are really quite beautiful, especially for 1950s standards, and aliens' pseudo-science is imaginative and even semi-believable.And by 1950s standards, Carol Marvin qualifies as a strong female character. She even gets to drive the car for a bit and express an opinion occasionally. Of course after their first saucer sighting, she has to allow Russell to drive - still, it was a very brave attempt at challenging gender stereotyping...The thing that intrigued me most about the film was the attitude taken towards the aliens. In many later alien films, and of course in science fiction series like Star Trek, there is an emphasis on communication with aliens, finding out what they want and why they're here. The characters of this movie have no such concern. They simply assume the aliens are hostile as soon as they land, and open fire.The aliens understandably are annoyed by this and shoot back.This pattern continues throughout the movie to the climax. The human characters simply assume might makes right, and ignore any chances for negotiation, preferring to use firepower. It's almost like a fable for our age. I spent the movie cheering on the flying saucers. "}{"Title":"SEE! Aliens without elbows!  SEE! Sound defeat aliens!  SEE! Human lives extinguished!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers, Quickie Review Damn, the fifties was a grand time for movies, wasn't it? Anything seemed possible! And anything was! Screenwriters just didn't know any better! Well, a slight cut above the rest lies Earth vs. the Flying Saucers. No, this movie isn't great&#151;it's clearly not the best of the genre&#151;but it's clearly not the worst, either.In this film, suddenly, one day, flying saucers show up on earth. The manage to communicate in a most cumbersome manner with a scientist who's busy sending satellites into space. But so far, the aliens have gone and shot all of 'em down. Apparently, despite being vastly superior to us, they still couldn't manage to see that the satellites posed no possible threat to them. Unless studying weather is detrimental to alien health&#133; At any rate, they try talking to the scientist and in classic 50's fashion, the aliens are actually here to invade. Wow. Didn't see that sh*t coming! Well, the scientist figures out how to fight 'em with, of all things, high intensity sound waves&#133; or something.This film is average at best for the time. It's wildly inferior to some classic 50's SF, like Them!, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, etc. But superior to shlock like The Man from Planet X or The Giant Claw, and about on par, but better, than This Island Earth. The UFO's are done by none other than Ray Harryhausen, and they look pretty good. High average for the time, you could say. Decent compositing, but as usual, pretty laughable aliens. Their space suits are immensely clunky and dull&#151;I got the feeling that they were a very stagnant dark brown&#151;though the film is black and white. They don't even have elbows! Oddly enough, the aliens themselves, to ruin a surprise, (**HERE'S THE SPOILER**) are pretty close to the standard grays that apparently like sodomizing gullible people these days. The writing is passable and occasionally pretty dumb, the atmosphere and cinematography are average for the time. A decent watch for SF fans, but nothing super special. Cool final sequence of flying saucers crashing into buildings.Nostalgia Score 7/10, Modern Score 4/10, Overall 5/10(www.ResidentHazard.com) "},{"Title":"Classic 50's B Science Fiction Pic","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the more memorable science fiction films that came out during the 1950's. In fact, footage of this film has been used in everything from serious drama's to Three Stooges shorts. It pretty much is a decent, if standard, film. The performances are pretty much wooden and the story is pretty much similar to every alien invasion picture that was released during this era. However, the thing that saves it from being a total waste are the spectacular special effects by the master Ray Harreyhausen. Harryhausen confirms in this film why he is regarded as the master of stop motion animation and is one of the true craftsmen of his era. His work puts all of today's computer animation to shame and show's why he was, and still is, a true craftsman. "},{"Title":"Excellent 1950's alien invasion movie","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Earth vs the Flying Saucers is one of the better alien invasion movies of the 1950's.Rockets that are being sent up to Earth's atmosphere as part of Operation Skyhook suddenly start disappearing.  At first, no one can understand why, but we find out when a flying saucer lands at the base and after one of the aliens is shot, it takes off and destroys the base.  Then, flying Saucers are seen all over the world and Earth is warned by the aliens they will take over.  Luckily, a magnetic device is found as a way to destroy the saucers and succeed in doing this after several well known landmarks in Washington DC are destroyed.The saucer effects by Ray Harryhausen are excellent.  Clips of this movie appeared in 1957's The Giant Claw.This movie stars 50's sci fi regulars Hugh Marlowe (The Day The Earth Stood Still), Morris Ankrum (Invaders From Mars) and Joan Taylor (20 Million Miles To Earth) as Marlowe's wife.This movie is 50's sci fi at its best.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Cheesie But Effective","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hugh Marlowe as Dr. Russell Marvin is the pivot man as aliens try to contact him as the mediator for a surrender plan between Earth and some evil aliens. Many of us growing up in the sixties and seventies will recognize Jim Matthews Another World Soap Opera as Marlowe. He is an intelligent man that figures out a way to counter the ability of flying saucers to overcome the effect of gravity by use of magnetic poles. It is however the scenes of the saucers flying around that makes this film worthwhile to watch. The effects were excellent considering the year of 1956. The only weak spot of this film concerned a forest fire and Marvin, his wife and guard running in the forest and never feeling any heat and running in place as the scenery just rolled by, this was very cheesie. Overall, a good 1950's science fiction film.  "},{"Title":"Not much here other than Harryhausen effects","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sadly this film falls far short of what we would hope for or expect from a classic sci-fi film. Beyond the fact that it imitates other superior sci-fi films such as The Day the Earth Stood Still and It Came from Outer Space, the film is hobbled by Sam Katzman's incredibly poor production values. For example, the only kind of sets that are used for the Washington DC locations are rooms with curtains on more than one wall with a U.S. flag in the corner.The film is remembered for the exciting sequences with Ray Harryhausen's special effects, most notably the saucer attack on the nation's capital. These sequences are still impressive but they do not salvage the film as a whole.There's no problem with Hugh Marlowe and Joan Taylor's performances, there just isn't much for them to use in terms of making the characters interesting. Donald Curtis is his usual competent self as well.Just not a lot here other than the visual elements of Harryhausen's saucers, IMHO. The aliens aren't very scary or interesting, and the scenes at the conclusion of the film are needlessly confusing. "},{"Title":"Retro Sci-Fi","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good retro sci-fi movie for sci-fi fans. Not much happens in this 82 minute story, but if you like the serious tone and special effects of the '50s, then you'll like this movie.Basically, it involves, aliens (via flying saucers) attempting to take over earth. The story is centered around a scientist, his significantly-younger wife, and a small cadre of military personnel. The lead character is trying to develop a weapon to disrupt the flying saucers before time runs out. Everybody looks and acts their part with strict seriousness. The only problem is, not much more happens than was just described.I have to mention one part of the movie - quite memorable (because it's laughably nutty) - is when the lead character decides to put on the over-sized alien helmet and talk through it. He does not seem like superman wearing solidified electricity as the movie describes - rather a guy wearing paper maché and trying to be heard through muffled speech.This movies is only for '50s sci-fi fans. If you're not in that group, skip it. "},{"Title":"Take That, Washington!","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is simply one of the top ten science fiction films of the fifties, albeit not an intellectual exercise. Harryhausen's flying saucers almost define flying saucers, and the flat men aliens are quite unique, even if they do look like they have space arthritis. The story is no big whoop, but the film moves along at a quick pace, and (like so many films that Harryhausen was involved in) we get a small taste of the big effects right at the beginning. I've watched it many times, and it never fails to be enjoyable, or to somehow recall to my mind the very first time I saw it, way back in my teens.POSSIBLE SPOILER...But the greatest thrill in the film - to my anarchist/surrealist mind - is the destruction of Washington D.C. To watch several easily-identifiable landmarks of our capitol being ray-gunned and cut down by crashing saucers is a real delight. And I don't believe this sort of anti-authoritarian event is entirely accidental, as Harryhausen has other similar iconoclastic moments in his other films (the burning of a church for example), and they never fail to get my friends and I quite charged up.A superior black and white B movie, with solid (if not remarkable) performances from stock B movie actors, some rather imaginative approaches to aliens, and a nihilistic pay-off of great appeal.highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Spectacular Effects, Ordinary Story","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film, and I supppose it was good in it's fashion.  Right off the bat, Morris Ankrum was miscast--too old to be a convincing general even in the 1950s.  And Hugh Marloe is too distinguished to portray a lecherous honeymoon husband.  Robotic, slow-moving aliens who for some reason look inflated don't really help the film, either.  The saucers, on the other hand, look convincing. Of course, the scenes of Washington, D.C. buildings being destroyed as the humans bring the saucers down make for some exciting viewing.  But frankly, the jolt is not there. Most sci-fi fans had seen much of this before in an assortment of War of the Worlds genre films.  Variations on the theme hold some interest, but after a while it all starts to look familiar. "},{"Title":"three reasons to watch this film","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really don't understand most of the praise being given to this movie. True, it is better than most of the low budget alien invasion movies of the 1950s. The special effects are pretty good in places and all other aspects of the movie manage to avoid dropping below some reasonable minimum acceptable level of craftsmanship. But it isn't particularly high praise when the best thing you can say about a movie is that it isn't too terribly awful. Nevertheless, here are 3 good reasons to view this film.First of all, this is the film which gave us the definitive visualization of flying saucers. It was a major influence on Mars Attacks, which includes a particularly humorous homage scene. It also has a delightful camp feeling about it while still being quite watchable.Second, I must guiltily admit to having gotten a kick out watching the destruction of Washington, DC. The demolition of the grand monuments and neoclassical facades of the city created a much greater impression on me then the typical views of tumbling skyscrapers which you see in most other films. Maybe this is just because I'm a lifelong resident of the area, but I think it's something that anyone can enjoy.Finally, this presents a fascinating study of 1950s sexual repression, cold war paranoia, primitive technology worship rituals, and deference to authority. In the very opening scene, we see a newlywed couple having their marriage consummated by a flying saucer circling their car. The husband is a scientist, so I guess that is supposed to explain it. "},{"Title":"This movie raped my eyes.","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was just going to say Screw this movie. and leave it at that but I can't. This crapfest is truly terrible on many levels. I watched this 3 times to make sure i saw it right,unfortunately I did. The main characters have gotten married without telling anyone.They tell the woman's dad(an army general) on the phone and then hang up on him. They apparently work for NASA or something,the movie is very unclear about that. Just like in a million other movies,aliens are invading. And just like in those other movies,they can speak every Earth language but can barely walk. Half of the movie is spent explaining why something stupid just happened,while the rest is spent sucking. The aliens send a message to the main character and he doesn't even know it.So they just attack. After the first attack they ask the general why the guy ignored their message. Then they give the earthlings months to organize a meeting but instead they build guns to fight the aliens. During the second attack,the people fake run in front of screens and it's pathetic.They can't even run for real.A saucer hits the Washington Monument and as it falls it becomes a structure made from street bricks. The alien's guns usually make the target just disappear but sometimes they explode,awesome work. Ray Harryhausen should be ashamed of himself. I'm glad everyone in this movie is dead. "}{"Title":"Outstanding and well written script.","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Earth vs Flying Saucers, 1956. A rocket scientist and his new wife get contacted by extra Terrestrial beings but don't realize it until too late. This starts a war of conquest between the U.S. and saucer people.*Special Stars- Hugh Marlowe, Joan Taylor, Donald Curtis, Morris Ankrum.*Theme- The Govt is your friend dealing with alien invasions.*Trivia/location/goofs- B & W. Ray Harryhausen's EFX are excellent here. LA's Hyperion Water treatment plant, Ray Harryhausen developed the flying saucers. A saucer attacking jets is actually based on news footage of an air race crash with P-51 Mustangs.*Emotion- Outstanding and well written script that keeps moving in pacing. One of the iconic 50's sci-fi films of the era. Well worth your time to experience it.*Based On- The Cold War invasion and rocket exploration fears. "},{"Title":"good 50's FX","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Russell A. Marvin and his new wife Carol encounter a flying saucer on their way to launch a rocket in Operation Sky Hook. Her father Brig. Gen. John Hanley comes to stop the launch. He's too late, and the rocket is later mysteriously destroyed. When a saucer lands, it is immediately attacked by the military. This starts an all-out fight.The acting is stiff. The dialog is clunky. There are too many scenes with weak actors doing unimaginative work with meandering melodrama and boring lines. The science is a whole lot of non-sense. But I love the 50's style flying saucer FX. It comes 5 years after the iconic 'The Day the Earth Stood Still', but this has more in common with 'Independence Day'. I just wish there was more good saucer action. "},{"Title":"Generic Invasion, Like Its Title.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred F. Sears directed this Science Fiction story that stars Hugh Marlowe as Dr. Russell Marvin, who, along with his new wife Carol(played by Joan Taylor) is driving back to the rocket ship program he is working on, when he encounters a flying saucer overhead, and manages to record it. His project, Operation Skyhook, has run into problems, and it is revealed that aliens are not only shooting down the rockets, but plan on a full-scale invasion, forcing the scientific and military communities to team up to try to stop the attacks, which are devastating the world. Lots of action here to keep the kids happy, but for some reason, the story lacks any depth to it, and people are like photographic stick figures lost among the destruction, taking the viewer out of the film altogether. "},{"Title":"Industrial Light and Vertigo","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the time, spectacle of the scope of flying saucers tearing through the Capitol must have been stupendous to watch. Independence Day owes everything to it. It is still impressive to watch, we have Ray Harryhausen to thank for that. He did quite a bit of work, less on saucer design, which is simple and carried over from the lurid covers of pulp magazines of the day, and more on the seamless engineering together of different worlds.You have the fictional world of the story of an alien invasion, of Pentagon meetings and running around to prevent disaster. It is not the best acted you have seen, but works from a scenario that seems more credible than most of this ilk. It does the job of lowering you into a situation that for a sizable portion of 1950's North Americans, was a less distant threat than you may think.You have stock footage of real disaster; real ships and bombers blowing up, exploding V2 rockets and buildings, solar flares, floods. This registers in a powerful way. In fact, I am convinced that the majority of viewers when they celebrate Harryhausen's SFX work in the film, subliminally include these pieces into a single impression of havoc.And you have Harryhausen's vision of alien gizmo and destruction. The genius is not in any individual effect, though several are quite well done they stick - and others a bit corny. His envisioned interior of a saucer deserves mention, with a rose-petal shaped 'translator' and cinematic screen. As mentioned though, what really grabs you is the seamlessly choreographed blend of real and staged destruction. And while Emmerich's film is more visually pompous, this impresses me more because they couldn't construct everything on a computer in those days.It works to this day, as many will testify. It does, because overall it achieves a remarkable illusion, and cinematic vertigo is to this day the primary draw to movies, that dazed feeling of weightless escape into a second world.I have noted elsewhere that deep down we are psychotic beings - this is foremostly revealed in acts of love and war, as well as powerful cinema. Logic does not spin our world, though we have to pretend to that effect. In fact, logic is a (relatively) recent adoption - for millenia, we relied on extra-logical capacities for survival, and their denial in modern life is a main cause of anxiety.Anyway, I am collecting examples of this in film and this is a prime one - psychotic in both the making and viewing levels.You see, among the alien gizmos that intrigue here (fluid 'alien vision'!), are remote-controlled balls of fire, initially mistaken for St. Elmo's fire.Now, during WWII, among the most baffling news topics to reach back home from the front, was reports of strange balls of fire encountered by airmen on night missions. The ghostly apparitions would mysteriously appear and chase after the planes in a way that seemed they were under intelligent control.Initially thought to be superior German jet technology, hundreds of reported sightings of these UFOs poured in from ally aircrews all over Western Europe, usually seen by two or more people on the same bomber. British crews reported them, Canadian, and as it turned out after the war, the Germans did as well. US crews flying over the Pacific knew them as 'bakas' or 'robombs', and thought them Japanese.So this was the first massively reported (and at the time, credible-seeming) sighting of UFOs, the whole craze with flying saucers wasn't going to blow open until a few years after the war. Naturally, these floating fires were lumped in the same category when it did. So when this was made a decade later, filmmakers were tapping into fearful public knowledge of these things, not easy to appreciate now that they are things of parody. In a 1950 Gallup poll, more Americans professed knowledge of what a 'flying saucer' is than they did of a 'Cold War'.A similar notion of floating lights encountered by travelers at night goes back to more ancient times however, you will know it as will-o'-the-wisp or Jack-o-lantern. Folk story has its own explanation of these, as does science - that is its own debate. Whatever the thing really was, what travelers were responding to was a projection of fears, not simply a natural occurrence, but the devil's light (or spirits') out for mischief.And the most credible and likely explanation of the WWII version of these night lights, is aviation vertigo, pure optical illusion - not very well researched at the time.How is this psychotic? Natural phenomena occur around us, including in our field of perception, illusory mind images. We invent stories around them. We invent intelligent illusion. And with cinema, the magic of industrial light, we invent optical illusions to convincingly perpetuate optical illusions, and as viewers we pay to inhabit them for a while. It is a direct line from the medieval traveler's Jack-o-lantern to what those pilots experienced in flights, to what we do in our flights of seeking illusory sensations in the dark of the theater.And what do these balls of fire do in the film? They 'watch' us! I'm telling you, we are completely nuts. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good mid-50s alien invasion movie","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" With a title like Earth vs the Flying Saucers, my expectations were low. I expected poor acting, terrible special effects, bad lighting, etc... fortunately I was wrong. This is a surprisingly good movie! It does not drag anywhere - no boring side stories, no attempts at lame moral lessons for the audience; it moves right along from beginning to end. The scientific explanation for how their anti-UFO weapon works is a bunch of ridiculous mumbo-jumbo We try to interrupt their magnetic field by projecting a highly intermittent induced electrical field. Huh??? But if you can forgive this and the anti-UFO weapon itself, which resembles a satellite dish with a sheet metal cylinder welded in the center, then the rest is pretty good for 1950s special effects.The aliens in this movie are not coming to enlighten us. Nah they want to take us over and colonize the place for themselves! The mean-spirited aliens intend to invade Earth and conquer it, and the final showdown is in Washington DC. Out-of-control flying saucers wind up crashing into the Washington Monument and the dome of the Capital Building even! Plus the aliens blast everything that moves with their ray gun. Who wins? The robot-like aliens or us? Watch it and find out! "},{"Title":"OK 50's Flying Saucer Movie","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a pretty standard 50's sci-fi film made in response to the rash of UFO sightings that began in that era and that continues to this day. It's not the best movie about alien invasions of earth - not the best even from that era. That honour would probably belong to 1953's The War Of The Worlds or perhaps The Day The Earth Stood Still from 1951. This movie has all the limitations of the era - extremely primitive effects being the primary one. Neither the flying saucers nor the buildings they crashed into looked particularly convincing and there were some holes in logic and in science, but at the same time it was an entertaining enough movie that sought to whip up people's fears about the phenomenon.Here the flying saucers are the remnants of a dying civilization looking for a planet to be their new home, and seeking to take over the earth. Starting with a series of satellite launches that failed (one wonders why they kept launching 11 of them when they kept losing contact with them soon after launch) it ends with a pretty good battle between earth and the flying saucers (the title being a pretty good summary of the content of the movie; although earth in this case was represented almost totally by the United States.) Overall, this featured pretty good performances for a B movie of the era, and while not the best movie of its kind, it was nevertheless pretty good. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Don't knock the SFX","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright, just a quickie.First heard about this film in a book on cr*p 'B' movies. Looked in the TV guide for a while, then it came on. (At 3.00AM Wed if I remember rightly, like all the rest of the 'good' stuff). Videoed it, watched it and couldn't believe how !good! the special effects were. Really, it is well worth watching. The plot and other bits (e.g. the acting) isn't much better then the Granddaddy of them all, PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, but those saucers, those saucy saucers, wow!..... ) "},{"Title":"Something different (and wonderful) from the master -- Ray!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this spectacular tale of alien invasion, Ray Harryhausen devoted his considerable skills as a stop-motion animator to create something very different from the fantastic creatures for which he is so famous.  Instead, he captained a fleet of flying saucers that filled  the skies above Washington, D.C., blasting several of the nation's most treasured pieces of architecture during a climactic battle which has few equals in the annals of science fiction.  Stock footage is used with astonishing artistry Harryhausen doesn't just splice in stock scenes of crashing Air Force planes and exploding warehouses, he actually COMBINES his special effects with these background shots in ways that demonstrate his unique artistic genius.Huge Marlow (`The Day the Earth Stood Still', `World Without End') and Joan Taylor (`2o Million Miles to Earth') star as Dr. and Mrs. Russell A. Marvin, along with Donald Curtis (`It Came from Beneath the Sea').  Morris Ankrum provides his welcome presence as General John Hanley.  The screenplay is by George Worthing Yates and Raymond T. Marcus, based on a story by Curt Siodmak (the brain behind many of the best Universal horror films from the 1940s).  According to the film's title credits, the story was `suggested by &#145;Flying Saucers from Outer Space' by Donald E. Keyhoe'.  Major Keyhoe had extensive knowledge about Project Bluebook , the governments investigation of UFOs -- which means the books he wrote are based on the government's official evidence of UFO's. Think about.  And watch `Unidentified Flying Objects the True Story of UFOs' as a double feature with `Earth versus   the Flying Saucers'.  They work really well together.  "},{"Title":"Not Earth, just America vs. the flying saucers.","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Guess this could had been much worse movie but it still isn't one that I could recommend to this everybody. It's a typical science-fiction movie from the '50's, in which aliens with their flying saucers are invading the world. It's up to the Americans to stop them and safe the day with their advanced weaponry and technology. Yes, you could say that this is some cold war propaganda from the United States, whether or not this was intended as such.Lots of crazy and just plain silly stuff is happening in this movie. No questions are being asked and the army just starts blasting away when the first flying saucer and aliens start to appear. No wonder the aliens were being angry with us. It's also silly how the movie is attempting to take a scientific and rational approach to things while all that leads up to is resolving the conflict with violence, rather than dialog, even though the aliens seemed very much open to this. It also often amazes me how in these sort of movies there just never really seems to be a sense of danger or surprise. People more or less are taking it for granted that flying saucers are appearing out of nowhere and there doesn't seem to be any real panic neither, not even when they start blasting buildings and people away with their highly advanced weapons.But it still is more of a good movie than a bad one really. The movie at least manages to be entertaining throughout. It's a pretty short movie, which also means that the action kicks in almost immediately. And its action is really what is keeping this movie mostly a good one to watch. The special effects are of course heavily outdated but I still enjoyed them for what they were. They provided the movie with plenty of explosions, mostly of well known American landmarks. I also liked the variety of the many different sort of effects used. Miniatures, stop-motion, archive footage of real explosions, mattes, it all gets used in this movie. These sort of effects help to provide this movie with the certain type of required charm, these old fashioned sci-fi movies from the '50's often have.Just don't pay too much attention to the story though. It's not just silly but also really something that brings down the movie. The forces the movie to take a not so interesting approach and also tells the story from the point of view from some not so interesting people, though this can be also blamed on the stiff acting.Still good enough to watch for its action moments.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good special effects wrapped in a poorly told story","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know all the Harryhausen fanboys are going to kill this review because I don't pay tribute to The Master...because I call this this movie a 2nd rate science fiction film. Don't get me wrong - the actual flying saucer effects are very well done indeed, and the moments in the final battle where saucers are crashing into various national and historical landmarks still pack a punch.But it was obvious that the story was wrapped around whatever sequences Harryhausen wanted to build, instead of having the special effects advance the story.Consequently there are dead spaces in the dialog and holes in the plot you could fly a saucer through. The best you can say for the non stop motion portions of the movie was that the performances were workmanlike - pro actors given indifferent direction. And that the hack attitude of Sam Katzman guaranteed that the story and dialog would reach a certain level of quality, but would never surpass it.(And by the way, the alien costume design were not nearly as good as the saucers - whoever heard of star-traveling conquerors who can't bend their arms?) This is why movies like The Quatermass Experiment and The Day The Earth Stood Still are considered classics of the form,while a movie like this is only an entertaining lightweight. Still worth seeing, but time has not been kind to EVTFS. "}{"Title":"A Wonderful Time Capsule of the 1950s Flying Saucer Craze and Red Menace!","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film really captures the 'flying saucer' craze and the Red Menace hysteria of the 1950s INVASION. It fulfilled the fantasy of those of us who never saw flying saucers-- now we could see and hear them! They are magnificently rendered by Ray Harryhausen, and the sounds they make became the quintessential 'saucer' sound. The title says it all--let the battle begin! We see the saucers right away at the beginning (unlike other SF films of the same period where you never saw 'the monster' until midway through the film) and later we get fantastic destruction of Sacred National Monuments and Institutions (We all were shocked in the theater then!) by the Commies... I mean,the flying saucers. We don't get another good flying saucer movie until the spectacular Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977), which is by contrast, far richer and superior on every kind of cinematic level.Unfortunately, the initial exciting attacks here are just a teaser-- EVTFS drags in the middle, and the tension never really builds. Hugh Marlowe as the 'scientist' has no qualms about trying to find a weapon to destroy the aliens and is just too square to be sexy. He also plays 'the chump' boyfriend of Patricia Neal in The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951), but is much better as the hero in World Without End (1956).When the alien's face is finally revealed, it looks similar to the 'stereotypical' alien face, like the one in Mission to Mars (2000)! And why does Major Huglin's voice sound so familiar? He was Ronal in Flash Gordon Conquers the Universe (1940) and Paul in The Amazing Dr. X (1948).A bigger budget would have helped; we get stock footage of explosions from Columbia serials. But it's Ray Harryhausen's work that far and away makes this film still watchable. It's also a wonderful time capsule of 1950s flying saucer and Red Menace fears (i.e., when they appear, just shoot first and ask questions later). But I have to give it a 5. "},{"Title":"A classic example of Sci-fi","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 50 years ago, Science Fiction movies were not just CGI-dominated films that served only as eye candy. Before the age of CGI, sci-fi movies relied on other means to achieve their special effects. Ray Harryhausen is still a well-known name in the special effects department as he created the special effects for this, and other movies. Whether we are presented a scene of the UFOs passing a jet, or watching the spectacular attack on Washington (that inspired many future films), this movie is sure to please the critic and the mass audience alike.However, like many of the 1950-60's sci-fi films, the Cold War overtones are hard to neglect. The audience is introduced to a US government that is afraid of 'an outside threat'. They fear an invasion by an outside race with more advanced weaponry. Of course, this is referring to the USSR, and the mass panic they created in those times.Plot-wise. the film follows a simple narrative, in which a scientist plans to send rockets into space for surveillance, but the are intercepted by UFOs before they can relay any data. The scientist decides to investigate further and while on a trip with his wife, he accidentally records the sounds that the UFO emits on tape. He proposes the possibility of extra-terrestrial involvement to the Department of Defense, but they reject his ideas until he presents further proof.The film takes off from there, presenting us with many classic scenes, and elements such as violent aliens and a war-weary government. All this is mixed with the story of the scientist as he tries to devise technology with which to battle the aliens. In one final war that could mean the destruction of the human race, how will we survive the fighting between Earth vs. the flying saucers? "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it, In spite of @#$%^&*&(","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love flying saucers. I LOVE flying saucers. I love FLYING SAUCERS. I love flying saucers.I love flying saucers. I LOVE flying saucers. I love FLYING SAUCERS. I love flying saucers.I love flying saucers. I LOVE flying saucers. I love FLYING SAUCERS. I love flying saucers.I kinda enjoyed Earth versus the jerky grainy hub caps too.BUT- When a film is praised for its seamless special effects I wonder what the reviewer is watching the film on - maybe a video iPOD from the back of a galloping horse?Buy the camera man a tripod, somebody - and please give the inset film the SAME amount of jerkiness or non-jerkiness as the foreground, together with the SAME perspective, please. I'll not mention lighting contrast and angle, or film resolutionActually, I really liked the design of the saucers. Iconic. Didn't like the heat ray being penned on the negative with photopaque. Sheesh!! Without an airbrush, too - look at the end of the ray striking anything. Ouch. Was it actually just a strip of paper in the printer gate? Tacky.At least the stock rocket launches weren't V2s. What were these? Corporals or Minuteman or somesuch? Maybe someone here knows their missiles. I don't.2/10 for everything, but it's got flying saucers in it so I'll give it 6/10 "},{"Title":"Is this a vehicle for Morris Ankrum?","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching lots of sci-fi from the 50's, one would get the idea that Morris Ankrum was the Adam Sandler of his time. No, he's not funny, but it looks like some of these films were made solely for him to star in. Ankrum was born for this role. Anyway, on with my review.At Operation Skyhook, strange events are happening. People see St. Elmo's fire, flying saucers contact the main scientists, and the rockets being launched up into space can't be contacted for some reason. Nothing out of the ordinary, huh? But then a flying saucer destroys the base and nearly everybody there - except for Dr. Marvin and his wife, who received a message from the aliens. Turns out the aliens want to peacefully take over the Earth. But the generals, thinking such a thing is an oxymoron, decide to fight back. But how? Perhaps a very big sonic gun . . .This is it. THE epitome of cheesy 50's sci-fi. This was the golden age of sci-fi, and Earth vs. the Flying Saucers represents this genre very well. The acting was kinda subdued, but that's what fit well into this genre. You'll never believe that Patricia Neal's boyfriend from The Day the Earth Stood Still, Hugh Marlowe, is a scientist. What's harder to believe is that he's married in the film to the pretty Joan Taylor. Let's see he's 45, she's 25, anyone see a difference? The only other two cast members worth mentioning are Morris Ankrum, who plays Joan's father, and Tom Browne Henry, also playing a general. Henry was nearly Ankrum's equal, starring in The Thing that Wouldn't Die, Space Master X-7, and Beginning of the End. In fact, Hollywood decided to join together this team for The Brain from Planet Arous! Finally, the special effects of Ray Harryhausen are, of course, what steals the show. He's still in his embryonic state, this being his second film, but it's better that what most of Hollywood had to offer, like men in dinosaur suits or bottle rockets with sparklers attached.All in all, Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is a film for those of you out there who want a sci-fi experience, but still don't want anything TOO campy. I suggest this to sci-fi fans everywhere.  "},{"Title":"A paste-up sci-fi job with good special effects...","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientists and the military converge when hostile aliens communicate their plans to invade Earth within nine days. Pretty soon, flying saucers are hovering over Washington, D.C. Hugh Marlowe is the chief scientist devising war strategies, and his messy, Brylcreem'd hair and consistently worried expression don't bode well for the human race; Joan Taylor plays his wife, who resists going to a bomb shelter in order to stay with her husband. Fairly ludicrous mix of mass hysteria, melodrama, stock footage, and special effects action (though the effects, by Russ Kelley and Ray Harryhausen, are indeed quite good). The film is involving and kinda fun, and the way the military brings down the saucers is amusing. This clever maneuver leaves Washington in the clear, but what about the rest of us? ** from **** "},{"Title":"Entertaining 50's sci-fi","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This could have been a much worse film but thank god Ray Harryhausen created his trademark special effects to make this a truly fun film to watch. Story starts out with a husband and wife who are both scientists working on Operation Skyhook where they send rockets into space for exploration but they keep failing. Hugh Marlowe is Russell Marvin who is in charge of the operation and Joan Taylor is his wife Carol. While driving back from getting married they both have a close encounter with a flying saucer that hovers over them. Russell tape records the sound of the saucer by accident and studies it later. Later, a flying saucer lands on the military base where they work and an alien comes out. The military opens fire and kills the alien. The saucer returns fire and they have a disintegrating ray that can burn anything. The saucer continues to destroy everything and Russell and Carol are trapped in the basement. The saucer kidnaps Carol's father General Hanley (Morris Ankrum) and tap into his brain for knowledge. Russell discovers that when he plays the sound of the saucer on his recorder at a different speed its actually a spoken message from the aliens. Russell and Carol get rescued and they get with the presidents cabinet and try and figure out what to do. Russell figures out that Earth can combat them with electronic sound waves since the aliens have electro magnetic technology. This film was directed by Fred F. Sears who was better suited to westerns and B movie capers and he had also directed one of the worst 50's sci-fi films in The Giant Claw. Sears probably wasn't high on anyones list to direct another film in this genre but he does a capable job here. The story clearly has cold war communism overtones but so did a lot of these films during those times. But one aspect of the story bugged me and it's the fact that the film never shows the President. The Earth is being attacked and Washington DC is in the process of being destroyed and somehow the President was never introduced into the script! His Cabinet does all the decision making. The main actors are all veterans of sci-fi and Marlowe was in one of the best in Day The Earth Stood Still. Taylor starred in 20 Million Miles To Earth which Harryhausen also worked on. The characters do their best with the dialogue but its Harryhausen's effects that are the reason to watch this. There is very good use of stock footage with the saucers put in to look like they are in the same scene. These effects that Harryhausen has created to an art form is a very slow method and you have to ask yourself how long and hard he worked to get them made especially towards the end of the film when the saucers start destroying various historical monuments that he also had to re-create. Some have said this is better than War of the Worlds but I disagree. That wonderful film had a script that was willing to expand out with ideas but this film is more of the Saturday afternoon matinee variety. It's not a great film but it is a fun one to watch and you can't help but admire the artistry of Ray Harryhausen.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, it's full of faults.                                             sure, it has some lousy acting.                                        sure, it's a one idea film.                                            sure, some of the dialogue is too stupid for words.None of that matters, sit in front of the TV, turn off the brain, start drinking a smooth Malt Scotch, and be entertained by a cult classic that never tries to be more than the sum of its entirety "},{"Title":"Ray's the best","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot is unsurprising, the acting average (Hugh Marlowe does his 'scientific' dialogue as if he is reading it from the back of a cereal box) and the music dull.But the flying saucers! SPFX wizard Ray Harryhausen is the best. The saucers are seamlessly woven into the scenery. Simple shots of the saucer on the beach or half submerged in water or gliding past Washington monuments have not been surpassed by subsequent special effects. They look authentic as a documentary due to being filmed in black and white. The film moves quick enough to leap over narrative and scientific gaps to the splendid climax. I gave this a 7 out of 10 mainly due to Mr Harryhausen. "},{"Title":"Great special effects...little else","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientist Hugh Marlowe and partner/wife Joan Taylor are contacted by aliens whose flying saucers are becoming more frequently seen. He's told to get all the members of the world together and get them to surrender to them...or be destroyed.The dialogue is terrible, the acting is wooden (Marlowe tries too hard but Taylor does have a few good moments), there's absolutely no characterizations and the story is silly...but when the special effects are on screen this is a lot of fun. Some people have criticized the stop-motion animation in this film as being obvious. It is, but in an innocent kind of way, it's lots of fun...I find it more fun to watch than the too perfect CGI we have today. And the climatic attack on Washington is just great.What I find interesting about the film is that the military attacks a flying saucer the instant it lands. They don't wait to see what its intentions are...they just open fire. Maybe this looked OK in 1956--it seems kind of disturbing today.This was purportedly the inspiration of the really crappy Independence Day in 1996. Neither one is very good, but this is better. ID4 insults your intelligence...this one doesn't. "},{"Title":"They expect to terrify us with a display of power!","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" If 1950's schlock sci-fi is your cup of tea, you won't be disappointed here. This is what fans like myself live for and have to wait to see until they're aired in places like Turner Classics or in my case, Antenna TV this morning. Had to set the alarm for a 500 AM start too, so that has to tell you something.I don't know if Ray Harryhausen was proud of his special effects work in this; everything is still pretty primitive but for 1956 you probably won't find better up close and personal flying saucer work. Obviously the picture's use of the term 'Air Intelligence Command' can be considered an oxymoron today, but then again, it was explained that the scientists back on Earth hadn't been able to track any of the observation rockets sent into space to set up twelve 'moons' because they blew up and fell back down to terra firma. I don't think I'd want to be admitting that if I was in charge of the space program.Lots of goofy stuff here, one of the first instances was when Dr. Russell Marvin (Hugh Marlowe) and his wife Carol (Joan Taylor) perused the horizon for traces of alien activity and you had both day and night time sky at the same time! Flying saucer continuity took a hit as well, as depending on the scene, weapon fire either disintegrated it's target or blew it to smithereens. And even though they seemed invincible when attacking Washington, D.C., they were rather easily shot down by military rockets on their way there. Similarly, the alien life forms inside were impervious to harm when they weren't otherwise being knocked out by innocuous rifle fire!?!?Well look, you either go for this stuff or you don't. Hard to believe there were some intelligent sci-fi flicks coming out around the same time like War of the Worlds and The Day The Earth Stood Still that puts pictures like this to shame, but you can have a lot more fun with the silly stuff. For a double header treat, try catching this one back to back with Teenagers From Outer Space. You'll never be the same again. "}{"Title":"Special Effects vs. the Story","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Outer space exploration scientist Hugh Marlowe (as Russell Russ Marvin) and beautiful bride Joan Taylor (as Carol) are driving in the desert when a flying saucer creeps around their car. In his Operation Sky Hook laboratory, Mr. Marlowe discovers he has recorded the alien spaceship's sound on his tape machine. Sure enough, Earth vs. the Flying Saucers lives up to the title as a fleet of aliens from a dead solar system arrive on the scene. The alien suit and communication is interesting, but there isn't an attention to story here; most of the film is simply geared to the next visual effect (by Ray Harryhausen and Russ Kelley). The highlight is seeing the landmarks of Washington, DC under attack.***** Earth vs. the Flying Saucers (7/4/56) Fred F. Sears ~ Hugh Marlowe, Joan Taylor, Donald Curtis, Morris Ankrum "},{"Title":"Special effects extravaganza","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is a science fiction B movie about an encounter between the Earth and a seemingly advanced alien civilization. The plot does not make much logical sense. The whole thing is based on a misunderstanding that causes the United States to attack the visiting flying saucers (exactly why, I never found out). Although the aliens appear to have benevolent goals, they unleash attacks as defense. Really, the plot makes no sense at all. What matters is that it sets up an all-out war between the two civilizations.The special effects are the main accomplishment of this film. They are simply phenomenal for their time. Even though they aren't convincing anymore, its still entertaining to watch. My favorite part is watching the buildings crumble as flying saucers crash into them.The rest of Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is pure B movie quality. The acting, script, ideas, plot, and direction are laughable. The science is nearly complete fiction. The good thing is that the defects do not get into the way too much. It does not take itself too seriously, and will give plenty of laughs. For most people, its so bad that its good.If you like exploring the B movie genre, then this is perfect for you. If you have a liking of special effects or science fiction, you may enjoy it as well. Otherwise, you'd best pass it up. "},{"Title":"Fun Sci-Fi","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth vs. the Flying Saucers (1956) *** (out of 4) Fun science-fiction film has flying saucers coming to Earth and warning us to quit sending spacecrafts into their orbit or else. This film shares a lot of the same ideas as The Day the Earth Stood Still but this remains a pretty good entry in the genre, which had countless films during the 1950s. It goes without saying that the greatest thing this film has going for it are the incredible special effects by Ray Harryhausen. All of the spaceships looks very well as does their electric guard shield, which is best shown during the first landing. There are countless battle scenes, which are obviously fake and some use stock footage but this really doesn't take away from the film. Another bonus is the actual story, which is a good one and makes sense. A lot of these sci-fi films have incredibly stupid stories, which make no sense but that's not the case here. "},{"Title":"Rent this Movie and Mars Attacks and compare.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie is fun to watch in its own right.  Even more fun however is to watch it and Mars attack together to see where Mars Attacks gets some of its ideas. This movie is not as good as the original Blob, Invasion of the body snatchers, or the thing. it is one or two steps down but still very enjoyable on many levels.  "},{"Title":"Crash Landing","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When we think about it, what Ray Harryhausen is able to do with his special effects stop motion, this is a remarkable effort.  The aliens are formidable; they have a heat ray.  We make almost no effort to try to speak with them.  With the events of recent history, the destruction of architectural icons is a way of deposing a society.  I've always wondered (and this is one of the failings of the original Star Trek) why races who can overcome the known laws of physics are so dense when it comes to basic threats from an overmatched populace.   What does in the saucers probably could have been avoided with a couple of safeguards.  Then again, like in Detroit, these particular models were likely made on a Monday.This is a nice story and I liked the way it all played out--but I can't get past the above issues.  There is also such sloppiness when it comes to risking one's life or the lives of friends that doesn't ring true.  When people die in these movies, there's no sadness or mourning; they are dispensable, even if they are your colleagues and friends.  While people are interested in getting at the problems, the interaction among characters is dull and really stretches believability. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly Tedious","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this film disappointing. Perhaps having seen Close Encounters of the Third Kind first (whose special effects look suspiciously like those of the work being discussed) I was spoilt. Many points were laboured, such as a scene where a saucer stalks a car. To me it added up to a boring and flat work which could have been  better. It may be argued that in the mid-fifties this was the state of the art, but Forbidden Planet was released in the same period and that was arguably the best science-fiction film of all time.Could have been a great film. "},{"Title":"Introduction to a new fear; flying saucers!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this movie as a kid it was called INVASION of the FLYING SAUCERS! The glorious black and white still makes the effects what they are. And the scene where the saucer crashes into the Washington Monument makes this a classic sci-fi flic. Many, many invasions followed; but this one you always remember. The simplicity of flying saucers carrying aliens has rapidly progressed; but it is so much fun going back to the age of innocence and fearing strange objects whirling in the sky.Directed by Fred F. Sears, this movie stars Hugh Marlow, Morris Ankrum, Donald Curtis and Joan Taylor. Pure enjoyment for any sci-fi fan. "},{"Title":"Great early sci-fi effort","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film on Mystery Science Theatre 3000, on Comedy Central, for the first time and was quite impressed with it. Sure, the special effects were a little cheap, but it made up for that in story. I think it was slightly ahead of its time. Any sci-fi fan should definitely check this one out....... "},{"Title":"march of the wooden actors","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ancient, malevolent aliens duke it out with the U.S. military in this 1956 B classic from Columbia. On reflection, perhaps the assignation of B to this movie is a bit optimistic, since it really is pretty goofy. According to Rumor Control, UFO enthusiasts of the time, like Truman Bethurum, Donald Keyhoe (whose book allegedly inspired the film), and others, were all a-twitter over the prospect of this film being a fact-based, rip-the-lid-off style expose'. They weren't real happy when what they got was cowboys and Indians, in flying saucers and zap guns. Undoubtedly adding to their, um, chagrin, was the almost unbelievably stilted acting, the most egregious perpetrator being Hugh Marlowe a.k.a Dr. Russell Marvin. Watching him clubfoot from scene to scene couldn't have gone over well. Come to think of it, we can't remember a single film that we've seen him in (12 O'Clock High, Day the Earth Stood Still, and World Without End, to name just a few) where he DIDN'T look like someone put too much starch in his clothes. To add insult to injury, most of the other actors weren't any better; Don Curtis, as Maj. Hoagland, looked and sounded like he was reading his lines for the first time, and that cop! We mean REALLY!! Curtis, of course, was every bit as wooden and lifeless in It Came from Beneath the Sea, but that's another story. It is just barely possible that the explanation for Marlowe's mechanical performance could be attributed to the unbridled outpouring of affection from his newlywed wife Carol, played by Ice Queen Joan Taylor. According to the script, she and Marlowe were married two hours and she won't even let him kiss her. There's a marriage made in Heaven, huh? Special-effects-wise, Harryhausen does his level best with this sadsack, and the saucers do look pretty good, but it's painfully obvious that the whole thing was shot on a shoestring budget, with scenes lifted from Day the Earth Stood Still, music reused from Sahara, and lots and lots of stock footage. Now, having said all this, you might have gotten the idea that we don't like this film. Au contrere! We actually do like this clunker, but we really can't give you a good reason why. Go figure. "},{"Title":"Time Gaps","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you work up the guts to watch 'Earth vs. the Flying Saucers', do yourself a favor and watch 'Independence Day' and 'Mars Attacks!' right after you're finished.You can see the progression of the 50s alien paranoia into spoof over 40 years and yet people will try to making a serious version of it much like 'ID4'.  The script here resembles a third-graders concoction and is so loaded with baloney that one must wonder how the producers didn't get heart-attacks after previewing this.This is, perhaps, the only example of Harryhausen's talent actually failing.  The saucers aren't convincing even against his Ymir and skeleton army, but they have a charm that the detail-laden ID4 monstrosities lack.  I have a weakness for stop-motion.  When it's done right (such as in The Empire Strikes Back) it is a visual achievement to behold.Overall, stick with THEM!, War of the Worlds, and Forbidden Planet for your 50s kicks.  1 out of 5. "}{"Title":"Hairy doctor","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" B-movies are so satisfying because they're either so bad that they're good or are so intelligent that they end up being better than they should be. 'Earth vs. the Flying Saucers' straddles the line somewhere between schlock and 'The Day the Earth Stood Still.' It has limited production values (an underground research facility that seems to be little more than a small command center connected by a boiler room), and curious dialogue (why does Carol tell her husband and father to bring their coffee spoons when she's out back grilling hamburgers?), but there are also smart passages where it takes time to consider temporal shifts, magnetic fields, and radio wave weapons. Unfortunately, the camp and the thoughtful just do no mix well in this one, and the result is stilted and dull.And Dr. Marvin really needed to investigate hot wax. I shuddered a little bit when Carol put her arm around him in the last shot. "},{"Title":"Delightfully Cheesy and Dated","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" While driving through the desert with his wife Carol Marvin (Joan Taylor) to a military base to send the eleventh rocket to the orbit of Earth for helping the exploration of the outer space in the Operation Sky Hook, Dr. Russell A. Marvin (Hugh Marlowe) and Carol see a flying saucer and accidentally records a message in their tape recorder. Once in the base, Dr. Russell is informed by his father-in-law and general that the ten first satellites had mysteriously felt on Earth. When Dr. Russell decodes the message, he encounters the aliens that ask him to schedule a meeting with the leaders of Earth in Washington in 56 days with the intention to invade Earth without panicking the population. Dr. Russell develops an anti-magnetic weapon that becomes that last hope of human race against the hostile aliens.Earth vs. the Flying Saucers is delightfully cheesy and dated in 2008, but this type of movie recalls my childhood and a really like it, but unfortunately I believe the youngest generations will not like it. The story is visibly inspired in the storyline of the classic The Day Earth Stood Still, with humans seeing flying saucers in the sky; then the aliens asking for a meeting with leaders of mankind and showing their power, but with a different conclusion. Carol Marvin, performed by Joan Taylor, is the typical North American woman of the 50's with her silly attitudes that irritates in many moments. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Invasão dos Discos Voadores (The Invasion of the Flying Saucers) "},{"Title":"Horrid Stuff","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I just saw this movie because I read some fantastic reviews about it... It stinks. Nowadays it looks as primitive as those automatic pianolas from the 19th Century. After half an hour or so I started skipping scenes and moving forward because unable to stand it much longer.The whole principle of the story is the worst part of it, because, why-oh-why the scientists were never believed by the military men and they always shot first and listen later??The aliens came over with good intentions, but the earthlings didn't give them time to say Hello! that they were already shot to death!! Ridiculous stuff.These movies were all the same, the military shot first without even listening to the intelligent scientists or the super-intelligent aliens, so they looked really like pathetic morons.I think that even nowadays the Science Fiction movies follow the same pattern, the earthlings never listen to the aliens, they always shoot, shoot and shoot!!! Even if the aliens display formidable weapons, the military don't seem to grasp their fabulous power and keep shooting away. Sad display of our low grade intelligence... (and not only WITHIN the movie).I just wasted one hour of my precious time watching this utter garbage. "},{"Title":"Conforms to expectation in every regard","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Mono(Black and white)A scientist (Hugh Marlowe) struggles to convince authorities of an imminent alien invasion after he's contacted by sinister beings who threaten the entire planet.Typical 1950's B-movie fodder, with stock characters and a predictable narrative arc, directed with humdrum efficiency by Fred F. Sears (THE GIANT CLAW). Best remembered for Ray Harryhausen's animated flying saucers, though the effects are compromised by an obvious low budget. Routine stuff. "},{"Title":"Almost unbearably bad","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everything about this movie reeks.Its star, Hugh Marlowe, is typically a second-stringer in films and seriously lacks the acting chops to carry off the lead. Joan Taylor, who portrays his wife in what may have been an unconsummated marriage -- the action here takes place immediately following their wedding -- seems abjectly bored and tagging along strictly for the paycheck.Even the special effects here are anything but. I'm no artist but I could have designed better flying saucers and aliens in my sleep.Most grating of all is the movie's stultifying dialog. It is so wordy and wooden it would be funny if it weren't so tedious.I tried to watch this stinker till the end but gave up some 30 minutes before the credits. TCM, please can this! "},{"Title":"Good grief","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What film did these other users see? This movie is pure 50s C schlock, regardless of Harryhausen's involvement. The acting is horrendous, the special effects laughable (a few years after War of the Worlds, which still holds up) and the script moronic.These cinematic do-gooders destroy more landmarks than Team America.Independence Day is a rehash, BUT what a much BETTER recycling it is.This is NOT on par with the previously mentioned War of the Worlds, This Planet Earth or Forbidden Planet. The only thing this flick is good for, is an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000. "}]