[{"Title":"Gilded Trash","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"56 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At the Academy Awards ceremony on March 27, 1957, Dorothy Malone won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her torrid, over-the-top portrayal of a spoiled heiress of a Texas oil tycoon in WRITTEN ON THE WIND. The 1956 potboiler, adapted from Robert Wilder's novel , was a veritable three-ring-circus showcasing alcoholism, greed, impotence and nymphomania.Malone's performance as Marylee Hadley , a lonely rich girl who picks up men to assuage the pain of rejection from a former childhood sweetheart, was representative of the movie as a whole. Mesmerizing to watch even as it resorts to the lowest -common- denominator melodrama, WRITTEN ON THE WIND is ultimately the work of one man, the incredibly gifted director Douglas Sirk, an émigré from pre -World War 2 Weimar Germany who left his European theater heritage behind to pursue a career in Hollywood.An extremely erudite man, Sirk made a name for himself in the 1950's as Universal Studios' reliable director of lavish soap operas, most notably with Ross Hunter's productions of MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION , ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS and IMITATION OF LIFE . Independent producer Albert Zugsmith offered Sirk the opportunity to work outside the limiting constraints of Universal's demure entertainments and create a more adult , sensational product , hence the sultry WIND and its follow-up, 1957's TARNISHED ANGELS, both released under the Universal International banner. It's anyone's guess why Sirk didn't pursue loftier themes, but apparently directing these exaggerated dramas appealed more to his artistic sensibilities. WRITTEN ON THE WIND could be considered Sirk's epic soap opera ; indeed, it is so rife with human vulnerability and neurosis as depicted among the very rich that it is as compelling to watch as any real life domestic squabble among the rich and famous, perhaps more so. Robert Stack (not an actor typically known for over -emoting) nearly matches Malone in intensity with his offering of the weak- willed brother Kyle Hadley, a mere shadow of his patriarchal father. When he finds out that he is unable to impregnate his new bride ( a beautifully leonine Lauren Bacall ) , Hadley goes off the deep end, escalating an already serious drinking problem with a secret  gun fetish that threatens to make him a human time bomb. Both brother and sister, as venal and unlikeable as they are, are presented as victims of their past, giving them a human quality that makes them seem less monstrous ( and far more interesting than the 'good side of the family, mainly Bacall and the impossibly handsome Rock Hudson , young Hadley's old boyhood friend and business associate, a surrogate son to the old man and Malone' s unattainable object of desire. ) Despite all the domestic co-dependency on display , it's not so much the story that is memorable here as the way it is filmed. With a real panache for pictorial composition and editing, director Sirk draws his audience into this picture with the most heightened Technicolor cinematography imaginable  every single shot in this film is an eye-filling canvas of saturated colors, from the sight of a tank-like pink Cadillac pulling up to an enormous mansion's front doors to the garish decor of a luxury Miami hotel , a spectrum of hues almost blinding in their diversity. Action and dramatic scenes feature Sirk's adept use of tilted camera angles , shadowy lighting and cross-cut editing , shown to greatest effect in the scene where a rebellious , drunken Malone dances uninhibitedly in her upstairs bedroom to the loud blaring of a record player while her stricken father precariously ascends the huge staircase ; the scene is so riveting that you swear you are experiencing a great oedipal drama unfold. What you're really watching is trash of an enormously entertaining kind, gussied up in lurid Technicolor and polished to perfection by a visual genius. "},{"Title":"Where trash becomes art","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"45 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can you say about Written on the Wind, other than this is where  thegenre of overproduced, inane Hollywood melodramas teeters into the realm ofgenuine art. Every aspect of this highly artificial concoction is fully realized, an  amazing example of the whole becoming far more than the sum of its parts.Elements that are, considered separately, laughable (the abundance ofFreudian symbols, the hyperrealistic colors, the over-the-top acting, the gushy  soundtrack)  all strangely combine into a hypnotically watchable masterpiece.  Clearly there's a genuine artist (director Douglas Sirk) at work here -- someone  who can take all the usually misused contents of the 1950s Hollywood bigstudio toolbox and create an astonishing work of art. "},{"Title":"A dysfunctional family and a classic love triangle","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Stack never really got over losing a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role as Kyle in Written on the Wind to Anthony Quinn's 12-minute performance in Lust for Life. Stack plays the deeply disturbed, alcoholic son of an oil tycoon. He has lived his life in the shadow of the friend with whom he was raised, Mitch, played by Rock Hudson. They both love the same woman, Lucy, (Lauren Bacall), who becomes Kyle's wife. Kyle's sister, Marylee (Dorothy Malone), is a drunken slut who's in love with Mitch. Their story plays out in glorious color under the able direction of Douglas Sirk, who really dominated the melodrama field with some incredible films, including Imitation of Life, All that Heaven Allows, Magnificent Obsession, and many others.Make no mistake - this is a potboiler, and Stack and Dorothy Malone make the most of their roles, Malone winning a Best Supporting Actress Oscar. There's one amazing scene, mentioned in other comments, where she wildly dances to loud music as her father collapses and dies on the staircase. We're led to believe that Marylee sleeps with everyone, including the guy that pumps the gas, because she's in love with Mitch. Mitch wants nothing to do with her. He's so in love with Lucy that, out of loyalty to Kyle, he wants to go to work in Iran to avoid temptation. I doubt he'd be so anxious to get there today no matter how much in love he was.Hudson and Bacall have the less exciting roles here - Hudson's Mitch is the good guy who's been cleaning up Kyle's messes for his entire life, and Bacall is Mitch's wife who finds herself in a nightmare when her husband starts drinking again after a year of sobriety. Sirk focuses on the more volatile supporting players.In Sirk's hands, Written on the Wind is an effective film, and the big scene toward the end in the mansion is particularly exciting. The director had a gift for this type of movie, and though he had many imitators, he never had an equal. "},{"Title":"A Douglas Sirk masterpiece","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Douglas Sirk once said `there's a very short distance between high art and trash, and trash that contains craziness is by this very quality nearer to art'. This statement defines his cinema perfectly, a very unique body of work that includes classic stage adaptations, adventure and war films, westerns and of course, his famous melodramas.Sirk's melodramas were, as the very word signifies, dramas with music. The music sets the tone for his masterful style, and every stroke of his brush (Sirk was also a painter) leaves a powerful image on the screen-turned-canvas. But this ain't life but its representation, an imitation of life. Sirk never tried to show reality, on the contrary. None of the directors of his generation made a better use of all the technical devices provided by Hollywood (most notably Technicolor) to distinguish the artificial from the real thing. Let's remember that his golden period coincides with the time when Hollywood films turned its attention into the social drama (Blackboard jungle, Rebel without a cause). Sirk always knew that cinema was meant to be something else.Another of Sirk's statements summarizes this `You can't reach, or touch, the real. You just see reflections. If you try to grasp happiness itself your fingers only meet glass'. I defy anybody that has seen Written on the wind to count the amount of mirrors and images reflected that appear on screen. One ends up giving up.Therefore, we are in a hall full of mirrors where there's no difference between real and its false copy. Nobody can say that the Hadley are real people. That town ain't real either, with those hideous oil pumps all over the place. So in this realm the acting is affected, the decore is fake, the trick is visible. Everything is pushed a little bit off the limit (the sexual connotations of Dorothy Malone with the oil tower, for example). Sirk was criticizing and theorizing at the same time.`The angles are the director's thoughts; the lighting is his philosophy'. In Written on the wind we follow the fall of a traditional way of life both in a geometrical way and in terms of light and shadows. The Hadleys house, with its different levels connected by the spiral staircase operates in a strictly metaphorical way. A house that resembles a mausoleum, that no party can cheer up. As tragedy progresses from luminous daylight to shadowy night, Sirk's photography becomes an extension of the inner state of his characters, and so are the colours of the clothes they wear. Drama is thus incorporated to every element at the service of the director's craft.Sirk considered himself a `story bender', because he bended the standard material he was assigned with to his style and purpose. Written on the wind is a good example. It wouldn't work in any other hands.The other director that was using similar strategies was Frank Tashlin, who was for 50's comedy the same that Sirk was for melodrama. Their films are full of the machinery of american life -advertising, TV sets, jukeboxes, washing machines, sport cars, vacuum cleaners- to depict its emptiness and decay. I'm inclined to think that their films were regarded in a different way by their contemporary audiences. The game was played by both sides, so it was camp. Now we regard them as `cult' or `bizarre', because we are not those spectators anymore. That is why Todd Haynes's homage `Far from heaven' turns into a pastiche, because it reproduces Sirk's work nowadays as if nothing happened in between. Then Sirk turns exactly into that painting hanging in the art gallery that Julianne Moore and the gardener discuss in the aforementioned film.Sirk understood the elements of melodrama perfectly. There were always immovable characters (Rock Hudson and Lauren Bacall here) against which he could assemble a series of split ones. His balance through antithesis is remarkable and not surprisingly we root for the split characters, because these are the ones Sirk is interested in too. When Robert Stack flies the plane and `tempts' Lauren Bacall with all sorts of mundane comforts of the world below them (obvious Faustian echoes) we are strangely fascinated with him too, as we are when the devilish nymphomaniac little sister painfully evokes her past with Mitch alone by the river.In the Sirk's universe the studio often-imposed `happy ends' have no negative impact. In fact they worked just great. Sirk was fond of greek tragedy and considered happy endings the Deux ex machinea of his day. Thus the final courtroom scene fits well and one must also remember that the whole film is told in flashback, so we know from the very beginning that tragedy will fall nevertheless over the Hadley feud.It was pointed out the many similarities between Written on the Wind with the Godfather saga. I absolutely agree and I'm sure the parallel is not incidental. Both share the theme of the old powerful father head trying to keep his empire going while protecting his family. The temperamental son portrayed by Robert Stack has an amazing physical resemblance with Jimmy Caan's Sonny Corleone. The action of fighting her sister's male friend is symmetrical. The non-son in which the old man put his trust is also common in both films, as the fact that both families carry the names of their town. Even details as  the gate that gives access to the property, and the surroundings of the house covered by leaves, suggest that Coppola had Written on the Wind in mind while setting his masterwork. Because both films deal with the subject of Power the acquisition of power, its manipulation and legacy (even Kyle Hadley's sterility, the event that hastens the turmoil, is an issue easily tied to the central theme of Power, in this case, a weakness in sexual power). The other great film that deals with power and uses american life as its representation is Citizen Kane. One wouldn't think at first of similarities between Welles and Sirk's films but there are a good many, starting with the petrol business as the origin of the family's fortune and ending in the fact that Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson), as Charles Foster Kane, was adopted by a tutor, having his own father alive. Amazingly, the same actor (Harry Shannon) perform both Wayne and Kane's fathers. This detail is cannot be a coincidence.Written on the Wind is a masterpiece in every aspect, in execution and vision, in style and technique, a highlight in the career of this wonderful director. Some say that this is his best film. In my opinion, `Magnificent obsession', `All that heaven allows', `There's always tomorrow' and `Imitation of life' are just as good. And for those who put Sirk in the level of Dallas or Dinasty I wish them no happy end.  "},{"Title":"A soap opera with passion, seriousness, and intelligence...","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is ironic that during the '50s, when Douglas Sirk was at his most successful in terms of audience appeal, he was virtually ignored by the critics&#133; He is now seen, however, as a director of formidable intellect who achieved his best work in melodrama&#133;Written on the Wind is about the downfall of a Texan oil dynasty surrounded by worthless reputation, alcoholism, and nymphomania&#133; It is about the twisted, fatal connections between sex, power, and money...Stack draws a compelling portrait of a tormented drunken destroyed by frustration, arrogance, jealousy, insanity, and some deep insecurities&#133;Dorothy Malone succeeds as an attractive woman with an excessive sexual appetites, degrading herself for Hudson and to other fellows in town&#133; Her best line I'm filthy. In one frantic scene, we see her shaking, quivering and sweating to a provocative mambo&#133; In another weeping alone over a model oil-derrick at her father's desk&#151;symbol of excessive wealth and masculine tyranny&#133;The frenetic atmosphere is both made palatable and intensified by Sirk's magnificent use of colors, lights, and careful use of mirrors&#133; "},{"Title":"Vertiginous, violet and tongue in cheek social comment.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the most oddly colored (violets,bright yellows and reds) wildly flamboyant films made in the 50's, expatriate German director Douglas Sirk made this as a soap opera with a nasty satiric bite. Although Lauren Bacall and Rock Hudson as staid camp followers of a wealthy Texas family are the stars, it's the perverse characters played by Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone who make the film such a vivid nightmare of the Eisenhower era of outdoor barbecues and post-war wealth. Malone in particular, playing a nymphomaniac oil heiress who dances wildly while her father dies of a heart attack, breaks the mold of the sexually sequestered decade.  "},{"Title":"Fun, overheated soap opera","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rich, alcoholic Robert Stack falls in love with secretary Lauren Bacall. He marries her and is so happy he stops drinking. However, Bacall is secretly loved by Stacks' best friend, Rock Hudson. And Stacks' nymphomaniac sister, Dorothy Malone, lusts after Rock. Throw in a few complications and the movie goes spinning out of control (in a good way).Very glossy movie in beautiful Technicolor with jaw-dropping fashions and furnishings (check out Bacall's hotel room at the beginning). Everybody looks perfect and dresses in beautiful, form-fitting clothes. Basically this is a soap opera with grade A production values. The story itself is lots of fun and some of the dialogue at the beginning is hilariously over the top. The acting by Hudson, Stack and Bacall isn't that good, but seeing them so young and glamorous is great...especially Stack...when he smiled my knees went weak! Dorothy Malone, on the other hand, is fantastic--she deservedly won Best Supporting Actress for her role. She's sexy, violent, vicious and sympathetic...all convincingly. Fun, glossy trash. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Shown today on A.M.C. (i.e., Always Multitudes of Commercials!)","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Channel-surfing earlier today I was passing the A.M.C. site and there was Written on the Wind already underway.  I'd seen it during its first-run theatrical release (and not since) and was mildly surprised to observe how vividly I recalled its unfolding.I rarely submit to watching anything on A.M.C. these days because this once watchable venue has deteriorated into nothing more than a merciless marketplace.  Strings of commercials endlessly interrupt every broadcast; virtually all films are shown formatted to fill non-widescreen TVs (A.M.C. frequently showed widescreen films in letterboxed broadcasts in the past but not anymore, with the recent exception, I noticed, of a Bruce Lee martial arts festival, of all things!); and then there are A.M.C.'s promotions for its upcoming schedule which are usually outrageously, stupidly silly (and boringly repeated ad nauseum).  That said... (once more, I might add...)This luridly Technicolored triumph of trash (not photographed in CinemaScope at a time when that process was Hollywood's way of luring us from our home black-and-white boob tubes) again grabbed me with the same stupefied amazement that fascinated me as a comparatively sheltered young teenager.  Douglas Sirk's subversively manipulative direction, Russell Metty's opulent cinematography, the eye-filling and fairly luxurious art direction, and the turgidly expressive musical score all add up to what over the top really means.  And the cast, assembled with an eye to populating this fantasy with near-godlike creatures (even the African American servants at the Hadley mansion are played by handsome and elegantly capable actors) was a cut above those assigned to most of the Universal-International product of that era.It was surely Dorothy Malone's finest hour and her supporting actress Oscar was a popular choice among her peers and with the audiences of the day.  Robert Stack, before he became such an ossified stiff in the years that followed, deservedly earned his own supporting actor Academy Award nomination.  Rock Hudson hadn't yet managed to show his mettle as an actor of some range, though his performance in Giant released about the same time gave him a better opportunity to escape the oft-repeated complaint that he was wooden and nothing more than a slab of beef(cake).  Lauren Bacall, though, was credible as an object of desire for two rivals and her soigne presence was a nice counterpoint to Malone's well-heeled tramp.All in all this kind of moviemaking is rarely attempted today and the presumed tastes of today's audiences would, were a story like this mounted with a suitable budget and an equivalent cast, most likely be swamped with a degree of tastelessness that would be much less palatable than this example of Sirk's mastery of melodrama was when it was released.  It's the cinema equivalent of those new calorie-laden ice cream treats that the dietary watchdogs are so assiduously warning us about now, but I doubt that it's as deleterious for our mental and emotional health.  Sure hope not, 'cause I savored every frame! "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once again, I must dissent. I think this film reeks.Roger Ebert described it as a perverse and wickedly funny melodrama...in which shocking behavior is treated with passionate solemnity, while parody burbles beneath. I think he was being very generous.I've always found Robert Stack to be a second-rate actor and just a little creepy. Here he outdid himself -- I found him to be a third-rate actor and really creepy...especially when he was looking directly at Lauren Bacall. Made me shudder. He gets killed off in the movie...it didn't come a minute too soon.I usually find Rock Hudson to be a rather appealing actor, but I didn't find him or his part to be a bit appealing here...perhaps more later in the film. Lauren Bacall, not usually one of my favorites, did about the only really decent acting here, though I have seen her better in a few other films. Dorothy Malone never quite made it to the top ranks either, although in a number of films I found her quite appealing...but not here.And, I have found some films directed by Douglas Sirk to be right up my alley -- especially Magnificent Obsession, All That Heaven Allows, and Imitation of Life -- but not this one. It took me 3 nights to wade through this, and several times I almost turned it off completely. I should have...my time would have been better spent whittling...and I don't even whittle! It seems that almost everything in this film is overdone. Over-acting. Overly dramatic music. Too much of a bad thing. I recommend you skip it! "},{"Title":"Over-the-top melodrama!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's the 1950's in the town of Hadley, Texas, and the town's namesake and resident oil baron Jasper Hadley (Keith) has about all he can handle with his business and two adult children, Kyle (Stack) and Marylee (Malone). Kyle has just met Lucy Moore, (Bacall) an advertising executive's secretary who was introduced to him by his best friend Mitch Wayne (Hudson) after they had only just met themselves. Kyle sweeps Lucy off of her feet and after a one-day courtship end up eloping, much to Mitch's chagrin since he's in love with Lucy himself. Meanwhile, Marylee, who is the resident town tramp, is becoming increasingly aggressive in her pursuit of Mitch, who wants nothing to do with her. When Marylee plants the idea in Kyle's head that Lucy and Mitch are having an affair (at the time, untrue) in a sick attempt to break up the couple in order for her to have Mitch there for herself, Kyle goes on a bender. Lucy, meanwhile, discovers from the doctor that she is pregnant, the father definitely being Kyle. That night, after Kyle returns home drunk, she tells him the news and he hits her, knocking her to the ground, assuming that it is Mitch's, and leaves the house after Mitch throws him out, threatening to kill him if he returns. He of course does return, and tries to shoot Mitch, but Marylee sneaks up behind him and grabs the gun, causing Kyle to shoot himself instead, not before finding out that he indeed was the father of Lucy's baby, which was of course, miscarried.Written on the Wind was one heck of a movie. Directed by the great Douglas Sirk, it is high melodrama and camp at its best. (Worst, depending on how much you like this kind of film.) Lauren Bacall, who has been quiet and dignified in every film I've seen her in, carries that demeanor through to this film, but it seems grossly out of place. Dorothy Malone, an actress I have heard of but haven't seen in a film that I can recall, is so tanned she is orange, and has a bad brassy blonde dye job, and practically spits out her lines, she is so evil and childish. Rock Hudson stays pretty true to character, playing the big lug who is generally a good guy, and Robert Stack, who I honestly only remember seeing in Unsolved Mysteries, is a riot as a drunken playboy. The story is nothing better than your average nighttime soap opera fare, and as stated earlier, the ending is sewn up a little too nicely and easily to be believed.What the film does have, however, is style to spare. In classic Douglas Sirk fashion, the vibrancy of the colors in the film is astounding, and the lush scenery and costumes are beautiful. One scene in particular that actually left me kind of breathless was a pivotal scene in the film where the father, Jasper, dies. Marylee has just picked up another guy, a gas station attendant this time, and was brought home by the cops. After marching upstairs defiantly, she puts on a Latin-style cha-cha type album with screaming trumpets and turns it up very loudly, while dancing around in her bedroom with this flowing dark pink nightgown on. We see the father walking up the stairs resolutely, but weakly, to confront her about it, but when he reaches the top of the stairs he collapses and falls down the entire staircase. Meanwhile, we still hear the music shrieking, and the shots of the father are intercut with his daughter dancing furiously and kicking her legs around in this pink gown. It is a stunning scene that lasts for only about 20 seconds, but was enough to make me sit up and take full notice. The melodrama factor in Written on the Wind is about as high as I've seen short of a Joan Crawford/Bette Davis film, and it is pretty delicious. Much like the great deer scene at the end of Magnificent Obsession, Written on the Wind has its own overly done final scene. Marylee, left alone in the family house now that Kyle and her father are both deceased, watches Mitch and Lucy leave from her father's office window. She turns around and is wearing a prim suit (first time we've seen something like that on her) and as she sits at her father's desk, she clutches a model of an oil tower, mirroring the portrait of her father behind the desk. It is an absolute riot, pure and simple.Written on the Wind begins with the film's near conclusion, and the wind blows the pages of a day calendar back to show what happened in the preceding year leading up to the events. Unfortunately, the characters in the film were so shallowly presented, with little background, that I didn't feel a whole lot for them. However, that is not to say that the film is not well done or enjoyable. If anything, Douglas Sirk shows that he can take bland fare and turn it into a film that is both well-presented and easy to watch. It isn't remotely boring, nor is it believable, but it is great escapist cinema. Watching this film is like watching a good episode of Dynasty, or in recent programming, Desperate Housewives. I actually had a pretty low opinion of it on a surface level, but after reconstructing it in my mind I could not deny that the film was exactly what it set out to be, and that I had actually really enjoyed it for its extravagance. If you don't have an appetite or appreciation for this kind of drama, don't bother with the film; you'll hate it. If you do like and appreciate this type of film and subsequently, the work of Douglas Sirk, don't miss this one because it is actually a lot of fun. 6/10 --Shelly "}{"Title":"Soap opera Heaven","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another in the they don't make em like that category.  This story of a family with some real skeletons in its closet still qualifies as good clean, sometimes over-the-top fun.  Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone are at their peak as the troubled Hadley siblings, and they really took the roles and ran with them.  Malone won an Oscar and Stack was nominated in the supporting categories, both honors being eminently well-deserved.  They counterbalance the somewhat bland  leads.  Neither Bacall nor Hudson could ever be called bad actors, but they've both had better parts and played them far more convincingly than they do here.  It's kind of hard for me to accept Rock Hudson playing such a red-blooded heterosexual as he does here, but that's more of a personal bias than anything else. But that doesn't take away from the movie's overall entertainment value, which is considerable and this movie is extremely watchable.  If you're up some night and this movie comes on I'd say watch it.  It's well worth it. "},{"Title":"The wayward wind","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written on the Wind was an enormously successful Universal picture. It could only be done by Douglas Sirk, a man who saw the possibilities in the material he was given. Based on a popular novel by Robert Wilder and an adaptation by George Zuckerman, it had all the elements that make an excellent melodrama nymphomania, a large oil fortune, alcoholism, incest and a mild touch of homosexuality. Mr. Sirk laid the path for what would follow later on in the soap operas genre, mainly, Dallas and Dynasty, just to mention two.The fact is this movie was shot entirely inside a studio. Most of the decor is phony. Like a lot of those 1950s pictures, Written on the Wind was shot entirely in a studio lot. Just look at the scenes that are supposed to take place in Manhattan, or Miami, or even the lake are, one can see how the scenery is a painted backdrop. Mr. Sirk couldn't care less about realism as long as he could tell the story his own way.We recently caught a screening, part of a revival of Mr. Sirk's work, where people were laughing at some of the most dramatic moments, especially during the scenes where Rock Hudson, who plays the good Mitch Wayne, appears. There is also something graphic in the way that both Robert Keith, who plays the patriarch Jasper Hadley, and later on his own daughter, the evil Marylee, caress the oil derrick that adorns the elder man's desk, a sort of phallic object d'art.Douglas Sirk probably wanted his cast to give over the top performances, which makes sense in the way Dorothy Malone portrays the nymphomaniac Marylee, and to a certain degree, Robert Stack, who overacts as Kyle, the tormented heir of the story. That would probably be the easy explanation of what comes across the screen. The only one that seems normal is Lauren Bacall, who wasn't asked to make her Lucy Moore character appear to be anything but a grounded person caught hanging out with the wrong crowd.Together with his other Hollywood movies, Written on the Wind shows the genius of a talented director who gave the public just what they wanted to see stories bigger than life that could only be seen on the big screen "},{"Title":"Melodrama ... blah","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film for the first time not too long on TCM's Essentials series. The eye of the beholder cliché was never more apropos. This beholder saw little of value in this one. I was puzzled by the infinite attraction that Lucy (Lauren Bacall) possessed. Granted, Ms. Bacall was a beautiful woman, but in this film her character comes off more mousy than attractive. I would think men like Mitch Wayne and Kyle Hadley would more likely ignore Lucy than fall into an instant infatuation with her. In Bacall's defense, this film was made at the time of Humphrey Bogart's last illness and the weight of his deteriorating health may have affected her performance. Of course part of this mousiness on the part of Lucy was to contrast her to slutty Marylee, played to the hilt and beyond by Dorothy Malone. The scene where she engages in a wildly sensual dance while her father wearily climbs the stairs to a fatal heart attack is far and away the best scene in the film. Malone's performance outshines the rest, although Jasper Hadley's weariness at the disappointing behavior of his two children is brilliantly portrayed by Robert Keith. Generally, though, I would have to say that I'm just not much of a fan of melodrama. The cartoonish behavior of the characters just makes for a story too implausible for my tastes. "},{"Title":"Macho soaper","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Texas millionaire Robert Stack, into oil and the ladies, meets attractive executive secretary Lauren Bacall from New York--via best friend Rock Hudson, who already has eyes for her--and finds himself immediately proposing marriage; Hudson feels rightfully snubbed yet keeps up a brave front, but the Texan's rowdy sister (Dorothy Malone) gives the new lady a rude awakening to the lifestyles of the rich and ruthless. Overheated Douglas Sirk film mixes sweeping romance with hard-boiled melodrama and fisticuffs--obviously targeting both male and female audiences, though not quite disguising the standard soap opera trimmings. It's well-cast, well-upholstered, glossy and occasionally involving, but it seems a bit stale, like flat champagne. Malone has given much better performances than this, yet her goosey outrageousness was enough to win her the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. The title song (sung by the Four Aces) is pretty, but its refrain sounds a bit like When You Wish Upon A Star. Rock Hudson gives his usual strong-jawed performance, but didn't he get enough oil and misery from Giant this very same year? **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A Vat Full Of Colorful Soap Suds","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" was excited to finally obtain a copy of this movie, which isn't always easy to do. The DVD is too expensive to buy sight-unseen, so I grabbed a used VHS when I saw it on sale. For one, my brother had said You HAVE to see Dorothy Malone in this film. She's unbelievable. Then, a bunch of classic film board posters had praised this film, so my interest was there.Well, one viewing was enough. I am just not a fan of soap operas, and this is so soapy you could fill a tub big enough to wash (you fill in the blank.) I have no problem with the four main actors of this film - Robert Stack, Rock Hudson, Lauren Bacall and Dorothy Malone - having enjoyed all of them in other movies/TV shows. However, the characters they played in this movie were unappealing. The only normal guy, ironically, turned out to be the one Rock Hudson played. Bacall's dialog, at least early on, was unrealistic; Malone's looks turned me off (I was spoiled, having seen her look fantastic in other things; here she was just cheap-looking , which was what they wanted); and Stack, well, he was just plain super-annoying. That's what soap fans want, anyway annoying, loser-type people. Me, I prefer some nice, normal characters. So, if you like whining drunks, squabbling siblings, stupid romances, etc., this is your cup of tea. However, one thing in here that was to interest was the color palate it's pretty wild. I'm sure this looked a lot better on DVD than on the tape I watched.To be fair, the film is okay and the story is just fine for what it is a '50s melodrama. It's a good movie for those who like this genre. I'm just not a fan of these overwrought stories, but I'll still rate the movie decently for what it presents good acting, a somewhat-involving story and interesting cinematography with a wild color scheme. "},{"Title":"Far from heaven, indeed","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those overproduced hothouse Douglas Sirk 1950s melodramas Todd Haynes paid homage to in his 2002 Far From Heaven. The decor and costumes are far more dramatic than the actors, although these particular actors never really stood a chance, as they are mostly horribly miscast (unlike Far From Heaven.) Rock Hudson plays a dedicated geologist(??) who pines for prim secretary Lauren Bacall(????) in a style indistinguishable from constipation. Bacall is the victim of a whirlwind courtship courtesy of Hudson's friend, oil magnate Robert Stack--she marries him and learns too late that he's a deeply troubled alcoholic (Stack, who should have been playing Hudson's role, goes through numerous vocal and facial contortions meant to demonstrate drunken paranoid jealousy, to little effect.) Stack's sister, Dorothy Malone, has longed for Hudson since childhood; seen by him as a sister (it was the 1950s) she seeks refuge in anonymous sexual encounters with barroom trash. (In the previous decade, this would have been Bacall's role). Bacall has no talent for noble suffering; she seems paralyzed. (The great underused actress Ruth Roman was much better at this sort of thing.) Malone is a very peculiar actress; she has severe features (her eyebrows are reminiscent of Joan Crawford) and her elaborate blonde hairdo appears to be made of bronzed Slinkies pasted to her head. Yet she's the only one who really gets into the artificial spirit of this thing--she lets the clothes do the acting for her. I may never forget the shots of her driving a hot-pink convertible while wearing an identically hot-pink pantsuit set off by light pink gloves and scarf--anticipating Legally Blonde by fifty years. (Did she buy the car because it matched her outfit?) In the genuinely campy (much-discussed) highlight of the film, the police have just brought her home from yet another motel liaison (Why? She's hardly underage) and her heartbroken father is steeling himself to confront her about it. She goes to her room, strips down to her black (death, evil) slip, tosses on a sheer red (passion) chiffon robe, slaps on a jazz (sin) record, and dances orgiastically around the room. This is intercut with shots of her father mounting the stairs, clutching his heart, and tumbling to his death. Finally, in a totally superfluous eleven-o'clock courtroom scene (which helped win Malone an Oscar), she gets to have a tearful meltdown on the stand while wearing all-black; she concludes the scene by letting her head fall forward, revealing a flat hat that looks like a burnt poached egg. Apart from these highlights (and occasional dialog exchanges like You're a filthy liar! I'm filthy--period!) this is rather tame camp; it never gets as wretchedly excessive as it wants to be. "},{"Title":"People are strange.","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of all of Douglas Sirk's sly and subversive melodramas, Written on the Wind may very well be the one that takes itself the most seriously. This is not to say that Sirk's wicked undertones are not present as they are; rather by this time (1956), he had perfected his ability to balance the false and lavish exterior with the sad, repugnant interior of the characters and the lives they inhabit.What is unique to this film is how intense and emotional the story becomes rather than simple-minded fodder for soap fans. This is due in part to the very strong performances, particularly Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone as Kyle and Marylee Hadley, the filthy-rich but morally empty children of an oil tycoon who traipse about looking for thrills and challenges. Kyle finds one in straight-laced secretary Lucy Moore (Lauren Bacall), whom he eventually marries. Marylee has been attracted to Kyle's best friend Mitch Wayne (the incomparable Rock Hudson) all her life but cannot get past his wall of incredulity. In short, none of these characters are truly happy or satisfied with their situations, even after attempts to correct them. This may be Sirk's most devastating critique of all everyone, despite their varied backgrounds, remain unfulfilled and unwilling to settle for anything but what they feel is ultimate satisfaction.If nothing else, this film is gorgeous to look at. Russell Metty, Sirk's longtime cinematographer, photographs Hollywood sets better than anyone. Perhaps its the color palate or Sirk's mise en scene; whatever it is it is used brilliantly to reflect the characters (and 1950s America's) vapid soullessness. This, combined with over the top acting and scenarios, would seem to present itself as sheer stupidity and disregarded melodrama. Of course, this being Douglas Sirk, one must attempt to look closer for the signs of that most modern of ideas that people are strange and life is the most ironic of situations. "},{"Title":"Solid Film Very Good Cast","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lauren Bacall was living through husband Humprey Bogarts illness & death when she did this film. Rock Hudson was near the top of his 1950's stardom. Dorothy Malone is in excellent form, and wins an Oscar for support. Robert Stack is nominated & falls just short for his role.The story is a little soapy from another time but just as worthwhile as most dramas. Amazing how well drunks can drive in this film & also how quickly Stack sobers up in a couple of the films early sequences.You can see why the cast is so good & actually production wise this film is very good. You can tell Bacall is distracted during this film as while her acting is fine, she looks emotionally drained in some sequences.The sexual references in this film are so mild, that many of today's young viewers would not realize what they are. Film does a good job telling a story & actually leaves a sequel to be made at the end though none ever was made- though Written Beyond THe Wind would be a good title. "},{"Title":"Pure Camp or High Art? Or Both?","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This gloriously turgid melodrama represents Douglas Sirk at his most high strung. It eschews the soft wistfulness of All That Heaven Allows and the weepy sentimentality of Imitation of Life and instead goes for feverish angst and overheated tension. And of course, it's all captured in vibrant Technicolor.The cornball story has something to do with a friendship between Rock Hudson and Robert Stack that becomes a rivalry when Hudson snags the affections of Lauren Bacall, but who's really paying attention to the story? Dorothy Malone won a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award for her splendidly over-the-top performance as Stack's sister, who takes the family business into her own hands when no one else will. A highlight of the film comes when this high-spirited wild child breaks into a frantic dance in her bedroom, unable to bear the restraints placed upon her by middle-class propriety. As so frequently happens in Sirk movies, the scene is both unintentionally hilarious in its absurdity and yet strangely moving in its effectiveness.Sirk came closer than anyone else to turning pure camp into high art, satisfying the philistines and the high brows at the same time within the same films. His was a unique talent and I don't know that there's ever been another film maker quite like him since.Grade A- "},{"Title":"No Oscar for Stack?","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stack should have received the Academy Award for this performance, period. Its a crime that he did not. Amazing how he humanizes a rich worthless character. Dorothy Malone did earn a well-deserved Academy Award for her performance. In fact, all of the acting in this film is excellent.The plot begins with a taxi ride, then an airplane ride, then keeps moving on an emotional ride that will hold your interest throughout. You will be entertained!However, this is only a blatant soap opera. One-dimensional, 100-percent soaper. You might call it the ultimate soaper, because the acting so thoroughly triumphs over the material. Excellently acted, well directed, but strictly within its soap genre. I wouldn't even call it a melodrama (such as Mildred Pierce or Imitation of Life). While not denying the great entertainment value of this film, you can only imagine what this talented cast and director might have achieved with more substantial subject matter. "}{"Title":"Wealth is not everything...but close.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Douglas Sirk directs this over-acted drama about the unhappy affluent. Kyle Hadley(Robert Stack)and Mitch Wayne(Rock Hudson) are boyhood friends with different looks on life. Kyle is the womanizing son of an oil tycoon; Mitch works for the Hadley Oil Company. Both fall in love with the same woman, Lucy Moore; but it is Kyle that has the means to wow her off her feet and marry her. Sister Marylee(Dorothy Malone)seems to be the town's nymphomaniac and carrying a torch for Mitch, who always seems to be the one to clean up the Hadley's messes. Ambitious with pretension; a little over the top, but the stars make it a movie to see. I was most impressed with Malone. Rounding out the cast Robert Keith, Edward Platt, John Lurch and Robert J. Wilke. "},{"Title":"Top notch melodrama that engages despite existing in a sort of Dallas/Dynasty reality","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mitch Wayne comes from a working family, but his childhood friendship with the children of oil magnate Hadley sees him continuing within the family and the family business as an adult. Kyle is his best friend, but is a spoilt playboy as a result of his money and privilege. When the two meet Lucy, they both fall for her but, as usual, it is Kyle that gets her attention and quickly marries her. Lucy joins the family home to find a spiteful and spoilt daughter, Marylee, who dislikes her but longs for the childish affection she still holds for Mitch. Against a background of money and privilege, tensions and emotions build between the friends and family.Normally when I call something melodramatic it is a criticism but for those looking for melodrama that is well delivered then often Douglas Sirk is as good a place to look as any. This film is a fine example but I'll be the first to admit that the plot summary on paper does make it sound like the soapiest load of daytime TV filler ever! However the delivery is everything and the film succeeds in making the story and characters engaging. It is hard to describe well, but the story doesn't really happen in reality but rather in a sort of melodrama world of high emotions and I didn't expect it to draw me in. Part of the reason it did was down to Sirk's writing and direction. He creates this convincing world where everyone fits in and it all seems real.Of course of the biggest factors is the cast, for it is starry and impressive. I've never been that taken by Hudson but he is a sturdy and manly lead actor here, even if he has the less showy material to work with. Bacall is strong and controls a great deal of the emotional core of the film. The main melodramatic flair comes from two other good performances. It was hard for me to get past the Stack I know from Airplane but he is very good here and descends well across the film. Likewise Malone plays her character well. As with many Sirk films, the cinematography, the look, of the film is important and this one expertly captures the feel of the fifties but doesn't look dated in a bad way &#150; it still feels quite fresh and lively.Overall this is a melodrama and if the very thought of that puts you off then you'd best avoid it. However it is a fine story that engages well even as it exists above reality. The cast are impressive with their material and are a big part of making it convincing and engaging. "},{"Title":"Dorothy Malone steals the sleazy show!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the pleasure of seeing this lurid chunk of celluloid camp on television last night. It's a candy-bright trash-o-rama about a secretary (Lauren Bacall) who marries into a filthy rich oil family only to find a more general kind of filth under the gloss of privilege and public respectability. Oddly enough, both Bacall (usually the epitome of strength and gravity) and Rock Hudson are given fairly bland roles, always remaining above the hideously dysfunctional quagmire that surrounds them. They're too good to be very interesting. The characters at the opposite end of the spectrum are what keep our attention. Once soaked in alcohol, a pre-Unsolved Mysteries Robert Stack is immensely entertaining as tormented, pistol-waving Kyle, upset over his inability to conceive the children needed to complete the little American Nightmare in rich-people hell. However, this decidedly cracked soap is dominated by Dorothy Malone as Marylee, the boozed-up, fast-driving slut with the temperament of your average cobra. Malone won a well-deserved Oscar for her astonishing, one-of-a-kind performance--all bulging eyes and twitching lips, like a drag queen in heat, spewing acid at the other members of the cast. From her wild mambo of death (!) to fondling a model oil derrick (!!!), she is a hilarious delight. Aren't the bad girls always more interesting? Other reviews talk about her being reformed at the end. I, personally, did not see that. Yeah, she's upset...but with someone like Marylee, how long is that gonna last?Later parodied by John Waters's Polyester, Written on the Wind is a seamy, steamy don't-miss. In gorgeously saturated Technicolor. "},{"Title":"Style over substance in typical Sirk fashion...good performances...","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After playing a nymphomaniac in WRITTEN ON THE WIND, Dorothy Malone finally said good-bye to her sweet sister/wife roles and demonstrated an ability to play mantraps with the best of them. She and Gloria Grahame played the same sort of tramps--and for her efforts here in a very manipulative role, Malone won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar.The film she's in is not quite up to Oscar standards, but it is a strong enough melodrama under Douglas Sirk's capable hands. There's an almost noirish look to the explosive opening scene and it sets the tone for the rest of the sudsy fireworks in a story that has ROCK HUDSON, LAUREN BACALL, ROBERT STACK and DOROTHY MALONE as its headliners.Domestic squabbles among the inhabitants of a wealthy family with an oil background are the primary focus of the drama, with the accent on the strong supporting players, Stack and Malone. Both of them seize the opportunity with both hands and Stack, too, should have been awarded for his sterling job as the weak, alcoholic brother driven to desperation by his own wild motives.The nominal stars have less impressive work to do, but do it with their usual skill and conviction--Hudson and Bacall. They play their more sympathetic roles with quiet authority and understanding.The use of color is particularly striking (as it usually is in a Sirk film) and yet it doesn't preclude me from thinking of the film as a Technicolor film noir in the vein of LEAVE HER TO HEAVEN.Well worth watching with some interesting performances from the entire cast. "},{"Title":"Pineapple of Perfection","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I was studying English Literature as an undergraduate, I read a play called The Octoroon by one Dion Boucicault (spelling?), an Irishman (no kidding) with a panache for melodrama. Well, The Octoroon was, perhaps, the most reviling and offensive piece of literature I had ever read (until I picked up Tropic of Cancer anyway). Nevertheless, I absolutely loved the lurid story and the classic closing tableau of a silhouetted American Indian frozen, hatchet-bearing arm raised above the cowering bad-guy. It was brilliant trash, really, eliciting from me the reaction opposite my professor's expectations. I believe he said something about needing to be able to recognize worthless literature as well as wonderful. Well, I thought the Octoroon, in its own way, was wonderful, even if I thought it was racist, sexist, ist ist ist ad infinitum. I read another Boucicault play while in Ireland (apparently, he's considered one of their greatest dramatists over there) and, though not quite as good, it was still rather wonderful melodrama. Boucicault's plays, to be told, are melodrama perfected and, if you like your stories over the top and busting at the seams, they're very enjoyable.Now, that brings us to Douglas Sirk perfecter of the American melodrama in the 1950s. Unlike Boucicault, I would never doubt Sirk's talent, as his films reveal him as a true, visionary artist who was able to transform soap operatic stories into sublime motion pictures.His best, I believe, is Written on the Wind. Not to diminish the quality of All that Heaven Allows or Magnificent Obsession, but the story, mise en scene, and technicolor cinematography all come together so perfectly in Written that it's hard to argue against this film's placement at the top of Sirk's oeuvre.Written tells the tell of a thoroughly dysfunctional family of rich oil barons. Impotent sons, un-loving fathers, and nymphomaniac daughters all make an appearance. People die, go mad with un-requited love, wind up in court, smash cars, lie, drink heavily, fight, and on and on. The characters in this film do just about everything.As immensely entertaining as this story is, the reason people remember it (besides Robert Stack's wonderful performance as a raging drunk) is Sirk's masterful direction. The scenes make perfect use of the wide-screen format with painterly mise en scene. The colors are vibrant and lush. The cinematography - of both interiors and the flat landscape outdoors - is beautiful. Written on the Wind is simply gorgeous to look at. You could watch it without sound and still find it entertaining.Furthermore, though it definitely contains typically 50s sensibilities, it is a timeless story of unrequited love and jealousy that anyone can find, at the very least, entertaining if not brilliant.Watch this film; you will not be bored. "},{"Title":"A little mean to call it trash, isn't it?","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I think of something trashy and good, I'm thinking of something so bad it's good. Or maybe something that's trying really hard to please and is working, even if it is kind of crappy, maybe something like The Mummy Returns, which truly did please me. I don't think melodrama is in its nature trashy. This past weekend, I saw for the first time in my life Gone with the Wind, and, as God is my witness, I'm never watching that clumsy piece of filmmaking again. It is a florid melodrama, and so is Written on the Wind. But Written on the Wind handles itself so amazingly well. I almost wanted to clap when The End appeared on the screen. It is my personal Gone with the Wind, about 10 times better than that supposed masterpiece.POSSIBLE SPOILERSAs for the writing, the story and the dialogue, it was all good. Maybe not the best in the world, but still quite good. I did care about the characters, a good (and necessary) sign for a drama. The only weak spot is the courtroom scene, which is particularly bad even for this most cliched type of scene. But it also incorporates a lot of Freudian touches into the script, so there is always more going on beneath the surface. Especially watch Marylee and the scenes involving her. Pay close attention to her final scene in the film, where she has sole control of the Hadley oil industry. Look at what she is holding in her hand, for instance (and make sure to notice the painting of her father behind her in this same scene).The acting was quite high quality, for the most part. Rock Hudson was good as the tough guy who has to try to keep the lid on his emotions. Robert Stack was excellent as a pathetic rich boy (he also played drunk well, which is very hard to do), and Dorothy Malone is a standout as the nympho sister who works as a catalyst for the harrowing climax. The only weak point in this cast is Lauren Bacall, who, while not bad, does not exhibit much depth in the role of the newcomer into the oil dynasty.The real point of light in the whole proceedings is Douglas Sirk. He is why I picked this film up. I had heard his name countless times in my readings, and had always been interested. I mean, go through any user comments on this site to any of his films. People will say how cheesy or soap-opera-like his films are, but they all still love his films (I don't recall a single negative comment in all of those that I read, and I read most of them). Any director who can do that, heck, any director who can be singled out as an auteur in the American studio system, deserves recognition. And Written on the Wind has an amazing style when compared to other Hollywood features of the same period. The way he moves his camera is quite a feat at times. Watch the way the camera rolls from Stack's yellow car to the upstairs bedroom window in the prologue/climactic scene, or how the camera follows the bartender through the beaded door, allowing the beads to graze the lense (most Hollywood films in the studio system would have done a lot to have avoided this, but it adds a particular feeling to what is happening in that scene), or, my favorite scene, watch both the camera placement (actually, here, the decision NOT to move the camera) and the editing of the sequence involving the father's death. Possibly the most noticeable technique that differentiates this film from other Hollywood films of the same era is the startling use of color. The production design is more reminiscent of an MGM musical than a melodrama. The way color is used is very painterly, of the more modern art variety like Lichtenstein and Warhol. I don't know exactly what Sirk did all that for, but it makes these color films much more impressive than the often boring realistic style used in most films of the same period. In fact, I generally prefer black and white to color at this period, because so many cinematographers were unskilled in the way of color yet. Watching Written on the Wind is something akin to a light acid trip, and I'm sure Sirk regained popularity in the late 60s because of it.All in all, Written on the Wind is quite spectacular. I can't wait to see more Sirk films. I just rented Imitation of Life and Magnificent Obsession, so hopefully they live up to the high standard Written on the Wind has already set. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Glossy, fun trash","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story of a heavily dysfunctional wealthy family is loads of fun.  Dumb but fun dialogue, breathtaking settings, gorgeous outfits and racy (for its time) situations.  What's not to like.  Also Malone was perfection as a nymphomaniac...easy to see why she won an Oscar.  Try to see a good print...the color is beautiful. "},{"Title":"real pot boiler,made me think of Giant","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Does any one know what the 2 sports cars were? I think Robert Stack's might have been a Masseratti.Rock Hudson's character told his father he was taking a job in Iraq ,isn't that timely? I have had Dorthy Malone in my spank bank most of my life ,maybe this was the film that impressed me.Loren Bacall sure did have some chops in this film and probably out-acted Malone but Malones's part made a more sensational impact so she got the Oscar for best supporting role.Was Loren's part considered a leading role?Old man Hadley character was was probably a pretty common picture of tycoons of his era in that he was a regular guy who made it big in an emerging industry but in building a whole town he had forgotten his children to have his wife bring them up.In time,being widowed he realized that they were all he really had and they were spoiled rotten,looking for attention,so rather than try to relate to his children he blew his head off.An ancient morality tale.But seriously,what were those sports cars? "},{"Title":"Melodramatic Soap Opera","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" On 24 October 1955, the hard-work geologist of the Hadley Oil Company Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson) meets the executive secretary Lucy Moore (Lauren Bacall) in the office of her boss Bill Ryan in New York and invites her to go to a conference with the alcoholic playboy and son of a tycoon Kyle Hadley (Robert Stack). On the way of the meeting, he confesses that they had traveled from Houston to New York to satisfy the wish of the reckless Kyle, who is his best friend since their childhood, of eating a sandwich from club 21 and the meeting was just a pretext to Kyle's father Jasper Hadley (Robert Keith). Mitch and Kyle immediately fall in love for Lucy, and Kyle unsuccessfully uses his money to impress Lucy; then he opens his heart and proposes Lucy. They get married and travel to Acapulco and the insecure Kyle stops drinking. Meanwhile, Kyle's sister Marylee (Dorothy Malone) is an easy woman and has a non- corresponded crush on Mitch that sees her as a sister. One year later, Kyle discovers that he has a problem and might be sterile and starts drinking again. The jealous Marylee poisons Kyle telling that his wife and Mitch are having a love affair. When Lucy finds that she is pregnant, Kyle believes that the baby belongs to Mitch and his mistrust leads to a tragedy. Written on the Wind is an overrated melodramatic soap opera, with artificial characters and situations. There are at least two great movies with characters with drinking problem The Lost Weekend (1945) with stunning performance of Ray Milland and Days of Wine and Roses (1962) with awesome performance of Jack Lemmon. Robert Stack has a reasonable performance and his character's motives for drinking are shallow and clichés. In the end, the forgettable Written on the Wind is entertaining only and never a feature to be nominated to the Oscar. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Palavras ao Vento (Words in the Wind) "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    Fabulous film!  Rented the DVD recently and was floored by this stunning piece of work.  Douglas Sirk was a filmmaking genius and he gets performances out of Rock Hudson, Dorothy Malone (Oscar winner), Robert Stack (Oscar nominated), and Lauren Bacall that words cannot describe.  Paul Verhoeven brilliantly payed homage to this film by having Dorothy Malone play Sharon Stone's murdering inspirational guru in his Basic Instinct.  What a great joke!  By turns the film is hilarious, riveting, campy, biting, trashy, compelling, and eye rolling!  It's definately the grandaddy of every tawdry big-and-little screen soap opera but none have had the dazzling style like you'll see here  the camera work is smooth and polished, the use of color is breathtaking, the opening montage set to the title song is beyond memorable, the one dimensional characters are unforgettable, and the final image will have you scratching your head as to how the censors back then let it make the final cut!  While most older, highly regarded films can sometimes be a boring chore to sit through,  Written on the Wind contains so much and goes by so fast that it's actually a shame when it ends.  Thank you to Mr. Sirk for crafting  -and Todd Haynes for drawing attention to-  what has now become one of my favorite films of all time!  SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "}{"Title":"Why?","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Roger Ebert gives Douglas Sirk's Written on the Wind laudatory props for being subversive, ironic, a commentary on 50s materialism, ahead of its time, the forerunner to TV soaps like Dynasty and Dallas, and god knows what else.But watch it.I love Sirk's All That Heaven Allows (truly brilliant, and brilliantly executed, for its genre) and Imitation of Life (the ULTIMATE in the lush romantic melodrama genre and a tearjerker that EARNS its tears, thanks largely to the performances of Juanita Moore and Susan Kohner).By comparison, Written on the Wind is an insult on virtually every level. Not least, the sad revelation of the utter lack of talent in two of its leads.One snickers uneasily, at first, then recoils at the shoddiness of what's on screen.Humphrey Bogart, when he saw WOTW screened, had the wisdom to tell his then-wife, Lauren Bacall, not to make any more crap like this. She didn't.Bacall is the ONLY actor (aside from supporting ones like Robert Keith, Grant Williams, Robert Wilke, Edward Platte, etc.) able to elicit genuine emotion or audience empathy from this carny sideshow hurly-burly script.Rock Hudson doesn't have to do anything but be a stoic hunk and stunt-fighter. Watch him in Sirk's All That Heaven Allows if you want to see what Hudson was really capable of in roles like this. Still better, watch his evolution into a first-rate light comedian in his Doris Day pictures or his final incarnation as the same in TV's McMillan and Wife. Beyond Bacall and Hudson, and the excellent supporting players, WOTW is shocking. Not for Sirk's always superlative visuals and camera direction, but for his Community Theater cast. Why were they EVER considered talents, much less stars?Robert Stack could do ONE thing. His role on The Untouchables exploited that fully. What he COULDN'T do was nuance, or a drunk scene. So clenched and anal-retentive was he as an actor that he couldn't even laugh or giggle convincingly.WATCH him! Stack's drunk scenes here are painful to watch. They're supposed to display layers of his character's background and depth and pain and sympathetic hurt.Instead, they're just a shallow amateurish actor's attempt, given a lousy script, to infuse dramatic depths beyond his talents.Lauren Bacall's lines are no better, but look at what she does with them. Namely, she UNDERPLAYS them, to relatively great effect. Same with Hudson.Not Stack. In person, he was nice. Conservative. Didn't rock boats. Had a long career in wooden roles. But he simply couldn't rise, convincingly, the the occasion when cast as tortured bastards like Kyle Hadley.Dorothy Malone? Saddest of all. You really have to watch WOTW to appreciate her. She won an Oscar for this performance.Bless her heart! ANOTHER one who never should have been a star, nor an actress. A nice gal who got to Hollywood and got bleached and coached into sexy and finally wised up and left it and went home.Malone's is an amazing performance here because, in EVERY scene, no matter where in the plot's emotional arc it falls, she plays it EXACTLY the same.Sultry. In quotation marks.Apparently, for Malone, sultry meant raising her chin defiantly, lowering her eyelids, looking down her nose at her co-stars or the camera, pouting, parting her lips, then lowering her chin, looking up from under her eyelids at her co-stars or the camera, pouting some more, parting her lips some more, writhing in place for no discernible reason, and sounding breathy. Up . . . down. A face on a slo-mo fork-lift.WATCH her! Looks terrific till she has to speak or move. Over-emotes with the same heave-ho histrionics to a sound-stage tree in a voice-over scene! Priceless!Malone can't even dance seductively, as required at the party sequence, or after her motel shack-up with the star of The Incredible Shrinking Man (Grant Williams), upstairs in her bedroom with her mock-striptease inter-cut with her father's heart attack on the stairs while a hot arrangement of Temptation blares from her record player.That sequence is so totally contrived, badly executed (largely by Malone's quick-cut lack of ability to embody or sustain her character's wanton lust in-the-moment) and hysterically obvious that today's audiences burst into spontaneous applause and laughter at its sheer inept audacity. TEMPTATION!The camera has to cut away from brief shots of Malone in her pink peignoir swirling across the lens because Malone simply isn't capable of being genuinely sexy on screen, though she labors mightily.Ostensibly her best performance was in Man of a Thousand Faces. Even there Malone was an amateur among professionals, but her role was more sympathetic and better written.In WOTW, in her big courtroom scene with her glycerin tears, she's still doing the slo-mo fork-lift facial up-and-down sultry shtick we've seen since reel one.Then Hudson and Bacall drive off into the sunset, or something, accompanied by the Four Aces -- the FOUR ACES! -- singing the unforgettable title song.A song long since forgotten unless you watch this film again. Which you should. Simply to marvel at how mediocre actors (but no doubt wonderful people) like Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone were ever ranked as box-office, much less Oscar winners, in the 50s. "},{"Title":"Overwrought Melodrama","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Slinky Marylee (Dorothy Malone) is in love with nonchalant Mitch (Rock Hudson); Mitch is in love with virtuous Lucy (Lauren Bacall); Lucy is in love with jealous Kyle (Robert Stack); and Kyle is in love with the bottle. And they're all rolling in Texas oil money. Despite their wealth, however, none of these people are really happy. But, hey, what would a sudsy soap opera be without romantic entanglements, despair, tears, verbal conflict, and tons of melodrama? All we need here is Larry Hagman as J.R. Ewing and Barbara Bel Geddes as Miss Ellie.Although Robert Stack is miscast as a lady's man, he gives the only credible performance of the bunch, a feeble reason for watching this high-strung and overwrought spite-fest. Otherwise, the characters in Written On The Wind are neither interesting nor realistic.And most of the major cast members are miscast. Rock Hudson not only gives a wooden performance, he's laughable as a wheeler-dealer Texas oil man. Dorothy Malone tries to steal the show, but her performance is all atwitter and way over-the-top. And why Lauren Bacall was selected to play a sweet, innocent outsider is a mystery suitable for an Agatha Christie novel.Further, the film's plot gives away part of the ending, before the story even begins. And while oil is the source of the Hadley family wealth, the characters never engage in any actual oil business.Color cinematography is competent, and one of the least offensive elements of the film. But the background music is manipulative and as overwrought as the characters.Written On The Wind is another 1950s Douglas Sirk directed melodrama, and arguably one of the worst, owing to a campy plot, overwrought characters, very bad casting, and some rather poor acting. "},{"Title":"Those crazy Hadley kids","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One thing about Hollywood, someone has a success and it's always rushed to be copied. And another thing is that players give some of their best performances away from their home studio.Rock Hudson got such accolades for his performance in the Texas based film Giant that Universal executives must have thought, let's quick get him into another modern Texas setting.Similarly Robert Stack got great reviews for The High and the Mighty as the pilot who was cracking under the strain of flying a damaged aircraft that it was natural to give him another crack up role.Both of these ends were achieved in Written on the Wind. Before Hudson was the big ranch owner, now he's the son of a hunting companion of Robert Stack's father who took Hudson under his wing. In other words the James Dean part without the James Dean racism from Giant. Lauren Bacall is the executive secretary of an advertising agency that Stack's Hadley Oil Company uses. Hudson likes her, but she's dazzled by Stack's millions and when he woos a girl he's got the means to really pursue a campaign. She marries Stack.And last but not least in the mix we have Dorothy Malone who's Stack's amoral sister who has a yen for Rock, but Rock ain't about to get tangled up with this wild child. Dorothy Malone spent over 10 years in a whole bunch of colorless film heroine roles before landing this gem. She got a Best Supporting Actress Award for her part as Marilee Hadley and it was well deserved.If you like splashy technicolor Fifties soap opera than this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Overwrought melodrama about rich and perverse as only Sirk could make them","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The absolute summum of the oeuvre of that crafty Dane Douglas Sirk (born Detlef Sierck), Written on the Wind compels our prurient attention in every gaudy frame.  From its justly famous opening sequence, with the leaves blowing into the baronial foyer of a Texas mansion and the wind riffling the pages of the calendar into a flashback, the movie compresses into its 99 minutes all the familial intrigue that was to fuel such later, little-screen knockoffs as Dallas, Dynasty and Falcon Crest over their years-long runs.The combination of wealth and dysfunction is a theme Americans, in our dollar-based society, find irresistible.  Brother and sister Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone are the spoiled, troubled heirs to the Hadly oil fortune; boyhood chum Rock Hudson and new bride Lauren Bacall are the sane outsiders who try to keep the lid on the roiling cauldron.  (It's been rumored that the story was based on Libby Holmann's marriage into Reynolds tobacco money.)  As always, the misfits get all the scenery to chew -- and the best lines to spit out (Malone, in her Oscar-nabbing performance as the boozing nymphomaniac with a jones for Hudson, gets to detonate a whole fireworks display of them).  Hudson, while good, can't compete with all this over-the-top emoting; Bacall starts out strong but grows recessive, a mere plot convenience.  No matter; with a succession of set-pieces shot in extravagant hues, Sirk gives an object lesson in how to turn out overwrought melodrama set in the lush consumer paradise of late-50s America.  Nobody ever did it better. "},{"Title":"Soap Opera or Social Commentary?","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To me this just comes off as a soap opera. I guess any depiction of profligate people can be considered social commentary. But in the final analysis, I simply don't care how you characterize this film. None of the characters are very likable or engaging. I felt no chemistry between Hudson and Bacall. If there is a love story here, it is lost in the malaise. And despite the twist ending provided by a complete and immediate (and therefore, incomprehensible) reversal by Dorothy Maguire on the witness stand, the story is insufficient to hold my interest. No matter how much Freudian symbolism and psychology are throw in, this story is sleazy, melodramatic and trite.Rock Hudson is nobly wooden. This is Lauren Bacall's least engaging role and one of her poorest performances. Dorothy Maguire and Robert Stack deliver more inspired performances, but her character is vile, and his is pathetic. Robert Keith, as the loving, out-of-touch father of two miscreant adult children, is the most sympathetic character. Most interesting of all, however, is the severe-looking Robert Wilke in a small role as the bar owner. He is best remembered as a nasty henchman in countless Westerns, but here he is an honest, likable fellow.I take my social commentary with an interesting, engaging story and a few likable characters, thank you. "},{"Title":"inspired   puzzle","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" more than a good film, it is a splendid puzzle. not only for cast or themes. but for the science to not be a melodrama like many others. a film who seduce different genre of public. and a high level of performance. sure, it is not out of recipes of genre. but it seems be different and that is the good part. in same measure, it use in wise manner the images,music and symbols and recreate the atmosphere of a lovely classic story. but the cast makes the difference. this fact is so clear. and not for acting itself but for the choice of director for one or other. so, the duty of each is to be himself. and the show is running. "},{"Title":"Sirk's Technicolor melodramas have a certain formula","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written on the Wind is on par with Douglas Sirk's other cinematic experiments and is aided considerably by a most skilled cast. Particularly, the entire film hinges on Dorothy Malone's performance. She is the one who sells us the bill of goods at the end. And if she happened to be unconvincing, then we would feel that the entire 99 minutes was lost. But she does save the film at the end. And it is not surprising that for her efforts, she did receive the Oscar for a best supporting performance. Her scenes in the courtroom make it clear to us that not only is her brother Kyle (Robert Stack in an Oscar-nominated performance) a sad waste of a life, but they all are living a nothing existence-- except those who manage to get away (which is what Lauren Bacall and Rock Hudson must do in the last shots). Malone's character will never get away, having been forced to take over the family business at the end. It's a very sobering conclusion. In the meanwhile, Sirk fills the earlier portions of the film with inspired mise-en-scene which continues to build the tension and suggest the inevitable outcome for these characters. At every turn, the director is offering motifs and manipulating them carefully, often without our noticing. The scene where Stack throws the drink into the mirror is not only played for dramatic effect but is rich with symbolism. Another important moment occurs when the father (Robert Keith) is experiencing a heart attack on the stairs. Sirk does not allow the camera to linger on the old man during this display like most directors might be tempted to do. Instead he inserts quick cuts to other members of the household, experiencing their own mini-attacks of anguish at the same time. As a result, Sirk provides quite a searing tale about the so-called lives of the spoiled rich in a desolate oil town. He brings us into the world of its interconnected destinies and the smoldering passions of its inhabitants. He holds us hostage and doesn't let us go. "},{"Title":"Douglas Sirk Strikes Oil","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Presently, a shooting occurs at the Texas mansion owned by the oil-rich Hadley family. In a flashback, we witness what led up to the apparent tragedy&#x85; Over a year ago, handsome Hadley geologist Rock Hudson (as Mitch Wayne) meets attractive secretary Lauren Bacall (as Lucy Moore) in New York. He is interested in her, but she is taken by Mr. Hudson's childhood chum, the Prince Charming of the Hadley oil empire, Robert Stack (as Kyle Hadley). An alcoholic playboy, Mr. Stack settles down when he meets Ms. Bacall. But family problems and old demons eventually return...One problem is sexually-charged sister Dorothy Malone (as Marylee Hadley). She suffering from unrequited love for Hudson, who only has eyes for Bacall. She doesn't get the man she wants, but Ms. Malone has a active sex life as the town tramp. She moves from bar to bedroom with ease and will even take the guy who pumps her gas to a motel. Service station attendant Grant Williams gets the invite. Hadley patriarch Robert Keith (as Jasper Hadley) is furious. Stack and Malone, the doomed and tormented brother-sister duo, steal the show. They are an indictment of industrialized wealth...Written on the Wind won Malone the Film Daily and Academy Award honor as Best Supporting Actress of the year. Stack was nominated by both groups, but it turned out to be Anthony's year (Perkins for the former in Friendly Persuasion and Quinn for the latter in Lust for Life). Neither director Douglas Sirk nor cinematographer Russell Metty received noms, although both are award-worthy. Moving his players artfully in and around the Hadley mansion, Mr. Sirk is in peak form. And, you can't be bored in a courtroom scene when Malone's hat repeatedly slices the movie screen.********* Written on the Wind (12/12/56) Douglas Sirk ~ Rock Hudson, Lauren Bacall, Robert Stack, Dorothy Malone "},{"Title":"Douglas Sirk!","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alcoholic playboy Kyle Hadley (Robert Stack) marries the woman (Lauren Bacall) secretly loved by his poor but hard-working best friend (Rock Hudson), who in turn is pursued by Kyle's nymphomaniac sister (Dorothy Malone).I love that the Criterion disc says it is presented in lurid Technocolor. Not sure that is a compliment, but the film's palette is definitely brighter and more overwhelming than most films. And not in a bad way.I find it sad that director Douglas Sirk is largely forgotten and it took a German director, Rainer Fassbinder, to bring him back. There really needs to be a re-examining of his boundary-pushing films. "},{"Title":"Hyperactive","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Probably the most hyperactive great movie ever made. Lauren Bacall marries into a wealthy oil family and soon regrets it. Her husband (Robert Stack) is a drunken bully and her sister-in-law (Dorothy Malone) is a nymphomaniac. She's mistreated by both of them. Things go from unpleasant to ridiculous when Stack's best buddy Rock Hudson starts to show some affection for Bacall. Douglas Sirk's resume is littered with high gloss soap operas, most of them absurd, but this one takes the prize. It's fever-pitched, very well acted (particuarly by Stack & Malone) and never dull. Robert Keith is the family patriarch and Grant Williams plays somebody named Biff. Produced by none other than Albert Zugsmith, the undisputed king of lurid 50s epics! "}{"Title":"An American Melodrama","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written on the Wind is a Douglas Sirk's melodrama. Douglas Sirk was rediscovered by the Cahiers du Cinema, Fassbinder etc.. that hailed him as a master director - I think that it is because of the sophistication of his cinematography - Written on the Wind offers luscious color images and gorgeous decors. But I ask myself Is this enough to carry a film? The acting in Written on the Wind ranges from weak to fair (excepting Robert Stack - he is convincing as the weak & spoiled playboy). Lauren Bacall, normally a powerful presence in the screen, is miscast in this film. Dorothy Malone as the seductress, the care-free femme fatale is OK, but she lacks the strength for the role. Rock Hudson is efficient but vapid .The plot has very interesting ingredients. The main characters are A rigid patriarch his alcoholic son Kyle (Robert Stack) (never loved by the disappointed father) his frustrated and nymphomaniac daughter Marylee (Dorothy Malone)Lucy (Lauren Bacall) - a woman of principles, formerly a secretary and now married to Kyle Mitch (Rock Hudson) - brought up together with Kyle and loved by the patriarch. Secrets beyond the door, a love triangle, frustration, fistfights, laughter, death etc. - well, when I read the story summary on the back cover of the DVD I thought that I was in for a treat. My mistake! Why? I'll try to explain Written on the Wind takes itself seriously and tries to tell a dramatic story. As I said before the acting, in general, is not good enough - the intensity is lacking. There are many strong scenes in the story, but the actors just do an efficient job. I think that maybe with Italian or Spanish actors those scenes would have been explored fully - they would end (for us) in an explosion of laughter or tears .What remains to us is the beautiful cinematography of Douglas Sirk. For me this is not enough. If you want to enjoy a good melodrama, see Aventurera. "},{"Title":"Heyday of melodrama.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In her autobiography,Laureen Bacall reveals that Bogie told her that she should not make such dud movies as this one or something like that.At the time,Douglas Sirk was labeled weepies for women,actually,he was restored to favor,at least in Europa,after he stopped directing.And when he filmed written on the wind ,Sirk had only three movies to maketarnished Angels,A time to love and a time to die,his masterpiece,IMHO,and finally Imitation of life(1960).Then there was silence. Actually Bacall and Hudson characters do not interest Sirk.They are too straight,too virtuous.Dorothy Malone -who was some kind of substitute for his former German star Zarah Leander-and her brother Robert Stack provide the main interest of the plot.A plot constructed continuously ,most of the movie being a long flashback.The instability of the brother and the sister ,from a family of rich Texan oil owners,is brought to the fore by garish clothes,and rutilant cars that go at top speed in a derricks landscape. Malone's metamorphosis at the end of the movie is stunning suit and chignon,toying with a small derrickshe's ready for life,the rebel is tamed. Now alone,because she's lost Hudson (but anyway,he was not in love with her).This end is a bit reactionary,but  melodrama is par excellence reactionary;three years later,in imitation of life,Sarah-Jane (Susan Kohner) will be blamed because she does not know her place. "},{"Title":"It Is Written","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Released in 1956,and considered quite racy at the time, Douglas Sirk's over the top candy colored melodrama is still a wonderful thing. The plot concerns the goings on in an oil rich dysfunctional Texas family that includes big brother Kyle, who is insecure, weak, wounded & very alcoholic, played by Robert Stack in a very touching & vulneable performance and his sluty sister Marylee played in an extreme manner by Dorothy Malone. Ms. Malone's performance is telegraphed to us via her eyes, which she uses to show us her emotions, which mostly consist of lust (for Rock Hudson) and jealousy (for Lauren Bacall). Malone is the only actress I've ever seen in movies who enters a room eyes first. Now don't get me wrong, her performance to say the least is an absolute hoot, and is one of the supreme camp acting jobs of the 1950's. But it is also terrible, because as likeable and attractive as Malone is,she's not a very good actress, and she's not capable of subtly or shading. Her performace is of one note. She does get to do a wicked Mambo,and in a great montage, as unloving daddy played by the always good Robert Keith falls to his death climbing a staircase, Sirk mixes it up with an almost mad Malone doing a orgasmic dance as she undresses. Stack,(who should have won an Oscar) & Malone, (who won the award, but shouldn't have) are the real stars of the film, the ones who set all the hysteria, both sexual & otherwise in motion, while the real stars of the film, Hudson & Bacall fade to grey & brown,which are the colors that they are mainly costumed in. Hudson who was a better actor then given credit for plays the childhood & best friend of Stack's, and the stalked love interest of Malone's who moans & groans over Rock through most of the film. But Hudson wants no part of her,and instead is in love with Bacall who is married to Stack. No one is very happy & no one is happy for very long. The Stack-Bacall marriage falls apart big time after a year, and Stack pretty much drinks himself into oblivion because he thinks he is sterile, and can't give Bacall a baby to prove that he's a man. Sirk who was a very intelligent man, and had a long & fascinating career both in films and theatre in Germany, ended his Hollywood career at Universal in the mid 1950's with a series of intense vividly colored women's movies or melodramas. Although they were mainly adapted from medicore or trashy source material,in Sirk's hands they became masterpieces of the genre. Sirk had a wonderful sense of color & design which he brought to play in these films filling his wide screen spaces with characters who played out their emotional lives among weird color combinations & lighting, make believe shadows, and lots of mirroed reflections. In Written the characters are always peeking out of windows, listening at doors or sneaking around. So in the end, after much violence, an accidental murder, a miscarriage & more Sirk ends the movie with a final & startling scene of a reborn and reformed Malone in a man-tailored suit, sitting at a desk foundling a miniature oilwell.  "},{"Title":"What a stunning movie!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Douglas Sirk scores again with this, the grandaddy of all dysfunctional family films. This lush, trashy saga is a masterpiece, beautifully combining all of the elements of Sirk's soapers and strategically placing them all into one movie. Written on the Wind very obviously influenced the 1980s TV series Dallas and Dynasty, as this is basically a feature-length version of those later nighttime soaps.Lauren Bacall, wonderfully and subtly, plays Lucy Moore, a New York City secretary who marries oil baron, Kyle Hadley (Robert Stack). Unbeknownst to both of them, Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson) is also in love with the quiet, but sexy secretary. They all go back to Kyle's family's mansion in Texas where we meet his white trash slut-of-a-sister, Marylee (Dorothy Malone in an Oscar-winning turn). Yipee! The sparks begin to fly - from the romances to the catfights, this is a campy trip. Not only does Mitch have to fight the feelings he has for his best friend's wife, but Marylee tries to sleep with everybody since she can't have her one true love who is Mitch. Topping it all off, Kyle learns he's impotent, but somehow Lucy ends up pregnant.This is pure soap and pure melodramatic entertainment. How can you not love it? This film signals one of Universal's most popular films and one of director Sirk's best works. Some of the dialogue is absolutely sizzling and visual metaphors are thrown in every which way - the theme of wind throughout is great. The cast is great, although Bacall is completely underused despite receiving top-billing behind Hudson. Stack's Oscar loss reportedly devastated him. He considered this his finest performance and apparently was none too pleased to lose out. And he did turn out a fabulous performance as the whimpering alcoholic. What a stunning movie! This film proves what I've been thinking for ages - Sirk is the master of classic melodrama. Where's his Oscar? "},{"Title":"Trash, greed, and lust topple a rich Texas family","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On the surface, Written on the Wind is a lurid, glossy soap opera about the sexual dysfunctions of a Texas oil family. But underneath it all is a deep, social commentary on 1950's life. Director Douglas Sirk scores again with another Univeral sudser.  Robert Stack falls in love with Lauren Bacall.  The problem is that Stack's best pal, Rock Hudson, loves her too.  When Stack finds out he's sterile and Bacall ends up pregnant, the fireworks fly. And, the all-too-good Dorothy Malone won an Oscar for her portrayl of Texas' biggest nympho who is shunned by Hudson. Good epic soap opera.  "},{"Title":"About as subtle as a nudist at a Baptist picnic!  But it does look quite nice!","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kyle Hadley (Robert Stack) is an obnoxious, spoiled and selfish playboy. He and his assistant, Mitch (Rock Hudson) fall for the same woman (Lauren Bacall) but Kyle somehow wins her with his charming personality. I say 'somehow' because after this, you see very little of his charm--mostly the actions of a boorish, sulking jerk. He immediately takes his wife for granted and you feel for the lady. As for Mitch, he can't stay--as he is carrying a torch for this now married woman. And then there's Marylee (Dorothy Malone), Kyle's rather obnoxious sister. She's in love with Mitch but Mitch tells her he's not interested. When Mitch doesn't reciprocate, she decides to destroy herself and everyone around her. And then, there's Kyles 'man problem'*...what's to become of that? Does this all sound like a bit of fluff--like just another soap opera? Well, yes, but it is a very glossy and pretty soaper--thanks to director Douglas Sirk, who made a name for himself by making what was essentially high-quality trash. Films like Magnificent Obsession**, All That Heaven Allows and Imitation of Life** were all about rich, bored and screwed up pretty folks. In many ways, these films are a lot like forerunners of shows like Dallas and Dynasty. In other words, they appeal to a certain niche--and if you like this sort of thing, Sirk was great in creating them. He did, however, make MANY films that did not fit this mold--though today he is most known for the soaps. As for me, I am not a huge fans of soaps. This doesn't mean they are bad--just not the sort of genre that usually appeals to me. Additionally, there wasn't any subtlety about this film (except in what I mention below*)--it was loud, crass and bigger than life (particularly in regard to Malone's character). I also think it plays better if you see it as a comedy and not a drama--especially since Malone's and Stack's characters are so ridiculous and over-done! But, in an odd way, it IS entertaining...I will give it that!Oddly, despite all this, Sirk and his melodramas have been adored by the French New Wave writers and directors--and perhaps that is why the film has been released as part of the much-heralded Criterion Collection. For me, I just cannot see what they see in this--it's just a soaper...and a rather trashy one at that for its time. *Because it was the 1950s, the script really didn't know what to do with Kyle. Sirk envisioned the man as a closeted homosexual. However, they couldn't put that in American films at that time due to the Production Code, so they talked about him having some 'problem' that prevented the couple from having kids. Talk about cryptic and silly! The viewers might have thought he was impotent or had poor sperm motility or was chronically constipated or had major Freudian issues or goodness knows what!! Having him being clearly gay would have improved the film tremendously and made sense of some of the plot.**These were remakes and especially in the case of Imitation of Life, the original was much better. However, I am a guy who almost never likes remakes. "},{"Title":"Operatic, but not outstanding ...","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Douglas Sirk was regarded as the grandmaster of melodramas. He remained, throughout, both revered and reviled.And 'Written On The Wind', regarded as his crowning achievement, shows you why. Exaggerated, larger than life, emotionally overcast, it is about as close to opera as cinema could possibly be. What works, despite it all, are the performances, which, despite being a bit over-the-top in keeping withthe general aura of the entire film itself, are satisfying on the whole ... with a special word for Dorothy Malone, as the nymphomaniac Marylee Hadley who, at the end of it all, is the only one who retains your sympathy.And that, unfortunately, is where the film falls apart. The whole affair is so in-your-face that you hardly have occasion to empathise with any of the characters. Though the attempts by the others, Rock Hudson, Lauren Bacall and especially Robert Stack, are sincere in themselves, they fail to thrill essentially because the film itself overshadows them all. There is nothing subtle or soft here, everything is either black or white, as a result of which the viewer has little to think about, little to absorb ... you just sit through the entire experience, but take back little with you after it is all over.It's all right for one viewing, and is about as representative of Douglas Sirk's repertoire as you can get. But that's about all it is.Well, it IS another way of spending an hour and forty minutes. "},{"Title":"A lot of hot wind but still a great watch.","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That Douglas Sirk must have really loved watching soap operas. His movies always feature stories an average soap opera features in one whole season and would be jealous off. But yet his movies still often work out as great ones to watch, as does this one as well.This movie can definitely be called melodramatic and overdone, since basically a whole lot is happening in it. Characters are all interconnected with each other, with all of the drama and emotions that go with it and there is really a lot of drama going on in this movie. Definitely too much to call this movie a really convincing one but yet I really can't say that the movie is bad or ever becomes an annoying one with all of its drama piling up on each other.The movie is simply far too well made for that. Just imaging a soap opera episode being directed by Steven Spielberg. That episode would rock as well, as does this movie also, that got directed by genre expert Douglas Sirk. He gives the movie lots of class and gets great performances out of his actors.Dorothy Malone even won an Oscar for her role, as a real femme fatale. Nevertheless I always keep seeing her as the old lesbian lover of Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct, which also happened to be her last movie role by the way. She's still alive but simply enjoying her pension now, I would assume.Rock Hudson and Douglas Sirk must had really loved working with each other, seeing that this is the 7th movie they did together and after this movie made even 2 more. It's no complaint of course, Rock Hudson was a great actor for these sort of roles and actually the worst movies they did together were their non-melodramatic ones.I would actually assume that the story for this movie on paper looked extremely bland and average but Douglas Sirk simply managed to really spiced things up with his directing skills and made the movie a perfectly watchable one.Can't say I was always too happy about its pacing. At times the story really makes some sudden leaps in time but this is something that often is the case with a movie that is filled with so much drama. The alternative would had been that this would movie would had been a 3 and an half hour long one, while the 100 minutes that it's now being short, ensures that this movie at all times remains an easy and always light watch, despite of all its heavy drama that is happening within its story.One big soap opera, that just got done irresistibly well.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Written on the Wind","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kyle Hadley (Robert Stack), an alcoholic, fun-loving oil empire heir, is introduced to a down-to-earth secretary named Lucy (Lauren Bacall) and impulsively marries her. Initially the marriage seems to help him maintain control of his life, but his inner anxiety and emotional problems won't leave him alone and keep casting dark shadows over his life with Lucy. Things are not helped by Kyle's equally wild, promiscuous sister Marylee (Dorothy Malone) and her unrequited love to Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson), a long-time trusted friend of Kyle.Director Sirk's shamelessly melodramatic style is evident right from the very first scene where the drunken and highly upset Kyle arrives to his home on a windy autumn night. Most of the story is then presented as a flashback until returning to the same situation again at the end. A lot has taken place in the lives of the characters, emphasized by highly sentimental music, brightly glowing colours and dramatic plot twists involving hidden guns, fist fights, drinking binges and delirium tremens. Many of the individual scenes look great and work perfectly in the film's context particularly Marylee's childhood memories at the autumny river, the aftermath of her arrest after being busted in a motel with yet another man and the aforementioned opening scene are all enjoyable visual cinema. Sirk's dynamic camera work and direction keep the potentially banal-sounding story fascinating all the way through.The larger-than-life story is brought to life by the actors who succeed in their roles well. Especially Robert Stack's lively eyes capture Kyle Hadley's impulsive thoughts formidably and the solemn and humble Rock Hudson provides a perfect pairing for him. Bacall and Malone give no reasons to complain either, and especially Malone's performance as the scheming Marylee is fascinating to watch.Even though the exaggerated style won't appeal to everyone, I enjoyed the beautifully colourful visuals and the unrestrained performances from the main cast. The music, as silly as it might sound in some more small-scale film, works excellently here too. A classic melodrama, Written on the Wind is warmly recommended to any fan of dramatic romance cinema of the Golden Age of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Wind-blown","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An overblown melodrama typical of its period (mid-1950s) and appropriate matinée food. Rock Hudson, the hulk everyone always falls in love with, plays his usual stereotype role, but whereas in Giant, made the same year, when his material and co-stars (Taylor & Dean) were above average, in this movie he is just not good enough to raise the calibre beyond a mushy tale of how difficult it is to be both rich and happy. The self-destructive brother and sister (Robert Stack, reeling his way through the film in a drunken stupor, and Dorothy Malone, playing a vampish poor little rich girl totally over the top) end up the losers and Hudson gets Bacall - who is rather wooden in this part which does not have enough character or wit to get her going. To paraphrase Oscar Wilde, the good end happily and the bad unhappily, that is the meaning of fiction. However, I was interested to read that the film is based on a true story which vindicated the plot. Like other films of the period, homosexuality is disguised in heterosexual terms. Maybe the film could be remade Stack's character would ring truer if he was hiding homosexual feelings for Mitch by marrying. Todd Haynes's Far From Heaven greatly improved on All That Heaven Allows , also directed by Sirk. Perhaps Haynes could remake Written on the Wind and give us a truly memorable film. "}{"Title":"Pulses Like a Neon Sign, But So What?","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written on the Wind pulses like a neon sign.WOTW SHOUTS at you from the first frame. Hyper kinetic action, bathetic poses and announcements, lurid suggestions, and OH WHAT COLOR Turquoise! Midnight blue! Electric yellow! Pumpkin orange! -- the pumpkin orange is the face make-up, slathered on really thick, by the way.The plot shouts pretty loudly, too. Rich Texas oil family, its slutty daughter Marylee (Dorothy Malone) and wastrel son Kyle (Robert Stack) who suffers from, as the family doctor puts it, let's call it a 'weakness' crumbles before your very eyes, as the good, noble, humbly born folk inherit the earth.White trash petroleum geologist Rock Hudson gets sucked into this family like an innocent bird into a plane's exhaust system.Gorgeous working girl Lauren Bacall volunteers to marry into the family, partly out of pity for Kyle, partly because she wants the goodies he can throw at her, like a drawer full of sequined purses and a closet full of designer gowns -- Kyle displays this to her as a courtship gesture. Oh, I hate when that happens.There's some lusting, some dancing to loud Devil's music, lots of drinking, lots of yearning.There is weather, blindingly colored foliage, fireplace blazes and fur coats that bear no relation whatsoever to the ostensible setting of the film, Texas.There are tons of fabulous outfits in styles and fabrics and colors TO DIE FOR. The ensembles that Marylee wears after her brother dies -- one at the breakfast table before the inquest, a sort of Givenchy take on Ellie Mae Clampett, and one at the inquest, the Black Widow outfit to end all Black Widow outfits, have to be seen to be believed.A very, very over-the-top film score underlines and puts in bold text and then goes over in yellow highlighter pen and *then* italicizes every last lust filled glance, feint for a gun, slow dance in a road house, tryst with an underage high school football star cum gas station attendant cum jail bait, and / or the attempt at an understated moment of tender sincerity.I was screamingly bored. I've seen productions starring literal Ken and Barbie dolls that moved me more.Douglas Sirk is an important auteur, so they say, later to be emulated by Rainier Werner Fassbinder (Ali Fear Eats the Soul) and parodied by Todd Haynes (Far From Heaven); Sirk rules the genre of melodrama; Sirk's films offered important critiques of American materialism and snobbery. So. They. Say.Well, that's what you learn in film class, but are you moved? Do you care? "},{"Title":"Sometimes You Just End Up Going Where the Wind Takes You.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Two life-long friends (Oscar-nominee Robert Stack and Rock Hudson) meet a woman (Lauren Bacall) simultaneously. After a bit of time Stack expresses that he loves Bacall and that he wants to marry her. She reluctantly accepts, actually loving Hudson more. Hudson never did proclaim his love though and realized that Stack had the same feelings for her so he stood down. Stack, a terrible alcoholic, changes his act and sobers up. Within a year it appears happiness will follow as Stack is the heir to his father's (Robert Keith) oil empire. However it is made apparent that Keith has always treated Hudson as a son and might actually love and trust him more than his real son. Chaos strikes when Stack's wild and crazed sister (a sexually-charged Oscar-winning turn by Dorothy Malone) comes back to town though. Immediately her antics worry Keith to death literally and it seems that she could try and take control of her father's riches completely. Malone, always in love with Hudson, tries to win his approval constantly. He only looks at her as a friend and a sister though and this drives her to more anger. Soon Bacall becomes pregnant, but Stack was diagnosed as being sterile supposedly. So how can this be? Malone of course takes advantage of the situation, convincing Stack that Hudson and Bacall are having an affair. Stack goes off completely and starts a rampage of boozing again. As all this happens the audience begins to grow tense as something explosive is bound to happen and the lives of the four leads will all change dramatically. Written on the Wind starts off as a calm and somewhat soothing movie, but there are always underlying tones of fireworks. The powder keg is finally lit when Malone appears and the sparks fly all over the place. Most certainly a crazed soap opera, Written on the Wind rises above that due to its stunning performances (Stack and Malone do the best work of their lives and Hudson was only better in Giant) that ignite a wicked screenplay and highly impressive direction from Douglas Sirk (who had an otherwise very ho-hum career of making films). The movie works very well in spite of a few shortcomings. Bacall (one of the most over-rated actresses ever) just cannot match the intensity of her three co-stars and the ending is a rather large let-down considering how excellent the movie was before the final 10 minutes. Still a dominant and overwhelming success, Written on the Wind should stand taller than it has. It is one of those forgotten and sometimes misunderstood gems that rises high. One of the finest pictures of the 1950s. 4.5 out of 5 stars.     "},{"Title":"Absorbing melodrama","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The cast is great in this movie, which should appeal to anyone in the mood for some 1950-style drama.  Malone steals the movie and won an Oscar for her efforts, but I think Robert Stack was just as good and should have won also. They make the movie what it is, especially since Hudson & Bacall are so dull.  Some of the dialogue spoken between Stack & Malone is priceless - You're a filthy liar; I'm filth. Period.  The great Douglas Sirk directs with a sure hand.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Writing on the Wind","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another classic study of the effects of wealth on a southern family is masterfully depicted in Written on the Wind.Kyle Hadley has it all. Wealth, a plane, you name it. Kyle's best friend, Mitch, has always gotten him out of difficulty. Mitch finished college, Kyle got thrown out. Mitch is not from a wealthy home. Kyle's family, with Hadley Oil, controls most of everything in the town.While in N.Y., Kyle meets the girl of his dreams, nicely played by Lauren Bacall. After a whirlwind romance, he marries her and brings her home. There she meets her father-in-law who warns her how difficult Kyle can be. Kyle sleeps with a gun under his pillow. The Bacall character meets Kyle's sister, Mary Lee, a tramp if ever there were, played to the fullest by Dorothy Malone, who was voted best supporting actress.Rock Hudson plays Mitch, the faithful friend.A year of wedded bliss for Kyle and his bride ends when Kyle is told by the doctor that he can't have children. It is when his wife reveals to him that she is indeed pregnant, Kyle, thinking that the child is Mitch's, goes on a drunken frenzy and is accidentally shot dead in a memorable scene.Mary Lee, who has always loved Mitch, tries but is unsuccessful in blaming Mitch for Kyle's death. In a memorable courtroom scene, Malone pulled out all the stops in finally admitting that Kyle's death was an unfortunate accident. Her Oscar was well deserved.Surprisingly, Robert Stack, brilliant as Kyle Hadley, was nominated for best supporting actor and lost in an upset victory by Anthony Quinn, as Paul Gauguin, in Lust for Life.Douglas Sirk was the master of soap opera films of the 1950s. Written on the Wind is no exception. ***1/2. "},{"Title":"In vento et rapida scribere oportet aqua.","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The title is taken from the Roman poet Catullus-A woman's sayings to her ardent lover Should be written on the wind and in running water. Its significance here is that written on the wind denotes something impermanent and fleeting, and some of the characters in this story are certainly unable to commit to permanent relationships. It has been called a thinly disguised account of the real-life scandal involving the tobacco heir Zachary Smith Reynolds and his wife, the singer and actress Libby Holman, but in view of the Production Code and the laws of libel- Holman was still alive in 1956- the disguise actually had to be fairly substantial. The Holman character, Lucy Moore, is not a showbiz figure, and no reference is made to her having many lovers of both sexes, as her bisexual real-life counterpart did. Jasper Hadley, a Texas oil baron, has a difficult relationship with his children. His son Kyle is a selfish, alcoholic playboy who has little interest in the business. The man whom he would like to see succeed him is Mitch Wayne, the son of an old friend now working as a geologist for his company. This scenario- a successful patriarch saddled with a useless, irresponsible son and having a decided preference for an unofficial adopted son- was a common one in films from the fifties; two others which use it are the Mann/Stewart Western The Man from Laramie and the Burt Lancaster vehicle Vengeance Valley. Jasper hopes that Mitch will marry his daughter Marylee, but Mitch shows no interest. He knows that Marylee is in love with him but realises she is as spoilt, irresponsible and hard-drinking as her brother. Unable to win the man she loves, Marylee drifts through a series of self- destructive relationships with unsuitable men. The relationship between Kyle and Mitch is a difficult one. The two were childhood friends, and they still occasionally refer to one another as such, but it is clear that they actually dislike one another. Kyle resents his father's all too obvious preference for Mitch; Mitch sees all too clearly what sort of man his boyhood friend has become. The director Douglas Sirk said that he intended to imply a homosexual attraction on Kyle's part towards Mitch, although in the fifties this could not be made explicit. (Mitch is played by Rock Hudson, who was of course gay in real life). Things become even more difficult after Kyle's marriage to Lucy. His drinking and abusive behaviour soon cause problems in the marriage, exacerbated by jealousy of Mitch. Moreover, this jealousy is not completely unfounded. Mitch has long been in love with Lucy and, as relations with Kyle worsen, it is suggested that she returns his affection, although there is no sexual relationship between them. Of the four leads, the weakest is probably Lauren Bacall, whose style of acting wasn't really suited to melodrama, and who never makes Lucy charismatic enough to explain why two men should have fallen obsessively in love with her. Hudson is better as Mitch, making good use of his talent for portraying quiet, steady men of decency and integrity. (His stage name Rock may have been assumed as a reference to this side of his persona). Robert Stack is certainly good as the drunken playboy Kyle; whether he was good enough to have won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar ahead of Anthony Quinn in Lust for Life, as he believed he should have done, is another matter. Dorothy Malone did indeed win Best Supporting Actress, and deserved it. She makes Marylee spiteful and unsympathetic enough to make us realise just why Mitch has no interest in her, despite her good looks, but not so repellent that the final scene, in which Marylee redeems herself with one unselfish gesture, becomes unbelievable. There are similarities between this film and Giant, another family drama set in the world of the Texas oil industry, which also came out in 1956 and also starred Hudson. (These two films seem to have been the inspiration for the TV series Dallas). Melodramatic dramas like this were a staple of Sirk's output, but he took them seriously enough to try and turn them into art. His work is characterised by his accomplished use of colour; here his backgrounds are generally muted and dominated by greys and browns, but there is generally a prominent, brightly-coloured object in the foreground, normally red, yellow or green. (Blues and purples are little used). With some directors such prominent colours might have had a symbolic significance, but here Sirk's purpose in using them seems to be to provide a sense of artistic unity holding the film together. Roger Ebert wrote of the film that William Inge and Tennessee Williams were taken with great seriousness during the decade, but Sirk kids their Freudian hysteria. I am not sure that I go along with Ebert's theory that Written on the Wind is a disguised comedy, a subtly hidden spoof of fifties melodrama. I am not particularly familiar with Inge, but the main reason Williams was taken seriously was that he was a serious writer, the author of plays which inspired films as good as A Streetcar Named Desire or Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and I can see no indication that Sirk was trying to mock or parody films of this type, even if some of them may seem faintly ludicrous to more cynical twenty-first century eyes. In fact, this film, and some of Sirk's others, fall firmly within the same tradition. An undistinguished script means that it is not in the same class as the two films I mention above, but Sirk does enough to show that melodrama is not always a synonym for inadvertent comedy or soap opera and that it was possible to work creatively within the confines of the genre. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Seductive image, obvious light","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is only my second encounter with this maker after my first introduction the other day. I admit I can't peg him. The filming is seamlessly polished in the form, spacious. It vibrates with a modern air in the way it frames and moves. It's replete with so very attractive images and spaces the young oil magnate trying to swoon the love interest in Miami airport, Bacall in the Miami suite, the blonde bombshell sister in her fire-engine red convertible, the road lined with oil derricks, the mansion floor strewn with leaves blown in through an open door. It's the kind of Hollywood reverie that you think would hint at something covert about sex and dreaming, elusive; the kind of movie Niagara is. Seeing such competent molding applied on such generic stuff makes you think it's going to be perhaps intended akin to how Welles built on his own potboilers, as a springboard for introspection, the mystery of shedding narrative on the walls and floor. And yet it remains safe, trivial, about the glossy surface.Part of the reason why I sought out this maker is because now and then his name appears in discussions about Lynch having influenced this or that. Part of it of course is that I'm always attracted to seductive manipulation. So there must have been a very brief window in time when these were potent. I can see how Lynch must have seen here an appealing wallpaper for Blue Velvet; but more than that how the seamless image could conceal and tease with everything this man made obvious.A key example is this strong-minded Bacall against our expectation falls for the cocky playboy instead of the quiet Hudson character, she has seen in private a softer side to nurture, a normal human being eager for love. It's such a strong setup, having us see past the fixed movie image into more fluid self. We know of course his darker side of drinking and loathing will resurface, the question is how, when, what mysterious pull in the soul draws a darker nature. (This is what Lynch has been burying deeper and deeper in his works, blurring cause and making the urge something inscrutable in the fabric).There's a marvelous scene that foreshadows things, this is where she finds a gun under his pillow one night. This fundamental ambiguity would have been the cornerstone in noir of the time and prior what secrets lie behind having to sleep with a gun, did she make a mistake in linking her life with him, and did she merely find the gun or some mysterious pull conjure it there? Can it be her urge to be rid of him and keep his fortune? Here when that darker self appears they based it on the most ludicrous exaggeration a doctor telling him he may not be able to have kids and he becomes a raving loony. How silly. "},{"Title":"Slick Suds","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Super-slick soap, with an all-star cast cavorting in luxurious settings. Looks like dad Hadley's (Keith) a regular guy, even with oodles of money. But get a load of his two kids. Kyle (Stack) views life's parade through an alcoholic haze, while daughter Marylee (Malone), shall we say, looks to hook up with anything in pants. Clearly, money hasn't done either any good. But the main problem appears to lie in childhood and growing up with the poor, but super- competent Mitch (Hudson), who now has a good job with Dad and his oil company. As a result, Kyle feels inferior despite his money, while Marylee fills her time with Mitch-substitutes since the original spurns her and her money. So the lap of luxury really only makes things worse for this second generation of wealth.This was cutting-edge stuff for the '50's with its hints of nymphomania, homosexuality, and infertility, especially with the gorgeous settings that includes the cast principals. Couple that with the top-ten title song, and the movie was a huge hit. It's also well performed with the possible exception of Malone, Oscar or not. Too me, she's a bit over-the-top, while her character as written is pretty much a predictable one-note. And whose idea, I wonder, was the sexy solo dance that appears to end in orgasmic delight at the same time Dad takes a fatal tumble. I've never been sure what to think of that parallel.Anyway, this is '50's movie-making at its slickest and most daring, with a decidedly dim view of the decade's dreams of luxurious living, earned or otherwise. "},{"Title":"Written on the Wind","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From director Douglas Sirk (All That Heaven Allows, Imitation of Life), this film featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die was one I was certainly looking forward to, I didn't read what the plot would involve, I was interested because of the two leads in the cast and the genre appealed to me. Basically Texas oil baron Jasper Hadley (Robert Keith) has two adult children, self-destructive nymphomaniac Marylee (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Dorothy Malone) and insecure playboy Kyle (Oscar nominated Robert Stack), both of whom are alcoholics, and they cannot sustain personal lives due to being spoilt with inherited wealth and crippling demons. It is after Kyle gets married in New York City to executive secretary Lucy Moore (Lauren Bacall) that more problems ensue, as she influences most of his decisions, and after being unsuccessful fathering a child he starts drinking again. Marylee's long-time infatuation Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson), geologist for the oil company, is Kyle's childhood friend is one to be turned against, and after the death of Jasper his son's anger and depression really hit rock bottom. Mitch, despite her being married to his best friend, is secretly in love with his wife Lucy, he only reveals this to Kyle himself when it is revealed that he has a low sperm count, but she is pregnant, and he wrongly assumes that she slept with Mitch. During the assault Lucy fell down the stairs, and this causes her miscarriage, so Mitch tells her that once she is feeling better they will get out of town and travel somewhere, and Kyle meanwhile, in his drunken state, has got his hands on a gun and plans to shoot Mitch. Kyle ends up accidentally shooting himself when he and Marylee struggle for the weapon, and in revenge she wants to get Mitch stitched up for the death, and in a court case she does at first tell them that he was responsible. It is only in the second trial that she tearfully tells the truth, and in the end Marylee is left to mourn for her dead brother as Mitch and Lucy as they leave and run the company alone. Also starring Grant Williams as Biff Miley, Robert J. Wilke as Dan Willis, Edward C. Platt as Dr. Paul Cochrane and Harry Shannon as Hoak Wayne. Hudson as usual is good looking and pretty cool, Bacall is most of the time composed but concerned, and Malone does give an award worthy performance as the spoilt and troubled woman full of anger and arousal, Sirk as usual brings all the emotions to a much bigger level to create an all up and down emotional experience, it is a most watchable melodrama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for the title song. Good! "},{"Title":"Looks Lovely, Sounds Spectacular","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lives up to everything you'd expect in a Sirk movie and the super-saturated colours, stirring musical score and immaculate costumes are all present. On the basis of these factors alone this film is very watchable. Everything looks so real you want to live there even though your brain also knows that it's all a fantasy that bears only a passing resemblance to how the world really looks.On the down side, for me, was the utter lack of interest I had in most of the characters and their spoilt rich lives. I never felt emotionally involved as there was no point of identification for me. (I felt the same about Dallas when it came along on TV many years later - who cares?) This contrasted strongly for me with All That Heaven Allows which did engage me. The only identification for me was when the bartender tells a man that Marylee Hadley is out of his class - I remember my grandma saying the same to me when I once dated a doctor's daughter! All the interesting people in this film lived on the other side of the tracks but they were only treated as stereotypes and ciphers.My score is entirely for the style of the film. A worthwhile watch but emotionally uninvolving. "},{"Title":"A well-crafted melodrama","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Douglas Sirk's melodrama, Written On The Wind (1956), tells the story of Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson), a geologist for the Texan-owned Hadley Oil Company. The film follows Mitch's experience as not just a geologist to the company but also as a close family friend to the Hadley's. Mitch falls in love with Lucy Moore (Lauren Bacall), the wife of his childhood friend Kyle Hadley (Richard Stack). Moreover, Kyle's sister, Marylee (Dorothy Malone), remains in love with Mitch since childhood. Her nymphomaniac tendencies are a mechanism to appease the pain of her constant rejection from Mitch, and this is symbolic of the film as a whole. As a result, they are entangled in a web of love, passion and desire. Fierce jealousy ensues between the characters, which ultimately leads them onto a path of destruction in their lives. Dorothy Malone's Academy Award for her performance as Marylee is a testament to the quality of acting in the film. Whilst at times, over-the-top, Written On The Wind is a well-crafted melodrama. "}{"Title":"Rich in money and poor in heart","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story is perfectly believable because it brings together four characters that hate each other and one another so much and at the same time love each other and one another so much that they have to kill one another and each other in the end, though three will survive. Drastic, bleak, horrific! The son and daughter of an oil tycoon are just spoiled children who cannot see life the way it should be, the result of a personal fight against one's own phantoms in one's head in order to be free and creative. So they fight against their closest friends or loves and they accuse them of the worst crimes or manipulate them with the menace of the worst crimes and life has to stop one day when the menace or the threat are too strong. Power leads to frustration, to impotence, to a lost bullet in the gut of the first one concerned by the gun since that one is holding it at that moment and with the help of fate and the cooperative hand of a woman, that bullet will end where it was not intended but where it solved one step of the problem and generates two or three more steps on that descent to Hell. Will that feminine hand go as far as doing what she tried to blackmail the brother's best friend Mitch with. You'll have to find out. But these children of rich people who have all they want and cannot accept not to get what they want, no matter what it is, are lost for society, and for themselves, and they will end dead or just rejected by everyone. Who said it was a good thing to be rich? He or she might have been right, but that does not cover the child of a rich person. And then that sure is not in any way a blissful lot. The film thus has some density and the ending is Hollywoodian in the fact that the most tragic dramas always end up in bliss in Hollywood, at least for the spectator who can leave the theater with a beautiful feeling.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Lifestyles of the sad and the rich...a Sirkian melodramatic masterpiece.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" WRITTEN ON THE WIND, directed by Douglas Sirk and released in 1956, is like all of Sirk's mid 50's films- pure melodrama. Yet it is engrossing, richly developed melodrama, and Sirk's trademark lurid colour expressionism, throbbing, barely repressed emotions, symbolism and juxtaposition of the classes make this a film to crave.The film opens brilliantly, with the four central characters and the plot being introduced as the credits are still rolling. Sirk uses a clever flashback structure to take us into his world...Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone are magnificent as the two Hadley kids, Kyle and Marylee. He drinks and sleeps around with women. She drinks and sleeps around with men. They both are worth millions, thanks to the Hadley oil business. Hunky, yet poor, Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson) is Kyle's lifelong friend, and Marylee's dream lover. Enter into this sordid mess Lucy Moore (Lauren Bacall), a slim, attractive young woman who falls under Kyle's charms after he picks up a phone and flies her across the countryside one evening. Mitch loves her too, but Kyle wins her. They quickly marry, and Kyle stops drinking. But fate seems to be written on the wind, and it is not long before a conniving Marylee (who will have Mitch, marriage or no marriage), a secretly smitten Mitch, the confused Lucy and the sad drunk Kyle come to blows....Malone is just wonderful as Marylee Hadley, thoroughly deserving her Best Supporting Actress Oscar. She steals every scene she is in. Stack is almost just as good, amping up the melodrama, while still maintaining subtly and quiet desperation. Hudson and Bacall are a lot more restrained than those two, yet it is in keeping with the characters they play.So, what's all this melodrama really about it? Well, a lot of things. Stack's powerful portrait of male inadequacy and fear, for one thing. Sirk surrounds Stack with phallic symbols throughout the film- note his tiny little gun, the oil derricks and the ultimate phallic symbol, Kyle's seeming inability to conceive children. Stack seems to be suffering from a massive male superiority complex, made worse by his father's preference for Hudson, his sister's desire for Hudson, and his suspicion that his wife is carrying on with Hudson. With all this wealth Kyle Hadley still ends up at the wrong end of town, buying cheap corn liquor like a bum.It's about impossible dreams, and having to let go of them. The river where Kyle, Marylee and Mitch used to play when they were kids is constantly referenced throughout the film, symbolising Kyle and (especially) Marylee's wish for the innocence and simplicity of youth. In an excellent melodramatic scene, perfectly pulled off by Malone, Marylee's stands by the river and imagines herself again as a child, with voice-over of Mitch telling Marylee that she will always be his girl. This is where Sirk strikes a huge emotional chord with the viewer. Who hasn't dreamed about going back to that special place in childhood? Who hasn't, at some point, lived on a treasured memory? Who hasn't wanted something they couldn't have? And Hudson's last line of the film (yes, he gets no dialogue in the last 10 or so minutes, only close-ups) recollects on how far we've come from the river, Marylee. Amazing. "},{"Title":"An unconventional masterpiece","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not sure if this is some kind of masterpiece or just sleazy fluff elevated by the performances and visuals. Whatever the case, I'm sure I loved it. From the wonderfully twisted, lurid, intertwining stories, to the deliciously sinister performances from Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone, to the vivid, gaudy colour with which it's all captured, this is high-class trash and it's great fun. Not to mention the amusingly sly and thinly veiled sexual subtexts which permeate the entire film, always threatening to escape from the image into the dialogue but never doing so. I'd be lying if I said that the film's sheer entertainment value didn't contribute to my love for it, but there's some sort of bizarre artistry behind the unintentional (or was it?) comedy and I really, really dug that. I could really get into this melodrama stuff. "},{"Title":"Melodrama, But Great Melodrama","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this in 1976 as part of a film series at my college. It was the first Douglas Sirk movie I'd seen and I was blown away by his vivid use of Technicolor. I thought only the movies of The Archers were able to make such use of color. What would have happened if Douglas Sirk had been born 30 years earlier and was limited to black and white film.I think some of the credit should go to cinematographer Russell Metty who also worked on Sirk's other great vivid melodramas such as Magnificent Obsesion, All That Heaven Allows, and Imitation of Life. Metty also did some great work in black and white as seen by his work on Touch of Evil and The Misfits.Sirk was a master of over the top soap operas and the story here is very good soap opera. Dorothy Malone and Robert Stack overplay the parts of rich brother and sister with Malone picking up the Oscar and Stack deserving one.Hudson and Bacall play the good members of the Hadley house. They don't have the opportunity to give as broad a performance as Malone and Stack but they perform their parts admirably. At least the academy gave the nominations to right performances.But with Sirk it's always style over substance and his style was always fun and interesting. If you want to watch one Sirk movie, this is a good movie to see. "},{"Title":"An early influence on The Godfather","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS--Douglas Sirk's `Written on the Wind' is a great movie because of it's fine acting, beautiful cinematography, and compelling story.  What makes it even more interesting when viewed today are the clear parallels between `The Godfather' as a story of the rise and fall of the American Dream.As the head of a rich and powerful family, Jasper Hadley can be viewed as the Mafia don, trying to maintain an empire while protecting his family. His two children, however, are not cooperating and their personal issues continue to threaten the stability and future of the family/business. Mitch Wayne (Rock Hudson) is an outsider, yet he has earned the trust of the family and is considered to be as loyal as any family member-a true consiglieri.  When young Marylee Hadley (Dorothy Malone) is in trouble with a man, her brother Kyle (Robert Stack) along with his best friend Mitch come to rescue her.  The scene of Kyle brawling with Marylee's male friend is an early precursor to a scene in `The Godfather' where Sonny Corleone fights with his sister's husband.This is just one specifically comparable scene between the two films. `Written on the Wind' is filled with such similarities like the feuding siblings, the `times are changing' theme, the tragic pregnancy, even the music signifying the death of the family patriarch.  While watching the final image of Marylee Hadley alone in her dad's study, clutching the mini oil tower, one cannot help but think of Michael Corleone at the end of `The Godfather Part II'-alone, abandoned, and afraid, and with all the money and power they could ever want.  "},{"Title":"Way Over the Top","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This classic Douglas Sirk-directed soaper is colorful, overwrought, overacted and almost impossible to turn away from once the story starts rolling. It is the tale of four highly dysfunctional people, each of whom is tragically ill-suited to the person he is romantically involved with (or is married to, or would like to be). No one, it seems, is pleased by who he is supposed to be and what he ought to be doing. There is a hopelessness at the core of the film, which, because it's so beautifully mounted, isn't the least bit depressing. Sirk approaches the material as if it were Greek tragedy, and manages, through composition and bits of business, to make his characters' erring ways compelling, and at times attractive. Set among the very rich, in the vast expanse of contemporary Texas, the movie has the paradoxical effect of making suffering glamorous and appealing. Or maybe this was the point.One can't help but wish one were somehow actually involved with these people, living in their spacious homes, driving their sports cars, wearing their clothes. Life's actual suffering, experienced on a much smaller scale by most of us, seems petty by comparison. If only I were big, one can think to one's self, I could get into even more trouble than I'm already in, break even more rules, be wild and free, just like Dorothy Malone. The movie raises the misery ante to the level of the wealth and privelege these people enjoy, and as a result it's simultaneously way over the top and almost Nietzschean in it lack of any sense of or respect for conventional morals. It must have been exhilirating to see this film when it first came out, in 1956, as it has passion and romance and yet no heroes or heroines. It neither endorse nor condemns the mischief its characters get in, and in this respect is a little like its TV contemporary, Dragnet, offering us facts and more facts, mounds of evidence, but no perspective or wisdom or maturity. "},{"Title":"Blowhard melodrama","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched Written on The Wind starring Rock Hudson,Lauren Becall,Robert Stack & Dorothy Malone- Robert Stack was terrible- just bloody horrible- he was supposed to be a charming jet-setting millionaire- instead he came off like a jerk from the word go- the plot was stupid and overwrought and the 3 romantic leads had no chemistry. Somehow Dorothy Malone won an Oscar for best supporting actress- although her campy tramp character was boring- think the older sister from Splendour in The Grass filled with malice and bitterness and lacking charisma. Director Douglas Sirk has the entire cast overact their way through dialogue that felt forced and the end result was a waste of 99 minutes. Had a cameo by the actor that played the chief on Get Smart "},{"Title":"Overrated super-melodrama","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fairly standard melodrama, with Hudson in love with his rich best friend's (Stack) wife (Bacall).  Well photographed and directed, although the sometimes silly script has the actors saying and doing things so ridiculous that a magnificent actor would have a time of it making it believable, let along Stack or Hudson.  Dorothy Malone nabbed an Oscar for doing little more than play a standard spoiled rich girl bit.  The ending (courtroom scene and all) is hopelessly anticlimactic, and Bacall's character suffers from believability issues, starting with her startlingly quick reversal from disgust with Stack to agreeing to suddenly marry him.  Still, well enough executed to hold one's attention.A lot of people, including the reviewer for Videohound seem to think this is some kind of satire of melodramas and they rate it very highly.  To me it's a pretty middle of the road picture, and I think they are probably attributing too much to the film.  It's basically a potboiler with a sort of a surprise ending.  Nothing too great here, really, behind the showy direction. "},{"Title":"An unpredictable love triangle","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Douglas Sirk's Written on the Wind is nothing short of a wonderful film that is also the most emotionally effective Sirk film I've seen since All That Heaven Allows (1955). I thought that by the look of the criterion collection DVD cover that is was going to tell a nice story about the marriage of both Rock Hudson's and Lauren Bacall's characters (which doesn't change my opinion on the movie one bit). But the movie tells a different story, the movie stars Rock Hudson as Mitch Wayne a man who happens to be lifelong best friends with an alcoholic playboy named Kyle Hadley (played by Robert Stack in an Oscar nominated performance) who is dating a woman named Lucy Moore (played by Lauren Bacall) who Kyle then gets married to and doesn't know that Lucy is secretly in love with Mitch, as well as Marylee Hadley (played by Dorothy Malone in an Oscar winning performance) who is Kyle's nymphomaniac sister who is sexually attracted to Mitch. While watching this movie I empathized with the Lauren Bacall character most because she suffered a lot in her marriage to the Robert Stack character who said to her in the beginning of the movie that I drink too much. Even though I didn't read the novel I felt like I did because I understood the story and the emotions of the characters so well, Sirk really took the time while making this film and had a good time doing it, and Russell Metty's camera angles are shot in all the right places. The movie itself is just a life changing experience for me to watch, this is one of the 10 best films of 1956. "},{"Title":"Fever Dream Intensity, Soap Opera Silliness","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Think Dallas was stunningly original? Mesmerized by the innovative storytelling that was Dynasty? Well, hate to disillusion you, but both those 80s kitsch touchstones are Stouffers frozen dinners compared to the trash banquet that is Written on the Wind. It's odd, actually, that the central story of this film should have proved so influential (heir to a dynasty brings home nice girl, their happiness is threatened by the machinations of a devious sibling . . . sound familiar), since the soapy plot is the weakest aspect of the film. No character is believable, no situation is plausible, no performance is even remotely lifelike, but none of that matters a bit . . . Written on the Wind is a piece of expressionist art, splashed with lurid colors and vibrating with operatic emotions.Director Douglas Sirk plunks down four actors into the middle of this lunatic tableaux and watches how they respond. Robert Stack, as the weak-willed, gin-swilling playboy with some massive Oedipal issues (he seems to have grown up in a town surrounded by huge reproductions of his father's phallus), realizes he's in a melodrama and overacts passably (he almost won an Oscar). Dorothy Malone, as Stack's trampy sister who lives to cause trouble, relishes the fact that she's in a melodrama and overacts magnificently, sashaying around the set in sweaters so tight you wonder how she can breathe. She smirks and sambas her way to a supporting actress Oscar. Lauren Bacall, as the woman whom Stack woos and weds, seems a little embarrassed by her surroundings and relies on her famous smoldering reserve to sustain her against Stack and Malone's histrionics. It almost works. Rock Hudson, as always, is an inert lump at the center of a good movie.It's not just the superior production values, A-list cast and vivid use of color that elevate Sirk's labor of love over future cheesy melodramas, it's the economy of storytelling. We learn that Rock Hudson is going to fall wildly in love with Lauren Bacall during his very first scene, when he walks into an advertising agency and sees her shapely calves under an easel. We know Dorothy Malone is nothing but trouble from the long, red car she drives and the long, red scarves she wears. We realize that Robert Stack feels inadequate as a man since he sleeps with a tiny little gun under his pillow (Bacall handles it very gently) while his domineering father is always grabbing for a six-shooter, while his studdly best friend Rock wanders around with a hunting rifle. There is some throwaway dialogue that refers to these phenomena, perhaps to explain everything to the impossibly dense, but it's secondary. Written on the Wind would have worked brilliantly as a silent film. "}{"Title":"Just Like A Steamy Summer Night In Texas....","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Arguably Douglas Sirk's best film, Written On The Wind is a virtual hurricane of over-the-top acting, cotton candy-colored cinematography and blatant sexual energy all whipped into a Category 4 storm. Many critics dare to compare this 1956 classic to another melodrama from the same year, the soapy MGM film Giant. Besides the fact that both star Rock Hudson and follow the seedy lives of wealthy Texans, Written On The Wind succeeds thanks in large part to Sirk's social critique and uncanny eye for visual irony. And the screen sizzles as a result of steamy performances all around. This is the perfect film to watch if you want it to feel like a hot, steamy summer night.The Hadley family is one of wealth and beauty, but underneath lie secrets and scandals that threaten to uproot the cracking dynasty. Jasper Hadley(Robert Keith)has his hands full dealing with his slutty daughter, Marylee(Dorothy Malone), and insecure alcoholic son, Kyle(Robert Stack). Marylee only amps up her randy sex-capades the more she realizes her true love, Mitch Wayne(Hudson), doesn't want to be with her. In fact, not only does he not want Marylee, but he is actually in love with Lucy(Lauren Bcall), Kyle's new bride. Got all that? The drama gains momentum when Jasper is confronted about his daughter's promiscuous behavior and Kyle finds out that his own sexual dysfunction will prevent him from having children with Lucy. So what happens when Lucy turns up pregnant? The film comes to a sordid, pounding climax.The entire cast has an undeniable chemistry - a chemistry which Sirk tried to emulate the next year by reuniting Hudson, Stack and Malone for his gritty drama, The Tarnished Angels. And Stack is at the top of his game, as he nails the role of a pathetic, weak and insecure man who has everything, but really has nothing. Sirk's use of phallic symbols in the scenes with Marylee are riotous(one of cinema's best moments is when she is caressing the mini oil derrick model)and his mise-en-scene is filled in every nook and cranny with relevant visual stimulation. Even the open title sequence, done much like a classic nighttime soap opera, is sleek, sophisticated and unforgettable. And unlike many films from this period, precious time is not wasted on tedious monologues or wordy segments. The action starts as soon as the movie opens and swiftly continues from scene to scene. Written On The Wind, a true screen classic, provides a torrent of unabashed glamor and trash, upheld by the smart and saavy direction of the always brilliant Sirk. "},{"Title":"I Don't Understand the Melodrama Genre, and I Don't Want To","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What I got from my history of film class about the melodrama is that it is centered on drama within the family, and it is drama with music as a key element. I am not sure whether this music part is literal or figurative, because I've been told Breaking Bad is a melodrama yet is not that musical. I always thought melodrama just referred to exaggerated drama found in most soap operas.Getting back to this specific movie, Written on the Wind deals with a wealthy family and a close friend of that family, none of which I even care for. The family in question is the Hadley family, which contains a drunken impulsive baby of a man, his father who runs the family company, and his sister, the town slut. The most interesting moment of the film is when the Hadley slut is dancing in her room and in a seductive dress, which is connected to her father falling down the stairs to his death. He does not see the dance, but it is implied that her sexuality is what ultimately kills him. Other than this we have a complicated love triangle - actually, make that a quadrangle - which ends up getting the Hadley drunk killed, and if the late Hadley's sister decides to testify that Mitch was the one to kill her brother, nobody can refute it. In a somewhat satisfying ending, she cries as she cannot put Mitch away, and then what do you know, the movie ends. I can see the film's effort, but the style of melodrama bored me to death and seemed hyperbolic. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable characters and events; embarrassed actors","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Would the Lauren Bacall character actually marry the Robert Stack character--on day one of their acquaintance? Of course not. Would the Rock Hudson character--year after year--put up with best friend Robert Stack's behavior? Is anyone that saintly? Of course not. Given the fact that certain females are tramps, could any female be as trampy as the Dorothy Malone character? Of course not. Is anything about this movie believable or even interesting? Not much. In fact it's ugly from beginning to end and I'm sure the whole cast was embarrassed by having to play characters who couldn't possibly have existed. Lauren Bacall must have walked off the set every day, poured herself a stiff drink and said I can't believe I'm doing this! And if this was Robert Stack's finest performance, that's unfortunate because he probably had some talent. The same year this was released, Rock Hudson did a beautiful acting job in Giant; in this one he just looks puzzled. What an ugly movie. I don't need to see this one again. "},{"Title":"Behind closed doors...","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For years I used to turn away from Douglas Sirk's overcharged melodramas when they appeared on TV, dismissing them as woman's movies, but I've now learnt to appreciate the art (really Art with a capital A) of a great cinematographer and story-teller. This is probably the best of his I've yet seen, elevated by superior acting behind the leads of Rock Hudson & Lauren Bacall of Dorothy McGuire & Robert Stack, both of whom garnered deserved Academy recognition.The plot is basically one that would have served as Dallas - The Movie if the TV series of the 80's had been raised to movie status with a plethora of weighty themes and subjects including jealousy, parental love, sibling rivalry, the abuse of wealth, the limits of friendship, and so on down the greasy pole to impotence, alcoholism wife-beating and nymphomania. This particular American tragedy naturally ends in tears with a miscarriage and two deaths, although there's the hope that Bacall and Hudson can build some sort of relationship out of the burning ashes of the consumed oil-rich Hadley family.To pull all this schlock off takes imagination, skill and conviction and Sirk aided by his heavyweight cast certainly delivers. The camera-work is breathtakingly opulent throughout both in the exterior and interior work. You're immediately captured by the opening shots of Robert Stack's spineless playboy Kyle Hadley drunkenly driving his car in long-shot through the darkening gloom to the family mansion to play out the final dramatic scenes and there are several other shots where the colours superbly seduce the eye, notably at the secret lake where Stack's sex-mad sister in her youth last laid any claim to the affections of her lifetime love Hudson's Mitch Wayne character. Poisoned by his rejection and inflamed by his attraction for Kyle's new straight-as-a-dye wife, she foments the disastrous events which overtake her father (including the famous scene where she dances in her room to ear-blasting music while her father suffers a fatal heart attack downstairs) and her brother (egging him on against Mitch with the brazen insinuation that Mitch and not Kyle has fathered the long wished for child that Lucy belatedly carries.The acting is mostly fine, Hudson rather good as the torn Mitch, Stack superb as the troubled Kyle (especially good in his many drunken scenes) and McGuire on-fire as the twisted sister. Bacall, though I considered a mis-cast - she looks too old and seems far too worldly for the naive innocent she portrays here and it's hard to imagine two men fighting over her as Stack and Hudson do here.Of course it's all high-gloss soap but it's so addictive I couldn't take my eyes off it and will long remember some of the imagery that Sirk employs. All that glisters certainly isn't gold as he takes us (there's one great sub-Hitchcockian shot where the camera surreptitiously seems to glide through a window into a party scene at the Hadley mansion) behind the facade of the lifestyles of the fabulously rich to deliver the simple homily that, as the Beatles later put it, money can''t buy you love. "},{"Title":"Turning Point for Modern Filmaking","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written on the Wind (1956) is a great film directed by Douglas Sirk, this film has a combination of many great pieces of the puzzle that makes a great movie. Numerous things stood out to me that helped this movie turn into a classic. For one the combination of long shots and short scenes creates diverse action throughout the film. The long takes provide a powerful sense of reality, this coupled with the great dialog make this movie feel like real life. The long takes work so well with the superb editing and great quick takes. This idea provides the best of both worlds, and creates the feel of a modern classic. To me 1955 (give or take a year or two) is a turning year in the world of film. The technology was finally good enough to keep up with a directors ideas, yet at the same time nothing was lost like it is today, in the world of special effects and 'high quality' cameras. With that said, some of the acting throughout this film is quite sub par, Robert Stack's (who plays Kyle Hadley) performance was less that convincing. Luckily not all was lost, the roles by Rock Hudson and Lauren Bacall were quite good. Overall this film was very good and quite entertaining, as someone who is no so versed in film history my first impression is that this movie, and others like it from this era, were a turning point into the age of modern film making. "},{"Title":"Beautiful mise en scene","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The style and design of this film was splendid and it definitely contributed to the overall mise en scene. The jewelry, clothes, house, cars, plane, and attitudes of the characters really made you feel like you knew why you hated arrogant rich people. With nothing to do with your time and all the money in the world, why not tear yourself and other people apart from the inside? It does make for a good story though. Which brings me to my other point which is that the progression of the plot in the movie was ideal. Everything happened in an orderly fashion, which really made the whole idea of the story more believable. The only thing that I didn't like about this film was that the murder in the beginning was shown. I would have rather that part was a surprise. Other than that I really liked the film. "},{"Title":"Decay","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am not a fan of melodrama. This movie has two fantastic performances by Dorothy Malone and Robert Keith. After that there is not much to recommend it. Lauren Bacall is quite attractive, but this is FAR from her best work. It is not explained in the movie how two wealthy playboys, especially Kyle Hadley (Robert Stack), would be so completely swept off their feet by her. Malone steals the show, but the bone weariness of Robert Keith as the patriarch of the Hadley family is the only other memorable performance in this piece of Douglas Sirk fluff. The story Sirk wants to tell, of the debilitating effect of wealth and privilege, is better told in East of Eden and Giant, among roughly contemporary films. Even the soundtrack for this film is over the top. I am not a fan of melodrama in general, but particularly not of this melodrama. "},{"Title":"So, is it pre-Dynasty soap?","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two childhood best pals, one filthy rich, Kyle (Robert Stack), and one poor and honorable, Mitch (Rock Hudson), manage the Hadley oil corporation. Incurable drunk Kyle, a guy with one hell of an inferiority complex, marries magazine art director Lucy (Lauren Bacall) on the day that Mitch himself fell in love with her. In the background lurks Marylee (Dorothy Malone), Kyle's trashy sister who, goes without saying, loves Mitch to distraction. When Lucy turns up pregnant, and Kyle has been proved sterile, what is going to come down? Not everyone will appreciate the tone of voice that Douglas Sirk uses to tell his big, sprawling epic. It is melodrama spelled with a capital M right from the start, but the intensity of the narrative does vary and change subtly with each new fatal plot-twist. The climax is brilliantly inventive film-making no matter how you look at it, and you watch in suspense and animation.So, is it trash as the prejudice goes regarding Douglas Sirk? Is it pre-Dynasty soap? No, it's not. It's an especially volatile kind of movie-making that is closely related to opera and Greek drama. Its surface is so obviously eye-catching that you might fail to look below it, which is your loss. The characters of 'Written on the Wind' have depth (Kyle is quite a devastating figure as played by Stack) and Sirk's contribution to American cinema, culture even, is unsurpassed. He never took the American dream at face value, even though people have often enough been fooled to think he did. German bad boy Rainer Werner Fassbinder idolized him. That should tell Sirk's detractors something. "},{"Title":"This is a Weepie Film !","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The corruption of the super rich. A classic melodrama that makes the lower middle class insane! Filled with strong mucic, strong colors, Written on the Wind is a giant back cramp of a movie. Yes, it has its moments, but shouldn't ever film have a majority of moments worth watching? The film is about a wealthy family with no place, no meaning, and nothing to do. The use of extreme lighting, colors, and loud music makes you want to go to the bathroom every five minutes during the film. Look closely at the 3 main male leads in the film. Each of them own a gun. You can see how each of the male characters are defined by the size of their gun. And for some reason Rock Hudson has the biggest! "},{"Title":"One Train Wreck of a Movie &#x96; But I couldn't Stop Watching","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The acting is so-so (Bacall), bad (Malone) and very bad (Stack). In comparison, Hudson comes off as an acting genius. The supporting players are fairly good. When the acting of 3 of the 4 leads is that bad, you've got to know the director is behind most of those very bad choices. The color is wonderful &#x96; one of the better big-screen DVD movies I've experienced. The script is often clumsy, but you do wanna know how it's going to turn out, don't you? What arises out of the ashes is quite watchable. If you can handle the melodramatic, over-the-top acting, and you just can't look away from an impending train-wreck, you just might get a kick out of this (although you're bound to feel very guilty the next morning). Don't say I didn't warn you! "}{"Title":"Satire?","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is melodrama with a capital M. It is so over the top that I can only feel that it is a spoof. There is the oil-rich alcoholic Kyle, his buddy from childhood Mitch, his wife Lucy, and his sister Marylee. Kyle meets Lucy and immediately asks her to marry him, which she does, after a brief hesitation. Mitch has fallen for Lucy too, but remains loyal to Kyle. Nymphomaniac Marylee is in love with Mitch, but he has little use for her. Quite a triangle. You have Marylee doing a wild drunken dance in her room while her father has a fatal heart attack outside her room and falls down the stairs. Throw in an unexpected pregnancy, a shooting, a trial that has a Perry Mason ending, some hints of homosexuality, and you start to get the idea where this movie takes you.The filming is in over-saturated colors and little attempt is made to provide realistic sets. The musical score is as outrageous as the story.On the upside you do have Lauren Bacall to look at, even though she is not at her best. It's hard to tell if she is in on the joke or not. Rock Hudson gives his usual earnest performance. Dorothy Malone's winning an Oscar for best supporting actress for 1956 must indicate that there were some weak contenders in that category for the year.Shocking for a mid-fifties movie we see Kyle in the same bed with his wife, although they are not near each other. The final scene has Marylee gently caressing a miniature model oil derrick as the love of her life rides off into the sunset. How that escaped the censors is remarkable.The setup is so ridiculous that you can't take it seriously, but it didn't work as satire for me either. "}]