[{"Title":"Brilliant Undiluted Pulp Science Fiction on the big screen","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"147 out of 179 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the Roman Empire of Science Fiction films.  All films before lead into it, and all films since flow out of it.  It captures the romance, the spirit, and the nifty look of 1950's pulp science fiction.  This is one science fiction movie with a theme, not just eye candy.  No matter how high humanity climbs on the evolutionary scale, no matter how advanced our technology becomes, we must never forget the primal instincts of our darker nature.This film is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The Best SF Film Of The 1950s","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"148 out of 200 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  FORBIDDEN PLANET is the best SF film from the golden age of SF cinema and what makes it a great film is its sense of wonder . As soon as the spaceship lands the audience - via the ships human crew - travels through an intelligent and sometimes terrifying adventure . We meet the unforgetable Robbie , the mysterious Dr Morbuis , his beautiful and innocent daughter Altair and we learn about the former inhabitants of the planet - The Krell who died out overnight . Or did they ? You can nitpick and say the planet is obviously filmed in a movie studio with painted backdrops but that adds to a sense of menace of claustraphobia I feel and Bebe and Louis Barron`s electronic music adds even more atmosphere I`m shocked this film isn`t in the top 250 IMDB films .     "},{"Title":"Forbidden Knowledge","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"114 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it originally came out. I was about 9 yrs. old and found this movie both highly entertaining and very frightening and unlike any other movie I had seen up until that time.BASIC PLOT  An expedition is sent out from Earth to the fourth planet of Altair, a great mainsequence star in constellation Aquilae to find out what happened to a colony of settlers which landed twenty years before and had not been heard from since.THEME  An inferior civilization (namely ours) comes into contact with the remains of a greatly advanced alien civilization, the Krell-200,000 years removed. The seed of destruction from one civilization is being passed on to another, unknowingly at first. The theme of this movie is very much Good vs. Evil.I first saw this movie with my brother when it came out originally. I was just a boy and the tiger scenes really did scare me as did the battle scenes with the unseen Creature-force.  I was also amazed at just how real things looked in the movie.What really captures my attention as an adult though is the truth of the movie forbidden knowledge and how relevant this will be when we do (if ever) come into contact with an advanced (alien) civilization far more developed than we ourselves are presently.  Advanced technology and responsibility seem go hand in hand.  We must do the work for ourselves to acquire the knowledge along with the wisdom of how to use advanced technology. This is, in my opinion, the great moral of the movie.I learned in graduate school that knowledge is power is at best, in fact, not correct!  Knowledge is potential power depending upon how it is applied (... if it is applied at all.) It's not what you know, but how you use what you know!The overall impact of this movie may well be realized sometime in Mankind's own future. That is knowledge in and of itself is not enough, we must, MUST have the wisdom that knowledge depends on to truly control our own destiny OR we will end up like the Krell in the movie-just winked-out.Many thanks to those who responded to earlier versions of this article with comments and corrections, they are all very much appreciated!! I hope you are as entertained by this story as much as I have been over the past 40+ years ....Rating 10 out 10 stars  "},{"Title":"A great sci-fi that rose above the 'reds are a-coming' level of its peers and delivered an intelligent script with some humour in an attractive film that has stood up well over the years","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"105 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A space ship has carried out the year long journey from Earth to the remote planet Altair-5 with orders to check on a scientific posting there. They find only one small compound on the whole planet &#150; home to scientist Dr Edward Morbius, his daughter Altaira and a fantastic robot called Robby. Learning of the deaths of the others of the original group, Commander Adams decides to stay until he can contact Earth for further orders. However 'something' else is on the planet with them and the ship is subject to sabotage of key equipment. Things escalate when members of the crew are attacked and the full extent of the dangers on the planet become more and more clear.I have seen quite a few trashy sci-fi's from the 1950's because I rather enjoy their b-movie qualities but this is far from being a genre film because it stands out from the usual sci-fi's that act as an allegory for communism (whether deliberate or in hindsight) because this film is very intelligent &#150; although I assume it was based on the fears of the period as well, or at least I'd like to think so. Certainly, at a time when nuclear war and technology was risking the Earth, it seems only fitting that the film send a message about the destructive power of technology that the Krell were not ready to use. The script is quite intelligent even if the plot has plenty of holes in it if you're looking for them. The idea of a destructive power within the subconscious is interesting and well delivered and it is certainly a lot more thought provoking than many other sci-fi's of the period. It also has a good mix of comedy in the form of the cook and, surprisingly, Robby the Robot (one of the most famous robots in cinema history) but mainly the film succeeds because of the interesting concept and good delivery.It's not all perfect of course and some of the plot holes are a bit of a pain if you really want to pick at them and also the need for a 'happy' ending spoils what should have been a much darker conclusion &#150; I don't understand why the script spent so much time warning only to offer an optimistic view of the self same things that it had warned against. However, it doesn't overdo this aspect and it still works well enoughThe cast are roundly solid even if some of the performances are a little bit stiff and just what you'd expect from the genre. Certainly these actors are not as adept at interacting with special effects as those working with green screen lots are &#150; they generally look clunky when they are firing lasers or interacting with the beast. It's hard to watch Nielsen in straight roles now that I've grown up with him in his Police Squad style material but he is good enough for his material here even if he is a little bit wooden at times. Pidgeon is also a bit wooden but it fits his character and the genre and his performance is good. Anne Francis is a little off but she is a little minx and she serves her purpose on the whole. I appear to be one of the few viewers who liked Holliman's work as the comic relief cook but I must admit to finding the rest of the crew (including Kelly and Stevens) to be quite workmanlike even if they weren't 'bad' per se.Overall this is a great piece of sci-fi that has stood up really well over the past 50 or so years. The film may look rather quaint by today's standards but it is intelligent, funny and thought provoking &#150; true, it's not really high art but it is certainly heads and shoulders above the standards set by the rest of the genre. Not as spectacular or as action-based as many of our modern sci-fi's but it just has different qualities and is a great film that I'm surprised is not more highly considered or even mentioned on the IMDb top 250!  "},{"Title":"Sorry Star Wars--the greatest Science Fiction film ever","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"112 out of 140 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure Star Wars (a movie I have seen at least fifty times) beats all the others in special effects, but this film has every thing else!It has horror(non-graphical), romance, robots, witty repartee, intelligence, (surprisingly good) special effects, and drama.I saw this film a couple of years ago in a revival with a newly struck print, and I was amazed at how well it held up today.  I thought the old 40's style electronics would look hokey, but they somehow looked futuristic and moderne.Ann Francis in here (mostly) short skirts and bare feet with a girlish innocence that is hard to beat still gets a rise out of me.The Krell monster appearing in the ray beams still scares the bejebees out of me.Of course we all know that the Great Bird of the Galaxy probably modeled much of Star Trek from this movie.No one has yet to beat Robby, the Robot, in terms of personality(sorry, R2D2 and C3PO).This movie, overall, is the standard that all other Science Fiction films will have to measure up to!Honorable mention for the haunting electronic score which kept us all on pins and needles. "},{"Title":"Thinking People's Science Fiction","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"89 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am always so frustrated that the majority of science fiction movies are really intergalactic westerns or war dramas.  Even Star Wars which is visually brilliant, has one of its central images, a futuristic gang that couldn't shoot straight.  Imagine your coming upon about 600 people with conventional weapons, most of them having an open shot, and they miss.I have read much science fiction, and wish there were more movies for the thinking person.  Forbidden Planet, one of the earliest of the genre, is still one of the very best.  The story is based on a long extinct civilization, the Krell, who created machines which could boost the intelligence of any being by quantum leaps.  Unfortunately, what they hadn't bargained for, is that the brain is a center for other thoughts than intellectual. The primitive aspect of the brain, the Id, as Freud called it, is allowed to go unchecked.  It is released in sleep, a bad dream come to corporeal existence. Walter Pigeon, Dr. Morbius, is the one who has jacked his brain to this level, and with it has built machines and defenses that keep him barely one step ahead of the horrors of the recesses of his own mind. His thoughts are creating horrors that he soon will not be able to defend.  The Krell, a much superior species, could not stop it; it destroyed them. The landing party has never been of great interest to me.  The rest of the actors are pretty interchangeable.  Ann Francis is beautiful and naive, and certainly would have produced quite a reaction in the fifties adolescent male. Her father's ire is exacerbated by her innocence and the wolfy fifties' astronauts (for they are more like construction workers on the make than real astronauts). They are always trying to figure out dames. The cook is a great character, with his obsession for hooch.  Robbie the Robot has much more personality than most of the crew, and one wonders if Mr. Spock may not be a soulmate to the literal thinking of this artificial creature. The whole movie is very satisfying because the situation is the star. Morbius can't turn back and so he is destined to destroy himself and everything with him. There are few science fiction films that are worth seeing more than once; this is one that can coast right into the 21st century.  "},{"Title":"Yes, this IS the best sci-fi film ever made.","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"91 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, of course, Star Wars defined the genre, and Alien and Blade Runner perfected it; but Forbidden Planet created it. Argue, if you must, that movies like The Day the Earth Stood Still, Them and Five Million Years to Earth are the cerebral grand-fathers of the film genre (and I won't disagree with you), but for science-fiction-as-plot-driven-action-epic, this is it. This is the one.It's so unerringly on target, in fact, that it still plays very well even today. The modern audience has to overcome the Leslie Nielsen Factor (and it is difficult to watch him in a totally straight role), but once you do, the movie is pure enjoyment. Forget about dated plots and special effect. Robbie the Robot is a guy in a suit, yes, but he is thoroughly believable. He even adheres nicely to Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics, a trick that the digital robots in this summer's I, Robot had a great deal of difficulty with.And the monster! I defy anyone to avoid getting the willies when the monster first shorts the security fence. Great special effect, then and now!Finally, the universal theme of man's (and Krell's) individual flaws inserting themselves into an otherwise perfect system and TOTALLY gumming up the works is as relevant today as it was then. More so.  "},{"Title":"Still my favorite sci-fi film","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"75 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A number of factors make it easy for me to state that I still think this is the most important science fiction film ever made, despite some of the acting, outdated dialogue etc.First, there is the scale of imagination in describing the Krell, a humanoid race native to the planet, now all dead, who were 1 million years more advanced than Earth humans(us), and their technology, particularly the 8,000 cubic mile machine.Second, there is the music and sound effects, which are inseparable from each other. It creates an eerie, unearthly feeling, unlike 2001, which had traditional classical music.Third, its monster is not only the most powerful and deadly ever envisioned, it's also based on real science and doesn't break the laws of physics and biology.Finally, and most importantly, Forbidden Planet is the only movie ever made that attempts and, more incredibly, succeeds in making an honest, intelligent and mercilessly logical statement on the limits or ceiling of human (or any other biological entity's) development, no matter how long we survive as a species.In other words, it predicts our inevitable destiny. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi Classic","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"62 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, this film helped make sci-fi respectable instead of the stuff for silly B-movies with cheap costumes and obviously faked sets. To help strengthen the thought-level of the story, the scriptwriters included elements of Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST, the Biblical story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, and Freudian psychology to make an enlightening tale of other-worldly mystery.Leslie Nielsen is in his serious mode here long before he became the comic madman of the NAKED GUN movies and POLICE SQUAD television series. It is easy to see the prototypes of much of STAR TREK in this movie. The electronic soundtrack becomes a bit repetitious, but it works well as it is used in the scenes.The short skirt on the heroine is a bit much but of course cheesecake was one of the things the cigar-chomping studio suits always liked in the 1950s and still do. Robbie the Robot is thrown in for some comic-relief and appeared in many other movies and television shows including LOST IN SPACE.The most interesting aspect of the story for me was Monsters from the Id. The point being made is that the serpent is still in the Garden of Eden because we carry evil around with us wherever we go.This is an excellent entertainment. "},{"Title":"Classic 1950s Sci-Fi, The Best","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that has it all, the dashing hero, the beautiful damsel in distress, the noble figure with the tragic flaw, and a truly wonderful robot.  Forbidden Planet has maintained that special magic over the years and doesn't lose its flavor with repeated viewings (although the sex appeal of the youthful Anne Francis helps considerably on that score).Movie fans will recognize the youngish Leslie Nielsen portraying the handsome and heroic Commander Adams, although those of us who have grown fond of him in comedic roles will perhaps be a bit taken aback by his appearance in a serious role.  The distinguished and noble-looking Walter Pidgeon is also a featured player as the scientist with a secret (Id). Other supporting cast deserve a nod, especially Warren Stevens as the brainy and resourceful Doc, and of course the charms of Miss Francis, as noted above.This film was an early pioneer in the use of electronic music, in the 1950s, no less.  The credits call them tonalities, but those of us who tried to tinker together early versions of the Theremin device will recognize the eerie and spooky whines and screeches sometimes used in the sound track. Still, it lends to the image of the exotic and alien landscape of the mysterious and forbidding world of the Krell.The special effects are also quite arresting.  I recall my fear as a youngster waiting for the next manifestation of the invisible Id monster, and when it is finally visualized in the one battle scene it literally shook me to my toes in wonder and awe.  The magic of matte art is fully exploited in the dizzying scenes of the Krell scientific complex as the characters make their way through the various labyrinths and passageways, guided by the enigmatic Dr. Morbius.I recall feeling some measure of jealously that Dr. Morbius would have such a cool toy in the form of Robby the Robot.  The persona of Robby is quite charming and in some ways he seems more human than some of the other characters.  Viewers of follow-on shows like Twilight Zone and Lost In Space will recognize the recycled Robby prop in some of those episodes, although I recall he never had the personality of the original Robby.I must admit to not fully understanding the complexities of the plot until I was old enough to understand the various references to Freudian psychology and the danger of unleashing the hidden and normally contained fears and rage we carry within but have trained ourselves, through force of will, to submerge and control through adherence to societal codes.  Although the key to the story seems obvious once revealed, it remains unknown (or perhaps deliberately overlooked) by Dr. Morbius until pointed out by the clear-thinking Commander Adams, who forces Dr. Morbius to confront the evil within himself.  It still gives me goose bumps when Commander Adams pushes Dr. Morbius down before the Krell machine that endowed him with superior intellect, which opened the flood gates of his subconscious to the power of the Krell machine Here.  Here is where your mind was artificially enlarged.  Consciously it still lacked the power to operate the Great Machine.  But your subconscious had been made strong enough. Zowee!Forbidden Planet remains probably my favorite sci-fi film ever, and remains timeless and classic for its carefully crafted story and wonderful visualization and realization on the screen. "}{"Title":"Gets better as it gets older","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not re-treading the comments or plot summaries of other IMDB users, I thought I'd say that this particular film does get better as it gets older.  While ground-breaking on it's release in 1956, the visual look of this film has grown over the 46 years since it first arrived.True to the pulp sci-fi of its day, the art direction has mellowed into an archetype that has not been bettered to this date.  MGM put a surprising amount of money into the production values (similar to, but better than Universal's This Island Earth).  This is a living cover art.  The indelible images of the saucer passing through space, landing on Altair-4, Robby, and the disintegrating tiger linger long in collective memory.This must be seen on the big screen if possible, and in the original Cinemascope format.  I've been lucky enough to see it (it was re-released in the 70's on a double bill with George Pal's The Time Machine), and the power it carries in scenes such as the Krell machines and the attack of the Id Monster are truly impressive.  Watching it on a television just doesn't come close, although the letterboxed version is better than nothing. I am a poster collector, and even the advertising material for this film is exceptional.  I see the one-sheet for it every day in my living room, and have never grown tired of it. AMAZING! is what is says, and for once they got it right.  A true classic of it's type.  "},{"Title":"Incredible special effects and a somewhat compelling pulp plot","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"39 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A flying saucer manned (literally) by a crew of about 20 male space explorers travels hundreds of millions of light years from earth to check in on a colony founded some 25 years ago on a 'forbidden planet.' What they find is a robot more advanced than anything imaginable on earth, a beautiful and totally socially inept young woman, and her father, a hermit philologist haunted by more than the demons of the ancient civilization he has immersed himself in.On the surface, this story is a pulp scifi murder mystery. Some compare it to Shakespeare's Tempest, but this is a stretch, and, in some ways, an insult to the scifi genre. Stripped of what makes it a scifi film, sure, its The Tempest, but how many hundreds of films can you say something similar about? Underneath, this is a cautionary tale about progress and technology and the social evolution necessary for its appropriate and safe use. Yet the film still proceeds with all the hopefulness for our future that we have come to expect from shows like Star Trek.Anne Francis is not the only reason why this film is best described as beautiful. The special effects, and even the aesthetics of the backdrops are powerful enough to make the uninspired directing and uneven acting almost unnoticeable. If it were not for the goofy retro-art-deco-ness of 1950s sci-fi props, you might think you were watching a 1960s piece.This is a classic of that very special sub-genre of sci fi I like to call 1950s sci-fi, and, though not, in my opinion, the best it is certainly a must see for anybody interested in sci-fi film and special effects. The clever plot, now rendered trite by its reuse in six or seven episodes of Star Trek, Lost in Space, and even Farscape, is worth paying attention to, and will sustain the interest of most scifi fans. Trekkers will be particularly interested in the various aspects of the film which seem to have inspired themes of Star Trek's original series aired about 12 years later, though they may find themselves disappointed by the (relatively mild) 1950s sexism and the lack of any kind of racial integration. While I do not mean to nitpick, the lack of social progress manifest in this film was the one major problem I had with it. Some will probably see this film simply to catch a glimpse of young, good-looking Leslie Nielsen in one of his first starring roles. Unfortunately, Nielsen's performance is only average, and at times down-right poor (especially at the climax of the film). Walter Pigeon, though quite excellent in other films, over-acts his role as well. Ms Francis, Earl Holliman, and the amazing Robby the Robot are the stand-out actors in this crowd, though on the whole the character actors filling in the ensemble do a good job. The problems with the featured performances, I think, are as much the fault of the director and the editor, as anything. Though they certainly got most of the film quite right. "},{"Title":"Mid-Century Moderne as sci-fi","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet rates as landmark in science fiction, carefully staying within hard aspects of the genre (science -- not fantasy, ergo nerds will love it) while still playing with imagery and ideas of contemporary 1950s values. Morbius's isolated house is a model of modern design with open spaces that step out into sculpted gardens, a swimming pool, and the ultimate home appliance Robby the Robot. A housewife's dream! exclaims the Captain after lunch and a demonstration of the robot's abilities to synthesize food and disintegrate waste.Also revealing to the 1950s Fruedian psychology rears its head in the Id explanation, although Morbius dismisses it as an outdated concept. There is a touch of the Pacific war drama in the battle with the invisible monster and life aboard the saucer. Perhaps most timely is the post-atomic fear that Science is the enemy, and arrogant scientists will unwittingly bring down destruction in their blind quest for knowledge.Yet the suburban drama presented by Forbidden Planet seems uniquely fresh in the sci-fi genre. They aren't swashbucklers or heroes, but ordinary sailors crossing the galaxy with a serviceman's crudeness and honesty. The good guys drive the flying saucer, and the aliens are so long gone we don't even know what they looked like -- although their music er-atmospheric tonalities by Bebe and Louis Barron are remarkably futuristic today. The views from Morbius' house are truly alien with jagged cliffs and pink bonsais. The interior of the saucer is just this side of Buck Rogers. There's a lot visually to like. Although we get fantastic monsters and robots for the kiddies, Forbidden Planet is a cerebral movie, slow paced and talky. It is working on many levels at once hard sci-fi against space adventure, philosophical against domestic. There are many suburban touches. In spite of all their space-talk, the soldiers are dressed for the golf course. Morbius' fatal discovery is a humble educational facility, a schoolhouse. The most interesting character is Morbius' daughter Altaira. Having never seen a man she is unashamedly forward to the crew. She's a post-Madonna teen who designs her own space-age clothes and takes every opportunity to change outfits -- imagine Christina Aguilera with a household replicator. Men watching the film might see her as a naive girl in a minidress, but every woman knows there is no such thing as a naive girl in a minidress. Anne Francis deserves better recognition for humiliating the Leut with kisses. Alas we'll never know if she was working him as he suspects, since the Captain interrupts and becomes a more interesting target for her attention. She is the character who makes the important change in the film. Shocked that her father compares the dead Doc to the other embeciles in his landing party, she turns away from her father, her home, to leave with the sailors for Earth. It's this act of defiance, of maturity, that sends Morbius' Id creature over the edge, allegorically destroying its creator just as it did thousands of centuries earlier to the Krell. Maybe the Krell had teenage daughters too...? "},{"Title":"Prepare your minds for a scale of new scientific values gentlemen.","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only thing I knew about this film prior to seeing it was Robby The Robot. My preconception was that it was another in a long line of cheesy sci-fi flicks that the 1950's was noted for. How wrong I was. Big studio, big budget and big production values make this a strong contender, at least visually, for the best sci-fi film coming out of the era. I qualify with the word visually, because War Of The Worlds is a lot darker and scarier than Forbidden Planet, and probably fits the mold better as a foray into alien territory.What impressed me immediately was the color rendition of the cinematography, followed by the intricacy and scope of detail involved in Dr. Morbius' (Walter Pidgeon) home and laboratory. But that was only the prelude to the icing on the cake, the labyrinthine underground that served as the Krell stronghold. It appeared that Krell technology was even more advanced than say, that of Star Wars. Which made me consider, audiences for this movie back when it was released probably sat in the same kind of awe that theater goers experienced in 1977 with SW, or in 1986 with Aliens. Watching it on a large screen TV in my living room offered me the same effect, and I'm fairly resistant to hyperbole.It's not too much of a stretch to imagine Forbidden Planet as a direct antecedent of the 'Star Trek' TV series; Gene Roddenberry himself stated that the movie had a great impact on his vision for the show. Followers of that short lived series will readily recognize plot elements used here that turned up in 'Star Trek'. I had to do a double take when the men of United Planets Cruiser C57-V headed for a transporter room, while the conundrum presented to Robby that created an impossibility to respond was an element used at least two or three times in the ST series.Where the movie definitely took a cerebral turn had to do with the whole idea of 'monsters from the Id'. That Morbius himself was using his subconscious mind to defend Altaire IV was certainly a unique concept for 1956, when every other sci-fi flick of the time was dealing with Martians or other grotesque space creatures. The film worked it's subtle magic on this viewer by helping me understand that Morbius was the protector of Altaire IV some time before Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen) explained it.You know, looking at the calendar, the year 2200 isn't that far off. This movie may be the one that actually gets it right relative to exploring and living on other planets. I think though, that they'll have to come up with a sleeker looking version of Robby. "},{"Title":"The seminal space movie","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like Star Wars/Trek, come see where they got all their ideas and cinematic devices. It's my top 2 favorite movies of all times, other-worldly-futuristic and psycho-thriller. The intensity of the root material (Shakespeare's The Tempest) is not overshadowed by whizbang gimmickry (a la later Lucas). And just because it was made in 1956, don't assume you can 'see the strings' holding the flying saucer up. This was the first movie where you COULDN'T. Miracle it was made at A-movie scale, economics and tastes at the time were stacked heavily against it. And director Wilcox's previous 'hit' was Lassie Come Home. Until I looked him up, I assumed 'Fred Wilcox' was a pseudonym for a director who was already or later became famous, but at the time didn't want to be associated with sci-fi, which was strictly a B genre back then. This was either a very VERY visionary production, or a very fortuitous 'mistake' on the part of the folks who bankroll Hollywood.There are the massive-scale mattes with live action almost microscopically inserted that Lucas used extensively. There are intelligent machines that transcend the stereotypical 'user interface'; computers, as they've come to be portrayed much less futuristically in later works. Star Trek's 'transporter' is there, visually, almost unaltered by Roddenberry 10 years later. And if the Trek/Wars technobabble turns you off, FP's scientific references are not overdone and are all accurate, even today. The ship set is comprehensive, sparklingly realistic, as good as anything you've seen since, and more convincing than anything 'Trek' has done, for TV or film. We didn't get to spend as much time there as I would have liked.If you ever wondered how movies got into space so competently, watching FP will explain all that. It's definitely not 'Wagontrain to the Stars'.  "},{"Title":"Digging below the surface of this sci-fi classic","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many comments have been made about Forbidden Planet. It was the prototype for what later became a golden age of science fiction. It was an sci-fi epic based on Shakespeare's Tempest. It featured great acting from Walter Pigeon and Leslie Nielsen (most people are surprised that Nielsen was really a fine actor at one time), and an excellent supporting case, most of whom achieved later success, mostly on TV. It featured one of the great classic story lines from all of science fiction. It was visionary in combining classic Disney animation with live actors. It featured new concepts electronic music, hyper-drive, Clystron relays, Freudian subconscious id monsters.But apart from the last line of movie (... will remind us that we are after all, not God), very few comments has been made about the religious side of the movie's message. It was, after all, Commander Adams who opened up that part of the dialogue when he told Morbius, All of us are part monsters in our subconscious. That's why we have laws and religion. That confluence of Freudian psychiatry and religion must have rankled people in the 1950s', who were trying to replace religious concepts with the teachings of Freud. But the movie went further than that. Morbius actually went through the process of repentance. At first, self-denial (I'm not a monster). Then realization of guilt (Yes, I must be guilty). Then confession (My evil self is at that door, and I have no power to stop it). Finally, giving up the sin and the self-created monster (Stop, Don't come any further. I deny you. I give you up.), along with great sorrow and regret.It was also the intent of the movie to claim that the tragic mistake of the Krell was in their attempt to link their subconscious minds and imaginations to their super-powerful matter generator in order to give themselves god-like powers. The attempt to transcend the limitations of mortality must have impressed on the Krell the need to reach beyond the merely human or finite and to somehow experience the infinite, through true creation. The horrible tragedy of this attempt echoes the Garden of Eden when Satan says to Eve, if you eat of the apple you will not die but you will surely be like God.The intellectual arrogance of the Krell and Morbius doomed them to extinction. One reason why this movie continues to draw our attention, even 50 years later, is its great moral lesson. As we use technology and become more and more dependent on it, the day will finally come when that technology will do the bidding of our very thoughts. Then we will have crawled to the point where the Krell stood in their moment of triumph, tragedy and annihilation.At that moment we will need to heed the final line, once more, that we are after all, not God, or face our own imminent destruction.  "},{"Title":"Parallel Futures","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In creating my own list of favorites, I put this at the top of my SciFi category. But that was based on viewing a long time ago. So I rented it recently and was shocked. Times have changed, and science fiction depends so much on the consumers' context.I still like this because it revolves around an intelligent idea rather than cheap scares (Alien) or cowboy myths (Star Wars). But check it out.Science Fiction is all about extrapolation. What makes this film even more interesting than when it was new is that the world has changed so fundamentally. Their future is now different from our future, and the differences between these parallel universes are striking.This is before computers, at least the solid state kind. `Solid state' is now an obsolete term, being so fundamental. Their computers have the quaint clack of relays. Notice how there are NO computer displays. You have either binocular viewers (very much superior for 3d) or electromechanical models (which the Krell have made virtual). There is no notion of Artificial Intelligence; that whole exercise has risen and fallen since. Instead, the amplification and projection of human intelligence is the focus. How unique this seems now.This was just on the cusp when we changed from celebrating the hugeness of engineering marvels to their miniaturization. Hence, the scale of the powerplant/computers (20 miles cubed by 400 locations), and incidentally their powering by fission.Also curiously outdated is the notion of the ID-monster (and its contrast in `pure' feminine innocence). Freud and his following detractors saw the human as essentially simple. Here, the ID is an uncontrollable, violent, invisible beast. Today's viewers would be asking `why invisible, why not a schemer, why not enter the minds of others, why be limited by death, is the ID a social construction and (considering the Krell), what does that say about the universality of social conventions?'I rate this as the current top science fiction film, but not because it was great when it was new. Instead, it has become great because it offers a parallel future now inaccessible. That's  because we have become besotted by computation -- hence a relatively simple notion of reason. And (perhaps as a result) our common notion of social construction has so many new taboos we cannot manage any clear vision other than those relatively weak notions of `rights' and `personal expression.'See this. I wonder if we (or our children) will ever see `Blade Runner' in a similarly new context.  "},{"Title":"Awesome prologue to any future meta-technology","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Major spoilers ahead***Cheesy FX and a robot from the 50s may hide the most intellectually powerful sci fi movie before 2001, Tarkovski's Solaris, Planet of the Apes or Blade Runner. In fact, in terms of science fiction, it is impossible to surpass Forbidden Planet because its extrapolation of technology is complete what happens if you have a fully accomplished technology, i.e., an immediate control of mind over matter? You must face the roar of your unconscious mind (the ID monsters) which of course you can not avoid because you (human, krell or whatever) are the product of a biological evolution and even your most sophisticated reflections are build upon the instinctive layers of the brain. All other great sci fi movies, or books, tell us the same no matter how fast you run away from yourself riding the technological wave, you will ultimately clash with the limits of your self. Turn into the next step of evolution (2001), into an alien (Solaris), an ape (Planet of the Apes) or an android (Blade Runner) you still are somebody, and everybody has an ego.Forbidden Planet is ultimate science fiction, and as such it hints that the only way out of the trap of our mind is self-knowledge.The shots within the huge Krell machine are awesome, specially when you see three tiny men (Morbius, the captain and the doctor) on a catwalk in the middle of an extremely wide shaft. They appear to be real people walking, not animated FX (they even cast shadows on the catwalk), and the composite with the shaft background is perfect, even with the camera moving! I still wonder how they managed to do that in the 50s visually and conceptually awesome. At least that FX shot is not, and will never be, dated.Ten out of ten. A gem for those able to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Unusually thoughtful sci-fi for 1950's (and even for today)","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At a time when science fiction movies were invariably cheap rubber monsters attacking our cities and scaring our women, Forbidden Planet offered an usually thought-provoking plot that worked on a number of levels.  Today, too many sci-fi movies are nothing but computer-generated special effects extravaganzas masking the lack of thoughtful plot and characterization. Forbidden Planet had awesome special effects for their time (many of which still hold up well today)--but these were used to effectively support the multifaceted plot and characterizations, not try to compensate for their lack.The Shakespearean (The Tempest) and Freudian (Id-monster) elements have been noted by many critics.  In the 1950's, with the atomic and hydrogen bombs so new and terrifying, other sci-fi movies had asked whether man had the wisdom to use all the new science for good rather than evil.  But they usually dealt with that solely on a surface level, by just having some monster created with the new science that comes out and kills a bunch of people.  Only Forbidden Planet dared to actually delve into the depths of human psychology to see what our baser instincts are capable of when given full rein.  It directly refuted the notion that all that new science and technology was somehow civilizing humanity.  The Krell, a far more advanced race than we, are never seen on screen (only their artifacts are shown, leaving you to imagine what they looked like).  But their disappearance is a warning that even a far more advanced race like they, couldn't escape the baser instincts and subconscious drives deep within their own brains--so what of man?One subplot that is less often discussed, but equally well thought out, is the scenes with Altaira and the tiger, an allusion to the myth of the virgin and the unicorn.  Until Altaira meets the male crew of the C-57-D, she is virginal and the tiger is a tame beast in her presence.  After she has her romantic interludes with Farman and the captain, the tiger attacks her. (Being the 1950's, the dialogue only subtly suggests what has happened.)For Star Trek fans, it's worth seeing Forbidden Planet just to list all the parallels between Forbidden Planet and Star Trek The Original Series.  The basic theme (a United Planets spaceship explores a strange new world), the characters and characterizations, the weapons, and even the special effects all seem to have unconsciously inspired Gene Roddenberry to create his own vision. "},{"Title":"such an intelligent story","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have loved this movie all of my life. It's such an intelligent story also, with plenty of classical allusions. eg. The ship that went missing decades earlier was called the Bellerophon. Well, in classical mythology this was the man who slew the Chimera, a legendary beast composed of two or more other creatures. In FP, Walter Pidgeon is clearly the chimera- himself and his Id monster. I like movies where the writers have clearly credited their audiences with a modicum of intelligence, unlike most modern blockbusters which spend $150m on special effects, but about $1.50 on a screenplay.Cheers "}{"Title":"Truly Great...","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To those of us who grew up on science fiction of the 50's and 60's, Forbidden Planet is, if not the all-time greatest sci-fi film, then it's one of the top three (the other two are The Day the Earth Stood Still and War of the Worlds).The actors are superb, the scenery and graphics are wonderful, and the special effects (though now quite dated) still hold their own today! This is the movie that I use as an example, when a younger person today, comments that Leslie Neilson is only an old comedian. I have them sit down and watch Forbidden Planet. They are always surprised to find out how great he was and that he was also a very accomplished serious actor.The movie is as marvelous today as it was 50 years ago. Sci-Fi movies come and go. Some I can take and some I can leave behind. But, whenever Forbidden Planet is playing, I'll drop everything and make the time to watch it again! It truly set the standards for all great science fiction to come after it! "},{"Title":"The Granddaddy of many later sci-fi yarns","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Legendary as one of the very first bigger-budget, elegantly-appointed and major studio-backed science fiction films, this holds up rather well today. Nielson plays the commander of a spaceship sent to the title location to check up on an expedition that was sent there nearly 20 years ago. Upon arrival, he is reticently welcomed by mysterious Pigeon, his lovely daughter Francis and a miraculous robot who is capable of creating virtually anything he is commanded to whip up. Before long, however, an unseen monster begins wreaking havoc among Nielson's crew, eventually slaughtering some of the men. It's up to Nielson to rescue a highly reluctant Pigeon from his rather lonesome, but autocratic existence. Despite all the advances of modern special effects technology, this film still looks fantastic, with unbelievable colors, striking art decoration and set design, brilliant use of animation and eye-popping matte work. An innovative and effective use of electronic sounds helps add to the environment of the film. Occasionally, a creaky effect shot will sneak in, but for the most part, this is beautifully done and must have been jaw-dropping at the time of the film's release. Pigeon doesn't always seem 100% comfortable with the sci-fi jargon and the setting, but he does a commanding and commendable job, adding the right amount of dramatic heft to the role. Nielson (who successfully turned to comedy when his hair turned prematurely grey) is a bit bland, but solid, as the leader of his crew. He is complimented by Stevens and Kelly as his fellow officers. Francis is quite attractive and appealing, wearing what had to be startlingly skimpy dresses for 1956. Holliman has an early role as the comic relief of the film. He plays the ship's whiskey-loving cook, complete with an apron and white hat! Folks not inclined towards sci-fi may find their minds wandering during some of the drier stretches of explanation about the technology of Pigeon's fortress, but at least the surroundings are interesting to the eye most of the time. The film's influence on countless later films and TV shows cannot be underestimated. It was an undeniable trend setter and forerunner. Sometimes profound, sometimes silly, sometimes dramatic, sometimes corny, it remains an important and mostly entertaining example of cinematic science fiction. "},{"Title":"Best Sci-Fi Story Of The 20th Century","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You can't beat this movie.It's got EVERYTHING a sci-fi/horror movie should have. Mad scientist, square jawed hero and his faithful crew, a menacing robot and most of all a hottie in actress Anne Francis! You know the plot, a starship crew goes to investigate a colony of earthlings on a distant world who'd been incommunicado for decades. They discover the colony save two survivors is gone due to some unseen menace that rended them limb from limb..Soon we find out that the unseen menace is none other than the mad scientist's unconscious mind having been given form from a super computer that was designed to manifest the thoughts and desires of a long lost civilization. The scientist, like the ancient civilization overlooked the fact that the computer that gave life to thought also was accessible by the unconscious, beastial mind. Such sinister and repressed thoughts destroyed the ancient civilization and almost the starship crew but the commander played by Leslie Nielsen figures it out in true, cool, starship captain finesse just in time to save everyone.The importance of the storytelling in this movie is second to none. It does what great film and storytelling are supposed to do, bring the best of your imagination to bear. We don't always 'see' the monster nor the mayhem it creates but the mere suggestion is enough to keep one's imagination going for a lifetime. You can't buy that level of superior craftsmanship.The acting is superb throughout in this sendup to Shakespeare's The Tempest and the special effects legendary. So you get the full package of entertainment and enlightenment all rolled into one.Think of today's internet and computing. The Krell's super computer was their internet that was like internet version 1,000,000,000.0 or something.A good metaphor and lesson to us all that lest we allow our technological progress to override our good sense our doom might come from our dreams that turn our lives into nightmares.A definite must have movie. "},{"Title":"A True Sci-Fi Masterpiece, Among the Greatest Films Ever Made","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Forbidden Planet' is truly high among the greatest Sci-Fi films ever made, and later notable works such as 'Star Trek' and 'Star Wars', etc. would be heavily influenced by it. With a story that enthralls the viewer with the wonders of Space, the VFX remain nothing less than astounding and wholly effective; its moody early-Electronica score further lends to the engrossing wonder, convincing the viewer on some deeper level that they're hearing what might be the celestial vibrations of our vast and infinite Universe.Based on William Shakespeare's 'The Tempest', 'Forbidden Planet' is a genuine cinematic and Science-Fiction masterpiece, one that ever continues to convey a sense of amazement. "},{"Title":"Stuff He Dare Not Dream About","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a good reason that Walter Pidgeon is warning off Leslie Nielson and his crew from the relief ship, stuff he dare not dream about.As Doctor Edward Morbius, Pidgeon is the last survivor of an expedition that came to this planet 20 years earlier. Since that time he married another member of the expedition and had a daughter, Anne Francis. They are the only humans left on this planet which was once the home world of an ancient civilization known as the Krell.The records as deciphered by Pidgeon indicate the Krell came to a cataclysmic ending of unknown origin. The machinery they left behind is still functioning.Maybe functioning too well as members of the relief party start dying and in a particular gruesome fashion. I see all kinds of speculation about a remake and this is one film not to remake because it's as fresh as it was in 1956. The terms would change, we would now say warp speed instead of hyper drive, courtesy of the enduring popularity of Star Trek.We might not see the men in the relief expedition in a flying saucer like space ship. It might look a lot more like the Starship Enterprise or the Ship from 2001 A Space Odyssey. It's interesting to look at science fiction films from different generations and see how are conceptions of the future do change.The story behind Forbidden Planet is a timeless one, about mortal beings trying to play God.You can't write about Forbidden Planet without commenting on Robby the Robot. This mechanical marvel, put together by Pidgeon with the knowledge he gained from studying the Krell was quite the hit back in the day. He got a new lease on life in the sixties with the character of the Robot from Lost In Space. His scenes with Earl Holliman who plays the cook on the space ship and his complying with Earl's request for some home spirits are very funny.Robby and the other special effects were nominated for an Oscar, but lost to The Ten Commandments and the parting of the Red Sea. Forbidden Planet's bad luck to run up against a Hollywood founder like Cecil B. DeMille.Classicists among you will recognize Forbidden Planet as a futuristic reworking of The Tempest which when you think about it could have been Shakespeare's one venture into science fiction. My favorite among the cast is Warren Stevens who's sacrifice enables Leslie Nielsen to learn exactly what he's dealing with.Never miss this one whenever it's broadcast. "},{"Title":"Flawless Old School SF Masterpiece","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You would have to be a deeply cynical SF fan not to rate this as one of the best films of the genre. In a field with only a few unqualified masterpieces - Blade Runner, 2001, Planet of the Apes (1968), Stalker and La Jete among them, Forbidden Planet is, as one other IMDB critic has noted, the source for everything that followed. Star Trek's debt to this film is enormous, and you can see the culmination of high 50's SF literature making a rare appearance in a Hollywood film.Whereas most other SF films of the period were monster movies with a literal rather than metaphorical alien beast, Forbidden Planet makes the claim that we take the beast with us. Courtesy of a script that borrows from Shakespear's The Tempest, Forbidden Planet is a hokey yet sincere amalgam of dime-store Freudian psychobabble and Asimov/Clarke/Bester with a touch of Philip K Dick SF lit thrown in for good measure.The film's other great strengths is its design, sets and art direction. From the shiny silver space saucer that takes the crew to Altair 4 and the Frank Lloyd Wright on Venus design of Morbius's house to Robby The Robot and the Krell underground city , Forbidden Planet is a visually gorgeous treat. With back drops and paintings by Chesley Bonestell and music by Bebe and Louis Baron, this is a magnificent B movie on an A movie budget.The film also has what is perhaps one of the best lines ever delivered in an SF film A green sky? A man could get used to that.And indeed you can. "},{"Title":"The immortal '50s Sci-Fi","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What strikes me about this movie is all the settings of the movie stirs imagination in us about things we subconsciously like to experience and see. In that sense this is a great movie in the same ranks as the Jurassic Park. In the '50s when this was made, I'm sure it was more so than now. The romance of space travel to a remote planet, then seeing Dr. Mobius' very futuristic and oasis like home in middle of nowhere, having intelligent robot who can almost do miracles as a servant, the stunning scale and power of Krell's inventions, then the attack of invisible hostile enemy that only shows itself in the midst of electric fence and particle beam weapon, the way the invisible enemy approaches the house with its only indication being trees being torn down as it draws closer and closer. All of these visual scenery is what we sort of have in our mind but can only see in a movie like the Forbidden Planet ( and more recently in the likes of Jurassic Park ). The only difference are that Forbidden Planet deals with what we imagine our future to be and Jurassic Park with our desire to see prehistory come to life. In this sense this movie stirs and moves its audience by a transporting experience only a well made movie can give. I can't describe any better about what makes this movie so good, but there's lot going on about this movie that makes it not just a simple sci-fi movie. Many people who watch this movie attest to its many layered-ness from its plot to visual effects ( some which looks very much like a precursor to Star Trek series of the '60s ), choice of main characters ( A captain, doctor, and a first officer - Hmmm, didn't I see that somewhere else ? ), a robot that became seminal influence for the robot in Lost in Space etc. etc.. Because of the so many built in values in this movie, this movie ages gracefully and remains entertaining even after half a century (!). A true classic in its own right. "},{"Title":"Consistently fun, entertaining, inventive, and smart","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This isn't going to be a long comment; others have already said enough and my feelings on the film are very simplistic it's a lot of fun. This is a movie it is simply impossible to tire of watching. On a technical level, the film is consistently impressive it's well-shot, the special effects are still impressive from a purely artistic viewpoint, the painted backgrounds, while they look somewhat hokey by today's standards, provide the film with an eerie, alien feel, enhanced by the still impressive and under-appreciated score by Bebe and Louis Barron. The art and set decoration is miles better than most 50's sci-fi.I must comment on how this works as a loose adaptation of Shakespeare's The Tempest. It does a wonderful job of recycling the play's events and characters. This is by no means a film that a high school student can watch to compensate for reading the play, but it's a fine adaptation, its only cinematic competition being the excellent Western Yellow Sky.At a time when science fiction was reduced to pulp, Forbidden Planet did a lot to advance intelligent, thoughtful genre films. I can't recommend this film enough.9/10 "},{"Title":"Morbius, Altaira and Robby--a Trio Not To Be Missed!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admittedly, there's a lot amiss with Forbidden Planet. Aside from Pidgeon and Francis, the human cast is second string. Admittedly, they don't have much to work with, for their characters are bland and dull. There is also far too much uninteresting talk which occasionally clogs up the narrative, causing it to lose pace and consistency.Nonetheless, Forbidden Planet provides great entertainment&#151;provided you see it in a theatre on a CinemaScope screen. On TV, the movie's defects are magnified. On a cinema screen, they don't really amount to anything at all.What do fans look for in a sci-fi film? In a word effects. And these are really something to see in Forbidden Planet. The screenplay is ingeniously contrived to combine off-beat ideas with familiar themes that allow plenty of scope for dazzling effects and fascinatingly bizarre visuals Lost Civilization Wiped Out in a Single Night by Unknown Catastrophe; Lone Survivor of Space Craft, a Robinson Crusoe in an Alien World; One Nubile Girl vs. X Number of Lonely Men.Although Wilcox's direction is mostly unobtrusive (yet, unlike many of his contemporaries, he always makes good use of the full CinemaScope width), he rises to the occasion when need be, as in the thrilling footprints sequence when the camera moves with such dramatic effect.Pidgeon creams the rest of the cast, though Francis looks very fetching in her abbreviated Helen Rose costumes. And of course Robby, the Robot, is a marvelous creation, a truly admirable Crichton whom the writers have provided with such wonderfully amusing dialogue. He distills a sort of nave one-upmanship that's very appealing.The movie has also one other truly memorable feature&#151;its groundbreaking, electronic music score by Louis and Bebe Barron (who had previously scored only an experimental short called Bells of Atlantis in 1952).Yes, weird, fascinating, off-beat Forbidden Planet fully deserves its cult status. We all have our favorite scenes. For me, the stand-out footage is the visit to the Krell labyrinths in which the camera is almost stationary, showing Pidgeon and his companions utterly dwarfed by alien machinery. "},{"Title":"A classic from the golden age of sci-fi","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this sci-fi classic many times over the years but never in it's original big screen Cinemascope glory which I'm sure would add to the value of this film. This was a big budget film for a sci-fi flick in it's day and it's production influenced many filmmakers in the years decades that followed. Fred Wilcox was given the job to direct by the MGM studio. He had s relatively short directorial career but previous to Forbidden Planet was most noted for directing family films like Lassie Come home with Liz Taylor and it's sequels Courage of Lassie, again with Taylor and Hills of Home with Janet Leigh. He had also directed another juvenile actor genre film with Margaret O'Brien in Secret Garden. Respected veteran Cinematographer George Folsey photographed this film. He had his start in the silent era and went on to make such classics through the years as Cocoanuts, Animal Crackers, Meet Me in St. Louis, Adam's Rib and Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. Another film veteran Cyril Hume wrote the screenplay adapted from story by Irving Block and Allen Adler base on block's favorite play The Tempest. Hume had a long career in screenplays going back to the thirties including three Johnny Weissmuller Tarzan movies. The MGM special effects team of Arnold Gillispie, Irving G. Ries and Wesley C. Miller were nominated for an Academy Award for 1956 but lost out to the blockbuster epic The Ten Commandments. The story is set 300 years in the future where a space expedition to a far flung planet has not been heard from so another had been dispatched to find out what happened. Walter Pigeon head ups the large cast that includes Anne Francis, Leslie Nielson, Richard Anderson, Earl Holliman, James Drury, Warren Stevens, Jack Kelly and James Best. Robby the Robot provides the film's futuristic interpretation of the robotic aid to the exploration of space and a comic relief to the films storyline as well. Robert Kinoshita who was an art director on the popular Science fiction Theater television series was given the assignment to design the robot. He would go on to also create the robot used in the Lost In space television series a decade later. The electronic music in the film's score was created by the husband and wife team of Louis and Bebe Barron from the avant-garde music scene of New York and engineers for John Cage. Their space-age music was as important to electronic music as the film itself was to science fiction. This is a very good film and one of the best from the golden age of sci-fi movies and for it's influence on the science fiction film genre it deserves a 10. "}{"Title":"The Invisible Id Monster","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 2200 A.D., the United Planets Cruiser C57-D commanded by Commander J. J. Adams (Leslie Nielsen) travels to Altair IV to seek out survivors from the expedition that was sent in the spacecraft Belerephon twenty years ago to settle a colony in the planet. While they are landing, they contact Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) that advises them to return to Earth without landing since the planet is very dangerous. However, the skipper requests a coordinate for landing since he must accomplish with his assignment. Dr. Morbius sends Robby the Robot to bring Commander Adams, Doctor Ostrow (Warren Stevens) and Lieutenant Jerry Farman (Jack Kelly) to his house. The military learn that all the settlers had died after deciding to return to Earth, and only Dr. Morbius and his deceased wife had survived. Further, they meet his gorgeous teenage daughter, Altaira 'Alta' Morbius (Anne Francis), who has never seen another human being. Dr. Morbius tells that he fears that Commander Adams and his crew might have the same fate of the emigrants. Commander Adams tells Dr. Morbius that he must contact Earth to receive instructions and the scientist sends Robby to help the military to build a facility. Later Dr. Morbius discloses to Adams and Ostrow the laboratory of the Krells, an ancient and developed civilization that lived in Altair IV, and shows a piece of equipment that has increased his intellect. Sooner the C57-D is sabotaged and Adams prepares a field fence to protect the spacecraft and the crew. However, when they are attacked by a powerful invisible monster, Adams and Ostrow decide to return to Dr. Morbius laboratory and use the machine to increase their intellectual capacity to fight against the monster. But they discover the dark secret of the Id monster.Forbidden Planet is a great sci-fi from the 50's and source of inspiration of Star Trek. I believe that this film has probably inspired the sexy Paco Rabanne's clothing of Barbarella; Robby the Robot probably has influenced the robot of Lost in Space; and the Time Tunnel facility is very similar to the Krell's one. The complex Freudian story is entertaining and Anne Francis is extremely beautiful and sexy in her costumes. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Planeta Proibido (The Forbidden Planet)Note On 23 August 2015, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare In Outer Space","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every time I watch this film I am reminded of its brilliance. It stands apart from other sci-fi films, even contemporary ones, in that it evokes cosmic wonder and amazement, an other-worldly sense of adventure and exploration, far removed from Earth. Well conceived and written, the intelligent script offers suspense, an intriguing plot, compelling characters, and humor.A human crew investigates a planet of the star Altair. They find the place lorded over by the brainy Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon), a scientist who seeks to understand the technological wonders of the Krell, the planet's long-vanished civilization that built up a huge base of scientific knowledge far superior to that of humans. Dr. Morbius lives here alone, except for his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) and humorous Robby the Robot.Dr. Morbius and Altaira represent Prospero and his daughter Miranda in Shakespeare's play The Tempest. And The Krell's technology functions exactly like Prospero's magic. Indeed, one of the film's themes is that any super-advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.If the script is terrific, the visuals and sound effects may be even better. The whole look is that of an alien world, a moonscape appearance, and the unique underground ventilator shafts created by the Krell. And the electronic tonalities, with the eerie, Theremin-like sound enhances the visuals, as does all those subtle echoes.Unlike so many current sci-fi films wherein CGI substitutes for a non-existent plot, the special effects in Forbidden Planet enhance an already well-developed plot. We marvel at the film's set design, animation effects, and matte paintings, all of which combine to create an artistic look that augments and supports the intellectual script.Similar to The Tempest in characters, plot, and theme, and aimed at an intelligent audience, Forbidden Planet is one of the three or four best sci-fi films ever made. "},{"Title":"Excellent film for it's time","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have to remember that this film was released in 1956 - 10 years before the Star Trek original series and the SFX are excellent.  I can only say that the film is brilliant and I've grown up watching this film when shown on TV at the consequence of doing my homework!  I now own it on DVD and rate the film as being in my top 10 films of all time.  I think the concept of the space crew and their relationship to one another was carried over to Star Trek and the transporter feature was taken or at least heavily inspired by the opening of the film when the crew assume DC stations (deceleration).We have a serious Leslie Nelson playing Commander Adams and a young 'Oscar Goldman' (Richard Anderson) for The Six Million Dollar Man fans.  I can easily imagine other voyages for this crew would have created a series or even a sequel, but it wasn't to happen.  At least Gene Roddenberry pushed his vision I'm glad to say. "},{"Title":"A Classic Freudian SciFi","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadLike the War Of The Worlds, the movie's effects, given their fifty year old age are amazing. From Robbie the Robot, to the green sky of Altair, to the suspension chambers of accelerating and decelerating this is not a low budget cheese-ball special. It does use plenty of the Bard's Tempest but the bulk of the movie revolves around Morbius and his bizarre Electra complex with Altaira. Even for the repressed 50s, you always sense this quiet possessive jealousy between the two of them. This becomes quite relevant latter when scary things start happening to the ship, just as Morbius warned them. In fact, the pace of the destruction seems oddly congruent with his prescient predictions. This is your first clue about what is going on. The movie is quite serious as the mystery of the previous crew is slowly and terrifyingly unraveled to Adams. Francis is breathtakingly gorgeous sporting some very risqu clothes for the 1950s. This was the heyday of Freudianism which can be found in almost all movies from this period. This one has it big time. The first time you watch this it plays like a murder mystery; what happened to the previous crew and why are Morbius and Altaira immune? When Adams tries to press Morbius he becomes hostile and evasive. He and the Doc follow him down into the vast subterranean Crell factory with breathtaking effects that still look amazing today. They are shown the Teacher Machine that raises your IQ when used but it can also kill you. Adams and Doc notice that Morbius' IQ is way, way too high for a normal human. This is your second clue to what happened to all those dead people. The writing is excellent, when you watch it the first time, I dare you, before it is revealed, to guess what is generating the invisible murdering monster. There are tiny hints, how Morbius, while in the background seems inordinately curious about Altaira's sex life. He also seems to develop animus towards any man she is attracted to. For non Freudians, the Id is the biggest part of the mind and it is primal total unconscious night. Within it are basically only two forces Eros and Thanatos. Love and Death. The other parts of the mind, the ego and the SuperEgo or conscience try to rein in the monsters in the unconscious. When the doctor says the Crell forgot about the monsters from the Id he means the darkness within each of us, held in check by society's internalized norms, has broken lose. The brain machine was on when Morbius was asleep. Freud held that during sleep the ego and Superego had a much weaker hold over the terrible Id. Freud said the Id could be explicated in two words Sex and Destroy. You now will understand why the monster destroys all those who would take Morbius' sex object his Id had cathected or attached to away. This is the core of the movie; if any of us had slept under that machine, our night would have had a monster to serve the shadow in all of us. The movie is now within an alien zeitgeist and Freudianism is openly ridiculed within psychology; it is quite anachronistic. Even if you are lost, trust me, who cares? Enjoy it for the classic science fiction it is. The acting and effects alone make it worth a spot in your library. I just think it is an error to see it as The Tempest, there are elements, but it is much more a Freudian Science Fiction. The lesson that inside of each of us, beneath the veneer of civilization, is a murdering, cruel monster is not anachronistic or dated. Even in the most intellectual person, Jung's Shadow is down there waiting to come out and consume the person. This does give the film its depth and distinguish it from shallow Cold War allegories like The Earth Versus The Flying Saucers. I loved that movie but it is not in this movie's class. Buy This For Your Library. "},{"Title":"Robby was more human than the movie let on!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here is an interesting anecdote about this movie.  Former child star Frankie Darro was inside the Robby The Robot costume.  Frankie had co-starred with Rin-Tin-Tin in the serial THE LIGHTNING WARRIOR (1931) and then with Rin-Tin-Tin Jr in THE WOLF DOG (1934).  He also rode to the rescue with Gene Autry in the classic serial THE PHANTOM EMPIRE (1935).  Alas, he never became a real star.  He was unseen, uncredited, and unheard in FORBIDDEN PLANET (Marvin Miller provided Robby's voice) but once he was the center of attention.  One day after the lunch break while everyone was waiting for shooting to begin Robby felt over. The costume had to be taken apart to get Frankie out and it soon became apparent that Mr. Darro had drank his lunch; making it impossible for him to finish the days shooting. Apparently the life of a movie robot was not all fun.  Ed Wolff, who played THE COLOSSUS OF NEW YORK (1957), would probably have agreed. "},{"Title":"Astonishing Effects For Its Age.","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judging this movie today is fraught with difficulty because since it's production, the subject itself has grown up, moving from low-budget B-movie hokum to A-movie cost-no-object blockbuster.It is evident that the budget of 'Forbidden Planet' went way beyond anything that had gone before, or indeed would come for another 20 years. There are some truly sublime set-pieces, particularly those of the planet's interior that still stand firm against most presentations today. Anyone never having seen this movie before and being suddenly presented with those tiny humans wandering about inside the colossal Krell machine would never guess that they were watching something from over 50 years ago. At the time, on the big screen, it must have been an astounding spectacle - on a par with the opening battle scene from 'Star Wars'.Panoramic landscape shots of the planet's surface also bear up pretty well under scrutiny. There's just a certain sense of 'studio' in the foreground that is reminiscent of early 'Star Trek'. That's still a very favourable comparison though - for an item dating from 1956! Certainly the star of the show is a robot called 'Robbie' that seems to take an age just to say anything. Even so, it is at least as believable as R2D2 or C3P0 - once again, creations from some 20 years later. Another commentator has suggested that it cost $10,000 to build. Factor-in inflation and that would probably translate to $250,000 dollars today. Serious Money for one piece of kit.As to the human cast; I'm no particular fan of Walter Pidgeon, he always left me with the impression of someone who thought he was better than he was. But the part of 'Morbius' exactly suits this character and he plays it with adequate - if stuffy - conviction. As to Leslie Neilsen playing a straight leading man? Well; clearly times have changed. He and his B-movie cast just about get the job done, but no cigar.And then there's the leading lady, who does what leading ladies were supposed to do in the 1950's. She provides a little interplanetary sexual dalliance. 'Ripley' she ain't. It might be science-fiction and set in the future, but all of the tiresome and sexist social mores of the 1950's appear time-proof. Ah-well; you can't have everything. The plot itself is standard sci-fi fare. Some people go somewhere strange and find something unpleasant they're not sure how to deal with. 'Alien/Aliens', 'Pitch Black', and even 'The Thing' follow a broadly similar theme.This time the beastie is human subconsciousness made manifest by Alien technology, and an excellent little chiller it proves to be. Though it does bear a passing resemblance to the 'Loonytunes' Tasmanian Devil. Perhaps, like me, Morbius has been watching too many old movies. There are some spooky moments when the entity's stealthy approach is detected by technology but yet unseen by the human characters (it's invisible, you see) a slowly-paced electronic booming-noise like an amplified heart-beat is matched by huge and bizarre footprints just appearing in the soft earth. An electric-field apparently shorts-out for no reason... That 'magic footprint' trick is also seen in 'Night Of The Demon', whilst electronic detection of the unseen is likewise reprised in Alien(s).And naturally there are some ray guns - at least as good as 'Star Trek's' 'Phasers'.Rather experimentally, there is no theme or incidental music to this movie. All of the audio 'infil' is provided by a seemingly endless and random electronic noise. You may or may not like the effect, but it's a brave effort nonetheless. Its variety almost has the abstract presence of birdsong. I am reminded of Sergio Leone's westerns, where odd moods and punctuations are created by twangs of a Jew's harp or brief pipe and vocal sounds. Vangelis employed a similarly abstract approach to 'Blade Runner'I have to say I love this movie and would equally recommend it because of its age, as in spite of it. This was the Star Wars of its day. And just think; 'Forbidden Planet' actually predated our very first space flight. The USSR's little, bleeping 'Spitnik 1' went into orbit in 1957. If you can remember those times, you will understand why fans of this production insist upon its classic status. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet is the real first Star Trek Episode.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know this for a fact, but I can imagine that Forbidden Planet inspired Gene Roddenberry to create Star Trek. Just look at all the elements this revolutionary film contained that we later take for granted in Star Trek. Beaming (of sorts) right down to the same look of the transporter cells. The effect is similar, too. The threesome of officers including Capt. and Doctor. Robby the Robot is Spock/Data without emotions but with a mind like a computer and the strength of many men. The entire motion picture reminds one of the debut episode of Star Trek, The Cage. Illusions, figments of the imagination, the works. That's why I say Forbidden Planet is the first real Star Trek episode! - ten years before this was first aired! Try watching Forbidden Planet again with this angle in mind, and by all means tell us what you think! "},{"Title":"Could be the best...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...sci-fi film ever.  I was age 9 when it was released, and I begged, borrowed and stole to get more money to see it over and over and over...much the same as with some kids of the Star Wars generation.  It is simply an elegant, thrilling and stunning production all around, with special effects that were mind-boggling in 1956 and are still damned impressive.  The exciting, suspenseful script is intelligently adapted from Shakespeare and Walter Pidgeon is magisterial among a well-chosen cast.  The lethal, unstoppable and invisible Id is the most terrifying monster ever.  Most of all, Forbidden Planet radiates a majestic sense of magic made real that is most unforgettable.  A Very Beautiful Movie! "},{"Title":"One of the all time greats","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Simply put, this film has stood the test of time as one of the greatest sci-fi movies ever. So many films owe so much to this classic. The script isn't cheesy like many other sci fi from the '50s, but rather, intelligent and articulate.  One thing I love about this film is how it covers its bases. Why are there animals on the planet? How does the Doctor have the ability to do what he has done? Details are covered in this film, obviously written by true sci fi writers who made sure this film would entertain kids who just want to see ships and monsters, but educated adults who don't want to be insulted.  Great cinematography, sets and a superb script make this worth repeated viewings. If you don't have a DVD player yet, get one. Then buy Forbidden Planet. "},{"Title":"It's Out Of This World!","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" How I wish that Robby, the robot, had been given a whole lot more screen-time in this wonderful, 1956, Technicolor, Sci-Fi classic called Forbidden Planet. Without Robby's fantastic resourcefulness and astounding ingenuity none of the inferior humans would've ever been able to survive for even 5 minutes on the uninhabitable terrain of planet Altair-4.All-in-all, Forbidden Planet (set in the year 2200), with its spectacular special effects, its impressive sets built on a massive scale, and its first ever, all-electronic sound-scape holds up surprisingly well, even 60 years later. This is especially amazing when you seriously consider Sci-Fi cinema of today with its incomparably rigid standards of visual excellence. "}{"Title":"Spaceships were much cooler in the 50's!","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yep, they were. Red leather, lovely 30's inspired decor, a minimum of screens & flashing lights. In fact I consider the minimalist layout to be much MORE hi-tech than the cluttered ships we usually see. Much of the dreary stuff is hidden from view. It makes the film seem quite modern (sort of).The Robinsons from Lost in Space shopped at the same Galactic Supa- Centre - they bought a scaled down ship, less expensive gear & a cheaper version of Robby but you can easily see the lineage.The special effects must have seemed pretty excellent back in the day because they still look good. Nice laser shots, the monster is well done, all in all they did a really good job.Sure, there are some holes in the plot but it isn't Shakespeare, it's a really good example of Science Fiction. Much, much better than I expected. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie was released 5 yrs. before I was born, but still withstands the test of time. Robby The Robot and of course then still very enticing Ann Francis stole the show, still remember the sound of that motion sensor. How powerful was that Krill machine? I knew it could create images, but could it materialize solid objects as well, oh well, whatever, I remember Earl Holliman's character having Robby analyze that whiskey, and then Robby mass producing it for him. As for IMDb's Ann Francis biography describing her figure as voluptuous then women for years have been using the word incorrectly, because those who use the term to describe their physique are Full Figure (i.e.) chunky. Anne was actually 1 of the few back in those days that had a somewhat athletic figure, there were plenty of buxom blonde haired actresses, but firm figures none I am aware of other than Anne. Almost all leading cast deceased Walter Pidgeon, Warren Stevens, which by the way when he played Rojan in Classic Trek episode By Any Other Name he was already 48 almost Shatner's and Nimoy's senior by 11 yrs., Jack Kelly, Leslie Nielsen, and Anne Francis all deceased. Shame Anne chose not to pursue a more active acting career, true I do not find moles or birthmarks appealing, but with a figure like that just maybe I could see past it. What is it with some actresses they they seem to be oblivious to flaws that if removed or reconstructed they would be absolutely stunning. Consider Barbara Steisand and her nose as in being too big only a fool would say he is attracted to her because of her big nose. When I think of her it brings to mind a scene from the movie Funny Girl the 1 with her wearing that plunging neckline dress, hubba, hubba. As for Earl Holliman simply referred to as the Cook, he played Lt. Bill Crowley in Police Woman he will be 85 09/'13, Richard Anderson who played Oscar Goldman in the Six Million Dollar Man will be 87 in 08/'13. Did they not set the Krill machine to self destruct at the end in essence destroying the whole planet, oh well they saved the hot babe and the somewhat valuable piece of technology. J.J. Abrams could learn something by reviewing these classic Sci-Fi movies his Star Trek plots would not seem so much like something written by Alfred E. Newman. "},{"Title":"The 50's prototype Sci-Fi film and... succulent Anne Francis","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in 1956, I didn't see Forbidden Planet until a full 40 years later. I've seen it three more times since then and here's what strikes me For one, although Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry is undeniably great, practically every primary aspect of Trek is present in Forbidden Planet, which was released almost a decade before the first Star Trek pilot episode was produced (!). You name it warp drive, Captain/First Officer/Doctor triumvirate, babe in ultra-sexy outfits, beam down/up (in a visual sense, at least), etc., it's all here in Forbidden Planet. The invisible id monster is truly horrifying when finally viewed. It looks like a serious rendition of the Tasmanian Devil.***SPOILER ALERT*** Don't read this brief paragraph if you don't want to know the monster's true identity. The concept that the monster is, in reality, the personification of Dr. Morbius' lower subconscious nature (i.e. the id, flesh or carnal psyche) is a fascinating revelation. ***END SPOILER*** I wasn't at all expecting such mature commentary in a 50's sci-fi flick.Furthermore, Dr. Morbius' elaboration on the former inhabitants of his planet, the Krell, is fascinating to this day and the archaic special effects hold up well.One thing that really blows me away every time I catch this flick, of course, is Anne Francis, who plays Altaira (or Alta for short), in her ultra skimpy (and cute) outfits. It doesn't matter what profound matters are going on in the film, if she's present in a scene with one of her various outfits, my eyes are completely focused on HER -- in utter awe of her jaw-dropping beauty. If you're a red-blooded male and think I'm kidding, check out the flick and see for yourself.I've heard some people complain about the scene where we are led to believe that Alta (Francis) is skinny-dipping, only to plainly observe that she's wearing a loose skin-colored bathing suit. Is this a cop-out on the film-maker's part because it was 1956? Not at all because the bathing suit is clearly visible once she steps out of the water. Despite her sheltered innocent nature, let's give Alta some credit -- she was obviously playing a little coquettish joke on the Captain, to shock him and stir up his mounting desire (it absolutely worked!).Please remember that Forbidden Planet is from 1956 and so understandably has dated aspects, like the sound effects, small portions of goofy dialogue, etc. Regardless, it must be HAILED as the honored blueprint for numerous sci-fi films and TV series to come.GRADE A "},{"Title":"probably second only to the 'original' 'thing from another world'","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this was one of those $.50 cent deals of yore---and far more complex than most realize---and it was in color! not only are the effects extraordinary, vs. crap like 'earth vs. the flying saucers'---the real 'killer' is the 'universality of plot'---everything hinges on two principles---the ancient concept of a hidden incestuous-thinking father's desire for his daughter, and the idea of what would happen should a world's tech reach the point where all citizen's desires become manifest.needless to say if everyone we wished dead gets dead, not many, if any left---and that became the fate of the 'forbidden' planet's populace---rather modern, actually. unfortunately the 'gear' of 'The Krell'---wasted by ignorance, remains, and 'Morpheus', the incestuous father, knows how to access such tech---and does so, to prevent losing his daughter to another. ancient plot, beautifully rendered.and considering its age, it remains a stunning suspense, action, human-emotion classic---and visually very modern---don't pass this one up---it presages all modern sci-fi---and its pscychological content elevates it, beyond any genre---a timeless work---and the soundtract! you will see/hear no pure 'synth' and perfectly syched Moog background---a 'not miss'--- "},{"Title":"An Uneasy Mix","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This big-budget MGM production is a long way from the Z-budget Corman epics of the time. No crab monsters or wasp women here. Instead we get a sophisticated Freud-in-space adventure apparently rooted somehow in Shakespeare, no less. Of course, the studio has a prestige reputation to protect so the production design is first-rate for that era. I recall being bowled over by the elaborate Technicolor sets, including the spectacular Ms. Francis still the best reason I can think of for exploring the outer reaches.But then as eye-catching as the sets are, they also present a problem. Namely, landing on an alien planet means all the action has to be confined to these outer space settings, no matter how lavish. Combine that restriction with stodgy acting and uninspired direction, and you get too many people standing around talking too much of the time. At the same time, the script tries too hard to connect with audiences by inserting popular stereotypes, like the apron- wearing cook (Holliman) or the ten-minutes of drooling over Altaira (Francis) when one minute would do.Still and all, I can sympathize with the challenge screenwriter (Hume) faces. After all, the movie's an expensive production in an exotic setting with heavily esoteric story elements that's supposed, nevertheless, to appeal to a broad audience. And that's a big challenge to even the slickest dramatist. (At least I know now what an 'id' is supposed to be, something I couldn't comprehend at the time as I expect others couldn't either.)Anyway, the end result is an uneasy mixture of visual treats, heavy talk, a clever robot, and some hokey action. Frankly, though, it's a movie I could wait another 50-years to see.(In passing&#x97;contrast this heavily promoted big-budget epic with that same year's unheralded little classic, Invasion of the Body Snatchers 1956. There're some important movie-making pointers in the contrast, I think.) "},{"Title":"The Snake In The Garden","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movies set in a far-flung future do a better job showcasing the times they were made in than the times they attempt to depict. Forbidden Planet is no exception to that rule, yet it manages to remain a bracingly original, thoroughly entertaining film, an enduring classic in a cinematic genre that ages faster than unrefrigerated milk.In a plot loosely lifted from Shakespeare's The Tempest, a flying saucer flown from Earth in 2200 AD lands on the planet Altair 4, where Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) lives in isolation with his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) and their helpful robot, Robby. The saucer's crew has orders to investigate the fate of a spaceship sent to the planet 20 years before, but Morbius, the only survivor from that earlier voyage, is curiously reluctant to offer his support.Actually, there's not that much of The Tempest in Forbidden Planet, which borrows more heavily from Freud and the Book of Genesis than Shakespeare. Altair is a seeming Garden of Eden of earthly perfection, yet something dark lurks beneath the surface that can be tied both to the Biblical concept of evil and the 20th century idea of the human subconscious. The 1950s were a golden age for science fiction more on the page than on screen, but Forbidden Planet holds up very well.So does the captain of the flying saucer, third-billed Leslie Neilsen, probably the only guy in movies who had to share star billing with not one but two inanimate objects, Robby here and Otto in Airplane! Neilsen's later career transformation casts a subversive light on his more serious early roles, but Neilsen here is really good, both in his angry confrontations with Morbius and his comic attempts to disguise his jealous longing for Morbius's daughter.The best performance, other than Robby's deadpan humor, is probably Warren Stevens as Doc, a member of the saucer's crew who very subtly does a lot to point us in the direction the movie wants our minds to go in while his crewmates ogle the scrumptious Altaira. Doc is the repository for intelligence in Forbidden Planet, more even than Morbius, as he seems to better understand the limits of the human condition.There are some unintentionally funny moments in Forbidden Planet. Is it stranger to see the saucer's crew members marvel at Morbius's garbage disposal unit or for the captain to call Robbie's food-making abilities a housewife's dream? Yet like Anne Francis's enduring hotitude, much about Forbidden Planet still seems fresh and new, like the first view of Altaira as the flying saucer enters its atmosphere, Morbius's guided tour of the catacombs beneath the planet, or the chilling moment when a crane shot of two guards turns out to be a POV shot of a large, unseen creature...As a prognosis of the future, Forbidden Planet may miss the mark here and there (like in its prediction man would land on the moon some 130 years later than we actually did), but as an adventure story undergirded by deep thought, it's remarkably timeless. "},{"Title":" I see it as a premonition of death, a warning to any and all ","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Growing up as a child there has always been a realm of imagination concerning the future. Seeing it on TV, moreover in movies, the future became attractive and inviting. It was even more exciting when we could see the machines of the future people would have to work with. This movie,  Forbidden Planet  was such an inspiration to young minds it became a classic in it's own right. The story is taken from Shakespeare's 'the Tempest', but to youngsters, we saw little resemblance. Nevertheless, once you're on board the spacecraft heading towards Altair Six, you forget the play and concentrate on Robbie The Robot and the dangers of the planet. The crew is commanded by none other than Commander J. Adams (Leslie Stevens), Warren Stevens who plays 'Doc' Ostrow M.D.' Jack Kelly is the hormone driven Lt. Jerry Farman with Richard Anderson as Chief Quinn. The first time I saw the film I was visually impressed. In later years, I came to ask the question, if this is the future and space travel has been accepted, why do they still need Dishwashers and Cooks as played by Earl Holliman. Robby the Robot has always intrigued audiences, so much so he returns from time to time in other shows. Alright, so the film is a bit mushy, but the mysterious portions of invisible monsters make up for it. Excellent film and a true classic. **** "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great, forever young and amazing film! As the Space Patrol lands on a planet searching for the survivors on their's crashing point, they're obliged to face a lot of problems in the end all connected to each one. But it's very difficult to find this connection. Most of all I'm sure that without this celebrated SF movie, Star Trek could never have been taken off. Please look to the shape of the starship and the costumes. What about the Captain and the Doctor (anticipating Kirk and Bones)? Definitely I consider Forbidden Planet the true prequel to all that wonderful TV series. The message is very important and well developed, thanks to Disney and the crew. Great sixtie's colours. Everybody's love to beautiful Altaira. Where's Robby now? Ciao to all the Trekkers Guido Gossi "},{"Title":"The total potential here must be nothing less than astronomical.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a special film due to the Special Effects by A. Arnold Gillespie, Irving G. Ries, and Wesley C. Miller. For 1956, they were awesome! But there was also some good acting in this film. For once, I got to see Leslie Nielsen before he made those ridiculous movies like The Naked Gun 2.Walter Pidgeon (Oscar nominations for Madame Curie and Mrs. Miniver) was really good as Dr. Morbius.I enjoyed Ann Francis. I have missed her since Honey West. And, of course, Robby the Robot stole the show. "},{"Title":"Brave New World - with a twist","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based loosely on Shakespeare's The Tempest, this has rightly become something of a cult classic sci-fi movie. The score (electronic music) and special effects are both way ahead of their time and suspension of disbelief is readily achieved from a cast that includes Walter Pidgeon as the scientist who discovers the remains of a lost advanced civilisation on a faraway planet. He also discovers a terrifying secret that threatens anyone who lands on the planet. If you keep in mind that this film is over 50 years old it's a remarkable achievement and a most enjoyable 90 minutes. Aldous Huxley used a quote from the play to title what was to become perhaps his most famous novel but this film, too, is an apt warning of the pitfalls of uncontrolled scientific advance. Perhaps its warning is as apt today as it was in 1956. "}{"Title":"Still viewable and viable after fifty years!","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Still viewable and viable after fifty years! As a young lad of twelve and budding sci-fi fan, I first saw this film with awe and admiration when it was first released.Well, the awe is gone but the admiration still remains for the imaginative story, the special effects (many of which others copied slavishly thereafter), and the pleasure of seeing, once again, the antics of Robby the Robot (and in the movie that introduced him to the world). Special mention, also, must be made of the quirky electronic music, the first of its kind in any feature film.The dialog, of course, is dated, as you might expect, especially regarding nuclear and electronic terminology; but, that's not a real hindrance. It just implicitly reminds you how much has changed technologically since 1956.The basic story is as follows a Federation crew arrives at Altair IV to find any survivors of an expedition sent there twenty years previously. Finding only the eccentric Dr Morbius (the venerable Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter, Altaira (Anne Francis), the captain of the starship, John Adams (Leslie Nielsen) and his officers set out to find out why the two have survived all this time while the rest of the expedition died violently from some malignant presence on the planet. So, when the crew of the starship begins to die in the same manner (being torn apart, limb from limb), the good captain naturally begins to suspect the erratic doctor.It's a simple story, but well acted and well produced, given the limitations of film technology at that time.A few scenes are truly noteworthy as the starship comes out of light speed on its approach to Altaira, all of the crew stand in individual shimmering light beams, much like Star Trek's beam me up shots, attesting to the influence upon that TV show; whenever there is an exterior shot of the starship in space, there is no sound (except for the quirky music) and no sign of rocket flames --- see, they do get some things technically correct, way back then; the blaster guns used by the crew perform in much the same way as those we all saw later in Star Trek; and, finally, remember Ripley in Alien (1979) when she primes the nuclear reactors to explode on the Nostromo? She pushes in the plungers to set the process in motion. Well, that's just what Morbius does also when he has to destroy the planet! There is comedic relief in the form of Earl Holliman's (playing the ship's cook, if you can accept that) rapport with Robby and his need for cooking liquor. There's the inevitable love interest between Captain Adams and Altaira. And, there's the great dialog from Robby, full of delicious irony.Fifty years on, I still enjoyed watching it. I feel sure you will also. "},{"Title":"A Must Have For All Sci-Fi Lovers","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie might be from the fifty's, but the special effects don't look like it. No they don't look like CGI effects from today, but they are still eye catching. The acting is not bad either. The movie stars the screen legend Walter Pigion, and up coming star Leslie Nealson, and Robby The Robot. Though this is not a movie with a lot of explosions and fast action, but the drama is very suspenseful that keeps you guessing on just what is this monster. It is a classic for all time, and all ages. A movie you will want to see again and again. The new DVD with the remastering of the movie and sound make this classic even better than when it first came out. "},{"Title":"One of the few proper Science fiction films and a 'first'","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As another comment mentions, there are few proper science fiction films. Most are space opera (Star Wars, for example, great movies though they are) of one sort or another. Forbidden Planet is an exception, with a plot that uses the genre to explore philosophical, moral or social (etc.) issues. In this case the balance of Id and Ego. (Another example might be Gattaca).Forbidden Planet is also one of the first colour SCiFi films - not the first, but very early; it is also the first film to have an electronically generated film score.Finally, the story is inspired by the 'Tempest', with Robbie taking the role of the fairy/sprite Ariel, while Dr Morbius is Prospero. No wonder it has a decent plot... "},{"Title":"The Landmark Space Thriller of All Time !!!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rated a 5-star film for nearly fifty years, and still rated so in some master indexes, Forbidden Planet is considered by many to be the greatest space fiction thriller of all time. The plot, spun from Dante's Inferno, is one of the strongest ever adapted to screen play, and the film's many technological innovations, such as wireless microphones, remote video, hyper drive, and many others, were conceived and debuted therein decades before their time. In addition to the powerfully absorbing story, centered around the fact that a evil primitive lurks within the subconscious of every man, the details, dialogue, and scientific jargon of the script exhibit amazing scientific and technical accuracy ... even today ... everything from the need for special devices to protect the spacemen from rapid acceleration/deceleration to/from hyperspace, to advanced scientific discussions, including accurate, heavy-duty terminology having to do with the origin of the indestructible, invisible Monster from the Id! Robbie-The-Robot, one of the films most memorable contributions, lived on for decades after the film, first as a household name, then in Lost In Space, and later in other appearances and spin-offs. Robbie was the prototype and basis for the android concept in subsequent productions.I saw this film when it opened in 1956, and have viewed it many times since. I will never forget the ominous aura imparted by the stunning, never before seen visual effects, eerie and completely unique sound tract, alien landscapes, and artistic devices of this great landmark masterpiece. This title is prized among my classic video collection of the more than 1,000 films.Except for a few corny lines by Cookie, a manner of speech considered hip for the time period, and a little wavering of the saucer during landing, this film is not only a flawless masterpiece, but will remain a timeless monument to the golden age of science fiction film making. Morbuis (Walter Pigeon) will always remain the quintessential institutional scientist who's self-righteous, self-noble, and self-important values turn out to stem from the same mentality that has led humans to construct over 250,000 nuclear warheads. And, Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen), the pragmatic, self-made hero who, at ground level is able to see through the fog, and with great sacrifice (mainly of others) at the last possible moment, unravels the crooked web and reveals the ugly truth. The truth that sets men free! "},{"Title":"Space Trek to Planet with Scientist, His Daughter and His Robot","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The impact and influence of this colorful, often breathtaking adventure in the future of space cannot be underestimated. A fairly straight line can be drawn from this to the TV pilot produced several years later for the new Star Trek series - The Cage. Whether the Star Trek or Star Wars of its day, Forbidden Planet stands head and shoulders above most of the sf efforts of the fifties. Only a few are on par - The Day the Earth Stood Still and perhaps the original War of the Worlds from '53. But this film has scope; its storyline encompasses nothing less than the breath of the universe (or, at least our galaxy), and the entire history and potential future of all mankind. That potential, in a deep concept for a sf movie, contains elements of foreboding by the end of this picture. Though completely serious in its approach, it didn't step over a line into pretentiousness, as witness the banter among the crew and the silly interplay between the cook and the robot (perhaps the weaker parts of the picture).Like the panorama of its unofficial stepchild, Star Trek, the future of mankind as presented here is a bright, optimistic one. It's set roughly 200 years in our future, at a time when it is we, not some aliens, who zip around the galaxy in flying saucers. We are well organized in this future, intelligent, perhaps not as awed by the thought of God, but striving for decency regardless. All of this is represented by the top notch crew of the space cruiser - all male and rigorously trained, in snappy uniforms and possessed of high-tech weaponry. We're decent and peaceful-leaning, but we don't hesitate to defend ourselves when tested - this is an ideal of fifties stoic old-fashioned Americana. There's the central trio of top officers - the commander, the first officer and a doctor - sound familiar? Of course, they're all 3 human - no Vulcans yet in this crowd. There's even an engineer who is expected to work miracles with the material at hand. The story shifts into a rough version of Shakespeare's 'The Tempest' with the introduction of 3 other characters during this space crew's latest mission to a barren yet wondrous planet an elder scientist, his young lovely daughter and the scientist's impressive robot, which he apparently tinkered together about 20 years ago.But there are secrets on this planet, dark and deadly, and most of them stem from this anti-social yet seemingly harmless recluse of a scientist (Pidgeon). When he chooses to divulge information to his visitors (and then you can't shut him up), the film's scenes take on the aura of a fantastic travelogue in space, on a mysterious, beguiling planet. He begins with the events of the last few years and the various gadgets at his disposal - even at this early point, the stuff is fascinating, a free view of futuristic life for us to be dazzled by. But later he gets into the ancient secrets of the Krell, an extinct race which reached levels of advancement far beyond what we future humans have here. Marvel upon marvel is unveiled to the visitors and we, the audience, just lap it all up along with them. But with all his talk, the biggest secret is not forthcoming from him; there's only a hint, when he reveals his IQ had been doubled years earlier by accident.Of course, even a mind-blowing travelogue would not add up to a great movie, so the suspense and action are abetted by a sinister, awesome monster, stalking our heroic space crew and finally attacking in an inspiring, sensational sequence. And it all makes sense in the end. This isn't some arbitrary threat, some creepy alien monster created just to provide extra thrills for the sake of thrills. It's really gratifying to have an intelligent design crafted to the script which explains all the mystery and the monstrous entity by the conclusion. It makes me wish we could have seen more adventures of commander Adams (a very early role for Nielsen, durable & reliable here), his crew and the great Robby the Robot. And, filmmakers may want to gaze on this old precursor of Star Trek to find out where that franchise went into disarray back in the nineties. "},{"Title":"Fantastic stuff","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can you say, after half a century, its still worth watching. This film as well and truly stood the test of time.The special effects still look good, and while the acting can seem a little stiff, its a reflection of the time the film was made. Based roughly on the Tempest the film follows the crew of a star ship on an interstellar mission to Altar 4. What they find is the remains of an original expedition, 1 man, and his daughter. What they do not expect are the secrets held on the planet, left by a past civilisation that bought their world to and end, and could end the present world. The climatic build up is fantastic. Another bonus is that the film bought us Robbie the Robot for the first time. "},{"Title":"Still a classic after half a century.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this when it first came out; I was 12 or 13 at the time. Needless to say, I was mesmerized. I watched it again last night, and while some of the sets and special effects are primitive by today's standards, the movie holds up well. A bit preachy, especially at the end, but fun to watch and nicely constructed. (Speaking of nicely constructed, Ann Francis certainly is a treat to watch!) I can't go along with those who call this the greatest s-f movie ever, but it's a standout for its era. It's right up there with War of the Worlds and When Worlds Collide -- two other '50s s-f films produced in color -- and ranks in the all-time top 20 of the genre. "},{"Title":"Forbidden you say?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the year 2200 AD and a spaceship has been dispatched to the planet Altair 4 to find out how the mission that were assigned to colony of scientists is going. Led by Commander John Adams, the crew find out that there are only two survivors and that being Dr. Morbius and his divine daughter Altaia. Plus also there is multi-task robot Robbie. After being forced to stay on the planet for a little while longer Adam learns from Morbius that the planet was run by a superior race that wiped itself overnight and they left behind some amazing technology. Everything is not all that peaceful, while on this planet an invisible monster is terrorising Adams' crew. Is there a relation between the monster and Morbius, now that's the question? Now, this is what you call a tremendous Sci-fi fantasy! Influentially groundbreaking Sci-fi with a deeply thoughtful story to wrap around its visceral goldmine. Yep, I'm not lying! As a youngster this was one of my favourite movies, sure I didn't entirely grasp the context, but the images it packed was a stunning sight and how could you not get a kick out of Robbie the Robot. No matter when your born (myself the 80s), it's hard not to I appreciate the skillfulness of the production compared with many amongst that period. So, it was a good treat to revisit it after not seeing it in quite awhile. What really amazes me that it was released in 1958 and even today the film designs and F/X still look pristine in shape! The film's edgy exterior is colourfully rich and detailed across the board, which mostly everything holds up to scratch. There are artistically stylish impressions evident and the backdrop is pretty much an oil painting. Throw in the usual snazzy gizmos' and gadgets to make you go Wow, we're in the future! Though, this visual touch does provide a very atmospheric creator, where everything seems bigger than its actually is. What also gave it a spectral feel was the bellowing electronic score that captures the barren feel with its range of bizarre and alienating sounds.The stimulating plot asserts a Shakespearean theme lifted right out of The Tempest with many scientific and human psyche complexities weaved into the spirited story. Plus throw in a love triangle sub-plot that's there to show Altaia sexual awaking. Just like other reviewers have mention it's a thinking man's (or woman's) story. Throughout the script where given thorough and metaphorical messages that are uniquely clever in its final revelation. These added additions seem to skyrocket it above the usually simple Sci-fi jib of its time and actually, the story doesn't feel that forced, or dated by today. The very talky script was pretty observant and it chucked in some humour to lighten it up, though dialog did get some leaden treatment at times. The film is pretty much a real slow grinder that exercises the suspense in many rigid stages in the dying half-an-hour, where the real terror begins. The moment we see the invisible beast in pure form, it's a purely great light-show and one of the more excellent scenes in the film. The minimal violence dabs in a bit of suggestiveness, but also provides an ounce of mayhem in one certain attack. The performances are all but sound with likes of Walter Pigeon as the stubborn Dr. Morbius and Robbie the charismatic robot making the more impressionable and convincing portrayals. Leslie Nielsen and Anne Francis as John Adams and Altaia were solid enough, without making huge head way.Simply a reflective classic genre piece in every way! "},{"Title":"The first serious Sci-Fi movie.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say? Forbidden Planet scared the bejesus out of me when I first saw it at age 7 at my aunt's house. I had nightmares about the id creature breaking down the door for weeks afterwards ) It was the first sci-fi worth mentioning that took itself seriously with no sly winks to the camera as if to say 'we know its a guy in a rubber suit, but just play with us here'. Its also the first movie to ever have used a fully electronically synthesized score. The sets are great, the visual effects still stand up brilliantly today (except that blasted robot, the only weak point in the film) and it proves that Leslie Neilsen was once capable of serious roles. "},{"Title":"Recommended for fans of sci-fi","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're a fan of sci-fi films you have to see Forbidden Planet. Like all older films, the FX look dated but don't let that stop you from enjoying this movie. Made in 1956, the visual production values in FP were very high for their time. The huge painted backdrops of the planet are spectacular. The interior of Morbius's house looks like a Frank Lloyd Wright house. The sets of the alien culture are really interesting especially when you see their power plant. I always thought Robby the Robot was downright silly.The plot itself is probably the most sophisticated in science fiction films with its idea of monsters from the Id. The music score is unique. It's completely electronic blips and bleeps and though it sounds dated today it deserves points for being experimental. "}{"Title":"forbidden planet","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" DirectorFred Wilcox, ScriptCyrilHume, StaringWalter Pigeon, Anne Francis,Leslie Nielsen. Forbidden Planet is one of the highlights of the golden age of sci-fi from the period between 1950 and 1962. It is considered to be the first film to have an electronic music score. It was filmed in colour in cinemascope that was popular in the 1950's and is to the 1950's what Kubrick's 2001 a space odyssey was to the 1960's and Lucas's star wars was to the 1970's. If you like the star wars movies, give this a try. I see many influence's. Roby, the robot is like the robot on Irwin Allen's lost in space or even c3po in Star Wars.It also deals with a greater force like Star Wars. Watch this and see how the special effects have changed in 50 years! This movie was very impressive for its time. Walter Pigeon is great as Dr. Morbius as well as his beautiful daughter Altaira played by Anne Francis. This also features an early performance by Leslie Nielsen. The first pc the Altair got its name from this film. "},{"Title":"Hey! Not bad at all for its age.","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow. There have been a lot of reviews for this old movie. That says a lot in itself.I just saw this movie for the first time several days ago. I picked up a used DVD of it for $3. Glad I did as I really like it.I expected something totally corny as the cover of the DVD has a robot carrying off a scantily-clad woman like some comic book drivel. So, imagine my surprise when there was actually a decent plot and some rather good acting. The weird audio score impressed me too. It added a novel atmosphere to the whole production. Effects were impressive for way back in the 50s too. The invisible monster had me tense which a lot of newer movies can't come close to doing.The only thing that seemed a little bogus was Anne Francis being so naive concerning men. She sure was a looker though.That robot is way cool. I've seen it in some other movies too. I really need one of those around the house eh.Now some people might find this movie a little slow in places. But, it has such a good story compared to other movies of that era that it's only a minor flaw. Lovers of pure sci-fi will eat this one up.This is a movie I'll be able to watch many times, which is saying a lot for me. Anyone who cares a whit for sci-fi ought to check this one out. "},{"Title":"We are already there","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ****Spoiler*****Is it me or is this movie really challenging man's current ability to wisely use the technology we have?  It is not the future we need to be concerned about it's right now.  In 1956, everyone was worried about a nuclear war reducing earth to an ash heap.  Are we wise enough to have that power?Not to be a Luddite, but this movie grows with age.  We can now destroy the earth in a variety of ways - nuclear, biologically or good old fashion global warming.  Will we, like the Krell, have the best intentions and still destroy ourselves?  Is there some point where our technological prowess will outstrip our wisdom thus making a disaster inevitable?Interesting thought.  Makes the movie timeless, just like the Tempest.And man is Anne Francis hot!  "},{"Title":"The birth of TRULY GOOD Science Fiction","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't describe to you how excellent this film really is.  I'll try, though.  We'll break it up into two sections  Why it was a great film for the time it was made, and why it would still be an excellent film if it were just made.The special effects in this film, while we may see them as cartoon-like and cheesy, were greatly beyond anything thought of before this film.  In fact, this movie is the one that CREATED the Academy Award for Special Effects. Before this film, there was no such award.  Also, the concentration on dialog and deepening plot was very uncommon for the sci-fi era of the fifties.  There is so much plot that you have to pause your player every now and then just to get a grasp on what's happening.If this movie were brand new, it would still be excellent.  Try to imagine a movie where a team of military spacemen get pulled into a world of psychological philosophy and surreal terror.  People would be very willing to appreciate a movie like this now, because most movies can't balance plot and effects.  And if a movie can balance the two, its done in such a typical, predictable hollywood style.(e.g. Sphere)Space Movies would have become extinct if it weren't for this movie.  There would have been so many Midnight Movies that eventually nobody would make them anymore.  Forbidden Planet launched a combination of strong philosophy with entertaining action.  You really feel like you're a member of the crew. There is no doubt that James Cameron was at least partly inspired by this film when he wrote Aliens.  If he says he wasn't, maybe he was and just didn't realize it.  Maybe he was in his id.The Green Saga's Rating 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"2001 of 1956","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the 2001 of the 1950s. An intelligent (downright cerebral), witty, beautifully done film with issues very relevant today - could we wipe ourselves out overnight with super-technology?Walt Disney's Academy Award winning special effects stand up to computer graphics magic today. The endearing Robby the Robot, clattering with mechanical relays, is a movie icon. Robby's a lot more fun to be around its distant cousin from the 60s TV series Lost in SpaceGene Rodenberry studied every frame of this film and ripped it off wholesale for his Star Trek TV series in the 1960s -- the best form of flattery.The militaristic, all-male, horny crew dates the film, but hey it's the 1950s! It's also a delight seeing a young & swashbuckling Leslie Neisle playing it straight!Wish they could make sci-fi movies as intelligent and insightful as this again. Maybe someday. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A classic 1950's Sci-Fi film, Forbidden Planet will also appeal to movie fans who do not like science fiction.  Produced in a day before massive special effects budgets, it was created with more emphasis on dialogue, character development, suspense, and drama - quite a difference from today's typical sci-fi productions.  This is definitely one of my all-time favorite films.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining film, naive, full of charm.","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the pretext of Shakespeare's Tempest, the screenplay by Cyril Hume flips and moves light years ahead in time and space, so that at first no one believed the film was a check, so free , Shakespeare's work.Recognized as one of the classic science-fiction for adults, Forbidden Planet is one of the greatest films made during the fifties, along with others such as Invasion of the Body Snatchers, 1956, The incredible shrinking man , 1957, and The Day the Earth Stood still, 1951. But its importance goes beyond that, as Forbidden Planet is also a seed upon which much of the science-fiction to the big screen and small would develop from the sixties. It is not difficult to see the crew of the spaceship future ancestors of the crew of the Enterprise on Star Trek and the robot to an ancestor of C3PO in Star Wars.The film is entertaining, naive, full of charm, and a very imaginative staging. "},{"Title":"First Rate 1950s Science Fiction - But not a perfect The Tempest clone","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Because of some clunky dialog (but not much) I can't give FORBIDDEN PLANET the 10 I want to give it. But aside from that, it demonstrates what science fiction films could have been like in the 1930s to 1950s if the major studios had given them serious productions. With a good cast headed by Walter Pidgeon, Leslie Nielson, Warren Stevens, Anne Francis, Jack Kelly, and Earl Holiman, it is an update (but not a perfect one) of Shakespeare's final great play, THE TEMPEST, set in outer space. More of that point later,The sets, given earlier examples (compare with say the typical mad scientist sets at Universal in the 1930s), are rather good looking. Doorways show to us what the long dead Krell race was supposed to look like. When a scientific marvel of these dead geniuses is shown by Dr. Morbius (Pidgeon) to Commander John Adams (Nielsen) and Lt. Doc Ostrow (Kelly) it's size (20 miles of machine on either side of the center, harnessing the energy of the planet) is really plausible. The robot Robbie is a little dated after R-2D-2 and C3PO in STAR WARS, but that had 1970 style concepts in mind. I assure you, if you see a science fiction film of 2107 they would make STAR WARS seem dated in the style of appearance of things. One also has to congratulate the imaginative way the film shows the real danger the crew faces when they finally see it.Care was given to this production, which is really not so much Shakespeare as a moral and ethics lesson about pride, arrogance, and Greek hubris. THE TEMPEST did have a similar situation, with Prospero (the original for Morbius) and his daughter Miranda (Altaira - Francis' role here) living on an island that Morbius has turned into his kingdom through magic. But it's a stretch to make Robbie a clone of Shakespeare's Ariel, and there is no character to match Caliban, the actual heir of the island who is now Prospero's slave. Moreover, Prospero wants to return to his rightful place in Europe as Duke of Milan (in the play his position was usurped by his brother, now shipwrecked on the island with others). Morbius likes existing on the planet with his daughter, untouched by other humans, and studying Krell wisdom and science. It's not a perfect match by any means*.(*Oddly enough, Shakespeare's play was inspired by a situation similar to Nielsen's crew exploring space. A fleet of ships headed for the new colony of Jamestown (in Virginia) was partly wrecked in the Bahamas. The ship, with the new governor, had to be repaired, and finally arrived in Jamestown months later, after everyone thought the crew and passengers were lost.)FORBIDDEN PLANET is about how a great civilization can have rot at it's center by arrogance and cruelty. It is an ethics lesson we constantly have to watch out for, as Nielsen, Francis, Stevens and Pidgeon (the last two too late) realize, due to the unfortunate baser feelings of human beings. As such it is far more important than just a well made what wonders the future show us science fiction film. It becomes a worthy film classic to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Vintage sci-fi","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is a sci-fi film from the '50s, which also brought you The Day the Earth Stood Still and other great films of the genre. A couple of things set me apart from the rest of the reviewers. First of all, I'm not a particular fan of science fiction and secondly, I don't have a problem watching Leslie Nielsen in a straight role - I grew up with him being serious! This is a very entertaining film on many levels, not the least of which is its cast of up and coming TV stars - Nielsen, Jack Kelly, Richard Anderson, Earl Holliman, and Anne Francis. Walter Pigeon plays the mysterious Dr. Morbius. And let's not forget the sonorous voice of Marvin Miller as Robbie the Robot - Michael Anthony of The Millionaire! This movie is fantastic for baby boomers. Robbie, by the way, gives a great performance and has some of the best lines in the movie.Pre-Star Wars movies are always to be admired for their special effects - before computers really took over. The effects in Forbidden Planet are tremendous and it's a neat story, too, about a spaceship that lands on a planet inhabited by only two people and a robot. They learn that all of the members of a previous expedition were killed by an unknown entity, to which Dr. Marbius and his daughter seem to be immune.This is a very talky movie, as in those days, scripts were wordier. Nevertheless, it is highly entertaining. One of the most interesting things in the movie is the music - all done with electronic instruments. It really adds to the other-wordly atmosphere and suspense. And don't we wish we all had a Robbie! "},{"Title":"Your mind refuses to face the conclusion.","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is directed by Fred M. Wilcox and stars Walter Pidgeon, Anne Francis, and Leslie Nielsen. Screenplay is written by Cyril Hume from an original story by Irving Block & Allen Adler (original title being Fatal Planet). It is a CinemaScope production out of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and is shot in Eastman Color (not Metrocolor as suggested on some sources) by cinematographer George J. Folsey. The piece features a novel musical score (credited as electronic tonalities) by Louis & Bebe Barron. Loosely based around William Shakespeare's play The Tempest, the story sees Nielsen and the crew of the C-57D spaceship sent to the remote planet of Altair IV. Where once was a colony of Earthlings, now the only inhabitants are Dr Morbius (Pidgeon), his daughter Altaira (Francis) and Robby, a highly sophisticated Robot that Morbius had built. It transpires from Morbius that all civilisations on Altair IV was wiped out by an unseen force, but not before he himself was able to use some of the knowledge gained from the Krell race to build Robby and the Plastic Educator. However, it's not before long something starts stalking and killing the men of the C- 57D. They must get to the bottom of the mystery or they too will be wiped out. The 50s was of course the decade of the B movie. A decade where science fiction schlockers and creaky creature features ruled the drive in theatres. As paranoia of potential nuclear war and technology spiralling out of control gripped America, film studios grasped the opportunity to make a cash killing whilst providing an entertainment stress release courtesy of science fiction based movies. Be it giant insects, creatures or alien invaders, there were some fun - some bad - and some rather smart movies that hit the silver screen. Falling into the latter category is Forbidden Planet, an intelligent and excellently produced movie that is one of the few that genuinely holds up well over 50 years since its release. To delve further would be unfair to potential newcomers to the film, but in short the piece carries interesting motifs such as sexual awakening, the power of the sub-conscious, or more appropriately the perils of a repressed conscious. It's a Freudian twister, and then some. Also lifting Forbidden Planet a long way above those men in rubber suit movies of the decade is the production value of the piece. True, the budget was considerably larger than what was normally afforded the genre (almost $5 million), but every penny is up there on the screen. The CinemaScope really brings to the front the sets and visual effects, while the Eastman Color fully enhances the animations and matte paintings on offer. The whole look and feel of the movie points to it being later than 1956, so it's no surprise to see musing on the DVD extras such luminaries like Spielberg, Lucas, Cameron & Scott, since Forbidden Planet has influenced as much as it has enthralled. With one of the cleverest stories in the genre, one of its best ever robots (Robby would become a star all on his own) and certainly the best spaceship landing ever, Forbidden Planet is a genre high point and essential viewing for those interested in said genre pieces. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Exciting, colourful, thought-provoking and mysterious","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw Forbidden Planet for the first time and I think it is now one of my favourite science fiction movies of all time. It was exciting and engaging all the way through. I loved the music (apparently the first purely electronic soundtrack) because it was so unique and weird but appropriate. Seeing the tilted yellow titles with the starry background and hearing the strange music drew me straight in.The plot is mysterious and keeps you guessing. A crew has been sent to investigate the status of a planet's colony - why have they become silent, are the people alive, is the planet safe for humans? When they arrive, they are warned by a transmitted message from a man, Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon), that they would do best to go away from the planet and move on. This creates tension immediately - why shouldn't they land, what's the danger or what is he hiding?They land and the intelligent doctor explains many things to them. About how the others have died but he has survived. He seems to be telling the truth but perhaps there's more to the story. We meet his beautiful, inexperienced daughter who's never seen any humans other than her father. The men who have spent months or years in space are strongly drawn to her, she is also curious about them.We learn about an ancient and vastly intelligent species that seems to have disappeared or self-destructed. It makes me wonder about the future of humanity. What will we do when we master the laws of the universe? Can we avoid self-destruction whether accidental or deliberate? Some of the concepts remind me of Inception. The power of the subconscious, the inability of a person to completely control or subdue or even understand it.Many movies have stupid or obviously flawed characters and the plot flows based on their mistakes and misunderstandings. Forbidden Planet has intelligent characters that don't smoke or drink whenever they feel bad (okay, one drinks) and who actually communicate with each-other constructively. All of the tension arises from real danger and mystery. It's kind of a fairytale or parable. It explores what can go wrong when one acquires too much power. Super intelligence and access to unlimited resources seems appealing but may have its downsides. Most of the dialogue is really interesting and only a handful of parts are scientifically a bit silly.Leslie Nielson (before he became famous for being in parody movies) is an appealing leader who is clearly concerned and suspicious and makes good decisions to try to keep his crew safe and find out what's going on. Robby the Robot is super awesome. He is so calm and friendly and obedient but he can do anything. He casually carries tonnes of metal in one hand, he can analyse a substance and reproduce gallons of it, he can speak hundreds of languages.The planet looks very cool with its greenish sky and rocky landscape. There is a nice garden with red trees that is apparently on the same set as Munchkin Land from The Wizard of Oz. And Altaira is beautiful in every scene she's in. There is an impressive monster as well and I really liked the way they built him up. The special effects are cool and exciting. The explanation of his nature and abilities is satisfying and logical. We get more suggestion of his presence than direct visuals which is all the more effective.Forbidden Planet delivered in every way I could've expected it to. It has an interesting soundtrack, lots of cool visuals, an engaging story, respectable characters that aren't idiots and plenty of food for thought. It's impressive that it's stood the test of time. Very few movies can achieve more than two or three of these things let alone all of them. "},{"Title":"One of a Kind","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having received no communication from a group of colonists on the planet Altair IV, the space craft C-57D is sent on a long distance voyage to investigate. Upon arrival they learn that only one person from the original colony, Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) has managed to survive. However, he is fortunate to have a daughter named Altaira (Anne Francis) who was born before the rest of colonists died and she keeps him company along with a robot Dr. Morbius created called Robby. Although Robby is certainly quite interesting it is Altaira who gets the most attention from the crew of the C-57D. Of course, the fact that it is an all male crew and they have been in space for a very long time has much to do with that. But possibly even more intriguing is the scientific equipment and knowledge left behind on the planet by a former alien species known as the Krell which is much more advanced than anything either Dr. Morbius or the captain of the C-57D, Commander John J. Adams (Leslie Nielsen) have ever seen. Unfortunately, despite all of the knowledge and beauty this planet has to offer there is an evil being who also lives there and it is intent on destroying everybody who gets in its way. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this is an amazing science-fiction movie which still retains its charm despite being almost 60 years old. Obviously, the special effects aren't nearly as good when compared to today's standards--but even so they aren't that bad either. Likewise, the corny dialogue is equally a product of its time and in conjunction with the special effects causes the movie to seem quite dated. Yet despite all of these factors this particular film is still superior to many of the science-fiction movies made today. It is truly one of a kind. Having said that, I believe that this particular movie belongs in the collection of every serious science-fiction fan. Accordingly, I rate this movie as definitely above average. "},{"Title":"Close to a perfect Science Fiction Film","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To me 'Forbidden Planet' may be the closest thing to a perfect Sci-fi film ever made. It has it all good acting, an imaginative story, impressive special effects, Ann Francis, AND the most iconic movie robot of all time Robby. In the case of 'Walter Pidgeon' it goes beyond good acting to the realm of excellent acting. His presence and talent bring the whole film to a higher level. Most movies about space travel at that time involved space ships, brave astronauts, ray guns, scary monsters and pretty girls. 'FB' has all that and much more. Basically the story is about a spaceship crew that goes to the very distant planet Altair IV to investigate what happened to the earth colony sent there. When they arrive they are warned not to land. They land anyway to find only two survivors left. One of the survivors is Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) the second is his daughter Altaira (Ann Francis). All the other colonists have been killed mysteriously by an unseen force. Morbius has been absorbed in studying the technology left behind by the previous inhabitants of the planet called 'The Krell'. The Krell were a highly advanced race that no longer exist. They have left behind some amazing machinery. Finding out what happened to the earth colonists and the Krell is the main drift of the story.When I first saw the movie as a boy what impressed me the most was Robby the Robot. To this day I consider him the best designed mechanical being ever to appear in movies. Even with all his outdated lights and noisy relays representing technology of the 50s, he's still the best. On my first viewing I was a bit disappointed that there were no scary monsters except for a mostly invisible one. I felt a bit cheated at that time. We only see the monster briefly as a ferocious-looking image in outline trying to break through a force field. When the monster is present we know it by the eerie otherworld-like music that accompanies it. Sometimes there are footprints from its weight or in one scene we see the bending of the space ship's entry steps as it walks on them. As I grew older I learned to appreciate just how effective all this was to making the film something extra special. Sometimes what we don't see can be much scarier than what we do. The background music was a stroke of genius. This was the first big film to feature music performed entirely by electronic instruments. This adds a lot to the atmosphere. The special effects are also ground-breaking for 1956 and still hold up well to this day. Especially of note are Robby and the scenes of the Krell underground giant complex with its many levels.. Only 'War of the Worlds' from 1953 rivals its effects for that time, in my opinion. The final revelation was very imaginative too explaining just what the creature was....a monster from the Id. It seems that the Krell had created machinery that was so advanced it could make whatever they imagined become reality. The problem was they didn't realize something critical before activating the giant machine. Even though they had evolved to become greatly advanced scientifically, and perhaps as a society, they still had subconscious primal traits remaining. They had probably thought these traits were long gone through evolution. It turns out they still had buried feelings, like those of hate and jealousy. Once these primal urges were materialized by the machine it must have destroyed their race entirely. The machine was making monsters from the id. The id was thought by Dr. Freud to be that part of the psyche in which innate instinctive impulses and primary processes are manifest. It's later learned that the colonists that arrived from earth did not yet have the intellectual capacity to make this amazing machine function. That is until something happened to Dr. Morbius during his study of the Krell. He had accidentally boosted his intellect using a Krell device so that he was now at about the lowest level that could activate the machine. He was now a genius by human IQ standards, yet by Krell standards he was of the lowest intelligence. Still he now unknowingly had the ability to activate the machine. The other colonists had wanted to leave the planet and Morbius did not, so his subconscious had created the monsters to stop them. He did not realize this was happening. Now the Id monster was back again to keep his beloved daughter from leaving too, by trying to destroy the spaceship. Altaira had fallen in love with the captain. Another benefit of his new intellect was the ability to build Robby. Robby is an amazing mechanical man who can perform all sorts of super human tasks. He has a polite way of talking and a likable way about him. Morbius says Robby is little more than a useful toy. Some toy.I could probably write pages on this film and how impressive it is to me. I want to keep these comments as short as possible. As I said this was as perfect a science fiction film as I've ever seen. I really only have one issue with it. I wish it didn't have those silly comic relief scenes with Earl Holliman as the booze loving cook using Robby to make liquor for him.I never get tired of this movie. To me it's like looking at a beautiful painting or listening to a favorite piece of music. Sure you've seen or heard it many times before. That doesn't matter - you still want to experience it again. No matter how old I get I'll always love this movie for all the reasons I mentioned here and more. "},{"Title":"A classic that deserves more popularity.","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" People may be obsessed over Nolan's latest flick Interstellar but while they praise the film for its director, they fail to realise that without this film, it wouldn't even exist. Neither would Star Wars, Star Trek, Alien, or any other popular, smart sci-fi movies. Forbidden Planet not only revolutionized the sci-fi genre with a smart story (loosely based on Shakespeare's The Tempest) with great (if dated) special effects, it saved the genre. Its a great film that deserves a much larger audience, most of whom refuse to see the film because of its age, a real shame, but I suppose the only ones missing out on this treat are those who refuse to view it. It is one of my favorite films of the fifties and of all time, and I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Innovative Science Fition by the time","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie deserves a remake. I saw this movie, as a kid, maybe 2 or 3 times at TV re-running, and completely forget about it. I saw again now and is really a very good and innovative science fiction movie for 1956. Of course, is a little slow and naive for actual standards, but considering the story and the problems related with that story it is a great movie. I can imagine the great movie that could be done today if this story is really improve with actual psychology and sociology knowledge, (and actual special effects). But if the remake is done some time, I hope that they do really well and not only as a 'action movie- special effects empty movie'. This story has a lot of potential to make one or even three very good movies. Remember that this movie, in some way, was the motivation for Star Trek series "},{"Title":"A hugely entertaining classic Sci-Fi film with deeper layers...","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a really engaging and brilliantly smart classic sci-fi film that inventively exposes what could possibly be human's greatest ultimate intrinsic tragedyOur animalistic, irrational subconscious side. Id.The film's Freudian theme is very cleverly metaphorized through thoughtful, seemingly unimportant details (the cook's lust for drinking, the men's lust for the daughter, etc.) and more obvious representations (the tiger jumping at the commander and the daughter, the robot being the most likable and flawless character in the whole movie, the invisible monster, etc.) during the whole film. It's really amazing how well thought out this film is. Every single aspect of it can be given meaning in the context of the film's main theme.Even though the story very much (almost exclusively) focuses on the specific observation that's being made about human nature, the film still feels very rich, because of the high ambition that was obviously at the basis of the film's sci-fi context. - First of all, the technical aspect of the film perfectly works, the locations look really good (especially by the standards of that time) and it's just a joy to watch it. - Secondly, the ideas in this story are BIG and the film cleverly takes its time to explicate the film's story and environment. We really get to know and explore this film's sci-fi universe. I love that!The film kind of made me think of Tarkovsky's Stalker in a certain (far-fetched) way. Stylistically, the films couldn't be further apart, but both movies touch on very similar topical issues, in my opinion. So, don't expect this picture to be a high level philosophical film or anything like that. It just tells an exciting sci-fi adventure that happens to have very interesting substantial aspects to it when studied more intensively. It's said to be loosely inspired by Shakespeare's 'The Tempest'.Back to the small comparison I wanted to make between both films. In Forbidden Planet, we witness why extremely developed technology in the hands of mankind can be dangerous (it's told in a very symbolic manner, but the argument the film's making is very clear) and in Stalker, we basically get a meditation on why the existence of the supernatural (a sort of wishing room in this case) could be more dangerous than positive, when it can be manipulated by men. In other words, two of mankind's biggest wishes are fulfilled, but ultimately seem to have unforeseen negative side effects, because there seems to be something wrong with us!Both films basically talk about the tragic unreliability of humanity. We can't trust other people and we can't even trust ourselves, because we never fully have control over neither of the two. There's a potential monster in all of us, even if there aren't any bad intentions... The point is not to be scared, but to be aware of the 'Id'-aspect of your nature. Don't deny its existence and don't be blind for its possible consequences.It will remind us that we are, after all, not God. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi movie icon","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" United Planet cruiser C57D is traveling to the planetary system of Altair. Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen) and his crew find only two survivors on Altair-4 where a spaceship disappeared 20 years ago; Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis). The crew is met by Robby the Robot. There was an advanced race called Krell that mysteriously died out 2000 centuries before, leaving behind a device called plastic educator in a library. There is also a mysterious invisible monster on the loose.This story has elements of Shakespeare's The Tempest. It's a groundbreaking sci-fi. Parts of it still look amazing. The paintings of the otherworldly is beautiful. Robby is now a movie icon. It's got the eerie music. There is a bit too much exposition. There is a lot of standing around explaining about things. The characters are a little stiff. They spend too much screen time doing very limited things. There's even a ship's cook dressed like coming off a WWII ship providing comic relief. However nobody can deny that this is an iconic sci-fi movie. It deserves its higher rating. "},{"Title":"Way ahead of its time","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Best sci-fi I've seen for anyone who is introspective and/or curious about the implications of instant learning; conceivably the next great leap after the world wide web. Interesting to me how it was made long before personal computers evenI think the above makes my point. I'm filling lines here to meet the 10 line minimum. What else is there to say, hmm... OK, I liked seeing Earl Holliman without Angie Dickinson.I'm glad to see an apparent remake of this in in production now that better special effects are available.I think it will be tough to improve much on Robbie, I think he was perfect although not as animated as I'm sure his reincarnation will be. "},{"Title":"The Benchmark of Great Science Fiction","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is pure science-fiction. It is not the clich cowboys-in-space or (despite the monsters from the id tag line) gratuitous monster aliens. Star Wars? Alien? That's too easy, too trite, the same old same old in a future setting. Despite comparisons with Shakespeare's The Tempest, the story of Forbidden Planet stands on its own. And its soundtrack has never been equaled. A machine that materializes thought without instrumentalities. Instrumentalities -- when I heard that word I realized this movie is speaking to adults, not adolescents.Pure science fiction is about the future itself. Forbidden Planet and Blade Runner come to mind. Some Star Trek episodes achieve this. For my money, though, Forbidden Planet is the benchmark against which all other science fiction movies should be measured. Yes, there is a little dating. Earl Holliman's comic relief character isn't necessary (neither was R2-D2's prissiness). And there was a lapse in the otherwise cool f/x, when the spaceship landed on Altair The powder puffing though holes in the ground was pretty cheesy. But these are minor quibbles which don't detract from the overpowering story.7.7 IMDb score Forbidden Planet gets is insulting, a comment on the audiences not the movie. 8.7, which the slicker but inferior Star Wars and the Matrix get, would be far more fitting. "},{"Title":"starship crew searches planet Altair 4 for previous expedition missing for 20 years","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot of Forbidden Planet is so well known to most I won't go over it much here. I have to say that FP is certainly one of the two, or three best sci-fi films of the 1950s. It Came from Outer Space and This Island Earth are two more which a strong argument for being the best can be made.True enough, some of the effects are a bit on the hokey side by modern standards, but this was 1956, after all, remember.It is good to have some examples of Leslie Nielsen playing serious roles around, and this film is one of his best. I do think some of the dialog is a bit too much like a World War Two film at times, but WW II was only eleven years in the past when Forbidden Planet was produced. And like most, I cold have done as well without the comedy of Earl Holliman's cook character - I can understand why the movie isn't one of his favorites, for this was a thankless role.I also was knocked out by Anne Francis like every other male who's ever seen this film, even if she perhaps a bit too old for portraying a twenty-year old. She has a number of genre credits, including two classic appearances on the original Twilight Zone, by the way.Some have complained of the fact that cruiser C-57-D was a flying saucer(the first ever shown with a human crew, I believe), but the 1950s was the heyday of UFOs - the ship does fine to me.I do feel the preaching at the end was a bit corny perhaps by modern standards; movie audiences of the period were generally much more of the there are some things man(or here, Krell) were not meant to know school of thinking, as were most scriptwriters, of course.Not much else to add save that Robby the Robot remains probably the best film robot to date - he appeared on the Twilight Zone as well as numerous other TV shows at least into the 1970s, including Wonder Woman, I believe.For those interested in novelizations, one was published in '56 as Forbidden Planet by W.J. Stuart, at a time when this wasn't often done. "}{"Title":"The prototype of Star Trek and Lost in Space","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I know where the goofy robot on Lost in Space comes from. The robot in this movie is almost identical to it. This movie predates Lost and Star Trek by 10 years, I guess it must be the prototype. Campy space suits, weird over-serious acting (the same way anybody would act if they were on another planet, I guess), but this movie was made in 1956 in the wake of Sputnik so it might be the first of its type. And look at Leslie Nielsen with brown hair, and so young, but don't expect him to say Don't call me Shirlie this is not the funny Leslie that we are accustomed to by now. Also in this movie are the original Beam me up Scotty transports, where Altaira is transported in an almost identical way with even the same sound effects as in the 1960's Star Trek episodes. Doors that open automatically, guns that send out light beams just like phasers, masers and tasers...invisible force fields, computers that read your mind, scientists with IQ's of 180. Everything is here, if you watch this movie you can skip all the TV shows. And everything is low budget and campy, just like on TV. "},{"Title":"Making Monsters from the Id","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 23rd century, after Hyperspace has made otherworldly exploration and colonization common, the United Planets sends a crew of men to Altair IV, where a crew mysteriously disappeared twenty years earlier. The men are led by Leslie Nielsen (as John Adams). When his saucer-shaped C-57D nears the Earth-like planet, Mr. Nielsen makes radio contact with the Bellerophon's sole survivor, Walter Pidgeon (as Edward Morbius). But, instead of welcoming the rescue ship, Mr. Pidgeon warns Nielsen and his crew against landing. Of course, they land anyway...On planet, Nielsen and crew find Pidgeon has created a world similar to William Shakespeare's The Tempest with a mini-skirted Miranda and robotic Ariel. The latter Robby, the Robot has been created as a servant to Pidgeon and his sexy daughter - kissable Anne Francis (as Altaira), who was born after the original crew landed. Much of the early going centers on these natural (Ms. Francis) and unnatural (Robby) characters. The crew's apron-clad cook (Earl Holliman) gets the robot to make alcohol for him, and Francis gets Nielson and his Caucasian crew in a mating mood.To pound home the point, we are given the guys' average age (24.6 years old) and time without women (378 days). Why they sent a group of horny heterosexual men on such a trip with no women is unexplained. After Francis falls in love, a refreshingly intellectual (Freudian) plot forms. You may recognize Mr. Holliman's effort as something straight out of Lost in Space - and from the moment the crew beams down, nearly every idea in Forbidden Planet was used on the 1960s television shows Star Trek and Lost in Space. It also upped standards for the science fiction film.****** Forbidden Planet (3/15/56) Fred Wilcox ~ Walter Pidgeon, Leslie Nielsen, Anne Francis, Earl Holliman "},{"Title":"Formulaic Sci-Fi - but what a formula !","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has all the classic sci-fi ingredients. You can go through and tick all the boxes alien planet, monsters, flying saucers, ray guns, gung-ho all-American good guys, bad guy that comes to sticky end, a little love interest, the latest special effects, quirky but lovable robot and a really intelligent screen play. Whoa - hang on - that last item's not supposed to be there !Yes, this film was the Star Wars of it's day. Sit back and soak up the fun with the sure knowledge that after some space cowboy stuff the good guys are sure to win.But there's so much more to this film than that. It has simply the best storyline of any science fiction film that I've ever seen, period ! By the time the the film nears the end it's already way ahead of most other science fiction films in terms of sheer enjoyment as well as interest. It's already a great sci-fi film. But then it's the thought provoking ending which for me makes this film much the best of it's class.I'll not go through the excellent and peerless plot, other commentators have already done an great job of that. I'll just mention the two plot items from the end of the film which I found particularly fascinating. These were firstly, that the crowning achievement of an ancient civilization was to create a machine that could turn dreams into reality. What a fantastic concept, and not so far removed from our own present day hedonistic lifestyles. And that secondly, that this machine should prove the ultimate downfall of this superior alien race of beings. And the agent of that downfall ? Monsters from the Id !When I first saw this film as a child I was already enthralled by the film as it neared its ending, bit by bit, like a brilliant murder mystery, all was revealed and explained perfectly. But that Monsters from the Id thing still haunts and captivates me to this day ... "},{"Title":"A great science fiction movie - superb effects and nice story!","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this movie on my first viewing and it really impressed me! Being a Sci-Fi fan the picture was a clear must see for me. I didn't know what directly to expect - its star was the now turned comedy actor Leslie Nielsen. I really like some of his never spoofs but I haven't really seen him in a serious or non-comedy role before; except his small performance in The Poseidon Adventure, which I really loved - though it was a really small role.Beside Mr. Nielsen, the stars of the movie are the two time Oscar nominee Walter Pigeon and Anne Francis. I haven't seen anything from either of the two before.Well, to the movie. I didn't have the big expectations once I started - but after the movie really started I really found it interesting. It has a great design, both costume and art-direction; very futuristic and you can see on the most of the set, that it was made in 1950s. But that isn't a problem at all - actually it gives the movie a really cool-retro look - giving this movie a real charm! The acting wasn't great - but it suddenly wasn't bad either! Like the production design and costumes I really loved the special effects. It is a really magnificent piece of work for the time in which it was made. And the script story was marvelous. It really never stands still, and the story is always evolving! A MUST SEE - not only for hardcore Sci-Fi fans! "},{"Title":"ambitious yes, intelligent?  well...","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I should say at the outset there are many, many things I love about 'Forbidden Planet' and yes, I certainly consider it a 'classic' science-fiction film for many reasons. But the adulation it has received over the years goes a bit over the top in my opinion. No less an authority than Leonard Maltin says 'Forbidden Planet' ...is one of the most ambitious and intelligent movies of its genre. Ambitious? Without a doubt. Intelligent? Depends on what part of the film you're talking about. It certainly was the most prestigious and highly-budgeted science-fiction flick to that point. At a cost of nearly $2 million (this was 1956, remember), MGM pulled out all the stops to produce a dazzling, eye-popping outer space adventure unlike anything seen on the big screen before, even employing artists from the Disney studio for some of the more elaborate special effects. 'Charming' is not usually a word used to describe special effects in sci-fi movies, yet that is the one that seems most appropriate here. Even the dreaded 'Monster from the Id' is only a well-rendered cartoon figure by the Disney people, unlikely to frighten anyone over the age of 8. When I see the various sets and take note of the art design, models, costumes, etc., I am reminded of nothing so much as 'The Wizard of Oz,' with its gorgeously saturated colors and elaborate if not always convincing effects. So much work has gone into these films that one is inclined to smile in admiration at the effort regardless. 'Forbidden Planet' is wonderful to look at. The scenes take place on obvious stage sets that are fabulously decorated, matte paintings of planets and space in the background, and intricately designed miniature sand dunes and so forth to give the illusion of depth. It's a bit like watching the most elaborately-produced stage play you'd ever see. The most believable and convincing scenes are probably the ones inside the massive Krell complex, where shots showing the vast depth and width of this inner space are well-done and credible. But then we get to the actors, darn it. The performances are almost uniformly awful, though in fairness one has to say the dialogue hardly ever transcends the level of adolescent locker-room humor, except for some passages of barely adequate scientific technobabble. Even the great actor Walter Pidgeon is reduced to giving such a hammy performance, it's lugubrious at times. A very young Leslie Nielsen stars as the spaceship commander J.J. Adams, and doesn't convey an ounce of believability or conviction in the entire film. He seems to instinctively know, thirty years ahead of time, that his true forte' lay in comedy, as there are times he seems barely able to keep a straight face reciting his lines. Every forced reaction, whether it is anger or passion or solemn meditation, looks right out of a high school play. Anne Francis, also very young, fares a little better as the supposedly innocent Alta, whom we are to believe has never seen a human male other than her father until the crew of the spaceship shows up. (Alta Morbius, now there's a name for you.) Unfortunately, even at this early age, Anne Francis seems about as virginal and naive as Elizabeth Taylor in 'Butterfield 8.' There is a good story here, buried somewhere beneath the crew-mates' leering comments about Alta and yet another juvenile subplot concerning Earl Holliman's 'Cookie,' ship's cook. (Holliman turns in a horrendous performance too. I'm guessing all these actors went straight from this movie to acting school.) Based on Shakespeare's 'The Tempest,' the story of a dead race, the Krell, and the fantastic world of machines they left behind is what most people tend to remember about 'Forbidden Planet,' and for good reason. For a few minutes here and there, you can forget about the rest of the movie and be dazzled by the Disney artists' conception of the Krell underground complex. Is it enough to make up for the rest of the film's shortcomings? You'll have to decide that on your own. Oh, and of course there's Robby the Robot, every 1950's ten-year-old's idea of what a robot should look and talk like. He's funny. In places. So, 'Forbidden Planet' to me is a very, VERY mixed bag. It deserves credit for being the inspiration for a whole wave of sci-fi films and TV shows that followed, not least of which was 'Star Trek.' But I would suggest that anyone who thinks it's more than well-staged comic book sci-fi go back and watch it again. "},{"Title":"Mainly of historical interest","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As science prediction, Forbidden Planet was way off. It opens with a narrator explaining that people landed in the moon at the end of the 21st century, and a few years later figured out how to travel faster than the speed of light. The movie was released in 1956; one year later Sputnik was launched, our first satellite in orbit, and, of course, we landed on the moon 13 years later. In retrospect, it's odd that the writers would be so clueless about the actual prospects for space travel. But science fiction in the 1950s was more about fantasy, and a platform for statements about human nature and spirituality, hence Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land, and early Kurt Vonnegut fare like Sirens of Titan. And I remember the science fiction books of the 1950s with illustrations of finned rockets landing on a cratered moonscape. The context of science fiction back then was other science fiction, not science. This continued with the first Star Trek series, which obviously was influenced by Forbidden Planet, including the Freudian psychological motif, as well as the stinker, Lost in Space. And then there is the computer connection. There is a Star Trek episode, Amok Time, that also features Altair, presumably as a nod to Forbidden Planet. And it was this episode that provided the name for the first personal microcomputer, the Altair 8800, sold in 1975. It was for this computer that Bill Gates and Paul Allen wrote their first commercial computer program, laying the foundation for what would become a software company called Microsoft.Remember Robbie, the Robot? The inventor of the Altair was named Ed Roberts. Perhaps he should have named the Altair, Robbie.As to the movie, the acting is not much to write home about. Walter Pidgeon provides its main credibility. Anne Francis tries, but how do you play the part of a young woman who has never met a young man before, in the 1950s? (To see her really act, see Bad Day at Black Rock.) Leslie Nielsen plays it straight, with the dark hair of youth. But back to the 1950s, it was a time when UFOs were very much on people's minds, and even occasionally in newspapers, though people might not have talked about it much. Here, comfortingly, we were the ones flying the flying saucers. But the take was very different in The Day the Earth Stood Still, 1951, where the UFO threatened to destroy Earth if we could not learn to live in peace, or in Invaders from Mars, 1953, where aliens were dragging people underground and sticking implants in the back of their necks, turning them into zombies. Those are far better examples of 1950s science fiction movies than Forbidden Planet. A big part of the effectiveness of Invaders from Mars is due to William Cameron Menzies, who was the production designer of Gone With the Wind.If you do watch Forbidden Planet, make yourself an extra large bowl of popcorn to help keep you entertained. "},{"Title":"Nice effects, good story, Godawful script.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fellow movie-goers, Like the subject line says. The animated effects were just beautiful, Robby is one of the coolest robots ever, some of the set pieces look great even to my jaded 21st-century eye, the planet's lone woman wore a breathtakingly short skirt, and the idea of a man unconsciously projecting the foulest impulses of his id into reality, creating a terrible invisible monster, was really cool.But the script ... oh, dear God.Turgid. Florid. Overly expository, and full of unconvincing pseudo-scientific jibber-jabber. And I know this was released in 1956, but the crew's boorish, panting overtures to the planet's lone woman were just embarrassing. And for no good reason, there were Earth animals running around the planet. All I can figure is that the producer pulled the director aside one day and said, My little girl loves deer and tigers. Put some deer and tigers in there somewhere. They could have cut this down from ~100 minutes down to about 80, easily. Felt like a good (original-series) Trek episode, but deliberately, clumsily padded out to feature length.Maybe this is when Leslie Nielsen, who plays the ship's captain, decided to get into spoofing. If you're going to make movies that are sort of goofy, why not do ones that are *deliberately* goofy? Sort of like The Andromeda Strain, this movie was more about sci-fi gee-whizzery than about effective storytelling.If you haven't seen it, rent it some afternoon, enjoy this little bit of the history of the future, but get ready to roll your eyes a few times.-- Chaz. "},{"Title":"Distasteful","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well I know it's a 'classic' and should be viewed in the light of the time of its making, but frankly it's somewhat distasteful. Whilst a few of its scientific projections are quite remarkable in some respects it's set firmly in the social mores of the 50s. This is unfortunate because the essence of science fiction is extrapolation &#x96; in all respects. And the exclusively white all male crew, with a somewhat predatory disposition towards the young woman who has only ever known her father. The references to god, maybe a demand of the studio and system but it seriously compromises integrity. And the casual deaths of crew-members, harking to the cannon-fodder mentality of the military. Finally the wanton destruction of the planet and its life forms. One would have hoped for slightly more enlightened attitudes in a 'classic'. Seminal SF books and films since the very inception of the genre are socially advanced, that's the essence of a classic. The ansible hadn't been 'invented' but the references to a klystron displays a paucity of imagination, even for then. Dozens of other technical laziness too. I guess it has to be categorised as a classic because there was little competition at the time and aficionados have to view it to add to their knowledge portfolio. But regardless of the techno gizmo stuff it's really only a traditional alpha male flick of the post-war period, and pretty much dross. "},{"Title":"Perfectly encapsulated","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watching this again (for the umpteenth time) and I never get tired of it. It's just one of those movies that doesn't get stale. Yes, there is a little hammy acting. Yes, some of the effects are a little questionable by today's standards (60 years later!). Yes, Robby tends a little toward sardonic humour. And, yes, perhaps it is a little Boys Own. However, lest we forget, this movie was made SIXTY YEARS AGO, yet it remains highly remarkable in spite of that fact. There were several space movies made in the mid-to-late 50s, most of which don't compare with Forbidden Planet. Conquest of Space bears some comparison, but it shows flaws in several areas, whereas any flaws in Forbidden Planet are much less notable. I feel that there's a fine line to be drawn in today's Sci-fi movies, beyond which the effects simply swamp the story. Indeed, in a few there simply is no story to speak of. There has been talk of producing a remake of Forbidden Planet. I have mixed feelings about this. On the one hand, the effects could, with some careful handling, be improved upon. However, the storyline should not be tinkered with in favour of simply updating. That would just spoil the nature of this unique fable. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking for its time","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is mostly notable today for its soundtrack the first ever all-electronic score, which was produced with innovative techniques eight years before the invention of the first synthesizer.The special effects are also amazing in one scene in particular, and the movie was the first time a robot was credited as a cast member, though I'm not sure how significant this really is.The story is a science fiction riff on Shakespeare's Tempest with some Jungian psychology thrown in; the sets make the movie consistently interesting, but the story wanes toward the end. I found myself losing interest before the big revelation. "}{"Title":"Star Trek 1956","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie the first time 58 years ago, back in 1958. I didn't understand most part of the plot because of my lack of English knowledge but I liked it. Now, in 2016, I still like it the and after all that time, I feel it is still enjoyable. My current impression is that definitively, you see its influence in the Star Trek series. After all those years the movie has not lost its sci-fi quality, even if the electronic equipment displayed lacks the sophistication of current systems. No explanation is given about how speed of light paradox is solved; actually neither Star Trek gives a really convincing theory. Hyper light drive simply works. Well, if you see Rush about F1 races with James Hunt and Niki Lauda no one expects much explanations about car mechanics. So, what we have is a convincing SF movie, with no humanoid monsters running around.It should be obvious that this spaceship should have no communication problems with base; the explanation is not convincing.By the way, the most serious technological flaw is the cookie character. Does someone seriously may imagine that a hyperlight spaceship from the XXIII century needs a cook?Just funny that Commander Adams solved the mystery that led to the auto destruction of a civilization one million times more advanced than the human. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet (1956)","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ideas and the backstory set up and built around the mysterious ancient advanced alien race, were probably the best aspects of this film. The acting and dialogue wasn't altogether that great and a lot of what the characters did seemed not all too realistic either. Another thing I didn't find particularly good about this film was the little love plot that seemed kind of just thrown into the mix because of no good reason, it felt a little fake, extraneous, and unrealistic. The redeeming factor in the film was the mystery behind the planet and the monster, which actually ended up focusing on the inner mental subconsciousness of humans, which I thought made a creative and interesting sci-fi monster. "},{"Title":"Sci fi classic","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably one of the most influential sci fi movies of all time. You can see its influence in most episodes of Star Trek, and similar movies/series. Even gave the Krell hi fi company its name...Very original and intriguing plot, with an interesting and plausible scientific background. Some of the sub-plots are a bit silly though, especially the romantic angle. Special effects were probably revolutionary for their time.Performances are a bit wooden. Walter Pidgeon, as Dr Morbius, is the worst of the lot every bit of his dialogue seems like a pre-written speech. Lesle Nielsen, in only his second movie, is not too bad though. Anne Francis provides the eye candy (and I'm not complaining...). Cast also includes Richard Anderson.A sci fi classic. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is a highly influential SF movie from 1956 and naturally since I am big Star Trek fan this had a huge appeal to me since its clear where Gene Roddenberry got his inspiration from. Apparently this was first SF movie made about humans visiting another planet and first where human crew flew in a spaceship. To me it all looks very much like early episodes of Star Trek but of course this all has a great charm, the more plastic props and scenery, more I love it.The biggest surprise is the main actor whom I didn't even recognized until I read this is a very young Leslie Nielsen - my all time favorite comic from The Naked Gun series - surely I recognized his name but thought this must only be a coincidence. Later I watched him again and true, I recognized a certain characteristics of Nielsen's acting (angry outbursts for example) but he was so young that his features were unrecognizable. In the role of Dr.Morbius is excellent, dignified Walter Pidgeon - now, him I recognized immediately and even before I saw him. Pidgeon had very strong, authoritative baritone voice that simply booms when he spoke and the first moment I heard his voice (we hear him before he comes on screen) I knew he sounds familiar. Sure enough, he was Mr.Zigfeld in Funny girl. Interestingly enough, the cute who plays his daughter here (Anne Francis, dressed or should we say undressed to seduce all the spaceship crew) was also in Funny girl later, so its fun to recognize all these people. And there is a cutest robot, called  Robby the Robot. "},{"Title":"Interesting sci-fi","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future a spaceship headed by Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen) goes to the planet Altair-14 to see what became of a colony sent there many years ago...but no one has heard from. When they get there all they find is Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon), his daughter Alterea (Anne Francis) and Robby the Robot. It seems all the other colonists have died off. Morbius wants them off the planet or warns they will be in terrible danger. They ignore him until an invisible force starts to attack them. What is it? This was the first big budget sci-fi film. MGM made it and gave it a big budget, shot it in color and Cinemascope. It was not a huge hit when it first came out but is now considered one of the best sci-fi films of the 1950s. It's far from perfect. Some of the special effects are pathetic, the script has HUGE plot holes and gaps in logic and the acting is lousy across the board. On the other hand some special effects are outstanding. The visit to the Krell labs and the scary sequence with the Id monster are fantastic. Also there's a VERY eerie electronic music score throughout the film. I don't think it's a classic of the genre as many people do but it is a good and interesting sc-fi film. "},{"Title":"A Little Gem","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a film that has been in the back of my mind for a while to watch, and it was over in the Columbo podcast website that a buddy of mine brought it to the forefront. This stars Leslie Nielsen in a very different kind of role that we're used to seeing him in, and it has to be said that he makes a credible leading man. As for the supporting cast, the sinister Dr. Morbius is characterised very well by Walter Pidgeon and his daughter, Altaira, is played nicely by Anne Francis. What with the presence of Robbie the robot, built at a cost of $125,000, and - for, what must have been at the time, an extremely novel alien landscape - one has to say that an excellent job has been done all round. One can certainly see the seeds of future sci-fi staples such as Star Trek. A must for all sci-fi fans and even those who aren't will derive at least some kind of enjoyment from this. Finally, as for the plot, this is based on 'The Tempest' by William Shakespeare, who surely brings with him his own credentials. "},{"Title":"One cannot behold the face of the gorgon and live!","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed by Fred M. Wilcox, Forbidden Planet opens in the 23rd century, with Commander John Adams (Leslie Nielsen) of the starship C-57D landing on the planet Altair IV. Adams attempts to make contact with a human colony that was established on the planet several decades earlier. To Adams' surprise, this colony has perished. Only Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) seem to have survived.Late in Forbidden Planet, it is revealed that Altair IV was once inhabited by a race of aliens known as the Krell. Though the Krell are now extinct, Altair IV still possesses vast, subterranean caverns packed with working Krell technology. Doctor Morbius becomes obsessed with this technology, determined to learn its secrets. Morbius rationalises these obsessions &#x96; the alien machines may one day benefit humanity, he insists &#x96; but Capain Adams begins to suspect that something more sinister is afoot.Forbidden Planet's final act contains a shocking revelation. Aided by a machine capable of materialising conscious and unconscious desires, the Krell wiped themselves out. Using this same technology, Morbius destroyed all human colonists on Altair IV. He did this to preserve his monopoly on both Krell technology and his own daughter, a young woman who is adored by colonists, Adams' crew and whom Morbius himself has psycho-sexual longings for.Interestingly, Morbius is unaware that he has been slaughtering people. So blind is Morbius, that Adams must spell things out for him The machine instantaneously projects solid matter to any point on the planet, for any purpose! Adams explains. But like you, the Krell forgot one deadly danger &#x96; their own subconscious lust for hate and destruction! And so those mindless beasts of their subconscious had access to a machine that could never be shut down! The secret devil of every soul on the planet all set free at once to loot and maim! And take revenge, Morbius, and kill! Morbius, a man of science, has thus become warped by his own ego, his own unconscious, his own desire to play God. This kind of science bashing was typical of 1950s science fiction films, which tended to associate war and murder with technological advancements, scientists and an insurmountable human nature, rather than politics, class and economics. Where Forbidden differs from these films is its thick Freudian subtext (The ego is not the master of its own house, Freud once wrote, and the mind is like an iceberg, with only one seventh of its bulk visible!). In Wilcox's hands, man dare not risk exploring outer space unless he first confront the forbidden planets lurking between the ears.Along with The Thing, The Day the Earth Stood Still and Invaders From Mars, Forbidden Planet remains one of the best science fiction films of the 1950s. Produced by MGM studios, it was also one of the first attempts at a big-budget, serious science fiction film, utilising glossy Deluxe Color, expansive CinemaScope and a script (loosely based on Shakespeare's The Tempest) with high-brow pretensions. In keeping with producer Nicholas Nayfack's desire for cutting-edge spectacle, the film also utilised meticulous rotor-scoping by Walt Disney animators, and an innovative, entirely electronic film score. The first of its kind, Forbidden Planet's score predated the invention of music synthesisers by about eight years.Modern audiences will no doubt scoff at Forbidden Planet. But to those interested in early 20th century science fiction, the film offers many pleasures. Today it resembles a kind of meticulously constructed, retro artifact, filled with charming gadgets, robots, lasers, eye-popping colours, giant matte paintings and sets zanier than Frank Sinatra's living room. Sculpted by the finest craftsmen of its era, the film seems simultaneously modernist and unaware of its impending obsolescence; the world of tomorrow according to the world of yesterday.Despite its age, Forbidden Planet still boasts a palpable sense of menace. The film contains one famous sequence in which a Monsters of the Id attacks our heroes, a sequence which scared the hell out of 1950s audiences, and which would influenced a number of subsequent film directors. This monster is handled cleverly throughout the picture, Wilcox hinting at its presence with foot prints, casts of its claws and the ripples of energy which momentarily illuminate its invisible body. Elsewhere the film contains cinema's best aliens outside 2001 A Space Odyssey and Solaris, which Wilcox never shows, but hints at, alludes to and keeps resolutely alien.In a 1970s interview, Gene Roddenberry would claim that Forbidden Planet didn't influence his Star Trek franchise. Most film historians, however, cite Forbidden Planet (along with the 1950 novel, The Voyage of the Space Beagle) as a large influence on Star Trek. Within Wilcox's films we thus find precursors to Star Trek's transporter devices, along with Roddenberry's fondness for abandoned outposts, mad scientists, saucer-shaped spaceships, crews modelled on the US navy, and lots of chauvinists, gratuitous flirting, short skirts and bosomy young women. In 1950s science fiction, the girl next door is never more than a light-year away.8.5/10 - See World on a Wire (1973). "},{"Title":"useful remind","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" one of films who has, for each age, a different message. a real good one for the profound theme who remains more important than the technical solutions for a credible script. a film about knowledge and the huge responsibility about it. about survive in strange world and about price. the result - not a great movie but a wise one. because its subject transforms it in more than a Sci Fi movie but in useful tool for reflection about mankind way. different pieces as bones of a great story about the truth behind yourself. nice special effects and good acting. and, more important, the feeling after its end. because it could be a warning. or, only, precise description of limits for each heavy ambition. "},{"Title":"Genre defining science fiction","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As this 1956 science fiction classic opens the spaceship C-57D is speeding through hyperspace towards the planet Altair IV to investigate the fate of a previous mission that went there twenty years previously. As they reach the planet they make contact with Dr Morbius who warns them not to land&#x85; is he warning them of a danger, threatening them or merely being unfriendly? Whatever the case Commander John Adams ignores him and lands. Once down the ship is met by 'Robbie the Robot'; a creation of Morbius. He takes the commander and two of his crew to meet Morbius. We then learn that and his beautiful daughter Altaira are the sole survivors of the original mission; strangely the others were killed when they decided to leave the planet whereas Morbius and his family were spared&#x85; his wife died later. Morbius also explains how the original population; the Krell, were highly advanced and created amazing machines before their extinction millennia ago. The crew are somewhat smitten by Altaira which leads to some conflict although that is quickly forgotten when they are attacked by a fearsome invisible creature like that which killed those on the original mission.This is rightly considered a classic; it is certainly one of the most important science fiction films; without it the entire genre may have been quite different. It was certainly ahead of its time; for the first time a film is set entirely in space or on another world. The plot, inspired by 'The Tempest' feels like it could have been taken from an episode of the original series of 'Star Trek' but that wouldn't be made for another decade or so.Inevitably the special effects have dated but they are still okay and the 'monster' is genuinely scary&#x85; especially when we learn its true nature. The cast do a solid job; Walter Pidgeon gives a nicely ambiguous performance as Morbius which leads us to wonder if he is to be trusted; Anne Francis is delightful as Altaira&#x85; of course it helps that she looks great in a very short dress and Leslie Nielsen is fine as the Commander; long before he would become better known for his comic roles. If you are a fan of classic films or science fiction in general this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"If an apt title for one of MGM's earlier flicks was GONE WITH THE WIND . . .","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" . . . perhaps a more fitting epitaph on FORBIDDEN PLANET would be GONE WITH THE ID. The Krell race may have been able to construct an 8,000 cubic mile self-sustaining machine with 7,800 sub-basements, but they never were exposed to the crackpot theories of controversial earthling psychiatrist Sigmund Freud. The latter's theory that each human brain contained its own Mini-Hitler (which he labeled as the Id) proved so destructive to the human race that it resulted almost immediately in the emergence of a life-sized Hitler, as anyone versed in String Theory and quantum physics would have predicted. Josef Stalin, Idi Amin, Dick Cheney--it's been all downhill for humanity ever since. FORBIDDEN PLANET represents an extended PSA (Public Service Announcement or warning) on MGM's part that something even more deadly to American values than the Confederacy is stalking Civilization. Unfolding in documentary fashion, FORBIDDEN PLANET proves that the mere existence of Freud's folly is capable of destroying a planet much larger and more advanced than Earth's. Viewers be warned. "}{"Title":"Outwardly it's just '50s sci fi, but a few secret weapons make it much more","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet has a lot of the elements of corny '50s sci-fi movies. It shows off its special effects in masturbatory fashion, features a robot, loads the dialogue up with esoteric science babble and portrays its one female character in misogynistic fashion (oh wait, that's all '50s movies). But Forbidden Planet doesn't simply trying to cash in on fans of Flash Gordon and The Day the Earth Stood Still. Buried beneath it all is an ideal mystery plot with an intelligent payoff.The film follows a space crew investigating the sudden silence on Altair IV. Upon landing&#x97; which they were warned not to do&#x97;they discover only Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) have survived (and let's not forget Robby the Robot). The intrepid Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen), Doc (Warren Stevens) and the playboy Lt. Farman (Jack Kelly) investigate and find that Morbius is hiding something from them.Forbidden Planet is a special effects showcase, sometimes to a fault as scenes are designed almost exclusively around the movie magic, but compare it with the excessive CGI carnage of today's blockbusters and it's not something of which you can be all that critical. Besides, the weapon design, costume design and set design are all cohesive and tasteful, and in some cases marvelous.The plot does take a long time to get somewhere. A lot of the plot gets lost in writer Cyril Hume's aforementioned display of gadgetry and in the romantic subplot between Altaira and just about everyone else, but it ends up being worth the wait. The mystery at the heart of the film doesn't have an contemporary counterparts, and most films targeted at a genre audience like this one don't sneak in powerful human themes. No doubt Hume honored Irving Block and Allen Adler's Twilight Zone-esque story in doing so. In terms of acting, Pidgeon, playing Morbius, the man who keeps that secret, sells us with his passionate performance, especially at the end.Like all great sci fi, Forbidden Planet also plays with the notion of what's unseen. Perhaps Ridley Scott took some notes from director Fred M. Wilcox when he made Alien, because the film hints at a frightening beast that it never shows and manages to wield a lot of suspense doing so. And you know it's legit, because clearly special effects and even makeup were not convincing enough in the mid-'50s to deliver a powerful creature reveal. Even though what comes you know won't measure up to your imagination, Wilcox has your imagination working, and that's the key.Also, the film's electronic soundtrack (eons ahead of its time) has to get a lot of credit (especially for the suspense part). You expect the usual cheesy suspense strings in '50s films, but Forbidden Planet retains an aura of mystery to this day I think in large part to a score that doesn't telegraphic any of the plot's moves.Although long stretches can be disengaging, and everything surrounding Altaira is pretty stupid, Forbidden Planet has its place in the canon of influential science-fiction movies. When you consider that the film's producers probably just wanted to make an outer space picture, the end result is more than we could ask for.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com for more "},{"Title":"The one great American science fiction film of the fifties","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" American science fiction films from the 1950s today generally have a deservedly bad reputation. They were notorious for their low budgets, melodramatic plots, poor standards of acting and, above all, for their feeble special effects. Some of them, most notoriously Plan 9 from Outer Space, are regularly ranked among the worst films ever made.Forbidden Planet is different. Even its plot is different. Many low- budget science fiction films of the era depicted aliens, generally hostile ones, travelling to planet Earth. Forbidden Planet reverses this by depicting humans travelling to another world in interstellar space in a spaceship of their own invention. This was (surprisingly to those of us who grew up with Star Trek in the sixties and seventies) not a popular theme in the fifties, possibly for financial reasons.A lot of science fiction, both in literature and in the cinema, can in hindsight be seen to have been unduly optimistic in its predictions- human colonies on Mars by 1985, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and all that sort of thing. This film is in one respect unduly pessimistic; it tells us that the first moon landing did not take place until 2100. It remains to be seen how accurate its other predictions will be. In the 23rd century a spaceship from Earth arrives on the planet Altair IV to discover the fate of an earlier expedition. They discover that the planet has two human inhabitants, Dr Edward Morbius, the sole survivor from that expedition, and his daughter Altaira. Morbius explains that all the members of his expedition, other than he and his wife (who has since died of natural causes), were wiped out by a mysterious planetary force. Morbius also informs them that the planet was once the home of a highly sophisticated alien race known as the Krell, who themselves mysteriously disappeared some 200,000 years ago. Ever since his arrival he has dedicated himself to studying the Krell and their advanced technology. He now regards Altair IV as his home and has no desire to return to Earth.The lovely Anne Francis makes a sweet heroine, but most of the rest of the cast are nothing special; Leslie Nielsen, for example, was to prove himself more adept at comedy than he was at serious drama. The one exception comes from the excellent Walter Pidgeon as Morbius, played as a courteous but aloof and rather icy intellectual, a man who is metaphorically as well as literally on a different planet to the rest of us and who cannot accept that there may be, in Heaven, on Earth or on Altair IV, things not dreamed of in his philosophy.The film was inspired by Shakespeare's The Tempest, and certain characters are analogous to some of Shakespeare's; Morbius corresponds to Prospero, his mechanical servant Robby the Robot to Ariel, Altaira to Miranda and John Adams, the expedition's commander with whom Altaira falls in love, to Ferdinand. The sinister force is the equivalent of Caliban. The story, however, is an original one; it is not simply Shakespeare's plot transferred to Outer Space. There is, for example, no equivalent to Antonio, the wicked younger brother who has deprived Prospero of his dukedom, and Morbius's eventual fate is very different to Prospero's. Forbidden Planet also makes reference to the psycho-analytical theories of Freud and Jung. It is implied that that the Krell, who had invented a machine which allowed them to create an object merely by thinking about it, had thereby inadvertently contributed to their own destruction because the planetary force was not something external to themselves but rather something which existed within their own unconscious minds and to which the machine gave a physical reality. This plot line could be seen as an allegory for the destructive power of man's own baser nature or for the dangers of technology, even technology which is originally designed for some benign purpose.The film, then, is clearly far more intellectually adventurous than your average sci-fi flick, whether by that you mean the average sci-fi flick of the fifties or that of following decades. , For all its sophomoric philosophising about The Force, Star Wars just looks dumb by comparison. Fortunately, it has a style to match its intellectual ambition. Far more was spent on it than on most science fiction epics of the time, and it is visually stylish, in attractive Eastmancolor, with special effects which may not seem much today but were doubtless considered ground-breaking in 1956. More than $100,000 was spent on creating Robby the Robot alone.Forbidden Planet was not a great box-office success in its day, which perhaps explains why it did not launch a vogue for science fiction in the way that Star Wars was to do in the late seventies. Today, however, we can recognise it as Hollywood's one great science fiction film of the fifties. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Anne Francis .","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was 14 years old just going into Grade eight. One night for movie night my Dad brought a new movie one that he said he saw when he was 16. The movie was Forbidden Planet. As I sat and watched it. I was entranced and bewitched and put under a spell by Anne Francis . I fell In love with her so much that back then and still to this day I consider her to be the most beautiful woman in history. Helen of Troy had nothing on her. But further viewing over the next 35 years convinced me of one fact. without this movie,Science fiction movies would be a lot different. and I believe that the genre might not have survived. The seriousness and the realistic approach to it makes it seem believable. Sure there was comedy. but it was kept to a minimum. The Real gold of the movie to me always was Anne Francis. BUT the heart and the soul of the movie belongs to Walter Pidgeon. Without him this movie would have fallen apart. he carries his role with such authority. And Leslie Neilson is the perfect 50's Hero hair perfectly combed and his confidence never shaken and the belief that he is always in the right. Another reason for the film's timeless feel is the tonalities that play instead of music. It adds to the futuristic feel of the movie and helps it feel timeless. I can only imagine how it must have felt back in 1956 being a 14 year old boy and seeing this on the big screen for the first time. Talk about a life changing movie. It has inspired writers from around the world to write Sci-Fi like this to put their own spin on it. This movie is not only a prototype for all science fiction movies that came after it. It also gave us Robby The Robot. As well as the famous monster from the ID. This movie has so much going for it. That its impossible not to see its influence on modern Sci fi movies. Even George Lucas and Gene Roddenberry both claimed this movie as a major influence in their creations. To me this simply is the best science fiction has to offer. "},{"Title":"The single greatest Sci Fi movie of all time.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there was an 11 rating, this film would surely deserve it. This film succeeds on so many levels, that it's almost impossible to catalog them all. To say that it is ahead of its time, would be a gross understatement. Every perfect' movie, in my opinion, must contain elements that all 'perfect' movies must have&#x97; from actors, to story, to concept and production. This landmark film has it all. From its handsome leading man, Leslie Nielson, whose screen presence would be seen in many decades of popular films to come, to the stalwart father figure, a superb Walter Pidgeon, and to a luminous Anne Francis, whose forthright, powerfully sexy lead character was also a foretaste of things to come (remember, this was only 1956!). And the supporting cast was equally excellent, with so many future stars contained in the lineup that it is equally as difficult to mention them all. Suffice it to say, television would be short at least a half dozen series leads without them. Then, the story. Shakespeare said it best, so why try to rewrite history... the play's the thing. This script had so many memorable lines in it that it simply beggars the imagination. I can think of at least 90% of the sci fi dialogue written for the film still being used today. How about, a simple blaster? Or, hyperspace?? Star Wars wouldn't have been the same without it, ditto, Star Trek. When the space ship first enters the atmosphere of Altair, the entire crew undergoes a preparation to slow to light speed that predates current space technology by about a thousand years. Just listen to Nielson's explanation of the process. And what about, Monsters from the Id?? Who would even THINK of using an homage to Dr. Freud in in mid-fifties? The special effects, crude and impossibly low tech by today's standards, set a mood that still manages to excite my imagination every time I see it. Many film critics agree that 40% of a movie is the music, and once again this film sets an entirely new standard for science fiction films for years and decades to come, in its futuristic use of the totally electronic score featuring the fabulous tonalities of Louis and Bebe Barron. From my perspective, a truly great film never gets old in the rewatching, but only ignites the same wonder and fascination that it engendered in its day. In this way, this film succeeds on every conceivable level. It has become a part of my past, and my present. It's timeless. "},{"Title":"My evil self is at that door and I have no power to stop it!","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unquestionably one of the greatest sci-fi films of all time from a decade full of legendary sci-fi films. A spaceship crew travels to the planet Altair IV to investigate what happened to a research team. Upon arriving, they find Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) are the only survivors left. Morbius has been living quite well using the technology of the planet's extinct race, the Krell. Despite Morbius' insistence that the crew leave, they will not go. The crew's leader, Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen), wants more answers about the fate of the other research team members and more answers about the Krell. He also wants to spend more time with the pretty Altaira, which papa Morbius is not happy about.Beautiful-looking sci-fi film. That's the primary selling point of this classic. It just looks amazing with rich colors, wondrous sets, terrific props and special effects. Robbie the Robot! How could anybody not love Robbie? There are arguably some more thoughtful and intelligent sci-fi films of this era but none that come close to matching the visual spectacle of Forbidden Planet. It's just gorgeous. The cast is good, headed by vet Walter Pidgeon. Leslie Nielsen and Anne Francis handle themselves well. The rest of the cast, which has been compared to the principal crew of Star Trek, are all fine. Much is also made about this film being a sci-fi adaptation of Shakespeare's The Tempest. There's certainly more to it than meets the eye, as is the case with all great sci-fi. This is a phenomenal movie, enjoyable from start to finish. It fills you with a sense of wonder that sadly is lacking from most of today's science fiction films. Definitely check it out. It's a classic in every way. "},{"Title":"Judge no other sci-fi movies until you have seen this.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite simply a great film for it's time.While the special effects may not be as good as Star Wars or any of a number of other more modern movies, you have to take it for what it is, and for the time it was made. Doing that you can't help but see how it is one of the greatest sci-fi movies ever made.I have seen it 3 times and every time lost count of how many concepts in this movie that I have seen replicated, in some way shape or form, in sci-fi movies made subsequently.Truly the trend-setter for all sci-fi movies that have followed.Well worth watching and a must see for anyone who calls themselves a sci-fi fan. "},{"Title":"Excellent science fiction film","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stanley Kubrick once said that he wanted to make the proverbial good science fiction film, in a mail to Arthur Clarke, implying that before 1968, and his 2001 A Space Odyssey, there weren't any good science fiction films. He was wrong. I haven't watched many important science fiction films from the 1950's but this one is a keeper. An excellent science fiction film that deals with very interesting ideas. The one problem of this film, I think, is the thin drama involved, which is a minor problem really since the focus of the film is not on the plot but on the ideas. The special effects were made by Disney and were incredible for the time, using hand drawn animation integrated into the film in just the same way today we use CGI effects. In fact, this shows that our modern science fiction films are little more than animated films with actors inserted in the film. "},{"Title":"Still good if not perfect","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I decided to watch and reassess Forbidden Planet1956. I've always felt that it was somewhat over-rated as a classic fifties sci-fi film. But it certainly still does have its moments.On the negative side, the critics have criticised the performance of Anne Francis as Altaira Alta. There's little doubt but that the romantic plot element in the film is by far the worst thing about it. The love of Alta and Commander Adams Leslie Nielsen is almost completely psychologically unmotivated. It is contrived, silly and plot-forced. It's a relationship that just happens.But is this because Anne Francis is a poor actress? I don't think so. In 1960 Francis played a manikin come to life in After Hours, a Twilight Zone episode and did so with considerable sensitivity. The role in which she was cast in Forbidden Planet was itself a terrible, limited, stereotypical part that could offer no challenge to any actress.Part of the problem may lie in the nature of Science-Fiction itself. It is a genre which is heavily theme-oriented and usually relies on the idea of human manipulation of the external environment through scientifically created artifacts. Soft sci-fi tends to emphasize the areas of psychological and sociological extrapolations. For the most part, the idea becomes the great central focus. In this situation it is certainly all too easy for deeply felt human emotions to simply be taken for granted. That is what happens to the romantic love element of the plot here. Alta is the heroine so she has to fall for the Commander who has to rescue her from her deluded father so they can live happily ever after. Neither Francis nor, for that matter, Nielsen has much chance to shine in that kind of scenario.On the positive side, the film has some excellent and striking set designs. The Shuttle shaft section is particularly impressive. The Id monster is quite an effective creation. Pidgeon is good as Dr Morbius, the deluded scientist who finally redeems himself.Perhaps the best quality of the film is the very one that should be good in science-fiction. Forbidden Planet does have a profound, though-provoking central theme. The alien Krell--the super race who have disappeared--become metaphors for the human race. In them we see that ultimate destruction lies not in the things created through science but in subconscious hate, lust for destruction. The tendency of the human condition is to twist, deform, and destroy that which in itself is good. Even the super-race was imperfect. So are we.It is a theme we see too in The Day the Earth Stood Still. There it is presented in another variation of the danger of apocalyptic destruction. This Island Earth is yet another examination of the same concept. In some ways these films are scientific recreations of the great religious dogma of Original Sin! It has been said that Forbidden Planet is a scientific meditation on Shakespeare's The Tempest. Forget it! Any resemblance to the great Late comedy of the Bard is so vague as to appear purely coincidental. Enjoy the film for what it is a solid, often brilliant--if somewhat flawed--study of human fallibility. "},{"Title":"The case for a Special Edition release","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Forbidden Planet (FP) as a child of ten, and was immediately struck by the vibrant colors,landscapes, and especially the rather haunting electronic soundtrack.  I have managed to catch it several times over the years on television and was even able to tape it, once VCRs became widely available.  None of these broadcasts satisfied however, due to commercial interruptions, and failure to properly fit the movie to a T.V. screen. With the advent of DVD, this was the first movie I purchased, and I must say I was bitterly disappointed.  Not in the film itself of course, but in the fact that the DVD was extremely skimpy in terms of production information, and color/sound enhancement. There is no voice over commentary, There are no interviews with the surviving cast or crew (leslie Nielsen is still around, so is Ann Francis), not even a collection of promotional material to view (posters, etc).  What one gets is a choice between letterbox/fullscreen, a movie trailer, and a choice of languages.  This could have been compensated for, if time had been taken to revitalize the appearance of the film, and do justice to the electronic score via electronic enhancement.  As it is one must make major adjustments to the television settings for color, brightness, Etc, in order to view it properly.  I run the soundtrack through my stereo,(Bose speakers) but alas, it is still relatively weak and faded. A Special Edition release could address all these problems and provide fans like myself, with the color, sound, and inside information one expects within a DVD format.  As regards a remake...I hope one will be made someday, (there many FP devotees out there) my only concern is that the beauty of the film is not diminished by graphic violence, and overt sexuality. In FP there are several violent and lethal confrontations, but blood and gore are not shown.  Likewise the sexual undercurrent and interaction  within the characters of the movie is there but subdued. To give a comparison the one hint of nudity in FP (the skinnydipping scene) is modest, as compared to lets say Red Planet for example, where the female captain of the ship is unabashedly nude in a shower scene..barely ten minutes into the story. I for one would be outraged if Hollywood manages to demean this great film, with that type of approach.  Still one wonders... Val Kilmer as Captain Adams... Perhaps Anthony Hopkins/Morbius,  Kurt Russel as the Doc...It may be worth a try. "},{"Title":"A Superb Example Of Early Sci-Fi","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 50's sci-fi was still in its early life, and most of what had been done was based on the idea of aliens visiting earth, rather than humans visiting other planets, which means that you don't really expect a sci-fi movie from this era featuring space travel and set on another planet to stack up particularly well in the modern era. But Forbidden Planet pulls it off superbly. It does not seem old or dated even almost 60 years after it was made. It has an interesting story, a great cast, good use of humour, and features only limited use of what has by now become sci-fi staple (futuristic weapons and monsters) and no space battles - proving that such things aren't really necessary. It's also clear after watching this that while Gene Roddenberry may have created Star Trek he borrowed rather heavily from Forbidden Planet as he did so, and a number of Star Trek episodes seem to have their origins in various aspects of the plot of this movie.The story features Walter Pidgeon as Dr. Morbius, the only survivor of the crew of an earth ship that landed on Altaire IV many years before. Leslie Nielsen (who would later be considered for the role of Captain Kirk in Star Trek before losing out to William Shatner) played J.J. Adams - the commander of a ship sent from earth to investigate what's happened. The story is mysterious from the beginning. Morbius explains that some deadly force killed everyone else (he doesn't explain what the force was, and as the movie comes to its climax it becomes clear that he didn't know.) He and his wife (who later died) were the only ones immune to whatever had killed the others, and they had a daughter (played by the very beautiful Anne Francis.) She and Morbius are now alone on the world. Morbius has discovered that the world was once inhabited by a very advanced race of beings called the Krell, and he devotes his life to learning about them. Morbius is a mysterious character who would much rather be left alone than rescued. The great thing about this is that while he is mysterious (and therefore suspicious) he's not a stereotypical bad guy. One of the things I loved about this was that there were, in fact, no real bad guys. Morbius turns out to be responsible for what's happening, but it's out of his control. It's a great story.The sets are very well constructed. They're very futuristic even by today's standards. In fact, they put to shame the very mundane-looking bridge on the first Star Trek pilot The Cage. The creature who's finally introduced near the end is a very imaginative creature and quite scary. I feared that Anne Francis was being used merely as window dressing, and while she does spend a lot of time in short skirts and bare feet, being taught how to hug and kiss by the crew of the rescue ship, in the end she's rather central to the story, as her father becomes increasingly jealous of her growing relationship with the newcomers. Perhaps the greatest addition to the film was Robby the Robot. He seems to be something of a forerunner to the robot later found on Lost in Space. He's got a great personality, he's friendly and helpful and even has a sense of humour.It's perhaps a bit slow off the start, but frankly, this is better than any sci-fi that has been put out in recent decades. "}{"Title":"Still great all these years later","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is often acclaimed as the best science fiction film of the 1950s and with good reason. While I wouldn't say its my absolute favorite from the era (that'd be The Incredible Shrinking Man because of its emotional resonance), its still a great film all these years later. There's plenty of gee-whiz style thrills involving Robby the Robot and the invisible monster along with a surprising dedication to legitimate science. The film shows a large degree of intelligence and attempts to approach its fantastic story realistically. Sure, the set design is kitschy and there are plenty of more dated aspects to the production, but this was a massive leap forward from the space-opera antics of Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers.On a technical scale, the film is quite accomplished. The direction by Fred M. Wilcox isn't anything to write home about, but he knows how to keep the material moving at a good pace and really ups the tension towards the end. The acting all around is adequate. Leslie Nielson, best known to my generation for his comedic roles in The Naked Gun series, often surprises people that he was originally a dramatic actor. Hes a bit wooden but does a decent job overall. Anne Francis is quite good as the naive and lovely space maiden, and Walter Pidgeon lends a great amount of class to the proceedings. His performance is terrific. Again, Forbidden Planet manages to be a classic and a really good film because of the intelligent screenplay. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Mr. Shakespeare, Dr. Freud.  Freud, Shakespeare.","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Leslie Nielsen is the commander of a space ship with a crew of 18 men in the year 2200. His mission Land on the planet of Altair and rescue any survivors of a 20-year-old crashed earlier expedition. The crew lands and finds only two survivors, Walter Pidgeon and his daughter, Anne Francis.Pidgeon is concerned for their safety and does everything he can to persuade them to leave, while he and his daughter remain behind in their satisfying and comfortable seclusion. He describes the horrible deaths of the earlier mission, the crew torn limb from limb by an unidentifiable source.At their insistence, Pidgeon takes Nielsen and the others on a tour of the planet, which was dominated by the super-intelligent Krell civilization until they died out a few million years ago, leaving behind a treasure trove of technology and a self-maintaining energy plant of infinite power.The nubile Anne Francis thinks that Nielson is beautiful -- O, brave new world! -- and they get it on behind Pidgeon's back. But creepy things begin to happen. The space ship's equipment is mysteriously destroyed, and later the crew chief is torn limb from lib. And then the space ship's defensive ring of destructor beams is breached by a monstrous, invisible presence, barely outlined in the force field.Cutting a long story short, the monster is a product of Pidgeon's id. So what is the id? Basically, aside from its being a clumsy translation of Freud's das Es, it's the seat of our unconscious animal impulses. The brain has three components, so to speak, each built upon the other. The lowest and oldest part is the brain stem, which controls things like breathing and heartbeat. The next developmental component is the midbrain, which does a lot of things with memory, lust, and rage. The newest part of the brain is the cortex, all that gray matter you see if you lift off the top of the skull, and that's where thinking and planning take place. The problem is that all three parts of the brain are always working. That's why we don't stop breathing when we fall asleep. And that's why we can damp down, but never entirely rid ourselves, of the impulse to mate and to kill. We're constantly at war with these dangerous, uncivilized impulses, playing Whack a Mole with them. Freud didn't pin his id to the midbrain or any other structure. (Nobody ever has.) But that's what's at work here alright. Walter Pidgeon may be a highly civilized and upright human being but his unconscious is generating this murderous monster, without his knowing about it, by harnessing the power of the Krell's huge power plant.If that's Freud's contribution to the plot, Shakespeare's contribution is taken roughly from his last play, The Tempest. The play is full of conniving humans, sprites, and monsters, and somebody's virginal daughter, but there's nothing quite like the hideous half-formed creature that the Disney special effects people gave us in Forbidden Planet. It's really spooky.The special effects here represented the cutting edge of technology in its day. It's all quite studio bound, of course. None of the shrubbery looks alive. It all looks like dried weeds. And the interior of Pidgeon's house, as someone described it, looks like it could be the living room of Frank Sinatra's apartment in a Las Vegas hotel. But the overall impact of the production design and effects is overwhelming.And the plot is intelligent too, not a cobbled-together rehash of monster movies or anything else. If some of the scientific explanations sound like schizophrenic word salad, well, it's understandable. How can you describe with any accuracy the dynamics of a technology that does not yet exist? If we could describe it precisely, we could build it, and it would exist. That's what one information theorist, Brillouin, called the principle of fundamental surprise. I had a little trouble with the 100-percent electronic score. It's supposed to range from the ominous and dramatic to the romantic and euphonious, but I found it pretty much scary all the time. I found the weapons a little disappointing too. Three types are shown. The crew carry sidearms called simple blasters. Then, while defending the ship against the monster, they fire rifle-shaped weapons at it. And then there are the batteries of presumably high-powered electronic cannons. But they all shoot out the same intermittent stream of blue lights! And all at a leisurely speed too, as if in no particular hurry to reach their targets. By 2200, I want to see great BIG batteries of cannons shooting out BIG powerful balls of speedy red something-or-others -- and blowing the landscape to pieces, melting the solid rock. These are minor irritations, though.Not all that much acting is required. Walter Pidgeon probably comes off best because he has the most complex role. Anne Francis looks pale and scrumptious as Shakespeare's Miranda. She's so innocent and naive, at least until Leslie Nielsen initiates her into the less theoretical aspects of biology, that her attractiveness acquires an almost hebephile tint. She causes a lot of snickering among the 18 men of the crew. There is a lot of snickering in this movie. And all the men have the same haircut and they comb their hair like Lennie Brisco on Law and Order. And -- come to think of it -- I don't know why the tiger, who has always been Anne Francis' pet, turns suddenly and inexplicably into a snarling predator who attacks her. I suppose Pidgeon's id is somehow responsible but don't know how or why.Anyway, this is a science fiction icon with a good plot, decent acting, and fine effects. The question it raises about our unconscious desire for savagery is very relevant. It will probably be relevant in 2200, too, if we make it that far. The Krell thought they had the problem licked -- and look what happened to them. "},{"Title":"Other trivia goofs","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't really consider what I have to mention here as a spoiler, but to be on the safe side, I have checked the box.I remember seeing a short article in Popular Mechanics magazine when I was a kid, about how MGM had built a robot for an upcoming Science Fiction movie called Forbidden Planet, which was to be released the following year. To the best of my recollection, the article said it had been built for the cost of $10,000 dollars, and included a black and white photo of Robby. I have seen the documentary which says it was more like $30,000, but that was a half century ago, so I'm probably mistaken about that amount.I have watched this movie so many times, that I couldn't help noticing two little cute goofs if you will In the scene where Earl Holliman asks if Robby is male or female, and then turns his back and walks toward the rest of the crew in the background, he accidentally kicks a rock on the ground. The sound causes Warren Stevens to turn his head slightly toward the rear, and then quickly back again, so as not to spoil the take. In another scene where he is being disciplined by Commander Adams for getting drunk with Robby he says Besides, why'd that 'Robert' argue me into drinking all that whiskey in the first place?It is things like this that make this movie even more lovable over time. It will always be what I consider to be a masterpiece, and my all time Sci Fi favorite. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction!","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is a groundbreaking film that became the blueprint for a million sci-fi movies. A team of astronauts go to investigate a planet, strange things are afoot. What I liked about Forbidden Planet though, it didn't settle into exactly what sort of film it was until a good way through it. About halfway through, I was wondering what was going on, the whole film seemed to just be pure sci-fi, the astronauts being led around a strange planet being told about the previous inhabitants taking up a large bulk, until quite a high brow mystery/horror concept is thrown into the mix, (very effectively, I might add). The film is very ambitious for the mid fifties, in terms of it's special effects and high brow subject matter (though thankfully, explains it all to those who might not understand), for this reason, it is a triumph, and definitely worth a watch 50 years later. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie stands out as one of the few really good movies from this era that are sci-fi. Most of the movies from this time spent very little time in thinking out the characters, technology, and the special effects. In watching the film I am fully convinced that the producers actually sat down and thought out how they would communicate and how they would get from one place to another. As I mentioned, the characters are believable. In this film the hero and the woman he loves are not just the only plot line, there is a fairly complex system of plot and sub-plot which keeps the movie from becoming nothing more than a excuse to show skin. The people really do seem to believe that they are were they are supposed to be and doing their job seriously. The special effects are up in the same category as those done on War of The Worlds. When I first saw it I was amazed at how they portrayed each of the pivotal points about the ship and the threat which moves the story along. See this movie and be amazed. My recommendation is too buy it on DVD for format reasons and durability. "},{"Title":"Classic Science Fiction","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is one of the great Sci Fi movies of all time. The test of a movie is whether or not you enjoyed it; and I enjoyed Forbidden Planet quite a bit. It's hard to explain the attraction. The space ship looks like a pair of dinner plates, the special effects are usually fairly cheesy (except when the ID Monster is attacked in the force field - very cool) and the action sequences are well lame.All that being said the movie does have several great things working for it. Robby the Robot - very very cool. Anne Francis as Altaira (even Ally McBeal didn't have shorter skirts). Walter Pigeon as Morbius (maybe the best of the mad scientists). Most of all it has was all great science fiction needs - the big idea. The idea that no matter our technology we are still human with darkness at the heart of our soul.Space travel, alien civilizations, monsters have all been done to death, even in 1956 but put them all together the sum is much more than it's parts.BTW Anne Francis doesn't look at all like her Marilyn Monroe knockoff on Gilligan's Island 10 years later. In Forbidden Planet she is stunningly attractive and I can't figure out why she didn't have a more successful career. That being said if I was to be marooned on Altair 4 I really couldn't chose between Anne Francis and Robbie the Robot. Both would be very nice. Very very nice.If you get a chance see it in a theater. It's not the same on TV. "},{"Title":"Well Worth Watching","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this one when it was initially released. I was in college at the time, and was a heavy reader of science fiction. I liked the film when I first saw it, and like it to this day. I even got a widescreen DVD of it.There have been many comments about the story's relationship to Shakespeare's The Tempest, so I won't beat that to death. I have heard that the electronic tonalities by Louis and Bebe Barron were developed to sidestep the need for Union musicians, but I've not been able to verify it.The film was set far enough in the future so that it could be a true science fiction film. Unlike many of the more serious films of the time, the characters didn't spend a lot of time explaining phenomena to each other, which is a good touch someone with a laser pointer today doesn't stop to explain the mechanics of lasing to an associate when making a presentation, in today's context.IMHO, this is not the greatest film of its genre, though it's a good one. Certainly one worth viewing multiple times. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet  A Revised Review","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1956 movie, Forbidden Planet, was the first science fiction film produced for $1 million by a major studio, MGM. The film excels in many aspects, particularly its exceptionally intelligent story. Its flaws are minor. The film is based on a story/screen treatment, Fatal Planet, by special effects expert, Irving Block and his writing partner, Allen Adler. The screenplay was written by Cyril Hume; directed by Fred Wilcox. Filmed in CinemaScope and Eastmancolor. Forbidden Planet boasts of great technical achievements in special effects,set and art design for that time period Art Lonergan's sets of the spaceship, Morbius' home and the Krell laboratory were lavish, massive and stunning. The planet Altair IV's strange but beautiful atmosphere was achieved via a 10,000 ft cyclorama painting. The 6'11 Robby The Robot was a superb effects design, as was the Id Monster, created by Disney Animator, Joshua Meador. The eerie, all-electronic score by Louis and Bebe Barron, was a first, originally planned to be only a special effects subpart of Harry Partch's traditional score. Under the patronage of avant garde' composer, John Cage, the Barrons created a score more experimental than compositional modeled on emotional reactions of human nervous systems through cybernetics. The story, set in 2257 CE, involves Commander Adams and crew travelling from Earth to Altair IV, some 17 light years away, to investigate the whereabouts of an Earth expedition sent there 20 years earlier. They find only Dr. Morbius, his daughter and their trusty robot, Robby. Morbius tells Adams that the Belleraphon crew died at the hands of a mysterious invisible monster. Morbius tries to discourage the investigation, but to no avail; matters worsen when Adams and Altaira become romantically involved. Suddenly, various members of Adams' crew are mysteriously killed; it turns out that Morbius, having gained great knowledge and power via technology of the Krell - a super-advanced civilization who once inhabited Altair IV - is once again subconsciously creating via telekinetic materialization, the very monster he claimed to have killed the Earth colony. In the end, Morbius is destroyed along with his Id Monster, while Adams, Altaira and remaining crew return safely to Earth as Altair IV blows up via a thermo-nuclear detonation device. FP's story,loosely based on Shakespeare's The Tempest, features Walter Pigeon(Dr.Morbius)as similar to Prospero, the exiled Duke of Milan; Anne Francis(Altaira) as his beautiful daughter like Prospero's daughter, Miranda; Morbius' Robby The Robot similar to Prospero's dutiful servant, the spirit Ariel; Leslie Neilson(Commander Adams) analogous to Ferdinand, Prince of Naples; and Morbius' subconscious Id Monster paralleling Caliban, the Witch Child. Comparative Analysis Similarities between FP characters and those of The Tempest Morbius and Prospero both live in remote locations, the first on a planet, latter on an island. Both have sheltered daughters who have had little human contact and are to be romantically involved with suitors from afar. Both men have acquired great power and knowledge, Morbius via advanced alien technology and Prospero by magic. Both have non-human faithful servants, Morbius has Robby while Prospero has the airy spirit, Ariel. Commander Adams is the suitor of Altaira and Ferdinand,Price of Naples is suitor of Miranda, both men have honorable titles. Altaira and Miranda are similar young women who have been raised solely by their fathers for many years and know little of the world. Morbius' Monster of the Id and Caliban, the Witch Child, are analogous insofar as they are evil, elemental, bestial entities. Both are called monsters in respective dialogue. Differences - Morbius is fatally flawed, while Prospero is not. Morbius' possessiveness of both daughter and Krellian knowledge proves to be his undoing. OTOH, Prospero uses his knowledge and power to punish and discipline in a constructive way to benefit of all, including his enemies. Morbius' Id monster and Caliban are different in that former is an internally projected-outward materialization, while latter is a true entity unto himself. Prospero always has Caliban under control, even to the end, while this is not the case with Morbius. It is interesting to note that in The Tempest, Ariel oscillates between visibility and invisibility, while in FP , it is the Id Monster. (The Id, a Freudian conception, denotes an instinctual part of the psyche seeking constant gratification, regardless of the consequences to others; e.g., Caliban attempting to rape Miranda, in spite of previous kindness from her and her father.) The film and play end differently due to character differences in Morbius and Prospero Forbidden Planet on a bittersweet note, and The Tempest on one of a fairy tale.Concluding Comments Dr. Morbius called the Krell, A mighty and noble race, yet they vanished thousands of years earlier, leaving one to presume that they had psyches similar to Earthians, and like Morbius to come, succumbed to powerful subconscious Id Monsters, i.e., the dark sides of themselves. Seen thusly, Forbidden Planet is a cautionary tale about various civilizations and individuals limited capacities to control immense power. Forbidden Planet always seems to inspire awe and wonder,as well as intelligent discussion and rightfully deserves a place alongside other enduring sci-fi classics as Metropolis, War of the Worlds and 2001 A Space Odyssey. "},{"Title":"Lots of fond memories on the set","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a member of the FX crew, I never thought at the time that we were creating a film classic.  This was Metro's first attempt at SciFi and all departments were given some leverage on budget.  One problem that caused serious consideration to shelving the project was the Musician's strike. Our music department was the greatest in the industry and we looked forward to a breathtaking score.  But it was not to happen.  The film was finished and a husband & wife team was retained to create the score using a (I may mis-spell it) Ferimin electronic synth.  Some of us were very disappointed with the results thinking the production was less than what we wanted.  Who knew the public would love it.  And who was I to disagree.  It's wonderful that so many of you love our picture after 46 years.  It's good to be alive. "},{"Title":"A landmark genre film.","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forbidden Planet is a landmark genre film. For starters, it's one of the rare sci-fi films of the 50s that received (except for the cast, outside of Walter Pidgeon, though some went on to become marquee names) A-list treatment. It's a lavish cinemascope production from the sets and costumes to special effects. As a measure of its influence down through the years, The Twilight Zone tv show often borrowed its props, Star Trek used it as a conceptual template, Robbie the Robot is still a sci-fi icon, and even its theme--that men despite technical advancements are unfit to be gods--is repeated in the movie Sphere. Although the narrative and camera techniques are showing their age more and more as time passes, Forbidden Planet can still be enjoyed today on the level of exploring ideas. "}{"Title":"Altaira Morbius was my role model.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"       I had always loved this movie as a child and when I was 16 I begged my mom to make me an outfit like Anne Francis wore for my Halloween costume.  Surprisingly she and my grandmother worked together and had it done in one day!  That Halloween I wore a shoulder length blonde wig and a white mini-dress with gold trim and a gold chain belt. I was a hit at the high school Halloween party and later that year I wore the same outfit again when I played The Ghost Of Christmas Past in the drama club version of A Christmas Carol.  Many thanks Anne Francis (if you ever read this) you helped me through adolescence! "},{"Title":"One-of-a-kind Sci-Fi from the 50's","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were a lot of 50's sci-fi movies. They were big draws for the Drive-in theaters. A lot of them were crappy even back then. This movie and 'The Day the Earth Stood Still' stand out, and both have aged well in their own way. From the very beginning with its eerie theremin musical score (which still sounds weird since theremins are hardly ever used) Forbidden Planet takes you where no man has gone before. Speaking of Star Trek there's so much material in this film that got into Star Trek TOS its like a pilot for the series; from the interactive captain/first mate/doctor, the mad scientist, alien beings, babe in short skirt, computer intelligence; it is all de rigeur now but this was the first of its kind. Besides, it has good acting and well-done artwork which even today evokes a certain awe at the imagery. Consider how the huge Krell machine is successfully depicted with some real depth. I saw this as a kid (at a drive-in 0)when it was a new movie and it scared me. Of course every movie that was even vaguely scary did back then but I remember being real worried about the invisible monster. Forbidden Planet is a movie a sci-fi fan can watch several times and find something new with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic piece of 50s scifi cinema","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to see a true classic of the scifi genre, go for Forbidden Planet. While its 1956 tag may make you think it sucks big time, you sure wont be disappointed. There is absolutely NOTHING CHEESY about this movie, as we could expect. The FX (graphic as well as sound) are brilliant, as good as those of 20 years younger Star Wars (okay, the synth sound fx are cheesy, but what the hell. it contributes to the atmosphere), cinematography is awesome and the plot is very clever. Yes, indeed, we have seen such plot a hundred times since, but remember this movie is from 1956. You will find lots of resemblances in there, such as the Star Trek-like captain-doctor relationship or Star Wars-like mega-storeys ventilation shaft. I wonder why this film has so little attention nowadays, it certainly deserves more. "},{"Title":"A predecessor to Star Trek","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ******Spoiler or Two*******Forbidden Planet was perhaps the most intelligent sci-fi movie of the fifties, taking title with War of the Worlds and The Thing as best of the era.  The ambience and plot seem almost like an episode of Star Trek, albeit with a flying saucer instead of the Enterprise.  The plot was far reaching for the day, talking about aliens hundreds of thousands of years old, and the special effects were marvels of originality, trying to encompass the huge underground world of the lost alien race.  The scene of the beast trying to break through the electric fence is still good today, although Robbie the Robot is a square throwback to another time.  The musical score was probably the first ever made on a computer, back in an era when most people would never even see never mind use a computer, but although it took over year to make it just sounds weird and further dates the film.The science was well thought out for the time, but still has a few blips, such as atomic power and radiation being key to everything.  It's partly understandable, as the fifties was a time when people thought we would be colonizing the galaxy by the twenty-first century, and the recently discovered atomic energy would do it for us.  It's kind of like how modern movies tie DNA into all kinds of ridiculous things, such as bringing people back with all their memories from a few cells.It may be dated, and not show the sophistication we have with today's technology, but Forbidden Planet is still a thinking movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"FAR AHEAD OF ITS TIME","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the special effects and acting will seem somewhat dated today this film was far ahead of its time. Imagine a dead alien race who had created a machine that could make all of their dreams come true. Thats what the interplanetary explorers discover on Altair 4 a planet inhabited by only two survivors, a scientist and his daugher plus their very own robot. Our new arrivals keep losing crewman until they discover that whoever or whatever had destroyed the alien Krell is now trying to destroy them. We discover that the Monsters are from the ID. Great ending ties it all together if you haven't guessed. "},{"Title":"Still the best sci-fi ever.","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Today's sci-fi thrillers are more like Rambo in outer-space with monster special effects (frequently ludicrous such as sounds of explosions in the vacuum of space).  Though tame by today's standards, the special effects of Forbidden Planet were quite striking for their time.  Even today, they still hold plausibility.  Yet, the best part of the movie is perhaps the reason that radio thrillers still have appeal.  Much of what was going on was left up to the imaginations of the audience.  (What did the Krell creatures look like?)  By having much of the framework of the story never divulged or only divulged in the end, the tension and suspense held throughout the movie.  The ending was also very thought-provoking and satisfying.  In my mind, this is still one of the best (if not the best) sci-fi films ever made.  "},{"Title":"Amazing, enduring, must-see movie, well ahead of its time.","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't seen Forbidden Planet, you are in for a treat.Even moderate SF fans will concur that there is almost a total gap for quality SF between Forbidden Plant and Star Wars.  And it appears as if FB preceded SW by a few years, not a couple of decades.The acting is impressive, the sets and effects equally so, and the plot is gripping, absorbing, and satisfying.  As I write, I'm conscious that I am not doing this really marvelous film justice it simply is a must-see.  You'll marvel at the thought that FB is now over forty-four years old -- unlike its black and white, visible-supporting-wire cheap successors, it endures. "},{"Title":"Influential but Cheesy Sci-Fi","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spaceship is sent on a rescue mission to a planet where a previous mission went awry. Regarded by many as an early sci-fi classic, this film deserves credit for influencing the likes of Star Trek and Star Wars. However, it's not a great film by any means. Too much time is spent on showing off the sets and special effects. It may have been impressive for its time, but now the sets look fake and the effects are primitive. The cheesy electronic soundtrack becomes annoying after a while. Pidgeon is well cast as the scientist. Nielsen makes one wonder how this film might have worked as a spoof. Francis does little more than wear short dresses and look lustfully at men. "},{"Title":"The Demise of the Krell in Movie Made by Studio Facing its Own Demise","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even as MGM was collapsing, the studio had the ability to make this science fiction movie, with production values not to be seen again in a science fiction movie until 2001. From the giant cyclorama showing the Altair IV landscape behind the spaceship to the near invisible monster impervious to energy weapons, Forbidden Planet displays a combination of art direction and use of visual effects twenty years ahead of its time. Just like the all powerful Krell, the MGM studio, once all powerful (the only major Hollywood studio to go through the Great Depression without losing money), was disintegrating. Dore Schary was in his last year in charge of MGM studio in 1956, soon to be dismissed. MGM also let go almost all its contract employees, including art director Cedric Gibbons, who had been with MGM from the start in 1924.Unlike the Krell, who vanished suddenly, MGM lingered on, betting its future on big pictures like Ben-Hur and How the West Was Won. But by 1970, Kirk Kerkorian was cannibalizing MGM, selling its 40 acre Culver City backlot, the movie sets demolished to make way for a housing development, and then auctioning off MGM's two warehouses of props, including the three pairs of ruby slippers Dorothy wore in The Wizard of Oz. Two were swiped before getting to the auction floor by a temp laborer hired to move the props. At least one person knew the value of MGM memorabilia being sold like so much junk at a yard sale.I can't help now looking at what happened to MGM as it ran out of money and then got taken over by Kirk Kerkorian's wrecking crew and think about what is happening in the United States now, as corporate assets like Anheuser Busch and much of the domestic steel industry are sold to the highest foreign bidder. Most of the lower level MGM employees who hit the bricks after the studio shut down regular operations could not get another steady job in the Hollywood film industry. Top talent like actor Stewart Granger and director Andrew Marton could get one movie jobs (no multi-year contracts anymore)in Europe for a while, but it was the end of the road for many studio employees' Hollywood careers behind the camera. The Krell met a sudden, unexpected end in the movie Forbidden Planet, but when MGM went onto a slow death spiral, life did not reflect art. There was no happy ending for the MGM story, except for Kirk Kerkorian, who somehow managed to continually buy and sell MGM's assets until 2004, when Sony bought the MGM studio and let go its remaining 900 employees. "},{"Title":"You especially can't call Leslie Nielsen Shirley in this movie.","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, we in the 21st century always expect Leslie Nielsen to play some goofy role, but Forbidden Planet shows where he started. He plays Cmdr. John J. Adams, leading a mission to a strange planet where only Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pigeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) are alive. As the movie progresses, we come to realize that this is no ordinary planet; it holds an unpleasant secret that may be the key to what happened before the story started.Okay, so watching the movie with a modern viewpoint makes it seem dated, but it is definitely worth seeing. If absolutely nothing else, it shows that Leslie Nielsen can play a serious role. As for Robby the Robot...well, he's passable; I would like to be able to speak 187 languages.Anyway, this is one movie that you gotta check out sometime. "}{"Title":"The first true interstellar/galactic adventure in English language film--epic!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As did others in this forum, when Fobidden Planet was offered in 1956, I rushed to see it. This story is an interesting phenomenon I suggest because young, old, male, female, sci-fi experts and people who find such fare 'way out all can follow and enjoy this film's story and plot lines very well. This is the first movie set on a planet other than Earth in the 20th Century other than serials such as Flash Gordon. Leslie Nielsen was vocally a bit weak for his role, at that time, but Walter Pigeon, Marvin Miller, Anne Francis, Richard Anderson, Earl Holliman and especially Warren Stevens all acquitted themselves very well. There are so many visual splendors in this one, it's hard to choose a favorite from the film's scenes. The approach to Altair-4, the starship itself, the landing on the planet's alien surface, the descent via extensor stairs, the first view of the landscape, the approach of the rocket-sled, Dr. Morbius's house seen from without and from within, the underground complex and its wonders, the setup of the weaponry, the battle with the monster, the final approach of the unseen destroyer,the escape from the doomed planet--all these scenes are etched into the viewer's mind because we discover them along with the participants. Veteran Cyril Hume's literate script was filmed intelligently by long-time director Fred McLeod Wilcox with clarity and imagination. it is a shock to realize there's no music at all; the film is carried by the words, the actors and the mystery-revelation storyline. It can be watched again and again with pleasure--I have been doing so for nearly fifty years. Until this famous and well-loved film was created, no film had tried to imagine a world beyond Earth; and for decades afterward, ships kept crashing back on the planet--as if the writers' imaginations were failing and causing the crashes. Still the best, many say. That says something negative about this nation's so-called intellectual leaders' imaginations--and something very positive indeed I suggest about those who made this gem. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet helps to answer the question as to whether or not there were intelligent science fiction films in the 1950's","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The words intelligent and science fiction in regards to a film from the 50's may seem like somewhat of an anachronism when one thinks about most of the drive-in movie schlock of that era, but there are a few treasures to be uncovered.   It's a short list of course, but one that includes The Day the Earth Stood Still, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, The Incredible Shrinking Man, and Forbidden Planet.  I don't know what audiences of that particular decade originally thought of this film that was short on action and long on dialog, but almost fifty years later it still holds up quite well despite the seemingly endless advances film makers have made in the special effects department.  It's living proof that it's not just the special effects that make a well done science fiction film, `it's the script and the story, stupid'.The plot at first glance seems relatively simple.  A spaceship crew is sent to the planet Altair-4 (Altair being derived from a Greek word for star, clever isn't it?) to find out what happened to the Belerephon Expedition that had settled on the planet some twenty years earlier.  As they approach the planet they are contacted by one of the settlers, Dr. Morbius (Walter Pidgeon), who warns them to make a U-turn and go pester some other planet.  Of course being an upright and true blue kind of guy who always follows orders, Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen), lands his flying saucer space ship on the planet anyway to find out what exactly is going on and so that we can have the rest of the movie.  They are soon greeted thereafter by a robot named Robbie who is piloting a land speeder that would probably make Luke Skywalker just as pea green with envy as the sky of Altair-4 is.  Robbie quickly whisks away the Commander, the `Doc' (Warren Stevens) and Lt. Farman (Jack Kelly) to the home of Dr. Morbius who seems to be in a bit more of a congenial mood then he was during his earlier radio transmission.  We soon find out that all the other members of the Belerephon Expedition met a horrid untimely death, and the only inhabitants left on the planet are Morbius, Robbie, and the daughter of Morbius, Altaira (Anne Francis).  So who or what killed the other colonists?  Why was Dr. Morbius the only original member of the expedition to survive?  And which of the three bachelors will our dating game bachelorette Altaira choose  the commander, the doctor, or the playboy?All the answers for these questions are contained in a forthright screenplay written by Cyril Hume, who based his tale on a reworking of Shakespeare's The Tempest.  Hume must have firmly believed in the existence of intelligent life on the planet Earth (name origin unknown).  There is a monster in Forbidden Planet, but it is not thrown on the screen just so we can have another 50's type monster on the loose and have it stomp everything in sight scenario.  There are explanations, and even though you may find many of the special effects antiquated, you won't care.  As we tour the underground workings of Altair-4 with Dr. Morbius as our guide, we become totally fascinated by the story of The Krell, the previous tenants of Altair-4 who thought they had achieved the ultimate possibilities of mind over matter.This is not to say Forbidden Planet is perfect.  There is a comedic subplot regarding the ships cook (Earl Holliman) thrown in at the insistence of the studio.  While one can see the humor as Cook has Robby perform a little chore for him, it still seems out of place and unnecessary in this film.  The romantic angle of the film seems mired knee deep in 50's sensibilities.  I'll be the first to proclaim loudly that the beauty of Anne Francis could knock any man for a loop, but the reactions of the crew to her appearance seem more like the twittering one would expect from a prepubescent school boy than anything else.  Yet in the end, when she finally does choose Bachelor number one, we see an underlying tension emanating from Morbius that is essential to the underlying themes of the story.As for the cast, Walter Pidgeon is outstanding as Morbius.  Leslie Nielsen does a good job as the Commander, reminding us that he was once able to play a straight role.  Anne Francis has always been a favorite of mine, but she handles the chores of Altaira, who meets her first Earth men (other than her father), with a kind of wide eyed matter of fact innocence.  The rest of the cast are okay with probably Warren Stevens as Doc being the best of the lot.  Oh, and let's not forget the legendary Robbie the Robot, whose appearance in this film alone makes it worth seeing.Forbidden Planet is a must see for any science fiction film, if for no other reason than that it answers the question in regards to whether or not there were any intelligent science fiction films made in the fifties.  The answer is of course yes, and if I can answer that particular question in that manner, I have no choice but to give you my grade which for Forbidden Planet is a B+.  "},{"Title":"A science fiction movie milestone. Still very entertaining and imaginative.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Forbidden Planet' is one of the most famous science fiction movies of the 1950s, and a movie that has had a profound impact on SF cinema. Some of the best science fiction and horror movies of this period ('Invasion Of The Body Snatchers', 'The Incredible Shrinking Man') were set in contemporary America and strongly reflected the fears and concerns of the time. 'Forbidden Planet' is quite different, being set in the future, and being more of a Freudian fantasy, liberally inspired by Shakespeare's 'The Tempest'. It was by far the most sophisticated outer space tale up until that point, and the special effects, though of course dated today, were hot stuff for the time. There are a few bits of b-grade silliness e.g. Earl Holliman's comic relief Cookie, but overall this is a much more serious movie than one might expect. Future funnyman Leslie Nielsen is adequate as Commander Adams, far better is 1940s star Walter Pigeon ('Mrs. Miniver',etc.) as the mysterious Dr. Morbius, and his sexy daughter Altair (Anne Francis, later of 1960s cult series 'Honey West'). And of course there is also Robby, still one of the most recognizable robots in movie history. 'Forbidden Planet' is essential viewing for any sci-fi fan, but more than that, it is also one of the most imaginative and entertaining movies ever made, and a sheer joy to watch. Personally I think it's worth a dozen 'Star Wars' and then some. "},{"Title":"Classic, one of the 50s best sci-fi films","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MGM's big 50s sci-fi hit is what so many others would like to be but aren't.  Interesting, with a stylish look and a brazenly over-the-top B-performance from all the principles and the supporting cast, who seem like refugees from a WWII buddy film (I guess if this was Warners we'd have Alan Hale in there).  Nielsen is commanding and funny as the captain, and Anne Francis is stunning in her gorgeous costumes (leading the way for the producers of Star Trek, a show in many ways indebted to this film, to place a strong emphasis on the costumes of the lovely guest stars).  The art design is a joy, and Robbie is a really great robot to watch with a real personality.  Based on Shakespeare's Tempest, with Pidgeon as Prospero (you maybe could have hoped for Orson Welles, but this is MGM here, you get what you pay for).  Disney animation on the monsters from the Id is the only serious letdown. "},{"Title":"Unforgotten planet","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A thing of the past,this movie sure is,but a charming one.Of course the special effects seem dated today but the screenplay shows much more imagination than,say,star wars.Some modern movies,like the very mediocre sphere took here a lot of ideas.I see snatches in Mission to Mars too.Along with the highly superior invasion of the body snatchers,it heralds the intelligent sci-fi which throve in the late sixties and early seventies with planet of the apes, THX 1138(A G.Lucas movie!Had he continued in that vein...) while giving the genre masterpiece ,the unsurpassed 2001 before declining with star wars  ET and close encounters of the third kind,and dying with horrors like Armaggedon and ID.I 'd rather take Robby over Star Wars robots any day . "},{"Title":"Toy Tempest","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've now seen this one about 10 times, so there must be something about it I like!50's US sci-fi movies were pretty much a mixed bunch they were either intelligently made and/or thought provoking or cheap and laughable cheese. Forbidden Planet is a bit of both, but in that rarity for the genre, colour.It also had a head start with the script - although Shakespeare might not have recognised it, it was based on his timeless play and thus guaranteed a certain amount of longevity itself if made well.It's the story of one mans murderous id artificially magnified infinitely by machines a dead race left switched on 200,000 years before. Along the way the plot bristles with 50's stereotypes and corn so pure you wonder sometimes why you're watching it, but always do. That love triangle thing...yuk! Disney's cartoonery still holds up well, and the cartoon backgrounds straight off the covers of Galaxy magazine etc look good even after 50 years. Robbie driving the car over the desert in the far distance is a hoot though!All in all, with all faults, the best of its kind and we should be grateful that such a pristine print survives. "},{"Title":"Robby!","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet (1956) Dir Fred McLeod. Wilcox / Cast Leslie Nielsen, Walter Pidgeon, Anne Francis, Warren Stevens, Jack Kelly A remarkable science fiction film. Its title is symbolic because it uses planet to express the mind and aggressive behaviour. A rescue mission begins with an airwave warning but the captain orders to proceed. They discover that the colony they were sent to rescue has vanished. Only a scientist and his daughter remain. An invisible force is killing the crew and leaving behind visible footprints. Robby the robot is a production treasure that accommodates everything right down to 700 plus languages. It provides comic relief particularly when someone requests a large amount of alcohol. Well directed by Fred McLeod Wilcox with Walter Pidgeon stealing the film as the scientist. He gives background to their survival without realizing that the core problem lies within himself. Anne Francis as his nave daughter who has never seen another male and becomes the target of several amusing sexual conquests. Leslie Nielsen plays the captain who leads the investigation only to discover horrible facts. Warren Stevens plays the Doc who tampers with the futuristic technology and suffers for it. Science fiction film that plays off effective thriller elements. It warns about guarding the minds from everyday corruption of society. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Unimpressed","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film introduced audiences to Robby the Robot, which had a spin- off career of its own from what I have heard. Sadly, this is the best aspect of Forbidden Planet. However, it is obviously a person in a suit rather than a believable robot since the robot doesn't walk rigidly, but rather as someone struggling with walking like they have a large weight as a burden.We know the man, Morbius, is hesitant to let others come to the planet, and this becomes evident when an invisible monster, outlined with animation by people firing their blasters at it lurks about the site of the visitors' spaceship and attacks the visitors.Later Commander Adam puts 2 and 2 together, and realizes that since Morbius was using a machine that taps into the subconscious that this monster was created by his id in an overly descriptive conversation about what the id does. If they could have played this a little more subtly instead of lecturing the audience of the power of the id, this concept would have been conveyed much better. It is a shame when writers/directors believe the audience to be stupid.Morbius' emotions which likely set this beast off on a rampage are his extreme protection of his daughter Eve, the sex symbol virgin at the heart of this film. Practically all of the crew hits on her, including Commander Adam (aha, Adam and Eve!) which makes for awkward sexual innuendos while they flirt with her or attempt to show her the arousal behind kissing. The film is quite sexist with the way it portrays Eve, prancing around in little clothing (dress codes were a lot stricter back in the day) while Commander Adam practically tells her it is her fault that men gaze at her for what she is wearing.This film strives for interesting ideas, and plays them off fairly well, but not as well as it could have. "},{"Title":"A classic of the cult films","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is a kind of a film. Is just nice to watch it. Jt has some kind of magic or something in it. The dull and somewhat laughable _although it was very nice back in 1956_ special effects, kinda adds to the experience of the film. Come on, the laser shoots looks so ingenuously ridiculous that you can't help but try to forget that nowadays we have films such as Avatar out there. And is actually not that hard, trust me. As i said previously, the film has a weird magic that; automatically involves you in the story. The plot is very simple if you compare it to the later Sci- Fi films, but few of the moderns sci- fis are so sincere and beautiful as this one__It has a Shakespeare play as a reference, among others inspirations__and it clearly affected the sci fi genre forever.The most interesting character in the film is the robot. He is a 7-foot (2.1 m) tall whose mouth is a monochromatic blue light organ, synchronized to his synthetic voice, its band of curved tubes located directly below his transparent conical face dome. He walks on mechanical legs. He also can and does everything, but explodes when the subject of the command he receives is to kill_ there is probably some deeper meaning in it, but i need to do a bit more research to talk something about it. The soundtrack is annoying as hell, but it has perhaps a relevant importance to cinema it was the first film ever to feature electronic music in it's soundtrack. Absolutely worth a watch. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Ambitious Sci-Fi, But Of Its Time.","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred M. Wilcox directed this ambitious and influential science fiction story set in the future, where an Earth spaceship crew is sent to investigate the disappearance of a colony on Altair-4. Commander J.J. Adams(played by Leslie Nielsen) leads the mission with his two Lt's, the crew doctor(played by Warren Stevens) and Jerry(played by Jack Kelly). They find two survivors scientist Dr. Morbius(played by Walter Pidgeon) & his daughter Altaira(played by Anne Francis). The other colonists mysteriously died, and it has something to do with the technology left behind by the previous civilization the Krells, whose inadvertent self-destruction may recur in Dr. Morbius' experiments, that have created an invisible monster from his subconscious... Fine production and story, though marred by unfunny comedy relief(Earl Holliman getting drunk with Robby The Robot) and the uninspired outfits the crew is forced to wear. Odd to see such sophisticated ideas trapped in(at times) mundane plot elements, but memorable set design, score and finale compensate. First appearance of Robby The Robot, a distinctive creation. "}{"Title":"Visually stunning, though provoking sci-fi odyssey","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is a hell of a ride, one that the viewer should and will enjoy wholeheartedly until the very last minutes. This is also definitely one of the most astounding, visually stunning, challenging science-fiction movies in the history of cinema. Not only is it truly thought provoking and unpredictable, it's also genuinely scary in its utterly valuable evaluation of the human psyche and its inconceivable capabilities.The first image of the film shows a human-made spaceship traveling somewhere in vast space. On board of the ship is a crew of various professionals, who were hired in order to investigate a mysterious disappearance of a group of people on the distant and secluded Planet Altaire. Just before landing they're able to communicate with the only survivor, Doctor Edward Morbius, who is as unpleasant as he is secretive. The first 'person' the guys meet on the planet is Robby, the Robot. His abilities are beyond imagination he can produce huge amounts of liquor, he can move whole buildings with his bare hands, he can speak 187 languages, and he is as polite as no Earthling probably can be. His role in the film is irrefutable; hence it's crucial to call him a supporting character rather than just a mechanical creature. Three leading man of the operation (Commander J.J. Abrams, Lt. Doc Ostrow, Lt. Jerry Farman) ride with Robby to the house of Dr. Morbius. There they discover not only that the doctor is a deeply enigmatic man and a bizarre individual, but also that he has a beautiful daughter named Altaira. Adam and Ostrow quickly become infatuated with the girl, and during the whole visit they fight for her attention. Morbius explains to them that an unknown force killed all his comrades, and that if they won't leave the planet immediately the same thing will happen to the whole crew.It's later reveled that the place has been inhabited by a mysterious race named Krell, all of whom died at once 200,000 years ago. Morbius, learning of their enormous intellectual powers, decided to spend every day in the abandoned laboratory trying to figure out a way to achieve supernatural intelligence, thus becoming almost invincible. As the crew investigates and discovers the truth behind the whole mystique operation, people begin to die and the atmosphere becomes tenser every day. There is only one way to stop the madness, and that involves suppressing the beast that's been haunting Morbius' mind for years&#x85;Forbidden Planet is a puzzling picture, mostly due to its complex, smart, futuristic nature, exhibited so forcefully through a many enigmatic conversations. No less than that, it's truly an eye-popping sci-fi odyssey, which makes a great use of amazing special effects, fantastic set pieces, background electronic music, and Robby's delightful performance. In the most elaborate sense, Forbidden Planet is also a fascinating commentary on the Freudian psychoanalysis, where a raging id is stronger than the conscious human mind, and leads to horrible disasters even in the outer space regions. "},{"Title":"Gave a Taste of What They Could Do In Star Trek","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Saw this picture when I was in about the 8th grade.Star trek didn't show up until 1966.I had read about every SF novel in the local library and was getting tired of the cheesy special effects in the B SF films of the period.Gee, a saucer shaped interstellar craft that wasn't rocket powered, crewed by humans - now that was novel! I had seen the archived footage of that Redstone rocket take off umpteen times. And when it got into space it was always very streamlined with fins all over it. So the saucer shaped craft was a great change of pace! The method used to convey when the entity which was the focus of the movie was lurking around the ship was much more chilling, because earlier in the movie, you didn't know anything about its nature. I think they borrowed that particular effect from the Claude Raines version of the Invisible Man.Except for a few snippets of dialog and mores that definitely identified it a 50s flick, it was great. For the time period that the movie was filmed the special effects far outstripped anything currently out there, with music that evoked an alien feel of the planet where the action took place.Plots are better now in the 2000s, but most of them are still generally geared for the masses instead of the thinking individual. A really unique thinking plot doesn't make it to the screen nearly often enough.I would love to see what someone with vision could do with Arthur C. Clarke's Songs of Distant Earth. That story has drama, interstellar travel, an encounter with an alien species, humor, and romance. However,the studios would probably fail badly in conveying its nuances, because it would not be of the non-stop action variety, if they followed the book sufficiently well. With CGI, that movie could probably be filmed in the Hawaiian Islands! "},{"Title":"The forefather of many Sci-fi films and TV shows","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet was one of the first Sci-Fi movies to actually get a pretty large budget and it proved that there was a market for this kind of film. It's the forefather of many of Sci-Fi movies and TV shows that have come after it. Gene Roddenberry has even said the it was a part of his inspiration for the Star Trek series.Forbidden Planet features some pretty good performances from the main cast. Nielsen does a good job as the determined Commander and Francis is great as the cute, innocent Altaira. Walter Pidgeon is the stand out here though as Morbius. His character creates the template for what would go on on to be the quintessential mad scientist in many other Sci-Fi movies that came after it.to see our full review head on over to 3guys1movie.com "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a kid, I hated this film. I was used to sci-fi films with alien monsters but this film had none. Now, I am in awe of this film. The techno music is amazing as is the story. We never stop to realize that within us all is a dark side in our Id or sub-conscience where we would like to destroy whatever forces give us conflict. This is what Forbidden Planet is all about. The magnificent Krell destroyed themselves in 1 night by releasing their un-controlled monsters. They were all destroyed and no physical evidence remains. It is left to us to decide what they looked-like. Amazing story although Walter Pidgeon, at times, seemed to be reading from cue cards and the acting was far from award-worthy. A masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Forerunner of Star Trek","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet - Starring Leslie Nielsen! It was fun to see a strapping young Lieutenant Drebin in full starship captain mode. The thing that struck me about this movie is that so much of it made its way into other science fiction. There was the precursor to the Star Trek transporter effect. Although here it wasn't used for transporting. Along with that, there is a captain in a military type of operation. He's flying a spaceship around with his group of officers. He takes his doctor with him when he leads the away teams. It almost played like a 1950's Star Trek episode. They had a bigger special effects budget - the effects and colors were great! There was also Robbie the robot that must've been the basis for the robot in Lost in Space. Mythology is an interesting thing. The story Shatner gives in his book Star Trek Memories is that of Gene Roddenberry as a little boy playing in a cardboard box dreaming of space. Well he would've been 35 when he saw this possible basis for his Wagon Train to the Stars. "},{"Title":"A triumph One of the best","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The list of innovations introduced by this timeless classic is long and was copied by almost every subsequent sci-fi movie. It's hard to imagine the entire genre since then without Forbidden Planet. Apart from The Day The Earth Stood Still, it was a unprecedented leap for science fiction, Hollywood, and pop culture.Transporters and warp drive, or suspended animation? Check. The Star Trek paradigm -- an Earth ship encountering humans stranded on an alien world, humans needing but not wanting rescue -- check -- the familiar trio of captain, executive officer, and doctor? Check. Star Wars' charming, superhuman robots? Check. Sci-fi that takes place entirely in outer space? The sinister potential of advanced technology? Far-out electronic space music for a score? Check, check, and check.The studios did not take sci-fi seriously until this movie. We're all deeply indebted to MGM for taking the amazing step it did in 1956. "},{"Title":"We are, After all, not God","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This little gem of a film came into being because of three men's love of the science fiction genre Special Effects man Irving Block (Rocketship X-M) and Screenwriter Cyril Hume (Ransom!) along with writer Allen Adler approached MGM with the idea of filming a big-budget science fiction film. MGM Producer Nicholas Nayfack and director Fred M Wilcox (Lassie come home and The Secret Garden) were virtually unmolested by MGM higher-up production staff while making this film, which accounts for the unusually high quality.Based loosely on The Tempest by William Shakespeare, this film deals with how Mankind strives to improve his condition by technology, the interesting thing here being the level of technology introduced in this film is so high, that Dr Morbius (Walter Pigeon) states at one point, he cannot find any physical connections between the devices in his Krell workshop - No wires, nothing - Back then, as Radio technology was fairly new, the idea of Remote Controls was also a novelty Little did the makers of this film realise, that less than 50 years later, we would be enjoying the same kind of connectionless instrumentality that is just a speculation made in this film.This film postulates a race of high beings that created a technology totally free of instrumentalities And thereby bought about their own downfall. In 2011, we have devices that connect to each other with no physical connection, I can control all of my televisions and computers via my iPhone through wifi and LAN technology.In the beginning narration, we are told a future history that has Men walking on the moon before the year 2000 and the exploration of the outer solar system by the year 2200, this is one of the first films that postulates a Hyperdrive propulsion system, this is actually one of the first uses of this speculation in the genre of Science Fiction, as in the 50's most stories of space travel made use of Rockets.And so this film was made by staying far away from any of the regular science fiction conventions of the 50's and in fact turns one of them on it's ear, As other films have had visitations of flying saucers, this film has a flying saucer from Earth, visiting other worlds.Along with Pigeon, we have Leslie Nielson and Anne Francis, Warren Stevens and Earl Holliman, and one of Richard Anderson's early roles.Many of the gadgets in this film were used in other works, the Simple Blasters worn by the crew of the C57D are very similar to the Lasers used in the first Star Trek pilot The Cage - There are deceleration chambers on the C57D which look suspiciously like the Transporter Pads of the USS Enterprise. Either some of the props used here were used again in other films and TV shows, or the designs were used again. The C57D itself was used in two episodes of The Twilight Zone including one memorable Hour-Long episode.Modern science fiction would have looked a lot different if not for this film. The use of Disney Animators created a Creature wholly unique for something that was not the usual Man in a rubber suit.My only gripe with this film, is the 1 hour and 38 minutes running time- But within that meager 90 minute time frame, there is a whole universe waiting to be found. "},{"Title":"Monsters From The Id !","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 23rd century, a military relief spaceship is sent to the remote planet of Altair IV to check on a group of colonists. When they arrive, they discover the sole survivors are the reclusive Dr Morbius and his daughter Altaira. What happened to the rest of the party and what dark secrets is Morbius keeping ?Forbidden Planet is the gem of fifties science fiction cinema. Much like the character of Altaira herself, it is beautiful, innocent, charming and mysterious, an outstanding revision of Shakespeare's The Tempest set in outer space, with a terrific story, fantastic sets, great special effects and fabulous atmosphere. Produced by MGM, and shot in Cinemascope and Eastmancolor, it looks sensational from start to finish, with amazing sets by Cedric Gibbons and Arthur Lonergan full of snazzy futuristic lines, incredible props, unearthly browns and greens - it really does feel like another world. And while it might seems a bit corny, with its flying saucer, ray guns and clockwork Robby The Robot, these only add to its charm. The sequence where Pidgeon leads Nielsen and Stevens through the spaces of the huge Krell thought generator is simply stunning, and the central motif of the Caliban / invisible id monster borne out of Morbius' rage and misanthropy is brilliant, especially in the unforgettable scene where it attacks the ship. This movie pioneered many techniques for sf/horror films, particularly the clever use of animation and matte paintings, and the amazing electronic score by husband-and-wife Louis and Bebe Barron, which is totally inseparable from the images in the way all great scores are. Whilst the characters may be a bit simplistic at times the cast are terrific; Nielsen is authoritative in a rare heroic lead role, Francis is achingly gorgeous, and Pidgeon is a fine tortured Prospero, unable to save himself from his own monstrous ego - My evil self is at that door and I have no power to stop it !!. Brilliantly written by Cyril Hume, and finely crafted by director Wilcox, this is arguably the best of all the stylish and influential films of the fifties sci-fi boom, and fabulous fun entertainment throughout. Trivia - Robby, physically played by Darro and memorably voiced by Miller, reappeared the following year in the kids fantasy film The Invisible Boy, and has small roles in several TV shows and movies (notably The Twilight Zone and Lost In Space). "},{"Title":"Shakespeare it ain't","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is one of a number of films from the 50s and thereabouts which represented the pinnacle of cinematic science fiction/fantasy at the time, but which look a bit creaky by the standards which we have come to expect from the later part of the 20th century onwards.It still has a visual richness, although Chesley Bonestell's painted backdrops now look rather obviously placed at the far wall of the studio. But production design, props, costumes and sets are all still very good, as is the hand-drawn animation from Disney effects animator Joshua Meador.The acting is fairly naturalistic for the 50s, and it was certainly a stretch of the animation to take Shakespeare and drop it into a sc-fi background (although, as with all good stories, the story survives a change of clothing).If I have a criticism it is that perhaps this movie was a little on the self-aware side. There is just a touch of self-importance about it, perhaps because it felt that adapting The Tempest was not only a smart thing to do but also an important thing to do. The movie isn't quite as humble as it needs to be, maybe.If that makes sense.But it has worn well and is still worth a couple of hours of anyone's time. "},{"Title":"A film that has stood the test of time.","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Certain elements of this film are dated, of course. An all white male crew, for instance. And like most Pre-Star Wars Science Fiction, it tends to take too long admiring itself.But, still, no movie has ever capture the flavor of Golden Age Science Fiction as this one did, even down to the use of the electronic tonalities to provide the musical score. Robbie the Robot epitomized the Asimov robots, and was the inspiration for all that followed, from C3PO to Data.The plot line, of course, is Shakespeare's The Tempest. Morbius is Prospero, and exiled wizard who finds his kingdom invaded by interlopers... It was a movie that treated Science Fiction as an adult genre, perhaps the first. "}{"Title":"Chesley Bonestell's Art Is The Major Influence of Reward in This Film","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I notice than many people will comment on these great 1950 sci-fi's and especially about their fondness for the images on the screen. Some will say they think the special effects are dated. Forbidden Planet is known in the books as having the greatest special effects until Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey appeared in 1968.I must tell you as an accomplished astronomy artist with many of me early works in NASA web sites and a few more recent works appearing now. The father of modern space art, Chesley Bonestell, is responsible for the amazing artwork you see in the backdrops of those scenes in Forbidden Planet. All other aspects of the movie aside, and I do like this film, even some of the acting; wow did you notice Ann Francis' great space shoes?! All the actors are first rate if even a little sub &#x96;lime at times.But allow me to direct your attention to Bonestell's art. Without it, the background in this film would have been more like a 1935 Flash Gordon comic strip. Bonestell created very realistic art for the backdrops. And yet, he is known for doing something well beyond this as he was also an architectural designer for the Chrysler Building's art deco faade. He worked with illustrations for the new Golden Gate Bridge and its engineers during the construction of that bridge.I have little regard for the new computer push button graphics, I'll call them modern current day cartoon special effects movies without naming them.Give me the real hand painted artwork or give me death! Bonestell's art is now understood as a major influence of creating much of the drive for NASA's early space race in the early 1950's.Mark Seibold, retired artist-astronomy educator www.markseibold.com "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was surprised at how a movie could be both cheesy and excellent at the same time. The Frisbee flying saucer was naff beyond comprehension, especially when landing, yet the specially effects when the Krell attacked were awesome for a film that was made over half a century ago! Living in the middle east I saw shades of Islam creep in when JJ Adams suggested Alta should dress more modestly, and as an engineer, was amazed by the imagination used for the 'futuristic' gadgets, and gizmos dreamed up by the props department. All in all, an entertaining hour and a half, my first time seeing Walter Pidgeon and a chance to see Leslie Neilsen as a 'young' man "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi classic!","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden planet is truly a great film, when you come right down to it, despite our usual need to justify the pure satisfaction of seen it, or the inevitable comparison with other sci-fi movies of our preference.To be true and honest one must admit that forbidden planet has become outdated in some aspects, like for instance, it's special effects. I am referring to the usual painted back drops which blend with the action, or the blasts from the guns and the monster from the Id, who originated from the pencil of Disney's animator (on loan to MGM) Joshua Meador . However this doesn't have to be something that prevents you from seeing the movie. Yes, art can be surpassed by time in its outdated techniques, but that only ads so much more to its value. Imagine if you should discard the Mona Lisa just because that kind of painting isn't done anymore!!Anyway, there are other technical aspects that i am neglecting but deserve mention, like the cinematography that green look to the planet is very well done, giving a distinct feel to the movie that couldn't be done with normal color photography; some of the matte paintings depicting the Krell underground still take my breath away; and last but not the least there is Robby the robot, not what you would call a feat in special effects, but still a remarkable character that has become a land mark in movie history. As to the story is concerned, Forbiden Planet gets high ratings. The movie has an operatic development in its story outline that gives the action and technical effects a supporting (yet important) role, something unusual to this kind of genre by that time. Furthermore, this is a loose adaptation from Shakespeare's play The tempest, which makes the casting of classical, theatrical actor Walter Pidgeon as Morbius crucial to the film. You can't help thinking that this was the forerunner of such sci-fi/adventure movies and series as Star Trek, Star Wars and even 2001 a space odyssey (why not)! Al in all you have a sci-fi B-movie, presented in an unusual epic scale, with a very engaging story. PS Watch out for the electronic sound track and sound effects; it gives you the feeling that you're watching a Twilight zone episode. Very nicely done! "},{"Title":"A benchmark space movie!","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has always been one of my favourite movies, and will always be. Over the last few years I have become a 50's / 60's Sci-fi freak, trying to collect all of the better ones that were made back then. I love lots of things about them from how corny they could be to how technically correct some of them were. The great colours and the sets get me going too. It's a pity when they re-make some of these good old movies; they nearly always stuff it up, - just look at the recent re-do of The day the Earth stood still, it's utter garbage!! Forbidden Planet is one of the benchmark space films of all time, and now they're trying to re-make it too, and I shudder to think what the new one will be like! To my mind, some things, such as fantastic classic movies, should just be left alone to be what they are, classic examples of great attempts at telling simple stories, and giving people a thrill in the process. Once they add all the techno-crap that we have available now, the film just seems to be more dog-meat from the Hollywood sausage factory, - nothing special at all. By the way, I notice that the astronauts' uniforms in Forbidden Planet were also used for Queen of Outer Space! That just tells you that the budgets were a bit lower back then, doesn't it? Hey, less money and better films, hmmm....Great performances in this movie from Leslie Nielsen, in a serious role, and Anne Francis, Walter Pidgeon (who has always been one of my favourite actors), Earl Holiman, and of course Robby the Robot!The special effects are fantastic, and the storyline is not too far-fetched. This is a great sci-fi experience! 10/10! "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Great SF films","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  FORBIDDEN PLANET is one of the best examples of Hollywood SF films.  Its influence was felt for more than a decade.  However, certain elements relating to how this wide-screen entertainment was aimed at a mid-fifties audience that is now gone have dated it quite a bit, and the film's sometimes sluggish pacing doesn't help.  But, the story's compelling central idea involving the ancient,extinct Krell civilization and monsters from the Id hasn't lost its appeal and continue to make this film a relevant must see movie.  What I'm mostly interested in saying here is that the current DVD for this movie is terrible.  The movie has never really looked that good on home video and it's elements are in dire need of restoration.  I hope that will happen soon and we get a special edition of this SF classic. "},{"Title":"Easily the finest SF film of all time. Nothing compares...","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There has never been any film to compare with FP, which is remarkable considering it was made in 1956.  Even though some of the on-screen technologies may seem laughable by todays standards, the movie stands alone in SF for its ability to capture the audience and hold it spellbound, even to this day.One would hope, if Hollywood tackles a re-make, that they are up to the task of doing the script justice.  A tall order judging by what has come out of Hollywood since FP's debut in 1956.Morbius- "},{"Title":"Thankfully, it's not forbidden to watch it","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly great film, especially at a time when Hollywood was going for special effects over plot. Usually, films had great plots and cheap special effects (i.e. It Conquered the World) or great special effects and a thin plot (take your pick). This Universal classic featured both, with the special effects done by Walt Disney Corporation.The film is loosely based on Shakespeare's The Tempest and tells how the crew of a space federation saucer arrives at the distant colony of Altair-4 to find out why colonists there haven't reported in. They find that all the colonists have been killed by an invisible monster, save for a scientist (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter (Anne Francis). The crew of the saucer include a young Leslie Nielsen (amazing seeing him before his Nake Gun days), Warren Stevens, a pre-Six Million Dollar Man Richard Anderson and a very young Earl Holliman, before he did Police Woman obviously. An uncredited Les Tremayne acts as narrator.Audiences will get a kick out of Robby the Robot, the predecessor to a line of friendly robots that now includes the robot from Lost in Space, as well as R2-D2 and C-3PO. Viewers may also find it funny at how the film eerily predicts some of today's modern luxuries such as taped thrillers (i.e., videotapes).The story is well-paced, the acting is very good and the special effects are a spectacle to behold, especially the scenes involving the interior of Altair-4's massive computer complex, the last remnants of an alien race that somehow destroyed itself almost overnight (a plot point that alluded to the then-current cold war and threat of nuclear annihilation). Also, the saucer crew's battle with the invisible monster is a treat, simply because you get the feeling that the good guys are about to get their butts whipped unless something beyond their control intervenes.Things become tense when the monster reappears and starts picking off the crew of the saucer. At the same time, Nielsen discovers that Pidgeon is hiding a potentially dangerous secret. He also romances Robinson, who is naive in the ways of love because her father has kept her shamefully overprotected. The conflict this romance, as well as the way Pidgeon believes the saucer crew is meddling in his life, causes are at the root of the danger that awaits on the Forbidden Planet. "},{"Title":"The b-movie to end all b-movies!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an absolute classic film! For anyone who loves science-fiction b-movie classics, this ranks among the highest, with effects and ideas that influenced countless movies and shows, from Star Trek to Planet of the Apes. It's got cheezy dialogue and romance, wacky technology that defies science, and most importantly, the moral message about humanity and evolution, and not being able to escape the self and one's roots. The attack of the primitive subconscious, the Evil Id!!The film has an interesting plot, and attempts to justify all the extraordinary technology, both scientifically and intellectually (which is refreshing considering most of the weak excuses made in the majority of 40s through 60s era sci-fi b-movies), But the most amazing thing about this film, however, is the special effects. The film is simply gorgeous! And WAY ahead of its time! The mattes are beautiful, and flying saucer aside, this film's special effects, from the monster to the Krell laboratory, outdo films and shows that would come 10 years later. It's hard to imagine that this film was made in 1956! When I first saw it, I guessed mid-sixties.I'd definitely recommend this film to anyone who likes science-fiction films. A pioneering film that took Metropolis and the old Buck Rodgers serials and expanded them into a great pulp thriller. By today's standards it may look primitive (especially the aforementioned flying saucer, and Robby the Robot who looks like he came from the Asimov rejection files) but it certainly earned it's place among Flash Gordon and The Day the Earth Stood Still in Science Fiction Double Feature (from the Rocky Horror Picture Show). A true science-fiction masterpiece!  8/10. "},{"Title":"Founder of the genre","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the ultimate 1950's Sci Fi movie. Ground breaking special effects, great performances by the cast and even some light hearted comedy with Robbie the Robot and Cookie. Has it all. A love triangle, invisible monster, great FX, everything to make this great entertainment for the entire family. I saw this movie when it was first released (yes I'm THAT old) and it has been one of my all time favorite Sci Fi movies since. Sharp eyed fans will notice that the uniforms, footage of the ship in space and the sound effects have been used in many other Sci Fi films and TV programs, including Twilight Zone episodes. A truly ground breaking film in every respect. If you haven't seen it, you've missed out on something special. Like Star Wars a generation later, this raised the bar for Sci Fi fans. And don't forget, you also get the benefit of a young Ann Francis, a very underrated beauty. "},{"Title":"best sci-fi film between metropolis and 2001 (in color too)","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was all i knew of good sci-fi until i saw star wars. it resides on my dvd shelf with the 5th element, bladerunner, aliens, metropolis, predator, akira, and frank herbert's dune. (david lynch's dune is good except for the queen soundtrack) it came out at a time when sci-fi was mostly B&W giant radioactive insects and crab-clawed aliens. in forbidden planet, humans are the flying saucer piloting beings! and we never see the aliens, just their technology. the story and special effects were truly groundbreaking for their time. i can't think of any 50's sci-fi that comes close to forbidden planet's level of originality and production values. a must see for any sci-fi fan, if for nothing else, to see robbie the robot. (the king of all robots, droids, and cyborgs!)      "}{"Title":"A classic of the genre","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first science fiction movie to scare the daylights out of me (as a child)without a visible monster.  Very intelligent for its time.  Certain lines of dialog stuck with me for years afterwards.  A blend of science, romance, comedy, and horror that is especially appealing to the pre-teen male growing up on super hero comic books. "},{"Title":"Ground Breaking Movie","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This may be one of the most influential sci-fi movies of the twentieth century.   The concept of the monster of the id was outstanding, as was the cinematography.  Roby the Robot remains the prototype movie robot.  Anne Francis was good as the naive blond, and Leslie Neilson has never been better as a straight (not comedic) actor.A Must see for any Sci-Fi fan. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Science Fiction","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much has already been said of this landmark science fiction film.  It is really an incredible film given the time in which it was made and the subject at hand.  The script is excellent as it traces a ship's voyage in the far future to a planet where a group of scientists landed years ago.  The basic premise of the story mirrors Shakespeare's The Tempest in many ways as a Prospero-like man and his daughter greet the crew with trepidation rather than joy.  The cast is excellent with Walter Pidgeon and Leslie Neilson, as well as a scantily clad Anne Francis standing out, but the star of the film is the courteous, logical Robby the Robot, who can not break his prime directive of harming anyone.  A must see for any sci-fi/horror fan! "},{"Title":"Morbius","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film to me is number one of my list of science fiction films, and I like a great many of them. But, Forbidden Planet comes out ahead of them all. I love science fiction films that are simplistic. For through it's simplicity, Forbidden Planet offers and great deal of creativity and abstract thought.The film was way ahead of it's time where visual effects are concerned (remember the perspective view of the Krell furnace room) and these effects are balanced with a solid plot and writing.Everything is so right with this film which is why it is a classic. Detractors be damned.Forbidden Planet is a four bag of popcorn film that greatly outweighs the science-fiction films of today that for the most part hinge of special effects and gore.            "},{"Title":"A reel S/F-movie","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best movies from the 50's, and one of the best science fiction films ever made. It has a much more mysterious touch than the other films in this category (like Starship Trooper & Star Wars, which is more action-film than S/F). I was indeed impressed when a saw the constructions on this almost remote planet, and heard about the people who lived there 100.000 years ago. Unlike most of the S/F-films from the 50's, this one has clearly a huge budget, and that is one of the reasons that it is still worth watching today. A must for S/F fans. "},{"Title":"as much fun now as 40 years ago!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the first movies I ever saw, and on a 25 inch color tv no less back in 1963 or so, I sat right up close like they tell you not to and as soon as that spaceship landed on Altair, I was hooked! Some one had bought a bucket of fried chicken and we sat there in the dark, cool basement and watched one of the best sci-fi movies ever made!You can't compare it to all the techno-crap they have now, although the special effects still stand-up very well. You've got to be a kid again for this movie. The tour of the Krell lab is amazing, as is Ann Francis! I remember how frightened I was when the monster starts coming through the walls, totally unstopable!A testament to what Hollywood can do when they have a real story. Use your imagination, be a kid again, turn down the lights, get real close and......pass the chicken! "},{"Title":"THE FIRST TRUE Outer Space-SCI-FI MOTION PICTURE!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie set the standards for all other outer space/sci-fi films in the second half of the 20th. century, like it or not. Its a very entertaining picture and in my book thats what watching movies is all about, ENTERTAINMENT, nothing more, nothing less. If, a movie offers additional aspects of THE Human Condition, then people just have more levels to relate to. Forbidden Planet was very scary to watch when I was seven years old. However, it was also fun to watch, and I did time and time again on WOR-TV`s 'Million Dollar Movie' in NYCity,which showed the same film some 20 times in a week. Forbidden Planet was the first million dollar budgeted outer space/sci-fi movie ever produced. Watching it today you can see how very dated some of the social expressions are within the film. Some would say its just korny. Its not Star Wars,Star Trek or the Alien(s) movies, thats a fact. However,in the 1950`s,those recent sci-fi classics were not around. Forbidden Planet was around in the 1950`s and was THE fore runner of things to come, and we should all be grateful and thankful for that fact.  "},{"Title":"A tour de force of fifties science fiction!","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many reviewers have recognized Forbidden Planet as the first Star Trek movie, and that it is!  I must believe that Gene  Roddenberry saw this film in his youth and, together with the Hornblower stories, came up with the now familiar cast and plot lines.  But Forbidden Planet goes much deeper and is in my view a very intellectual, engrossing film.  We have aliens (long long cvilization), but we never see what they look like.  We have marvelous special effects and a first-rate cast.  But we also have a a plot, which for some, parallels the basic features of Shakespeare's The Tempest.  For me, the most interesting aspects of the film deal with idea that thought can be transformed into reality with devastating consequences.  C.S. Lewis warned us in the Chronicles of Narnia, when dreams come true and the result  is something you must avoid at all costs.  Here we have the same warning--of unfettered mental or emotional power unrestrained by morality.   See this film whether you are a science fiction fan or not.   "},{"Title":"One of the greatest sci-fi films of all times","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like a lot of reviewers, I also first saw this film at the local theater when I was a kid. I've watched it dozens of times since, most recently on DVD, and still thoroughly enjoy it. It's hard to believe that it was made over 40 years ago... the special effects are still awesome, even by modern standards. There are many familiar actors, who all turn in exceptional performances. There's even a lighter side of Leslie Neilsen, later to become one of the funniest actors of recent times. I can't imagine anyone not seeing this film- but if you haven't, you're in for a treat...  "},{"Title":"Forbidden Knowledge (Part II)","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Continuation of the discussion of ... Forbidden KnowledgeI. Shakespeare's The TempestI must admit that I studied Shakespeare's play, The Tempest, at Oxford University a few summers ago, but have not made the psychic connection to the relationship between Forbidden Planet and The Tempest though I did see the theatrical performance of the parody play Return to Forbidden Planet while at Oxford and enjoyed it as much as the movie and the play it's supposedly based upon.&#149; Similarities to The Tempest* Dr. Morbius is Prospero--in which they both relinquish their powers (which by the way was also Shakespeare's last play)* Commander Adams is Ferdinand* Altaira is Miranda--the daughter who has never seen a man* Robby is Ariel--not of human form* Creature-force is Calaban&#149; Dissimilarities to The Tempest* Dr. Morbius (a language specialist) is Prospero (a wizard)* Dr. Morbius tries to discourage the ship from landing while Prospero tries luring the ship to land&#149; Conclusion Make up your own mind or, better yet, ask those who wrote the story for the film for the final word!II. Books on Forbidden Planet&#149; Forbidden Planet by W. J. Stuart  1956 from Gregg Press* Doc Ostrow dissects one of the animals of Altair-4 and finds it has no internal organs* Before his death Doc leaves metal plate recordings of the Krell technology with  Cmdr. Adams* Doc alludes to the Unicorn myth, and* Cmdr. Adams and Altaira consummate their love for one another&#149; Forbidden Planet by Bantam Reissue Paperback Library  1967III. Remake of the movie This movie will be relevant for quite some time into our future &#133;.If you have not yet read the article that precedes this one. Then look for the article titled Forbidden Knowledge which gives more information about the movie itself or look for my brief summary under Plot Summary.  "}{"Title":"One of the great early science fiction movies","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, featuring state-of-the-art (for 1955) special effects, is one of the best of the early science fiction films. By early I mean everything filmed before 2001 by Kubrick.The film really is quite scary for youngsters, but also very inspirational as at least some of our heroes survive their encounter with a vast and ancient power. The battle with the monster (animated by one of the great Disney animators) and the visit to the Krell underground are two scenes that will always live within my memory.The book by Stanislaw Lem Invincible reminded me of the battle. Did Lem see this film?I also think this film had a significant influence on Star Trek. Note the 3 main characters from the crew of the Earth ship. They are very similar (though not identical) to the three main characters in Star Trek (Kirk, Spock, & McCoy).Bottom line one of the finest SF films ever made and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"SY FY --- mixed with a dose of the TWILITE ZONE , great concept should be remade in 2020","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anne Francis got into show business quite early in life. She was born Ann Marvak on September 16, 1930 in Ossining, New York (which is near Sing Sing prison), the only child of Phillip Marvak, a businessman/salesman, and the former Edith Francis. A natural little beauty, she became a John Robert Powers model at age 6(!) and swiftly moved into radio soap work and television in New York. By age 11, she was making her stage debut on Broadway playing the child version of Gertrude Lawrence in the star's 1941 hit vehicle Lady in the Dark. During this productive time, she attended New York's Professional Children's School.Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer put the lovely, blue-eyed, wavy-blonde hopeful under contract during the post-war World War II years. While Anne appeared in a couple of obscure bobbysoxer bits, nothing much came of it. Frustrated at the standard cheesecake treatment she was receiving in Hollywood, the serious-minded actress trekked back to New York where she appeared to good notice on television's Golden Age drama and found some summer stock work on the sly (My Sister Eileen).Discovered and signed by 20th Century-Fox's Darryl F. Zanuck after playing a seductive, child-bearing juvenile delinquent in the low budget film So Young So Bad (1950), Anne soon starred in a number of promising ingnue roles, including Elopement (1951), Lydia Bailey (1952) and Dreamboat (1952) but she still could not seem to rise above the starlet typecast. At MGM, she found promising leading lady work in a few noteworthy 1950s classics Bad Day at Black Rock (1955); Blackboard Jungle (1955); and the science fiction cult classic Forbidden Planet (1956). While co-starring with Hollywood's hunkiest best, including Paul Newman, Dale Robertson, Glenn Ford and Cornel Wilde, her roles still emphasized more her glam appeal than her acting capabilities. In the 1960s, Anne began refocusing strongly on the smaller screen, finding a comfortable niche on television series. She found a most appreciative audience in two classic The Twilight Zone (1959) episodes and then as a self-sufficient, Emma Peel-like detective in Aaron Spelling's short-lived cult series Honey West (1965), where she combined glamour and a sexy veneer with judo throws, karate chops and trendy fashions. The role earned her a Golden Globe Award and Emmy Award nomination. "},{"Title":"Dated but a trendsetter","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" FORBIDDEN PLANET is certainly a dated film today, with its plaintive romantic sub-plot complete with a meek, submissive woman (straight out of the 1950s, that one), spectacular-but-unrealistic special effects and macho plotting. The pacing is fairly off, especially by modern standards, and it seems to take an awfully long time for something to actually happen.And yet, and yet, something about this movie charms. It has a real dated appeal to it, and it appears to me to be something of a trendsetter, helping to inspire plenty more visit-an-alien-planet plot lines even to this day. The idea behind the creation of the monster is a brilliant one, and it's brought to life via some innovative special effects that really work. There's much fun to be had along the way from seeing an uncannily straight-laced Leslie Nielsen and of course Robbie the Robot in his first screen appearance.But really, I keep coming back to that screen monster, which is so much more than the typical monster-of-the-week type thing that most sci-fi movies are keen to trot out. The idea behind it is just astounding, one of the best back stories I can think of. The scenes of the astronauts exploring millennia-old construction works beneath the planet's surface is also awe-inspiring in its own way. Even if half of so of this film is padding, the other half makes it well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Movie is o.k. but not as great as it should have been...","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For it's time, it was something special...a science fiction movie with a lavish MGM budget. The technical stuff is great and the composition of the landscape scenes are very good. I heard that preview audiences laughed at the final scenes where the monster was shown. They didn't change anything, evidently after the previews. It's a disappointment to see the evil monster as cartoon animation...even for audiences of the time. It's important to understand its place in the evolution of science fiction films as the next step was the far superior 2001 A Space Odyssey.I really think this movie is overrated. It has an interesting set design, the music gets on your nerves after a while, the plot plods along. The men lust after the woman, the woman lusts after the men...it's kind of a low budget story with a high budget for technical effects and sets. Think Queen of Outer Space or World Without End with a bigger budget. Yes, there's the whole ID part of the story and that makes it more heady but this film is really dull in many places.It isn't in the same league as Invasion of the Body Snatchers or The Day the Earth Stood Still for 50s science fiction. The movie is worth seeing but I look forward to the remake. "},{"Title":"A True Science Fiction Classic","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A star ship crew goes to investigate the silence of a planet's colony only to find two survivors and a deadly secret that one of them has.I love that this film was based on Shakespeare -- who would have ever thought such an English master could have inspired a science fiction film so legendary? Why was the moon landing in 2090 rather than 1969... and why does the new planet have coordinates based on north and west? Methinks the script was not fact-checked by people who actually knew science (of course, they did not know the moon landing was 1969 -- but to put it almost 150 years in the future seems absurd).Great effects for the time it was made, pretty much twenty years ahead of its time. Not only did it inspire Star Trek, but the effects are on par with the original Star Wars in many ways.Reflecting in 2015, John Carpenter praised the score, which he called the first electronic score ever recorded. According to Carpenter, They did it on magnetic coils... It's an unbelievably mindblowing soundtrack. It's still great today. I remember seeing that movie when I was eight years old, and hearing those sounds. I was never the same after that. It made me want to make movies, and here I am today. "},{"Title":"The fool! The meddling idiot! As though his ape's brain could contain the secrets of the Krell!","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When comparing and contrasting 1950s science fiction films, there are several qualities that are tantamount. Which film had the best flying saucer? Which had the scariest monster and the coolest robot? Which ethereal soundtrack is the most identifiable? Given these criteria, it's hard to imagine a 50s sci-fi film better than Forbidden Planet. From the moment you see the C-57D cross your screen, you know that this is not your typical B-movie flying saucer dangling from a string.Forbidden Planet is visually striking in fact, it's nothing short of astounding, given the constraints of the time. Of course they were backed by MGM dollars and an intention to make a real movie, not just Saturday matine fare, but still, the scope of the visuals here is breathtaking. Watch the scene in the belly of the Krell machines. Or the C57s crew fighting the invisible yet illuminated ID monster. The melting of the white hot laboratory door. These scenes could hardly be done any better today even with the use of CGI. Beyond the quality of the effects, this film is the absolute epitome of mid-century Populux futurism. Gorgeous cantilevered structures, boomerang furniture and radiating disks. And Robbie the Robot what can I say about Robbie? He is simply the coolest robot that has ever been conjured on film or paper.The story is based on Shakespeare's The Tempest, though how closely it parallels, I really can't say. The character of Morbius, played by Walter Pidgeon, is certainly Shakespearean, given the highs and lows of his accomplishments and tragedy. A young, and not very comedic Leslie Nielsen, plays Commander J. J. Adams, captain of the C-57D. He and his crew have been dispatched to check on a deep space colony on Altair IV which hasn't been heard from in years. Adams and his shipmates (including Doc Ostrow, played by veteran character actor Warren Stevens) discover that the only remaining members of the colony are Dr. Morbius and his daughter Altaira, played by heavenly sprite, Anne Francis. Without getting too deep into the plot, things get complicated when a crewman is murdered and secrets of the planet's ancient but extinct civilization come to light.The acting isn't particularly strong, with the exception of Walter Pidgeon, who always captivates me. The story more than compensates, and has me riveted every time I watch. The last forty minutes of the film are particularly suspenseful.The soundtrack deserves an honorable mention as well. Completely electronic, yet utilizing no theremin, oscillator circuits and a ring modulator were used to create the electronic tonalities. (On a side note, I had a professor at the University of Miami, who piped in this soundtrack over the editing shack speakers. I'm pretty sure I was the only student who appreciated his sense of humor.)This is one of my favorite films, and if you appreciate the sci-fi genre, it's required viewing. 9.3 stars. "},{"Title":"A movie for all times.","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I viewed this masterpiece, at the Michigan Theater,in Ann Arbor when it was first released in 1956, I was nine years old. That was when parents would allow their kids to go to movies, without parental supervision. My how times have changed for the worse. Anyway!! This is a timeless movie!! 1. The scenery at least from a 9 year old's point of view, was profound! The colors were radiantly subdued, and awe inspiring!!, they stayed with me long years afterward. The color of that sky to this day when I reflect back on the movie, brings back warm memories. The special effects, prior to Starship Troopers (1997), was ahead of it's time. For 31 years, I can not think of any movie that was produced, that surpassed the FP in special effects, not even the Superman movies with Christopher Reeves (1978-1983). This movie and its special effects were awesome. I have to say something about the dialog, believe it or not, I was able to follow quite a bit of the dialog, even back then. There are so many things about this movie that has stayed with me over the years, that I can not say it all in under 1000 words, no way!! So I will add to this review, in the future!! This is a movie for the ages, every child should see it. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best of the genre","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like a good sci-fi movie as much as the next person, and Forbidden Planet is more than good sci-fi movie. It is one of the best of that genre, and perhaps one of the most influential and unique too. I still think it has held up very well, the effects are wonderful and the production values are imaginative and one of the things that makes Forbidden Planet stand out among the rest of the film in the genre. The music just enhances the atmosphere, the story is still fresh and the telling of it superb, the suspense that is in the movie is quite nail-biting and the dialogue and direction are on the money too. The acting is very good, one or two of the support stars are a little stiff at first, but Anne Francis, Leslie Nielson and especially Walter Pidgeon are excellent. In conclusion, a great film and one of the best of the genre. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Tremendous!","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having been laid up with flu for a few days I have been unable to watch any films. I had bought the 50th Anniversary Special Edition DVD as a gift to myself for Christmas. Having started watching it yesterday, it was clear I wasn't going to be able to concentrate on it. This afternoon I felt slightly better and so decided to watch the rest. This old classic didn't disappoint, I have seen it many times before and it's always a pleasure to watch. But more of my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters please help those guys out and shoot at that monster thing attacking the spacecraft).Late in the 22nd Century United Planet cruiser C57D is a year out from Earth base on the way to Altair for a special mission. They are to look for survivors from the Bellerophon expedition 20 years earlier. As they approach they are warned by Dr. Morbius, the last surviving member of the Bellerophon, to turn back. Of course they land and are met by Robbie the Robot, who takes Commander J. J. Adams, Lt. 'Doc' Ostrow M.D. and Lt. Jerry Farman to the residence. Here they meet Dr. Morbius and his daughter, the innocent 'Alta'. Morbius explains that the crew of the Bellerophon had all met with a gruesome end and he and his daughter seemed immune to whatever it was that killed them. They later find out that an ancient civilisation, the Krell, had once inhabited the planet. They had left vast machines buried deep underground that Morbius was trying to unravel the secrets of. But there's one vital bit of information, related to the Krell, Morbius is unaware of&#x85; I won't say any more, don't want to give too much away.Although dated by today's standards, I love the special effects in this film. It's clear that a lot of time and thought went into them and it shows on the screen. I also love that big clunky robot, Robbie, an iconic figure from the era (which is before my time, by the way). Great performances all round; Walter Pidgeon is melodramatic as ever as Dr. Edward Morbius, Anne Francis as the naive Altaira 'Alta' Morbius, Leslie Nielsen reminded me of what a very good actor he was back then as Commander J. J. Adams, Warren Stevens as Lt. 'Doc' Ostrow M.D., Jack Kelly as Lt. Jerry Farman and not forgetting Robby the Robot as himself.One problem with Science Fiction is that you always have to explain the advances in technology, society, science&#x85;etc before you can begin to tell the story. This film is no exception, a great deal of time is taken to explain how mankind has advanced and the things Morbius had discovered about the Krell, but I don't mind all that. At the end of the day the purpose is to entertain and I think they struck just about the right balance here. The comic relief is provided by a little sub-plot involving the cook, who likes the odd Bourbon, and Robbie the Robot. Over all, it's quite an intellectual film but one that is also very entertaining. Yes, the music is all futuristic and weird, but I'm sure you can forgive that&#x85; Highly recommended.My score 8.8/10 "},{"Title":"Love to have seen it in 1956 in a cinema","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I try to imagine what it must have been like to have seen this film on release in 1956. You could not have been imprinted by Star Trek, or for that matter, Police Squad. What was it like to see the huge Krell machines, and experience the concepts in the script (a civilisation dead for 200 000 years, and no evidence of their physical form survived) without the later films and TV shows that have brought good and bad sci-fi to millions? When recently a colleague criticised Buddy Holly's music I pointed out how it must have sounded in the late 1950s, when it was new; the same applies to those awful early Beatles songs.For its time, FB was an amazing film, and though the script is pretty ropey in places, the universe it creates (and we see a small part) has cast a spell for sci-fi fans for 50 years. "}{"Title":"Forbidden Planet review","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is some real old-school sci-fi here. It comes complete with shiny flying saucers, ray guns, gadgets and gizmos, technical jargon, elaborate far-out set-pieces, and one classy robot. Gee whiz, that's just swell! The story plays out a little like a classic Star Trek episode (you know, a bunch of dudes go to some exotic planet to solve some problem). The problem and conflict in Forbidden Planet remains elusive, but the danger and mystery are ever-present and the tension rises, until the big reveal in the last act that really puts the entire movie into a clever perspective. There are cleverer movies, but I think this movie's twist puts the story into above-average fare.As an older sci-fi film, the movie features some antiquated special effects and a rather outdated production value. It all looks really good and polished for its time, but it also shows its age tremendously, for better or for worse. The film is pretty well-filmed, if not wholly static and still. Acting is okay; it is especially fascinating to see a very young Leslie Nielsen and a rather attractive Anne Francis. Walter Pidgeon stands out the most. Music and sound design is really groovy.They just don't make them like this anymore. Not sure if they ever will. It's pretty refreshing to see something fairly original and intelligent for a change. Recommended for all! 4/5 (entertainment 3.5/5, story 4/5, film 4/5) "},{"Title":"Simply unsurpassed!","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The recent death of Leslie Nielsen reminded me of his early career and of course Forbidden Planet. Everything has been said already by other reviewers, just want to add that it is still the best sci-fi film ever made. Forget the superior special effects of today's movies, this one has acting, suspense and intelligent storyline to beat them all. Have always found Walter Pidgeon a natural and convincing actor, o.k. the other characters may be a bit stiff at times and of course cinematography and sound have moved on a lot since the mid 50's but these things are irrelevant against an interesting plot and superb suspense offered here. Robbie the Robot has to be one of the all time great Characters in movie history. "},{"Title":"A movie that will live for ages.","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" FORBIDDEN PLANET was in it's time the phenomenon of the sci-fi. Why not? Imagine looking to those incredible (still) special effects, that tender, awesome Robby, the robot, the amazing acting of Walter Pidgeon and the great legs of Anne Francis. This movie got it all! Is a space revision of Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST, and yes, it gets to the POP audiences like a ethical spectacle for the senses. And, indeed, still is. It's take on the power of the mind with its invisible metaphors and its great climax makes that the film goes deep in it's intentions.FORBIDDEN PLANET is one of the classics you got to respect, love and experience. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare in space","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the 23rd century.A spaceship heads towards planet Altair IV.Their mission is to investigate the fate of a space expedition sent 20 years earlier to establish a colony.They find only two survivors, Dr. Edward Morbius and his daughter, Altaira.She hasn't ever met any other men, and now there are many showing interest in her.They also meet Robby the Robot.Soon they have to fight a monster that is not visible to the eyes.Forbidden Planet is a Fred M. Wilcox Sci-Fi mystery from 1956.The movie was roughly inspired by William Shakespeare's The Tempest, which may have been the man's final play written around 1610-1611.I read this masterpiece a little while back.Even though it's not obligatory to read the book first, I still wanted to see how far the movie goes from the play.And it does go pretty far, all the way to space.Today's rubber face Leslie Nielsen did his roles with a serious face in the 50's.Nevertheless, he does a great job as Commander J.J. Adams.Walter Pidgeon is magnificent as Morbius.Anne Francis is wonderful as his beautiful daughter Alta.Jack Kelly is terrific as Lt. Jerry Farman.Warren Stevens is brilliant as Lt. Doc Ostrow.Richard Anderson does very good job as Lt. Quinn.Earl Holliman is the funniest character as Cookie.The movie has some pretty neat stuff.It's a menacing moment when the footprints of that invisible creature appear.This is one the first movies presenting a robot that is not just a tin can but has a genuine personality.A great Sci-Fi experience. "},{"Title":"An unique '50's sci-fi.","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Things that makes this movie stand out from any other '50's science-fiction production are its high production values and clever writing. It's not a typical science-fiction movie but one that takes on a movie scientific approach and requires some thinking as well.I was quite surprised by the way this movie looked. It's set almost completely on a strange far off planet and the movie its look did really bring this across, as well as its futuristic feeling and look to it. This movie did obviously cost some money to make and had some good looking set and set-pieces in it as well as some surprisingly great special effects. some of the stuff still looks far more convincing then some of the CGI effects now days (take a note Hollywood).Thing that this movie also did was launching Robby the Robot's career to stardom. Really, has there ever been an Hollywood-prop that has been used some many times over and over again, over the decades. He was constructed specifically for this movie and apparently functioned so well that it never got destroyed and recycled over and over again in movies, until the time that he was being cast as a novelty and became quite well known.But of course the human cast does an equally great job in this. It was one of Leslie Nielsen's very first movie roles and he very well shows his range and capabilities as an actor in this movie. It was also a real pleasure to watch Walter Pidgeon in this, who at the time already had 2 Oscar nominations behind his name.I wish I could say that this movie was a perfect, early science-fiction classic but to me the movie is still lacking a bit too much. Thing is that this movie just isn't always the most exciting thing to watch. Things get still spiced up a bit at times with some humor but overall the movie is still being a bit too blah at times. The scientific approach of this movie only works that far but is not enough to entirely carry this movie to great heights and make this a consistent good, compelling, interesting one. Some more action and some better handling of the movie its mystery would had probably done the movie very well. But even so, the movie still remains a real good and unique '50's science-fiction movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"a real science fiction film, emphasizing ideas over effects, and a great robot!","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet represents the kind of science fiction that is precious in cinema, especially from the 1950s. There was The Day the Earth Stood Still and War of the Worlds, but lest not forget this gem which took some of its story from Shakespeare's The Tempest to tell a tale of astronauts on a planet that has a doctor on it who has made a remarkable breakthrough. It's the kind of breakthrough that is not so much incredible to look at (though for 1956 it does look quite amazing to look at some of those sets and that gigantic machine the doctor creates), but with its emphasis on the characters and its themes of technology taken too far by the more primitive side of human nature even when we don't know we're channeling it.On the surface- that is in the first ten minutes- it looks standard, if a little more professionally acted and directed with better skill than the B-movies of the period. A ship of astronauts are on a mission to the planet Altair-4 to bring back an expedition that went missing decades before. But the only one left is Dr. Morbis (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter, who somehow were immune to an attack that left everyone else dead. Morbius appears to be a cordial and highly intelligent man, and his technology looks to be so impressive that the only thing the astronauts, led by the Skipper (Leslie Nielsen), can think to do is to report it back to their superiors on Earth.But there's a catch - something is killing off members of the crew of the ship, one by one, every night, even when the others keep an eye out and then put up an invisible electric fence, which the invisible something goes through easily. Meanwhile, there's some romance possibly between the Skipper and Alraira, and there's a more pushy vibe from the doctor you shouldn't have come to the planet to start, and now you need to go. What happens from this is even more fascinating, just on a purely intellectual level, but Forbidden Planet never forgets that its audience should also be entertained by this story while getting some useful ideas. While everyone may remember Robbie the Robot, and for good reason, perhaps the most unforgettable image for me is the monster realized on screen with the crew firing to no avail, animated with red electricity and looking so beastly that it looks out of Fantasia.The acting from Pidgeon is subtle you wouldn't expect him to be a villain, though something is there in the character and in the performance that speaks to this, and by the end it makes the character far more complex than one would expect. And the other performances are workmanlike but also excellent, from Nielsen as a born leader to Holliman providing some great comic relief as the Cook (who, I should add, helps with one of the funniest scenes in the film with those gallons of bourbon Robbie provides). And the effects for its time are extraordinary (sophisticated in a nostalgic pulp way for today too), and the music, done by electronics, is beautiful in its tones. But ultimately it's the screenplay and careful direction from Hilcox that puts this a notch above the rest of the B-movie lot. When it's meant to be funny, it's intentionally so and it works. When it's dramatic it connects quite well even in its stiff moments with the actors. And when we are made to think about a horrible situation, it comes on gradually, with nuance, not shoved in our faces or injected with mega-action.An inspiration for many other sci-fi films, and a fine marker of thoughtful science fiction stories and books from time-old, it's a classy and entertaining classic. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous production values take William Shakespeare into space...","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Science-fiction reworking of Shakespeare's The Tempest has space exploration team arriving on small, mysterious planet inhabited by Walter Pidgeon as a reclusive scientist who, along with daughter Anne Francis, has set up his own private, isolated existence--though things may not be as cozy as they seem, now complicated by Francis' relationship with team-leader Leslie Nielsen. As father and daughter, Pidgeon and Francis (who later co-starred together in 1968's Funny Girl) aren't completely convincing, and Nielsen's wooden acting tows the line from Point A to B. Still, the incredible production design and George J. Folsey's superlative cinematography makes the film an eye-popping experience (even for non-sci-fi buffs), and Robby the Robot provides a fascinating non-human helper. Interesting, literate screenplay by Cyril Hume from a story by Irving Block and Allen Adler (who didn't credit Shakespeare, but who should have). *** from **** "},{"Title":"Where the Wild Things Are","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sombre sci-fi film can't help but look dated, and it's full of the usual cheesy 1950s sci-fi trappings, but one can't deny the influence it clearly had on the genre, and one can see the thumbprint of this film on any number of subsequent science fiction offerings.A very young Leslie Nielsen plays the leader of a group of American astronauts sent to a distant planet to find out what happened to a previous group of explorers. He comes across a man (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter (Anne Francis) living alone with their robot servant (Robby). Pidgeon has discovered the advanced technology left behind by a previous race of beings, the ability to harness inconceivable power through mind control. But Nielsen realizes that Pidgeon's subconscious is truly in control, and it's responsible for creating the monster that wiped out the former group of American visitors and comes to decimate Nielsen's crew as well.The love story between Nielsen and Anne Francis, whose role consists almost entirely of skipping around in miniskirts, would feel obligatory in any other sci-fi film, but here it takes on interesting dimensions. The presence of a woman brings out the animal sexual urges in the American crew (who haven't seen a woman for a very long time), a theme that ties into the idea that mankind's largest obstacle to progress are its own base urges. Forbidden Planet suggests that the scariest monsters come not from the depths of space, but rather from the dark corners of man's own mind.What helps Forbidden Planet to stay fresh despite its dated look is its message about the responsibility man has to use wisely the technology he creates. The fact that much of the technology we have created over the years is responsible for beginning the slow death of our planet makes the film not only relevant, but prophetic. The movie is unsettling in an undefined way. It's not full of action, space wars, bizarre aliens or any of that. It's quiet and abstract, and it's more about ideas than it is plot.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Top notch sci fi","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When one thinks of 1950s science fiction films one thinks of the sort of schlocky black and white B films that were parodied on the old Mystery Science Theater 3000 television show. Yet, while there were far more films like Plan 9 From Outer Space and Robot Monster than good films, the 1950s did have some very good, if not great, science fiction films like The Day The Earth Stood Still, The Incredible Shrinking Man, Invasion Of The Body Snatchers, War Of The Worlds, and The Thing From Another World. Yet, the best of the bunch, for its literacy and production values, was undoubtedly MGM's first big foray into A level science fiction, Forbidden Planet, released in 1956. It was a 98 minute color film, directed by Fred M. Wilcox, that featured then state of the art special effects, and was endowed with a very good screenplay by Cyril Hume, from a screen treatment called Fatal Planet, by Irving Block and Allen Adler, who adapted aspects of William Shakespeare's The Tempest into it.The film drew raves when it was released, for its Oscar nominated special effects, its all electronic music score, by Louis and Bebe Barron (although credited as Electronic Tonalities, to avoid music guild fees), vivid matte paintings- inspired by Chesley Bonestell, and the famed Monster Of The Id (MOTI), which was animated by an animator, Joshua Meador, on loan from the Walt Disney studio. Even more famous was the appearance of Robby The Robot, in his first role in either film or television. Later he would appear in the film The Invisible Boy- included in this DVD as a bonus, as well as several appearances in the 1960s sci fi TV shows The Twilight Zone, Night Gallery, and Lost In Space- with whose own robot he is often confused, and a cameo appearance in the 1984 film Gremlins.The tale is simple, but elegantly constructed, and filled with humorous asides that leaven the forced 'love story' aspect in the film. In the 23rd Century, the United Planets Cruiser C-57D- a flying saucer, led by Commander J.J. Adams (Leslie Nielsen- yes he was once a leading man type before his Police Squad days), is en route to the planet Altair IV, to investigate what happened to the crew of the Bellerophon, sent to the planet twenty years earlier. After a year's journey, there they encounter the lone survivor of the party, Doctor Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon), the Prospero stand-in- a philologist, his gorgeous blond daughter Altaira (Anne Francis)- the Miranda character in a pre 1960s miniskirt, and Robby the Robot, the domestic servant who is the Calibanian counterpart. Morbius warns the crew of a mysterious force that killed the Bellerophon party in their first year, yet he was immune to it&#133;. All in all, it's a technically good film- especially with some rear projections and matte paintings, and the absurdity of the adult reactions to Timmy's and Robby's exploits borders an Dalian surreal absurdity. Yet, it's manifest that the filmmakers had no sense of the sublime absurdity the film conjures, for it's played straight, thus making it even funnier. As for the main feature? Forbidden Planet deserves all its kudos. It's not a perfect film, but it's a great way to spend a couple of hours, and far better than Star Wars, which although made twenty years later seems much more outdated, and juvenile. Only such films like 2001 A Space Odyssey, Solaris, Alien and Aliens, and the first two Terminator films, have really equaled or surpassed this classic in depth and effects.It's worth knowing that, despite Forbidden Planet's 'happy ending', there is the possibility that the MOTI is still dormant within Alta, as well. After all, she is her father's daughter, and had an even more vivid nightmare than her father when the MOTI attacked the ship a second time. Also, the film wisely only 'shows' the MOTI once, and never shows the Krel, for the imagination can always conjure greater scares than the best special effects. The film also makes good use of narrative ellipses to condense the tale, something that far more realistic art films often fail to do. Forbidden Planet is one of those rare films that both defines yet transcends its era- unlike other sci fi films which were rather obvious Cold War allegories. Watch it, and you will agree, as well as sleep a little less easy. But, even if you don't, there's still the scene of Anne Francis skinnydipping. That alone is timeless. "},{"Title":"Heed the Warning","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The central lesson and warning in this movie has, I believe, been largely overlooked. It's not just good versus evil, nor Freudian analysis, nor that we must acquire wisdom to handle technology. What wisdom? This isn't really about technology. It's a story of how, with complete trust in their understanding of themselves, the Krell implemented a system of action that bypassed morality. Then, when individuals were authentic, true to their own needs, they assaulted one another.Our society is heading down the same path. Individuals unleash their vindictiveness and greed, punishing those they envy or dislike. They get pleasure and personal gain by confiscating money, forcing victims to work against their will, forbidding them from pursuing their own goals. And as individuals, they escape all responsibility for this behavior, because it occurs in the voting booth.I'm all for the secret ballot. However, the anonymous power that the voter wields, and his capacity to do evil, is directly related to the power of government and its capacity to violate individual rights. We all morally support assault, when it's strictly limited to defense of the innocent. As the limits are ignored, trumped by the false moral appeal of democracy, we are becoming a society of people quietly, politely at each other's throats, a war of each against all, just a primitive and less effective version of the Krell, with government as our monster. "}{"Title":"Story idea wonderful but a little shallow in delivery but still a classic","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favorite '50's Sci-Fi's with a great cast and fascinating story but as was typical of the treatment of science fiction by Hollywood in the 50's it lacked a more mature approach and depth. I would love to see a re-make. However, it was targeted to a younger audience and the introduction of Robby the Robot was definitely an interesting element, even for adults. Excellent special effects for the time that likely raised the bar for futuristic sci-fi flicks to follow. Of course there was the message delivered within the movie with a warning at a time in the 1950's as technological advances were being made that no matter how advanced you become technology can betray you. Walter Pidgeon was perfect as the scientist and a young serious Leslie Neilsen as the captain quite fitting. However, Anne Francis to me seemed mis-cast and her character in the story just out of place. The drama and suspense of the unknown force definitely a great concept and portrayed cleverly. The fantastic power created by the Krell and the mystery of their disappearance truly made this a great sci-fi adventure. A sci-fi classic and always fun to watch again even after you discover the mystery. "},{"Title":"Leslie Nielson in a sci fi movie? and its good too","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i saw this movie and i instantly fell in Love with it, it is one of my favorite, and is timeless. No matter how you look at it, it was driven by action and adventures to a planet unknown. There Leslie Nielson meets a girl and falls in love with her. He also meets the girls father, a scientist, who explains to him the uniqueness of this world. This movie shows us the good and bad in people. it shows how even the most brilliant people cant figure something out and that with some though and reason, the common man can lead. It has inspired all of the sci fi films of this decade, and is timeless, like i said before. IF there are any movies you need to see before you die, this should be one of them "},{"Title":"Tempest in Space","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the finest movies of its type, Forbidden Planet is actually a space opera based on Shakespeare's The Tempest. Especially for the time, the special effects are incredible, and they pull off with ease what many modern movies fail to do- integrate theme and visuals. While the acting may be sub par compared to many of today's movies, and the film quality is obviously much lower, I think it compares favorably overall to almost any other movie in science fiction, if only for its successful integration of disparate elements into a cohesive and compelling whole. As another has already pointed out, the 50th anniversary edition of this came out recently, and is very much worth purchasing for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Great movie, annoying soundtrack","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I echo every positive comment others have made about this smart, creative 50's sci-fi flick. I own the movie and love it, though I have to be honest and say the electronic music in it gives me a headache. It's screechy and annoying and used waaay too much. I'm sure I'm in the minority on this, but for me, it's more of a distraction than a mood enhancer.Would I recommend this movie? Absolutely. It's probably the best of its genre to come out of the 50s. Right up there with This Island Earth for creative storytelling and interesting twists. But TIE wins overall for me, because its soundtrack lacks FP's wince factor. "},{"Title":"Heady Sci Fi","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First thing that surprised me was the year this was made-1956, I mean this was the year of Cecil B.de Mille's 10 Commandments(and how perversely funny it would be that Leslie Nielsen had played a role in the Christian epic)and an adequate year for most films except for such a far reaching sci-fi trailblazer.Second thing that surprised me was that the movie's leading man is none other than LeslieFrank DrebinNielsen in his usual deadpan delivery, only this time not going for the laughs, playing it all very seriously(even if I never can take him in a totally serious way).Third thing that surprised me was that for a genre so often derided as lesser here was an adaptation of Shakespeare's Tempest that went beyond the surface and into the mind and what its powers can unleash.Take it as you will The Forbidden Planet is a movie that has stood the test of time and presents a good amount of entertainment,some humour, captivating characters and a light dose of intellect thrown in just to make things more interesting. "},{"Title":"One of the finest science fiction films ever made!","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie scared the wits out of me when I was about six years old. We (the neighbor kids and I) saw it at the Saturday AM kids special showing... A western, a sci-fi, TEN color cartoons and popcorn.. ONLY $.25! My mom used to give the two older neighbor kids a buck to take me to the show on Saturdays, if she had to work. I got to keep $.10 of the change for a comic book, and Sally and Ben kept the extra $.15 as a tip. EVERYONE came out ahead, and we were out from under foot until well into the afternoon each Saturday.So many concepts and ideas from this great movie survived and formed the basis for so many other excellent science fiction films and shows. For example, the Star Trek transporters share an incredibly similar appearance to the D/C (deceleration) chambers in Forbidden Planet. Listen to the preamble the next time you view the film. It seems we made it to the moon about 100 years early, by the time-line set in the introduction....I THINK the current print, used for the VHS and DVD versions of Forbidden Planet is a few minutes short. It would be terrific if Turner would invest in a full restoration of this film to celebrate its 50 anniversary! I'd buy a 2nd copy if the print was improved and the minutes restored (IF they really exist!) Good watching.... "},{"Title":"One of the Great Science Fiction Classics, With Plenty of Imagination & Insight","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the great classics among science fiction movies, with a great deal of imagination and insight to go along with a very interesting story and a wealth of creative details in the settings and in the numerous gadgets and devices. Today it's mostly remembered as the debut of Robby the Robot, and Robby is indeed a lot of fun, but there is much, much more that makes Forbidden Planet so worthwhile.The story is played out on a number of different levels. The first story is the relief team's investigation into what happened to the previous mission to the planet, of which there is only one survivor. A further dimension is introduced in the relations between Morbius, the survivor, and his now-grown, wide-eyed daughter, as they interact with the visitors. To this is then added the story of the great, lost civilization of the Krell, and the mystery of their disappearance. As the movie proceeds, all three are woven together very nicely to create a dangerous crisis.One of the strengths of science fiction as a genre is the opportunity it affords to use a different time and place to investigate deeper themes about humanity, bringing out observations and ideas to which more conventional settings might not lend themselves. In this case, the ideas about human nature that tie together the various plot lines contain some perceptive and sometimes provocative insights, with implications that are well worth thinking about.And it by no means neglects the standard things that make good science fiction movies enjoyable to watch. Besides Robby, there are numerous other interesting devices, and most of them are rendered visually with considerable skill for the time. Much of the movie, indeed, still looks very good today. Walter_Pidgeon heads up the cast, giving a fine performance as the complex Morbius. Ann Francis, Leslie Nielson, and Warren Stevens fill the other key roles solidly, and Earl Holliman provides some amusing moments of comic relief as the spaceship's cook.It all fits together very well, and it is an example of the best kind of science fiction movie. Forbidden Planet tells an interesting story with a lot of fascinating details, and at the same time it makes some worthwhile statements about humanity and history in the process. "},{"Title":"Great, fascinating  movie","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I imagine most people saw this on TV as a child and it had the sort of impact it did on me. Awe, wonder and fear.Seeing it as an adult and being aware of the time it was made it is still a surprisingly effective film. It's easy to see an older film and focus on the dated elements but Forbidden Planet has so much going for it only a truly callow individual could overlook how special it is.The look of the film is what always got my attention. It's stunning, artistic and also scary. I always loved how so many older films managed to show a dream-like surreal world that newer films often cant. It almost seems to stumble upon its greatness as much of what people love about the film is what is only hinted at.We see the awesome remnants of an incredibly powerful and advanced society that for some unknown reason died out just when they were about to make a technological leap of tremendous importance. A rather cold and condescending Morbius has set up an idyllic oasis with his daughter and must deal with the intrusion of other humans in the form of a starship checking up on the people sent to investigate the planet.The story is told from the military ships perspective (Think Navy) as the men are being shown what was found on the planet and learn about the Krell race who once inhabited it. Various horrors and wonders are shown and soon after the fate of the Krell becomes apparent and threatens to resurface.But what is controlling it and why? For all the dated elements this film is perhaps the most brilliant bit of sci-fi pulp ever produced. It deals with both universal issues and very personal ones and it all makes perfect devastating sense.It also has Altaira asking What's a bathing suit?, Robby The Robot pointing out the fuesal oil content of bootleg bourbon and Steve Austins boss when he was just a communications officer.Fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Influenced Gene Roddenberry","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You can see Star Trek - The Original (and the only good series of the bunch - the others were just ripoffs of the first three years)- sets and story lines coming from this movie.I imagine Spielberg and Lucas were also influenced by this movie.Sure it made Robbie the Robot famous, but considering this movie is almost 50 years old it is seminal.You see where Star Trek gets miniskirted blonds and moral dilemma stories from this epochal movie.Truly ahead of its time.Roddenberry and the others owe their personal fortunes to this production. "},{"Title":"Classic? Indeed!","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" RENT THIS! You'll not be disappointed. I was completely jazzed when I found out it's just been released in DVD format. Shazam! Got it and watched it again...It truly is amazing how well this film holds up to the test of time. Done in 1956 it's every bit as relevant today as it was then. Sure some of the special effects haven't faired so well, but most have, and that's an impressive feat for a 50 year old film!The acting's good, the sets are outstanding and the movie flows nicely all the way through. I'm a big fan of 50's Sci-Fi and this movie--ladies and gents--is the cream of the crop. "}{"Title":"with Neilson and Robby, we need a parody.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie compelling. But I also have seen what Nielson has become. So, without further discretion, I would not be able to live without a modern day parody of the Forbidden Planet. He was excellent in how serious he was, back then. And, it's frightening how well he performs a comedic performance, nowadays. With the pathetic Sci-Fi films of today, I find myself intrigued by the the Sci-Fi of old. What's taking Hollywood soo long? Can or will it be done? Even Robby the robot made an appearance. So, it not only has the intrigue of old, but the prospect of something new. And, with Nielson, again, it'll promise something hilarious. "},{"Title":"A Must See 50's Sci-Fi Film That Holds Up Well Today","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Basically William Shakespeares The Tempest set on an alien world, Forbidden Planet is the pinnacle of the 50's sci-fi genre. It is not surpassed until the late 60's by 2001 A Space Odyssey. This film has it all, a great script, thanks bill, a great set of actors and great special effects. Even today the special effects hold up well, which is amazing considering the were accomplished with matte paintings and hand drawn film effects. I don't want to say much about this film because of you have never seen it you really should catch it sometime. Do yourself a favor and catch it on DVD but by all means watch the letterbox version. If you see the pan and scan version you will miss the grandeur of the film and the impact of the large Krell machines. If ever there was a film that shows what you miss without letterbox or the widescreen format, this is it!This film is a must for any film buff, Sci-Fi fan and general all around movie viewer. A 10 in my book and in many others as well. On of my top 10 films. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet came out in 1956 and had as I recall free tickets from some cereal. It was and may be still the movie I saw more times than any other thanks to the free tickets. Last night I watched the DVD of this and was fascinated by the quality of the picture and the reasonableness of the plot structure (LCD is nice). Yes we've come a long way in 49 years but this was well worth watching then and still holds even modern viewers interest. The cast was excellent and anyone can just run through the careers of these people to recognize their quality. In the last several years so many movies have come out that were based on works from the 50's and 60's that have little left in the way of modern imagination. It is fun to watch a movie this old that still is at least slightly fresh in its thoughts.Back 49 years ago a 10. Harsher standards now but still a pretty solid 8.Glenn "},{"Title":"50's sci-fi at its very best","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with The Day the Earth Stood Still and The War Of the Worlds, Forbidden Planet is the best sci-fi movie of the 1950's and one of the best of all time.A spaceship is sent to the planet Altair-4 to bring back some people who had settled there several years before. When they get there, the crew are shocked to discover there are only two survivors, Dr Morbius and his daughter Altaira plus, of course, Robby the Robot. Altaira hasn't seen any other human apart from her father until some of the crew arrive at the residence. After learning what had happened to the others and being shown round the residence, a giant invisible monster attacks the spaceship and kills a crew member. The following night, a force field and radar is set up so the crew are ready for the beast and when it 'appears', we get to see its outline though the laser gun fire. More men are killed and then it 'disappears'. The captain then goes to fetch Morbius, Altaira and Robby but the monster attacks and breaks through the thick steel doors and Morbius is killed. Through all this, the Captain and Altaira fall in love.Forbidden Planet is beautifully shot in colour and the special effects are excellent. The electronic score is very eeire.The movie has an excellent cast Walter Pigeon (Mrs Miniver, Voyage To the Bottom of the Sea), Anne Francis, a young Leslie Nielsen and Warren Stevens.This movie is a must see for all movie fans. A treat.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"First science fiction movie I ever saw.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was broadcast on TV in the early 60's, probably '63 or 64 when I was six or seven years old. It was a big deal to be allowed to stay up and watch it, and it left a permanent impression. Watching it now, it shrinks a bit because of the dated acting style and the film-surface effects, but it is a work of art. Many of the ploys still stand up, such as the approach to the planet surface before retros. Certainly it shows the steadiest flying saucer model of its era. The magnificence of this film is in the pacing, score and suspense. Several scenes are virtually silent for pregnant stretches, sometimes punctuated by the early electronic music of Bebe and Louis Barron, credited as electronic tonalities. I will never forget the sense that for the first time I knew what it felt like to fly through space and visit a distant planet. If you are a patient nerd, you will love this film. Also note Leslie Nielsen's budding acting career, pre-comedy.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film Making For Its Time.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When one considers the computerized technology of film making today, one must marvel about this film considering that it was made in 1956. It remains my personal favorite sci-fi movie of all time. Only two flaws in the film prevented me from rating it a ten. Dr. Morbius asks Commander Adams to fire his blaster at the Krell metal to demonstrate its stregnth. Notice where the blaster hits and the spot where Commander Adams checks. Also, when the monster from the id is outlined at the perimeter of the ship, Dr. Ostrow is seen releasing his finger from the trigger of his blaster yet the blaster keeps firing. Then again it was Disney animation which provided the special effects as opposed to Industrial Light and Magic. Still great film. Never get tired of watching it. I'm lucky enough to have it on DVD in the widescreen format.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the better science fiction films of the 50's. This one stars Leslie Nelson as the commander of a ship who is looking for survivors on a planet that a bunch of scientists went to 20 years earlier. They find the planet deserted and find only two survivors, a scientist played by Walter Pidgeon and his daughter played by Anne Francis, and they also find a robot named Robby. Walter Pidgeon warns them to stay away or that they'll be killed. They land anyway and want to know why he is the only survivor. It turns out the planet was inhabited by some sort of creatures who were also geniuses but were all wiped out at once. This was one of Leslie Nelson's first films and Walter Pidgeon is great as the scientist.  "},{"Title":"Solid monument of pure Science Fiction","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All right, I fairly admit that I didn't know much about Forbidden Planet before I started watching it. My mind was set on seeing another silly and amateurish piece of 50's science fiction like they made them in numberless amounts back then. Well, I'm thrilled to announce that I was very wrong&#133;Forbidden Planet turned out to be one of the most entertaining and original movies I've ever seen. A non-stop experience of delightful and intelligent dialogues,  surprisingly professional special effects and  adorable decorations. When watching this film, you can hardly believe that it's based on a William Shakespeare play (The Tempest) but the finished product is effective, believable and overall a definite success! Sure it's silly and extremely illogical, but the credibility of this film is always held up with pride and professionalism. The main plotline involves a US spaceship that lands on a remote planet. Completely deserted, with the exception of the brilliant scientist Dr. Morbius and his beautiful daughter. Some form of powerful evil has wiped out all the previous inhabitants and now, with the arrival of a new space crew, it lurks again. All together, a rather solid and fascinating plot but the film is replenished with several extra, and fairly interesting sub-plots like the development of the girl's personality amongst earth men, a far-fetched but highly imaginative evolution theory and a lot of creative technical mumbo jumbo concerning the robot-toy Robby! Forbidden Planet truly has one of the most ingenious scripts ever, and the more developed fans of classic cinema will certainly appreciate this intelligent and well-structured epic. Another pleasant surprise is the acting! Long before Leslie Nielsen started to suffer from a terribly bad case of typecasting, he made a couple of remarkable movies&#133;His role of spaceship commander here is rather impressive and very well done. Walter Pidgeon is a joy to observe as the devoted Dr. Morbius.  Highest possible recommendation! Surely better than many self-acclaimed milestones in the Sci-Fi genre..  "},{"Title":"great show!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I can honestly say this is one of the most enjoyable early Sci-fi movies it has been my pleasure to watch. I don't want to go into the plot or give anything away, just watch this if you get the chance. Brilliant.  "},{"Title":"A true Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the very first movie that I remember having watched in my life. I watched it in the company of my father on his old b&w TV at some point during the sixties, and yet I remember vividly some of most dramatic scenes of it. It was nice thereafter to watch it again now on DVD, in the company of my 9 years old son. This time it was the glorious Cinemascope wide-screen version, projected on a big-screen TV. I remember that, to me as a kid, this movie was scary, although in a nice positive way, and it brought my attention to a fantastic world of science and technology, that ended up having impact much later in my life. Now it was really funny to see that the movie had the same impact on my son! When the movie started, he would mock at the old-style settings and the electronic score (really nice even if outdated), but later in the movie he was so captivated and curious about the story that he could not stop making questions about it (what's *id*?). His imagination was yet running wild at bedtime, so impressed he was with the main concept of the story. So, this is a great family classic in the form of a typical sci-fi flick of the fifties. Watch it if you have a chance. 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"They wuz robbed!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a comment I've previously posted on the IMDb title site for The Ten Commandments (the VistaVision extravaganza starring Chuck Heston before he became Chief NRA Spokesperson), I wrote But I do remember being rather outraged that this one got the Special Effects Oscar for 1956, beating out its only nominated competition MGM's Forbidden Planet They wuz robbed! When I saw this (i.e., The Ten Commandments) on a giant VistaVision screen (probably correctly i.e., horizontally projected) during its first-run reserved seat engagement in Beverly Hills, California, I recall thinking that the special effects were not up to the standard of the sets, costumes, location work, staggering number of extras, Et Cetera! Et Cetera! ET CETERAH!! (as Yul Brynner would say in his incarnation as the King of Siam in The King and I.) I still feel that Forbidden Planet's effects, though not as numerous and as ambitious as those attempted in DeMille's final testament, were MUCH better executed and deserved the Academy Award.The obvious matte work and other optical trickery in the Biblical epic were about as fakey as any I'd seen (although they're a mite less obvious on TV screens in the annual Eastertime exhumations of that blockbuster) and I still feel that the only reason the Academy voters gave the Special Effects Oscar to The Ten Commandments over Forbidden Planet was that they somehow felt they had to give old C. B. something for all that dusty work in the Egyptian desert! "},{"Title":"Please don't remake this one!","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most significant SF films to come out of the 50's and quite possibly one of the greatest science fiction films of all time. This one has it all ground breaking visual effects, the first electronically generated score, Robbie the Robot, Ann Francis' wardrobe (wow!) and a strong storyline. The dialogue and acting is a little dodgy at time but there are some great lines nonetheless - but this much is negligible, the full potential must be nothing less than astronomical.... I pray that this one never gets re-made...... "},{"Title":"A Groundbreaking Piece of Science Fiction","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This had to be one of the greatest science fiction films in history.  The fact that it was a very cerebral and literate film was what made this film great.  Also, even though it wasn't mentioned, it was probably one of the first films that dealt with incest.  When you look at it, Morbius is so obsessed with his own daughter that his subconcious goes out and murders any man that he sees as a threat to him.  This was pretty heady stuff for the 1950's.  Also, the music score helped to really capture the eerie feel of this film.  This film was definitely ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"No one will be disappointed with this film.","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film which was years 'ahead of its time'  Considering it was made nearly 50 years ago the storyline and special effects were superior to films made for some years after. The storyline (based on The Tempest) is first class, and the film will always be remembered for the introduction of its best known character - Robbie the Robot. His whirring parts whenever an order was given to him were, for me, his memorable feature. Few watching this film, whether they are usually a Sci-Fi fan or not. will end up being disappointed. If in the future a remake is filmed, let's hope that the storyline is not hidden by a barrage of Special Effects. This is without doubt a film which deserves to be remembered for its originality. "},{"Title":"The Best SF movie ever made ..","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a classic, not just the best SF film ever done, but one of the best films of the 1950's. It is not without its flaws, to be sure, but these are trivial, in my opinion. Here is some of what makes this film greatSpecial Effects I don't know when I first saw Forbidden Planet, probably in the mid-60's. I've seen it a dozen times since, and the scene where they look into the maw of the Krell power plant is one of the most stunning visual images ever filmed. I can still say that after having seen all that George Lucas has done. The power of the Krell as told in words and images is beyond our ability to comprehend.Another remarkable visual is the stasis field that engulfs and protects each crewman as the ship automatically decelerates to sub-light speed. These were stunning images.Performances Walter Pigeon is brilliant as the mad-scientist, Morbius. He was charming, civil, mannered, and thoroughly loony, all at the same time. The warmth and power of Pigeon's trained voice is one of the strengths of this film. If he isn't persuasive, this movie unravels almost immediately. Anne Francis was stunning as Altaira. Maybe I'm seeing her legs instead of her acting talent, but I still thought she held her own, first as the young innocent, and later as the devoted woman in love, with Pigeon and the rest of the cast. 'Course, the nice legs so ingenuously on display didn't hurt .. ) I found Leslie Nielsen's Captain Adams to be the weak link of the three principals.Weak Points Earl Holliman tries hard, but this whole business of the cook's encounter with the robot could have been cheerfully left on the cutting room floor and not hurt this picture a bit. It is only where Forbidden Planet tries to be funny that it fails .. The costumes of the .. dare I say .. star trekkers .. scream cheesy 50's SF. Everything else either stands on its own with the best of today's efforts, or holds up well given an adjustment for advancing technology. The forcefield perimeter, the ID creature, and even the ship's com system look surprisingly good. The ship itself, looking as it does like a UFO of the period, is also not a very appealing image. To me, it always said, don't take this movie seriously, and that is the very opposite of what everything else about this movie said..The Tempest FP is a remake of Shakespeare's Tempest with Morbius as Prospero, Altaira as Miranda, the robot as Ariel, and Adams as Ferdinand. I did a little online research before beginning this review. The following comments are about the Tempest, but apply just as aptly to Forbidden PlanetBEGIN EXCERPT The play was composed by Shakespeare as a multi-sensory theater experience, with sound, and especially music, used to complement the sights of the play, and all of it interwoven by the author with lyrical textual passages that over-flow with exotic images, trifling sounds, and a palpable lushness. END EXCERPTThe sound of Forbidden Planet is one of its hidden strengths. The polyphonal tonalities as they were called were avant garde for their day, evoking in me recollections of hearing Benjamin Britten and others like him. This is not the same movie without that music.BEGIN EXCERPT The Tempest belongs to the genre of Elizabethan romance plays. It combines elements of tragedy (Prospero's revenge) with those of romantic comedy (the young lovers Miranda and Ferdinand), and, like one of Shakespeare's problem plays, Measure for Measure, it poses deeper questions that are not completely resolved at the end. The romance genre is distinguished by the inclusion (and synthesis) of these tragic, comic, and problematical ingredients and further marked by a happy ending (usually concluding with a masque or dance) in which all , or most, of the characters are brought into harmony. END EXCERPTIt is this multi-layering complexity where Forbidden Planet distinguishes itself from less worthy fare of the period. There is the morality play of what happened to the Krell, the further insight that what happened to them could happen to mankind, the romance of the two likable principals, and the sheer wonder of the space opera. All of these combine into a mostly unified whole to make Forbidden Planet's rich texture, and give its audience an unforgettable and enduring movie experience. "},{"Title":"isn't it funny?","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  odd isn't it?a 45 year old re-make of a 400 year old play.  Im only 19 and i love this film.I think treating the audience with a bit of intelligence is the key, probably why so many modern films arn't great. "},{"Title":"one of the few worthwhile 1950's sci fi films","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  FORBIDDEN PLANET is one of the few worthwhile 1950's sci-fi films. In a era of bad smog monster films this one burst on the scene and paved the way for STAR TREK and STAR WARS. Unpretentious and totally believable this is worth a view and a good family film.  "},{"Title":"Is the fate of the Krell our fate?","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent sci-fi from the 50s.  I am not one to typically admire high amounts spent on special effects, but this one is an exception.  Acting here is fairly decent, especially among the non-humans (Robbie and the Monsters). Story is an interesting mix of Shakespeare, Freud and main stream sci-fi.(Possible spoilers to follow.)  Of renewed interest for today is the question of whether we are taking the path of the Krell, whose science for manipulation of matter combined with advanced communications technology caused an their overnight destruction.  With nanotechnology and the internet among other advances, are we far behind.  Will we all soon possess weapons of total destruction? "},{"Title":"A sci-fi classic","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fred Wilcox's Forbidden Planet is unique and remarkable in many ways. It was the first sci-fi movie ever to have a relatively big budget of 1 million US$, till then an unheard sum for a sci-fi films, which tended to be a low budget B productions. And it was the first one ever to be filmed in Cinemascope. Also shouldn't be underestimated it's influence on later sci-fi, such as Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey and George Lucas' Star Wars.  The story of the film was actually a sci-fi rewrite of William Shakespear's play The Tempest. A crew of a spaceship lands on an unknown planet, where the previous expedition disapeared 20 years ago under mysterious circumstances. What they find are the only survivours a scientist Dr. Morbius (Walter Pigeon) with his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) and Robby, a robot, undoubtedly the father of George Lucas' C-3PO.  With it's inteligent and witty script and ground breaking special effects, Forbidden Planet is one of the best sci-fi movies ever made. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made. Period.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film broke plenty of ground when it came to science fiction on screen. The entire thing is absolutely amazing- great SFX, excellent matte-work, fine acting by a great cast! The plot, grounded in a somewhat Freudian psychological view, simply works.The whole thing makes you think hard about what it means to be human, and to always bear in mind that each of us possesses a savage within that has nothing to do with Rousseau's Noble one! "}{"Title":"A wonderful classic that still holds its head up high today.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, consider that this film is nearly fifty years old! Yet, it still stands up as one of the great films of all time. I wonder how many of todays throwaway celluloid productions will still be talked about in 2050?The story is simple, yet solid enough and the effects are nothing short of phenomenal for the day. I can still recall the first time I watched this, as a kid, when the monster enters the force-field protecting the ship and you got to see its outline for the first (and only) time. Had me shivering in fear, I can tell you. Looks dated today, but still more than effective enough.The scenes with the tiger show their age now. You can see the outline where the tiger was matted into the shots with Altaira, but they are only just visible.Likewise, the effect whereby the creature melts its way through the Krell doors are wonderfully done.It's also amazing to see Leslie Nielsen (better remembered for the Airplane and Naked Gun movies) as a young, but still mature man. He was 30 when this film came out! Nearly 80 now!All in all a good movie that is sure to continue being a favourite for years to come. Timeless. "},{"Title":"So far ahead of it's time most people missed it.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering when it was made, it is a masterpiece.  The special effects are amazing.  Even though the costumes mores are dated, the Plot still interests me nearly 50 years later. The id as the enemy is a very thought provoking concept. "},{"Title":"the biggest classic of science fiction","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the biggest science fiction movie of the 1950s. It has got everything! Good story, interesting props and excellent characters. It hasn't got good special effects like an s-f movie from the 1990s, but it's story and drama is far better. It is a great film! "},{"Title":"A Great Film that Inspired Many","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watch this film and pretend it is an episode of Star Trek.  Gene Roddenbury didn't live in a vacuum.  It's obvious that this film could have been remade as an episode of his franchise.  But consider this  This was MGM's only attempt at SF. It succeeded in bringing forth a plot, subplot and subtext to a genre that very few took seriously.  The Krell and Monster from the Id transcend the borrowing of Shakespeare's Temptest.  These are original ideas that were realized in an era where special f/x were in their infancy. Did this film inspire Lucas.  Of course.  Spielberg. Naturally.  If you ignore the film, The Day the Earth Stood Still badly adapted from its original story, then this film is the pivot on which modern science fiction has been built.  Recall this is 1956. CGI didn't exist. Matte shots were created in an optical printer, and nobody knew the word, blue screen.This is classic entertainment.  Forget there is one bad shot that even Joshua Meder begged to be extirpated from the film, because it looked too much like Disney animation.  This is the well spring from which all future SF films flowed.  It cannot be ignored.  It inspired everyone from Stanley Kubrick to George Lucas to Steven Spielberg.  As such it holds a revered place in my DVD collection.The original stereo soundtrack is a marvel since, like Fantasia the dialog is not isolated in the center track, but moves with the picture from L to R. This was one of MGM's finest hours and deserves to be remembered as long as the human imagination conceives of worlds not yet discovered.  No matter, it is an A+ picture, 10/10 and is, for future creators of SF, a seminal course in what can be done with little in the way of modern assets. "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a must see for any true Sci-Fi fan.  Not for the wonder special effects, that pale in comparison to Matrix, but mostly for the intellectual aspects of the story.  Man's worst enemy is himself.  Monsters from the Id. A good Sci-Fi movie should challenge the way we think and even live. (Like the book 1984). "},{"Title":"A planetary empire in 2200.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent example of sci-fi. This movie helped the genre slip into the mainstream. Based loosely on Shakespear's The Tempest, a mission is made to the planet of Altair-4 to check on why the space colony quit corresponding. Soon the crew discovers that a colonist(Walter Pigeon) has built his own one man empire. Enter the expatriot's lovely daughter(Anne Francis), a faithful and obedient robot named Robby and a menacing invisible monster and we have a top notch classic.Also starringLeslie Nielsen, Earl Holliman, Jack Kelly and Richard Anderson. "},{"Title":"This movie brought SciFi into the mainstream.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forbidden Planet brought the SciFi genre into the mainstream.  Before FP SciFi was mainly a joke.  After FP SciFi became more serious and thought provoking.Forbidden Planet also brought the Robot up to a standard of more than just a glorified toaster.  Robbie The Robot had a charm that later helped audiences fall in love with the likes of R2-D2 and C3PO.  "},{"Title":"This is TRUE Science Fiction, done almost brilliantly!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So much can be pointed out, concerning Forbidden Planet.  Yes, it's a rip-off of Shakespeare (you don't think HE didn't rip off plot lines?)...yeah, it may indeed have been Roddenberry's inspiration for Star Trek.  Yeah, it was MGM's only major-effort Sci-Fi film.  Those things may or may not be true...but it tells you something when so much legend is generated around a film, doesn't it? Let's observe three things that make this film one of the few Si Fi films that have a permanent home in my private movie collection (which Star Wars, alas, does NOT).... First, it's true Science Fiction (again, which Star Wars, in my opinion, isn't).  That's because the Scientific development is homogeneous with the plotline (an absolute necessity to be true Sci Fi, instead of just fantasy with Scientific trappings).  Secondly, the acting is archetypal.  By it's very nature, good Sci-Fi is arechtypal, meaning the characters represent major forces or universal types.  Leslie Nielson's starship captain represents the wit and humanity of us all, a kind of everyman; Pigeon's Morbius represents intellect gone awry; Anne Francis represents the hope of love, and the saving grace of innocence...and so on, and so on.  Now this can create a problem if you're not a Sci Fi fan.  The movie can come across as uni-dimensional.  But for its day, Forbidden Planet was amazingly tantalizing, with special effects that the rest of Hollywood didn't catch up with for twenty years!  There were the electronic tonalities as they are billed (the first synthesized music)...there were matte screen effects that were not only first-rate, but awe-inspiring the backgrounds of the planet were both other-worldly and beautful.  (Remember, this movie was shot entirely on a studio sound stage!!!) There were the other special effects, from the space ship itself, to futuristic home of Morbius, to...well, to say more would be to giving away too much.  See them for yourself, and remember that the movie is almost a half-century old!!!  I guess my main point, is that this is classic Science Fiction, borne from an era of writers where the view of the future was different than today.  If you see the movie in that vein, you'll consider it a masterpiece.  If you can't obtain that mindset, you'll probably be left feeling disappointed.  DON'T compare it to Star Wars, or even its derivative, Star Trek.  This movie's heritage is that of the Golden Age of written Science Fiction Asimov, Heinlein, and Clarke.  Compare it to them, and you'll get it. "},{"Title":"My first real sci-fi flick and one of my all time fav.s","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was 9 when I saw this with my friends at the Saturday afternoon matinee. I knew nothing about The Tempest at that time. It's amazing how much I did comprehend. The music and the special effects were superb. The cast was largely unknown at the time, but eventually most of the actors would show up on TV. When the crew first visited the underground machine left by the Krel, I was in awe. I had my first taste of infinity. The fact that we never really had a clear view of the creature was also a nice touch. All in all, this one is a keeper.  "},{"Title":"C'MON GUYS...THIS WAS THE 1950'S...A FANTASTIC MOVIE","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies they showed alot on local television in the 1960's.  The Million Dollar Movie in NYC let you see favorites ALOT in those days before there was adequate, cheap programming.  I never tired of this one.  Why tire?  It's the state of the are science-fiction movie, pre-2001 and Star Wars.  This movie was elegant in a time when Ed Norton was parodying Captain Video.  It's wonderfully done, terrific sets and in COLOR too.  Robby the Robot in all his splendor cost the studio $1 million to create (unheard of in that day).  Robbie was famous and went on to make numerous TV and movie appearances, but this was his most memorable role.On a recent Monstervision on TNT (a late night saturday movie show), a still gorgeous Anne Francis (now 69 years old) was interviewed at length between movie segments and gave alot of insight into the movie.  I recommend looking for the re-run.The intereraction of the crew is a little too South Pacific but considering the film's age, it fits.  I find any comments looking at something with today's eyes and no feel for the time of filming naive and unfair (you had to be there).  The stars do a fine job in a genre usually done cheaply and regularly assigned B movie status.For the fans.... I was recently, pleasantly surprised to see, on a Star TrekDeep Space 9 episode, a tribute to the movie Forbidden Planet (not the first one they've done).  Dr. Bashir had to travel to a conference where he was giving a lecture (and spying), he was transported on a ship called The Belerefon, the same as one of the ships in Forbidden Planet.  It was not wasted on me. Thanks guys.... "}{"Title":"Id, Id, Id!!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the finest 'other-worldly' science fiction film of the 1950s.  The visuals are breathtaking and the story, suspenseful.  I am still amazed by the underground chamber scenes. I don't even think CGI could make it look more real.  There have been rumors floating around that James Cameron has designs to remake this classic.  I have mixed feelings about that.  I don't think he could improve upon it, that's for sure.   "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet is THE SF movie of the 1950s","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so Robbie's a little hokey-looking by today's standards, and some of the acting is pretty stilted, and most of the special effects could now be duplicated by a bright 12 year old kid with a decent computer editing program.  And don't get me started about the poster.This is STILL a great movie, 40 years after it was released.  I grew up watching science fiction on the local TV station's Science Fiction/Adventure Theater on Sunday afternoons, so I've seen quite a few SF movies from the '50s.  At a time when most movies were content to slap a rubber costume on somebody and have him demolish a miniature model of a city, Forbidden Planet forever raised the bar and showed that it was possible to make a science fiction movie which actually had a plot.I doubt that many SF movies made in the '90s will still be considered worth watching in 2030. "},{"Title":"The Krill Rule!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robbie THE Robot,The Id,Lesley and Walter, that introductory monologue,a very groovy spaceship (not to mention the spunky heroine);Come on, this is one of the Greats! This is one film that does not need to be re-made, it,s a perfect ten. The Krill Rule! (or at least they did). "},{"Title":"Best movie I ever saw for the price of a box top","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was seven years old this movie came out for its first run. The big promotion was Robby the robot telling kids that they could get in to see the movie with a box top from Quaker Oats ( if they were accompanied by a paying adult ). This is the first promotion of this type that I can remember. I begged my dad, who took me, to sit though it twice. Thus began my love affair with the Sci-fi genre. However the same type of  movies that followed this great epic left everything to be desired, and until much later on in my life would the passion for great Sci-fi movies be realized. This one however started them all. "},{"Title":"Good 50's scifi","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is considered by many to be a beacon of brilliance among the trash sci-fi films of the 50's and 60's. I'm able to argue that point as I've not seen any others. It is an enjoyable film, however the first scenes in the spacecraft are unintentionally funny the slightly hammy acting, the way the Captain keeps making announcements to his crew over a tannoy evne though they all seem to be stood in front of him. It was also difficult to adjust to seeing Leslie Nielsen in a serious role and not playing for laughs like his latter roles in Naked Gun etc. The film is serious, but plays with many touche of humour; the stereotyped ships cook getting Robbie The Robot to make him whiskey and the array of sexual innuendo's aimed at the Dr.s daughter. There are some interesting insights into how the future was anticipated way back in 1956, I loved the Captain's waist held communicator he used to talk to the spacecraft, by pulling a retractable microphone.Aside from this, there are some impressive stuff to enjoy. The arrival of the planet and the brilliant landscapes are a standout moment. There are also the stunning shots of the Krell's underground network of shafts with the first shot as the humans walk out onto the bridge is uttterly breathtaking. There is also some great animation utilized when the id is attacking and is caught in the force field.The 'electronic' sounds used as a soundtrack are grating after a while, but otherwise the film is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"I, Robot","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know I should like this film, and I do for the most part, but as other's have mentioned, it is a bit long in the tooth. I to also found the raging hormones of the all male crew to be a bit annoying. It's a wonder they didn't start panting and howling at the moons as well. I also have to say that overall, the movie leaves me cold. It's a very sterile atmosphere that permeates the film. On the plus side the effects are great (besides the cartoon monster), as are the effects, props, costumes and of course Robbie. If the robot was not in this film, I don't think it would have been as popular as it was/is. The second half of the movie picks up steam once we start to investigate the forgotten gadgets of the Krell. As many times as I've seen this movie, the Krell still leaves me scratching my head as to exactly who or what they were. Based on what was being produced at that time, besides This Island Earth, Forbidden Planet is miles above the average Sci-Fi movies of the time. Being filmed in color also adds to its enjoyment. Certainly a classic in its own right, flaws and all, and deservedly so. "},{"Title":"A movie that tests the limits of celluloid's power of expression","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With a plot based on Shakespeare's The Tempest, lessons in mathematics & physics & the occasional reference to Greek mythology (man does not look into the face of the Gorgon and live!), Forbidden Planet might be used by some enterprising Animal House frat boy to pass at least three college courses. Having thought up that idea, I can now take credit if it's ever filmed. A ship sent to learn the fate of an earlier expedition finds only one scientist (Pigeon) & his attractive young daughter (Francis) surviving, served by the all-capable, polite but wry-humored Robbie the Robot. The ramrod tough but compassionate captain (Nielsen) soon learns from the reluctant, reclusive scientist that the planet is home to the ruins of an astonishingly advanced, but now dead, civilization. The scientist warns them that his own companions were long ago slaughtered by an unstoppable, invisible attacker that inexplicably left him & his daughter alone. When the captain's own command is subjected to escalating sabotage & attacks, he suspects the scientist, who makes no secret of his wish to be left alone & may be growing jealous of his daughter's undisguised attraction to the captain. Do either the captain or the scientist really understand the forces with which they tamper? Not until 2001 did a another major film so searchingly, even hauntingly, explore our fears of contacting an alien intelligence so far ahead of us that it may not even care if we exist at all. This is one of those films whose flaws actually add to its appeal. The actors & crew struggle with the strictures of the 1950s, reinforcing age & gender stereotypes (cantankerous old father, tough-guy spacemen, leggy blonde) giving sugary prominence to the schoolyard romance of the captain & the girl, and even throwing in a silly subplot about the ship's cook, determined to get his hands on whiskey. Before we throw too many stones at the '50s, of course, our own jaded Law & Order, CSI decade could not have depicted the scientist & his scantily clad daughter without some sort of slur about incest. Distinguished actors never quite distinguish themselves here, Pigeon sometimes seeming bored or tired while Nielsen & Francis give us nothing that hasn't been done a million times before or 2 million times since. But few sci-fi films, before or since, have so well woven popular science into its tale, including physics, Freudian psychology (sans the sex stuff) and robotics. Though it is done on an impressively futuristic set, much of the story's scientific background is done in dialog between the actors. This would have been great in a book but tests our patience in a movie, where our eyes & ears demand constant movement. The climax between Nielsen & Pigeon more than makes up for any earlier boredom. Predictably primitive by today's standards, the special effects are a model for any film, illustrating without overwhelming the action. The weapons make far less noise than the phasers of Star Trek or the blasters & light sabers of Star Wars (why do electromagnetic weapons have to make noise, anyway? Wouldn't silence be a benefit of such equipment, so that Obi-Kirk & Darth Klingon can sneak up on each other?). Forbidden Planet also makes effective use of red herrings with no fishy aftertaste, keeping those of us who haven't seen The Tempest performed lately guessing. The cutting-edge, haunting electronic music score by the Barrons may not be for every taste but sets the mood of introspection, mystery & wonder as effectively as John Williams's orchestration frames the heroism, villainy & conflict in Star Wars. If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then Forbidden Planet is one of the most honored films in history, from the all-American military discipline and micro-miniskirts of the Star Treks to the 'droids and mysterious, invisible Force of Star Wars (thought that was all New-Age Buddhism, did you?). 2001, Stargate, Farscape, Space 1999 and Close Encounters also delve into our fear of & wonder at more advanced aliens and our own computerized creations, while Lost in Space is either a parody or a cheap rip-off, whatever your pleasure. The highest honor that can be given to this film is that it is a definitive view of how mainstream America, then flush with victory in war and prosperity at home, mindful yet fearful of the electromagnetic powers that it had just harnessed, looked at its own fears & hopes for the future. "},{"Title":"The Best SciFi Film Ever Made......Period.","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched Forbidden Planet at least fifty times. I never get tired of viewing this masterpiece. In my opinion, three elements make a film either good or bad. First and foremost is an intelligent script. Second is a cast that can deliver that script in a convincing way. And third (for the SciFi Genre especially), are special effects. In Forbidden Planet, all three of these elements come together in a truly artful way. Lets start with the script. How many SciFi movies of the early fifties carried such sophisticated lines such as Ship in approach Skipper, helical vector oriented, or It's a matter of crude power, how to short circuit the continuum on a five or six parsec level. These lines are delivered excellently by all cast members. If any of the three elements I have mentioned is somewhat lacking in this film, it is the special effects. Disney's involvement shows through in a cartoonish way. The Monster from the Id looks like something out of a Tasmanian Devil cartoon and is almost laughable. The alien landscape of Altair-4 is clearly a painted backscreen, albeit very well done. No, this movie is not perfect, but then again which one is? There are some logical contradictions as well. When Jerry the Astrogator messes up and punches out a DC Fix that puts the ship too close to Altair (the star), the ship's computer quickly arranges shielding behind a planet, probably Altair-1 or Altair-2. If the computer was programmed to protect the crew and ship automatically, why did it allow Jerry to punch out the wrong fix in the first place? Also, the ship's cook played by Earl Holliman comes across as irreverent in regards to the ship's rules and regulations, and one of his first lines directed towards the robot indicates that he is a womanizer Is it male or female. And yet, when Altara is at the ship, he doesn't even look at her. But these faults are minor. I was surprised when I found out that The Day the Earth Stood Still was a bigger box office draw in the 1950's, although this is a very good film as well. All in all, I consider Forbidden Planet the best SciFi movie ever made, bar none. "},{"Title":"The red monster- Wow!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, this is the best science fiction movie ever made. Only Aliens comes close. I feel that the best and most interesting part of the movie was the description Dr. Morbius gave of the Krell race, particularly regarding how many shafts there were, their size, and the machines that self-survived to make the inner workings of the planet continue for centuries. The scariest part was when the red monster (alive only because of Morbius' thoughts) came down the valley to the electro-field and killed one of the crew members. That thing was terrifying, and the special effects were WAY ahead of their time. An absolutely terrific movie! "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shakespeare's The Tempest is a model for this exceptional science fiction film. We look for differences. Prospero and his daughter, Miranda, are stranded on a Mediterranean island. Morbius and Altaira are marooned on the 4th planet circling the star Altair. Ariel is a spirit. Robby the Robot is a man-made servant. Caliban's evil hardly approaches that of Monsters of the Id. Shakespeare spares Prospero. Morbius dies when Altair 4 blows up. The Tempest is a comedy. Forbidden Planet is a tragedy. We wonder if mankind must suffer the fate of the Krell in some future time. Anne Francis is Altaira. Jack Kelly is Lieutentant Farman. Kelly starred with James Garner in the comedy/western TV series, Maverick. "}{"Title":"What the Krell?","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I looked through all the comments about Forbidden Planet and found only one that was negative. Together with mine, that makes two.Looking past the excuses about it being a thinking man's sci-fi film (I'm a thinking man and it was still crap), it's a clever allusion to Shakespeare's the Tempest, and how it was made in the 50s, the fact remains that it's an out-dated cheap looking piece of camp.The story is basically just about Leslie Nielsen and his horny crew of inept morons (I have an IQ of 161. - yeah, right) coming to rescue Morbius and his barely clad daughter from their paradise home. I fail to see the deep thinking here. Besides the odd remark of how the subconscious can be evil, and some preposterous preaching at the end, most of the time is spent setting up guards around the saucer, or drooling over the luscious Altaira.When the story isn't enough to get your attention, it's easy to instead focus on all of the unintentionally (or maybe not, I could never be sure I wasn't watching some kind of spoof) funny things. The obvious matte paintings, the rubber and plastic sets (everything wobbles), the cartoon effects, and the stilted acting and dialogue (try counting the number of times a microphone is used, or the tractor is mentioned).When a movie is good or at least entertaining, you can overlook such shortcomings, but here it only emphasizes the feeling that you're watching an early episode of Star Trek. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Changed my life! This is my favorite film of all time!","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  10 Stars! Simply one of the BEST SciFi Movies Ever Made!OOOhhhh! Flipping through the channels...surfing the cable and ...WOW! What is this? Cool! C57D, a flying saucer with, YES it's Leslie Nielsen as a boy! I mean, Captain! Forbidden Planet, was MGM's high-budget, risky venture at making the one of the finest Color Sci-Fi classics in the 50's. Unlike many of the low budget movies of the genre, FP remains to this day a very entertaining and captivating film. I have to say, that it changed my life as a kid, because it gave me the desire to explore more books about Sci-Fi. Monster movies are my favorites, and speaking of monsters, the one in FP is on the top of my list of BEST MONSTERS (those you really don't want to ever meet in a dark...even a well lit alley). Yes, AVP (Aliens Versus Predator) may be wonderful, but this monster beats every monster movie monster, by leaps and bounds!The story Based on a screenplay by Irving Block and Allen Adler (Fatal Planet), it takes its inspiration from Shakespears' THE TEMPEST. In a nutshell, Spacemen come to rescue a lost group of colonists, only to find that most have died long ago. Only Dr. Morbius (Walter Pigeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) remain. They tell Commander Adams (Leslie Nielsen) that 20 years ago, when they first landed, some invisible power killed everyone but Dr.Morbius and his wife (now deceased from natural causes). Soon, we find that the good Doctor has discovered that the KRELL, a once powerful race of aliens, lived below the surface of Altair-4 (where they are) and they created a machine that is 20x20x20 miles square (thats 8000 cubic miles of Klystrons and Relays...and they never stop self repairing themselves!). Well, before you know it, the Monster is back...and people are dying...and well, the big, bad disintigrator beams from the ship's main weapons are simply NOT stopping it! I LOVE THIS MONSTER!I must mention that this was the first movie with ROBBY THE ROBOT. ROBBY was based on Asimov's Robots Rules of order, and for the most part was just a big lovable teddy-bear. He could never hurt anyone, but watch how Morbius proves this by having Robby point a BLASTER at the Commander! The way Nielsen clinches his fists was so telling!. Sure, the robots in I ROBOT are very cool, but they can't make diamonds like ROBBY can.The sets were beautiful, the saucer flies perfectly (notice the shadows and the dust when it lands). So much here that you simply must watch very closely to the detail, it really is worth it. Speaking of detail, the Monster was pretty easy...because it was MOSTLY invisible. Joshua Meador (on loan from Disney Studios) made the animation of the monster. It is Crude by comparison to the new Computer Generated Animation (CGA), but for its time it was AWESOME! The monster, by the way, is powered by 2700 thermo-nuclear reactors, and can recreate itself, microsecond after microsecond! NO! IT CANNOT BE DESTROYED! (You thought ALIENS were tough! HAH!)Well, there is a little love story going on with the Commander and Altaira, and Daddy doesn't like it. Go Figure! Anyway, I won't give it all away, just GET IT AND ENJOY! ... END Charles Curtis ( fade to black )  "},{"Title":"Quite literally, a peerless piece of the cinematic artform","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie probably comes in just behind 2001 A Space Odyssey, and light years ahead of Star Wars.  (Just out of interest, compare the similarity in the scene where the Id Monster is burning the metal door down to the scene where the Liam Neeson's character is using his light sword to burn through the blast door at the beginning of the Phantom Menace.  Perhaps the Id Monster was a Jedi).The Freudian overtones in this storyline, more implicit than explicit, give an added, hidden depth which might disturb some viewers without knowing why.  (Like the subliminal face frame in The Exorcist, making me jump for no known reason - until I watched it on video, after having been told about it.)But the most frightening monster of course is the one we never see. There's always something under the bed, even if you can't see it, it's still there.When watching this movie in 1958 as an 8 year old, as the Id Monster attacked the grounded space ship and was eventually revealed in all its horror, I was down behind the seat not watching.  So I never actually SAW the monster at any time on the screen.  In 1991, I bought my first video player, and was given a recording of a commercial TV transmission of the movie modified for TV - ie all visual reference to the Monster were deleted (except for the footprints - and to this day I cannot look at footprints in sand without hearing the eerie tonalities of the movie).  It wasn't until Forbidden Planet was released on VHS that I actually obtained a complete version.  By this time I was in my early 50s.  I noticed two things.  Firstly, the very unrealistic colour tinting of the original had been paled, which for me destroyed one of the beauties of that era of film making (probably something to do with the filmstock used, but I'm happy to defer to someone with more knowledge) and secondly, as used as I was to the modified version I had watched over the previous decade or so, I was caught completely by surprise by the appearance, in flaming red outline, of the Id Monster.  When my heart rate settled down, I thought, wow, THAT was really terrifying.  No wonder it was modified.So after 4 decades, I finally faced the nightmare I had hidden from, and my estimation of the worth of this marvellous movie went up even further.Thanks to all concerned for making this classical piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Intelligence over gore","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie about sheer violence and power, yet it's presentedin such an intelligent way that today's popular fare of overdonegore is non-existent. If you're looking for boobs, blood andbrawling, look elsewhere. You need a brain and a hunger for agood story to enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"It will remind us...after all...that we are not God...","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It will remind us...after all...that we are not God... --Leslie Nielsen as Commander J.J. Adams in the final scene of FORBIDDEN PLANET.WHAT A SCREENPLAY!!!  WHAT A SOUNDTRACK!!!  WHAT A MOVIE!!! The producers of FORBIDDEN PLANET took Shakespeare's The Tempest, transported the play to the year 2200 A.D. in outer space, added Freudian Psychology, futuristic music (electronic tonalities) ray guns, a mad scientist(veteran of over 100 movies Walter Pidgeon), his beautiful daughter(sexy 21 year old blonde with a mole and the rumored model for the Barbie doll Anne Francis), a flying saucer--the C-57-D--a handsome LEADING MAN OF ACTION (a very young Leslie Nielsen), the best science fiction robot ever (Robby, butler, security guard, and master of 187 languages and a variety of subtongues), and a classic boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl love story, a murder mystery, and the result is nothing less than the greatest science fiction movie ever made!!!The story's great, the acting is great, the costumes and sets are great, and FORBIDDEN PLANET IS THE ONLY MOVIE I NEVER GET TIRED OF WATCHING AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN!!!  Or as Leslie Nielsen says in FORBIDDEN PLANET's final scene, It will remind us...after all...that we are not God... "},{"Title":"I will have no more dreaming onboard this ship","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I suppose you have to take sci-fi of the 50's in context of its time. Those guys were exploring space before the actual science, had to improvise a lot and imagine even more. Which is why watching something like this is so endearing these days you get to see 1950's present projected into some imaginary future.- a space mission pretty much run by army yokels, including a lieutenant who makes a pass on the first babe he sees, and a cook who uses molecular robot technology to reproduce 60 gallons of whiskey. This is so unimaginable now, it may well come true when space flight becomes ordinary duty.- the modern house of Dr. Morbius as one flow of clean, open space that pools into a living area full of smart household appliances, and opens up through glass into cascading gardens outside. A housewife's dream muses a character. Frank Lloy Wright was at the time building in this style, inspired by Japanese Buddhist temples.- by contrast, the alien technology of the extinct super-race of geniuses (the Krell) is stark, geometric, conceived on a titanic scale. It's pure Metropolis, with no flow or elegance whatsoever.- there are no computer screens of course but the notion of screen - cinematic - vision is present notice inside the ship the weird would-be hologram with a miniature ship inside a plastic balloon, and the Krell device that projects mind images. The ship is of course a flying saucer.- the 'forbidden' aspect of the planet is mind augmentation, the subconscious, an actual Id-monster. Freud's ideas on dreams and repressed sexuality were radical in their time, but you can see their hard limits and in my opinion, opposite effect, in the struggle to repress and control the 'monster'. Not Japanese at all.- the moral denouement is that we best not tamper with forces beyond our comprehension, a necessity it seems of the early atomic age.I admit it's a film of heady contrasts.The sedentary scientist and naive bombshell daughter with their robot, next to the boisterous army crew.The vast and obsolete looking 'futuristic' technology, next to sand deserts and the organic architecture of the house.The pastel colors of the MGM backlot (green skies!), next to the art-deco look of machinery.The thunderous shot that reveals the immensity of the Krell laboratories, compared to everything else being standard eye-level shots - it sticks out.It's so heady, you can trace its unmistakable influence from Star Trek to Alien. Every visual- and story element is memorable, that's for sure. At the time, a space world this coherent must have been stupendous to watch. It's not very intelligent or cinematic in current terms though the cinematic eye is unexciting - color has been splashed from the outside - and plotwise everything of some importance is postulated in as much stentorian tones as Hammer. It's a curious piece. I so wish Welles in his Arkadin mode had taken this on, with blurs between the spatial investigation and Krell-transmitted 'reality'. "},{"Title":"Anne Francis stars....in Forbidden Planet, oh oh oh, in the late night double feature, creature show  from RKO...","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever immortalised in the line above from THE ROCKY HORROR SHOW, this is where movie legends start and end, the benchmark by which a film is judged a classic. Many perhaps have not realised, it is a re-working ITSELF - of Shakespeare's Prospero-inhabited play THE TEMPEST. Re-characterised and moved forward inter-terrestrially some 600 years or so but still a parallel tale. Quite without equal in terms of WHAT it was WHEN it was, FORBIDDEN PLANET was so far ahead of its time in terms of sci-fi reflective thinking, special fx and even synthesised music (pretty much the first time it had ever been used outside experimental films) it offered a curious mix of futurism, adventure, romance and even horror! I saw it in London on its release as a young child and the scene where the crew confront the invisible monster was the single most frightening moment of my life. I remember clinging on to my mom's arm absolutely scared witless (A variation on this word is more approprite perhaps, but having regard to the G rated nature of the IMDb, we'll leave it at that!) Remember also that on the big screen its power was infinitely more confronting than from the safety of one's fav lounge! Even in later years, watching my own children's hushed reaction to the thing, bailed up there in the force field, the fear-factor is still generated. No screen monster since has come near it! (ALIEN included) due I imagine to the fact that here was an incomprehensibly powerful and insubstantial horror, the manifestation of man's ultimate fear. Some years ago CINEFANTASQUE devoted an entire publication to FORBIDDEN PLANET and it describes the artistic metamorphosis of the creature and the staggering amount of work that went into the realisation of that graphic scene. Although most likely a throw-back to my childhood, the scene still gets to me today (We watched it again last night!)...just the sounds of the thing's approach are awesome and without equal in almost fifty years...forget the T-Rex in JURASSIC PARK, that was about as scary as the Wet Bandits in HOME ALONE! Some reviewer correctly observed that earlier sci-fi films evolved TOWARDS FORBIDDEN PLANET and so many since have gestated FROM it! Is not the staggering KRELL machinery itself, the ancestor of the labyrinthine nuclear reactor in TOTAL RECALL? and R2D2 even, the great great grandson of Robby the Robot?  Other stupefying FX which remain locked in the memory are the impressive neutron-laser batteries used by the ground crew, Morbius' electronically fortified house with its armored steel windows and the final scene as the Monster from the Id turns the last remaining door white hot - anyone want to tell me THAT didn't look real? Must be time for someone to re-make this now (I heard it HAD been planned by  DREAMWORKS a couple of years ago!) All we need, plenty of digitised landscapes, a herd of digitised monsters and some of todays teen idols....hmm, lets have Brad Pitt as Commander Adams, Anthony Hopkins as Morbius, Carmen Electra as Altaira and of course a cameo...well why not Leslie Nielsen himself?  he can play Robby 2! Hey and instead of letting the Krell lab self destruct at the end, lets follow Jeff Goldblum's lead and just infect the thing with a a 1985 DOS virus......we gotta have a sequel! "},{"Title":"A classic that doesn't have a lot of value for me today.","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anywhere in the galaxy this is a nightmare.Forbidden Planet is a science fiction movie from the 50's, involving a spaceship crew that encounters danger after journeying to a far planet to search for an expedition that disappeared there twenty years ago.It largely stays away from cheesiness that categorizes the 50's era of sci-fi (other than Robby the Robot and a hilarious looking creature). It's also lacking some of the charm that my favorite movies from that era have. It's very slow-paced at times, and there's a constant and unrelenting stream of exposition that only rarely is broken up by something actually happening.Forbidden Planet is an impressive technical achievement for its time, but I can't really recommend it for its entertainment value.People who prefer serious efforts over the more (intentionally or unintentionally) comical movies that were made around this time, may enjoy Forbidden Planet more than I did. "},{"Title":"not for adrenaline junkies","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i found this a very watchable movie,at least until the final 30 minutes.it's not really action packed,yet i found it fascinating.it stars Leslie Nielsen at a young age in a serious role.one thing i noticed is how similar to the original Star Trek this movie looks.this movie must have been an inspiration for that show.if not the similarities between the 2 is the biggest coincidence ever.like Star Trek,there is a beautiful woman that the captain falls in love with.the planet looks familiar too.i'm also certain that the robot in the movie greatly inspired the robot in the science fiction TV series Lost in Space.though the special effects may not be that impressive by today's standards,i can see how they would be back then.anyway,like i said,the movie kept my interest until the last 30 minutes or so.which is amazing,since,in my mind,not too much happened the previous 68 minutes.this is definitely not for those that are action and adrenaline junkies.others might enjoy it though.i'll give Forbidden planet a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Predictable but good","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Forbidden Planet' is a classic science fiction film, and it is probably best remembered for Robby the Robot. This classic science fiction film has probably everything you are looking for robots, pretty girls, astronauts, science/machines, principles and theories, eccentric characters, dangerous monsters, and alien planets. For those who crave science fiction, this film is a 'must-see'.There are two problems that I had with the film to give it an average rating. First of all, the pacing was a little bit slow, but this picked up toward the end, and it was only a minor problem. The main problem was that I knew the plot a third of the way into the film. (I won't spoil the ending.) Knowing what was happening was the most crucial aspect of the film, because this film's goal was to provide a message. I will say that the story and the plot is original, but unfortunately, audiences today have been more exposed to unique ideas and are probably a little better at picking apart the story given a few 'clues'.I will say that this film is a classic and it made an important step in the genre, but audiences today may have some problems with it. It's still a good film. "}{"Title":"Forgiven Picture","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is so much here that is buried fifty miles deep in post-war 1950's naivet that it almost, but doesn't, ruin some of the great aspects that removes it from the low-budget contemporaries abundant in the time frame.A number of things that keep this from descending to dreary land is the impressive look of the whole thing. It is part Art-Deco, part pulp cover enchantment, and all 1950's kitsch and the new electronic sounds had quite a futuristic appeal. A great looking Flying Saucer navigates the stars and lands on a desolate Demon haunted world. It is the origin of the Demons that is at the heart of the complex story.The scenes of Krell technology and subterranean structures are awe inspiring and the unfolding of their History and knowledge keeps your interest. But, Robby the Robot notwithstanding, the comedy relief is anything but. It is so painfully dated and along with the crew behaving like the Big Red One, the script tries and almost succeeds in creating Camp.So, it is for the better, influential and rather amazing rest, that its shortfalls can be forgiven. Because the best is so powerful it zaps and blasts into irrelevance the peripheral pandering presented in such predictable Fifties conservatism and ethnocentrism.Note The original poster for this Movie is one of the most sought after and expensive of its kind. It is, like this Movie, a Doozy. "},{"Title":"Still amazing after 60 years...","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went and saw this when it came out on the big screen, a Quaker Oats box top in my chubby little hands, heh heh. (Yes kiddies, you used to be able to see movies in a theater by just bringing proof you bought cereal, or a couple cans of veggies to help feed the needy.I will never forget the awe Forbidden Planet inspired in me at that early age, the dreams of traveling through space to distant planets. I'm sure it was the basis of my support for science and our quest for cost effective space exploration.Oh sure, young people today will undoubtedly have a hard time relating to fx of 60 years ago comparing to the cgi of today's movies. Perhaps a few might appreciate the hard work that went into choreographing blue screen acting with gel slide animation. And those fx were astoundingly produced in this one. I would hope younger people will try this out, just to help them appreciate the technology they enjoy today.Truly, the story is believable, without putting yourself out, so it is worth buying it on DVD for a nostalgic look into our scifi history. The Forbidden Planet, and The Day The Earth Stood Still led the way toward respectability in the Science Fiction genre... "},{"Title":"Wilcox's 15 minutes of fame","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred Wilcox is hardly a name to conjure with and to be fair I am hard-pressed to name another of his films, (in truth, I can't), but like so many others whose star burned brightly for all of those '15 minutes of fame', Forbidden Planet gave him his momentary place in the sun. Much beloved by all who know it, it transposes Shakespeare's The Tempest to the planet Altair where Prospero is now Morbius, Ariel is Robby the Robot and Caliban is the Monster from the Id, (and pretty scary it is for what is essentially a family-friendly film).Fans, like me, have internalized the film into our sub-conscious, images appearing periodically in our mind's eye; its colourful, unreal Altair surely an inspiration for all those televisual planets that the Star trek Enterprise landed on. Is it a great film? Certainly not. A good one? Most definitely. It appeals to the inner child in all of us. Who wouldn't want to be an astronaut after seeing it. With a book that stuck much more closely to Shakespeare's original it was ultimately turned into the rock-musical Return to the Forbidden Planet which provided as much fun in the theatre as this did in the cinema. "},{"Title":"Investigation of Logical Design Roles with Duty, Love, and Creation of Society","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is an interesting plot which tells about analogous society's for intelligent life. The dominant intelligence for some reason has been extinguished only to be investigated by a population of human scientists. For some reason un-known to the investigation follow-up team from the military forces the existing population of colonists have disappeared leaving only a father and daughter.From the perspective of the scientist the military investigation is a nuisance to his research. Only to ask questions that the research of the scientist can-not explain. However the military is obligated to its duty and honor for its people.Eventually, when the military began to re-educate the daughter of the scientist strange energy forces begin to destroy the military team. Eventually, the cause is determined by the scientists own research and experimentation with the previous intelligent life mind enhancing machines. This energy also began to threaten the scientists daughter due to their association with the military team. Thus, the scientists own mental energy was proved to be an overall threat to the military due to the bias of the scientific perspective concerning military involvement with scientific research of intelligent life.I think the role of love and duty as emotions within logic are very key elements of this screen-play. The story of passion and curiosity for what can establish a life balance is unique for the scientist and military personnel. The role of duty of men to country and their people is portrayed in symbolic fashion with the use of military weapons, defense, uniform dress just as witnessed by real archaeological records.I think the solidarity of the scientist does not reflect the real world perspective of scientists due to common disciplines sharing and collaborating with information to excel with comprehensive understanding. However, the movie plot makes solidarity a super power analogous to creation of life itself. This is accomplished by defining the intelligent life being studied as the fixation through independent discovery upon logical determination and is confirmed with the uses of the intelligent design technology. "},{"Title":"Great Films In CinemaScope Forbidden Planet","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet (1956) Starring Walter Pigeon, Leslie Nielsen, Anne Francis, Warren Stevens, Jack Kelly, Richard Anderson, George Wallace, Earl Holliman, Jimmy Thompson, Robert Dix, James Drury, Harry Harvey Jr, Peter Miller, Richard Grant, Morgan Jones and Robby The Robot......Director Fred Wilcox, Screenplay Irvin Block, Allen Adler Never mind that it's long and talky and relies mostly on the dazzling visual effects, Forbidden Planet from 1956 is a classic of science fiction movies from the 50's when this genre of film was very popular and highly entertaining. The plot is hardly original. Drawn from Shakespeare's The Tempest, the story follows the tragic downfall of the brilliant scientist Dr. Edward Mobius (Walter Pigeon) who lives with his sexy daughter (Ann Francis) on a distant, abandoned planet, once the home of a highly advanced alien civilization that had visited earth and brought back with them some animal life. Eventually, human space travelers on a Star Trek type mission encounter the titular Forbidden Planet and discover its mysteries. A young Leslie Nielsen (Naked Gun, Spy Hard, Scary Movie 3 and 4) stars as Commander John J. Addams. Leslie Nielson is so young (probably 20's or 30's) that without his trademark white hair he's almost unrecognizable at first. I like that he's not doing anything comedic or silly and he proves to be a versatile and gifted serious actor. Commander Addams falls for Dr. Morbius' beautiful daughter Altaira, who is drawn to him on both a physical and intellectual level. To her, the newcomers are fascinating and people of a whole new world. Dr. Morbius mistrusts the newcomers and disapproves of Dr. Addams' relationship with his daughter. Eventually, he loses his daughter to the Commander as well as loses his life fighting them. There is an invisible monster in the planet, attacking the newcomers. The film is mostly dark and ultimately tragic when we discover the real enemy being Dr. Morbius and the only light touch is the character of Robby the Robot, a Hollywood sci-fi film icon. He was so popular at the time that it appeared as a line of toys for children and was making TV guest appearances well after the film's release, like in his cameo in The Addams Family (1964-1966). But despite this character which appeals to kids, the film is mostly for adults and in a bland, very subtle way reveals psychosexual and Freudian aspects of father-and-daughter relationships as well as the more understandable clash of cultures. Altaira learns to become more human, more like the visitors, and rebels against her father by dressing the way she wants and sneaking off with the Commander, behaving more like a 50's counter-culture adolescent. The film is wonderful and a one of a kind sci-fi picture, mostly because in 1956, this was the first major studio-made sci-fi motion picture, a step above the more independent, low-budget and second-tier sci-fi films that invaded theaters across America. In those days, these movies about alien invasion, body snatchers and monsters were a dime a dozen and often of inferior quality (take for example Earth Versus The Flying Saucers, War of the Worlds, The Claw, Creature Of The Black Lagoon, etc). This is possibly the most expensive sci-fi movie ever made in its time. The careful attention to detail in visual effects is ever present when we see Dr. Morbiou's home- laboratory and the lost alien observatory/education center. The monster is nothing more than an animated character when revealed and the backdrops are painted and kitschy but there is an overall sense of magic and haunting eeriness in a well-executed piece of movie-making. The musical score by brothers Bebe and Louis Barron was radically new for its time. There is no orchestral music anywhere and instead we hear pure electronic tonalities, giving the film a creepy, futuristic, haunting quality. To top it off, the film was shot in glorious CinemaScope, during the height of its success. The colors are exotic and lush. The costumes by veteran designer Walter Plunkett, who had once upon a time in 1939 designed the costumes for Gone With The Wind, are splendid and surprisingly less campy than the costumes in Barbarella (1968). Anne Francis' wardrobe is especially lovely, though it reveals a kind of male fantasy of an outer space beauty from comic books. Ann Francis is wonderful, boldly doing things no actress had done before on film, like swimming nude in a lake. Nothing like this had ever been made before. It's a great document in 50's cinema. "},{"Title":"Query rather than just a comment.","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apologies if on the wrong board; newbie to this medium thus played safe re. spoiler. For years have been relating my memory (boringly, to all and sundry ) of Morbius' dialogue..... to Doc & Commander... whilst showing them Krell 'goodies' w.r.t. marvellously forecasting the future appearance of CD's/DVD's. Namely when M. holds out a small disc(disk) and remarks  all the knowledge of the Krell is contained on this.... or something similar.Imagine my surprise/chagrin on recently viewing a TV release(copy) of FP that the aforesaid dialogue was absent............did I imagine same or has it been missed out in the TV version??My only 'negative' recollection from 1956 viewing concerned the inclusion of the (Hollywood mandatory) 'joker' viz. Cookie, which lowered the tone somewhat ( and I still haven't read 'The Tempest' ). "},{"Title":"Proto Trek","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though I bailed out of the Star Trek fan-culture many years ago, I was struck by how much this landmark film resembled the old Star Trek series. The set design, color, style, motif and futuristic premise all looked like Proto-Star Trek. One can't help but think that this film, released in 1956, almost a decade before the debut of Star Trek, influenced a young Gene Rodenberry, who was around then a Los Angeles policeman. The stark similarity to Star Trek was crystallized when a youthful Leslie Nielsen, not the goofy old guy we know today, but a handsome and serious leading man playing Commander John J. Adams, almost immediately groped the leading lady (Anne Francis) just like Captain Kirk would have done! Anne Francis, who was quite an impressive sight back then, plays the daughter of the mysterious character Dr. Edward Morbius, played by the rather stuffy but still effective Walter Pigeon.The story has somewhat Shakespearian overtones and plenty of cheesy pathos (just like Star Trek) and even some thought-provoking sci-fi sensibility. A must-see for both former and current Trekkers. "},{"Title":"Required viewing for Sci-fi fans","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think I've seen a film from this far back that offered such vision, or had such depth. I would love to know what the cinema-goers of the day thought. This film is the same age as I am. I first saw it on TV as a child, and have been an avid sci-fi fan all my life. I've seen hundreds of films, and what can be produced today is incredibly well made, but nothing else has ever captured that unique feel this classic has. It's like watching a cross between a moving painting and 'being there'. The opening scenes showing a planet close-up easily pass muster today. The sets have a solidity to them, and are just beautiful. One can claim that some of the characters seem a little naive, but this is 1956; a world of different values and far less cynical. Also, for years I have held the opinion that this was Star Trek's illustrious father, there are so many similarities. Trek only just managed to live up to it, and that comes from a major fan. Make sure you catch the remastered, widescreen version. This is supreme sci-fi. Beautiful, eerie, and at times downright creepy. "},{"Title":"The Invisible Intruder","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forbidden Planet is a very good science fiction film.The Movie provides through its landscape, a picture that is alluring,attractive and even unusual.The clever use of timing and special effects provides for the added illusion that one is on some distant planet,called Altair-4, whereby Dr.Morbius and The Be-lara-thon Party have discovered what remains of an ancient civilization known as the Krell.This occurs some twenty years before the picture opens and as it does we are looking at a spartan universe which is attractively provided for.The Planet cruiser is coincidently very spartan as well,while providing for appearances it moves unlike we have ever seen power to move and at great speed toward this planet.The suggestion as put forth by the ships doctor allows us to believe that the ships navigation has an ability to steer clear of trouble by arraigning its own eclipses.The costumes are as well almost like fashion and are themselves lacking in ornament with solid based colors.It is a clever illustration of how to sell a motion picture.The viewer must also be aware that this was filmed in 1955-1956 and though we are asked to assume that it is somewhere in and around the year 2200 we are asked to ignore the obvious architectural designs,notice the columns in the Morbious home and place yourself if possible into the future.The design of the picture attempts to influence your thinking through the making of an impression and indeed like a good slick advertising campaign we can focus on the storyline and not worry so much about appearances.What does that mean?The ability to present the picture is done well with good all around camera work and special effects.The Green Sky and Two Moons of Altair-4 is weird enough however the language though based in 1955-1956 wants to be more than simply language but an ability to support the illusion of what is being perpetrated.The picture wants very much to be up to it and smart to boot.Its good in that endeavor and a preliminary look see would suggest that this is a well made as well as well thought out presentation.There are to be sure elements that though they may in fact be dated are nonetheless essential and this is where the film loses some steam.There are many ways that science fiction attempts to convey another world or another time and one of the ways that the stage and screen do that is to appear to be something as well as to act like what you wish to appear as.The acting like the spartan universe is not overly crowded,with a lack of information and even complexity getting your attention.This scenario is not entirely unwelcome as it suggests we have learned how to do things far beyond what use to be,or many times faster it is suggested than even the speed of light.However this is even before the planet cruiser with a fill ships compliment approach Altair-4.The purpose of this mission as is stated is to relieve,support and to assist the Be-lara-thon party or at its very least to determine what has happened because there has been no communication in some 19 years. Dr.Morbious like the picture proceeds under an assumption and while so many things are either taken for granted or assumed by others,Dr. Morbious warns the approaching vessel of something dangerous on Altair-4 and will not be held accountable if they choose to land there.The Commander,played by Leslie Nelson is indeed up to the demand and is not deterred by the threat of danger.The young and lovely Anne Francis is portrayed as Dr.Morbious daughter and in clever ways provides an attraction,on her own,which by the way is not altogether unattractive.It is interesting though,as it almost seems properly placed as support and not a lead role.It is suggested that it might complicate matters when the Commander confesses later on, however it is not the cause of action and like stated earlier it has its place.The complex issue that evolves, concerns the Krell civilization and the deaths of all but two of the original party which prompts inquiries that are done in a well thought out ability to know the cause.We are surprised to learn that at least one of party died as a result of some brain boost idea and as well we learn that the Krell can be said to be alive and well as there creation is virtually self sustaining.Even though the Krell citizenry no longer exist there civilization does and more impressive than ever.It is the equivalent of indeed another world and it almost would justify the attempt to claim this is the year 2200.The judgment had by the commander was that this was a find that can not be put into words as it allowed for a scientific impossibility.However,these statements were not given out of context.There was a very serious attack that occurred in which 3 men lost there lives and after the battle it is determined that they indeed were up against something that was a scientific impossibility.The purport of this script is that there was science as well as ideas of nuclear fission and so on and try as it does the film does hold your attention as this encroachment has not been deterred and only promises to be back.There is a very intimidating presence in this claim of a scientific impossibility.It is a terribly dangerous prospect that this world of the Krell promises and indeed after the attack there is a order, pack up the gear we are getting out of here,the doctor reminds the commander, wear feasible,quote the Doctor.The conclusion had by the picture is not meant as an illustration as to the future but as a formula about human kind and in that there isn't a real answer but something of an illusion.The films conclusions are indeed science fiction,and even the allowed 1000 words is not good enough to truly nail this false conclusion about how to think and why should the film have to protect its conclusions. "},{"Title":"A great SciFi Classic","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all the Sci-Fi movies made before 1970, this is one that I still look forward to watching even today.It had everything good acting, a great storyline, nice visuals (especially for its time), great audio and good direction.The unseen creature roaming the planet was done exceptionally well and those creepy sound effects that preceded its approach really did scare me..If anyone of you has never seen this movie, go out and rent it at least. Make some popcorn,,dim the lights and you'll be in for a treat..  "}{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forbidden Planet was the first movie I ever saw in my life and is still one of my all time favorites; effects that were incredible for it's day, wonderful music for any day with the world's first all electronic score, and a basic plot premise that is brilliant and bleeding edge even today.That said it must be admitted the movie is not without flaw, the most serious being the ending. Like all films of its day we must have a happy ending and to have that the thing of wonder, in this case an entire planet, must blow up. Why? Because of course there are some things man was not meant to know. There are also some lines of dialogue that can only make you groan  I'll bet any quantum mechanic in the army would give his eye teeth to work on this stuff. I also think the comic relief cook should have been the first causality, like in the opening credits.And there is one scene that is just a few frames too long. This didn't bother me at all the first time I saw it but for some reason it bugs the hell out of me now. Alteria is swimming in a lake and we're told she's nude. Fine. But then we get a brief glimpse of her getting out of the lake and it's clear as day that she's not nude at all. Bummer!If they can remake Planet Of The Apes they can damn well remake Forbidden Planet.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable classic","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A space expedition to Altair IV yields some unexpected results. The crew of the Earth spacecraft find Dr. Morbius & his daughter Altair to be the only survivors of an exploration of a planet which once was the home of a race of super-intelligent beings known as The Krell. But what happened to the Krell that they all perished in one day? How could a race be so intelligent, yet allow their civilization to collapse overnight? It answer lies in the world below. The crew also encounter Robby the Robot...a sophisticated robot who can duplicate any food or drink one could desire. The Special Effects for this movie come courtesy of Walt Disney Productions and are quite astounding for its time. The movie stars Walter Pidgeon and a very young Leslie Nielson. The music soundtrack is eerie and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Excellent graphics and story line for it's day. Way ahead of it's time.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Walter Pidgeon played an excellent Dr. Morbius. The story line is very thought provoking. You can see where Star Trek got a lot of their ideas. Young Leslie Nielsen was passable and Anne Frances (boy do I like the clothes of the future). All in all I gave it a 10, primarily due to the story and Walter Pidgeon's performance. The story should be a classic in league with Shakespear, I love the line my own evil self is at the door and I am powerless to stop it. I was clean, thought provoking, modest, and yet sensuous. Robby was incredible and the monsters from the id were a true masterpiece of creative thought. I wish we could see more movies like this with todays graphic technology. I would almost be upset if this were remade, because I am afraid that they would take so many liberties that they would screw it up. "},{"Title":"A magnificent film","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's amazing that this movie is 47 years old this year! I remember watching it as a boy. Great special effects and electronic soundtrack are ahead of their time. Well-acted, especially by Pidgeon and Nielsen, and a fascinating combination of depth, camp, humor and straight science fiction.I see this film every time I get the chance. A few years ago, I had the privilege of seeing it outdoors on the big screen at our local art museum. While the print was a bit grainy, the film's power was multiplied by seeing it in this format.I would recommend this movie to anyone looking for intelligent, yet fun science fiction entertainment. How many sci-fi flicks are based on a Shakespeare play? And Anne Francis is a babe, to boot; the short skirt triumphs over a lack of acting ability! "},{"Title":"perhaps the best sci-fi film ever made!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie has a plot unlike every other film for the last ten years.  A truly magnificent peice of work that opened the door for every film since. the acting is great, the plot flows, what else do you want?  if you have never seen it then you are realy, realy missing out.  dont just sit there, rent it again or even buy it.   (note. i have not been payed to say this it really is good) "},{"Title":"Impressive for it's time","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was made about the time the space race started, and before Star Trek etc. came on the scene.  Considering that, it is a very impressive, original movie (though undoubtedly novels were written on similar themes before this).  The details such as oxygen content of the atmosphere and gravitational force were neat, though how the robot makes the raw material for the other stuff it makes is not explained.  All in all, though, I liked the movie, and was very impressed that such a story, importantly accompanied with some scientific detail, came out when it did.  If you are a sci-fi fan, you have probably already seen it, or else you should.  Though at first it might not seem so impressive to people bred on Star Wars (you have to remember when this movie was made).  Another movie I want to see is Metropolis, I think that's the name, it's a silent movie ) "},{"Title":"Brilliant Comic Book Stuff!!!!!!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the painted scenery. I love the wacky space ship. I love the girl. I love the robot. I love the cast. I love the uniforms. I love the Krell. I love the invisible monster. And on, and on, and on. Buy it, watch it, enjoy it. This is what sci fi is all about. The only film that comes close is the 50's version of War of the Worlds. "},{"Title":"A Truly Classic 1950's Sci-Fi Film!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forbidden Planet is one of my favourite Sci-Fi movies. It was way ahead of it's time and for it's day the special effects were very good. I first saw it when I was about ten years old and loved it and watch it any chance I get. I have been meaning to buy a copy of it on DVD, it is such a good movie and it's fun to see a young Leslie Nielsen of Naked Gun fame and Richard Anderson who went on to play Oscar Goldman in The Six-Million Dollar Man. It was the first time I saw the robot who went on to be Robbie the Robot in the Irwin Allen Lost in Space TV series. Walter Pidgeon was great and I loved the underground Krell city. This is one of the best Sci-Fi movies ever made in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!  Sci-fi at its best","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A beautifully realized alternate reality that is magnificently photographed and animated.  Anne Francis could not be more perfectly cast, and was never more luscious.  Walter Pidgeon is superb as her father.  Leslie Nielsen is perfectly cast as the prototype for Captain Kirk.  Warren Stephens is even better as the loyal ship's doctor.  The plot is crisp and the pacing is robust.  Good humorous by-play is on-hand throughout.  It may give the under-14 set nightmares, but is marvelous entertainment for everyone else. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, minor flaws","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has an excellent plot, and, for its day, outstanding special effects.The flaws are minor  a goofy love story, and distracting sound effects.  Apparently, somebody had an early version of the Moog Synthesizer and uses it to produce background noise that adds nothing to the movie and, indeed, distracts from what is going on.An added bonus is seeing Leslie Nielson in a dramatic role.   "}{"Title":"Best of the best Sci-FI","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of my long best favorite sci-fi movies. I became a Leslie Nielson fan for the remaining years of his career,even as an m/c on the AMC network for the 3 Stooges movies. He still looks good!!. He's had a fine career and I am sure he is very grateful for that.  I like Walter Pidgeon in this movie also, he does a fine job, as does the rest of the cast....I also like Robby the Robot, does anyone know if he is still around? Whenever it's on tv I watch most of it, and have taped it once or twice for my own viewing,good for the thrills and suspense,the scariest scenes are with theID the invisible creature.,  "},{"Title":"Classic of Classics, a memorable Film experience","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The CLASSIC of the SF. Genre. I saw it when it was new,1956, and never saw it again, or forgot it, until it was on TV. a few years ago. The Forbidden Planet has not faded with age! A great screenplay, topped off by a great cast, with Very futuristic music track and great sets. A joy to watch. Robby the Robot was also in another Very obscure movie The Invisible Boy which is worth a look. Vincent "},{"Title":"Never saw it before today...","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a classic! I was impressed by the f/X, the ground breaking sets, esp. the Krell machines down below. And the cast were a bunch of younger guys on their way up-Jack Kelly(Maverick),James Drury(the Virginian), Richard 'Oscar Goldman' Anderson from the Bionic Man, Leslie Neilson and Honey West(-)), Anne Francis. Old pro Walter Pidgeon is around to chew the scenary a bit and give the Prospero role another turn.Def. a good, intelligent, well made, obviously influential to the max(paging Trek, Kubrick and Lucas, among others) too. Yeah it is a little slow at times, and yeah you have a few dated concepts(radar, radio, circuits, etc in 2200? for ex.) and the miniskirt is outta Trek I suppose, but so what, she wore it well.I enjoyed this alot and recommend it to any discerning SciFi fan.***1/2 outta **** "},{"Title":"A truly amazing achievement","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By adapting a Shakespeare plot to the science-fiction format, the makers of this film accomplished a truly amazing feat they produced the first science-fiction movie that fans of the genre could point to without wincing. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any better than this!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a child in middle school, I skipped for the day just to see it for the first time. Wow! There's nothing worse than having your intelligence insulted and this movie definitely doesn't do that. This movie set the standard of what I expect for my entertainment value. My husband, who is not a science fiction fan, sit down with me one night and watch. Even he was impressed. A must see for everybody who loves sci-fi! "},{"Title":"forbidden knowledge  isn't that the same thing that doomed adam and eve?","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  forbidden planet is today as well as then a good movie with special effects that amazed the movie goers in 1956. compared to todays' computer generated effects i feel that it still could hold it own. the story is simple land on a planet occupied by an overly  protective father and his lovely innocent daughter find out that this doctor  has discovered the powers of a dead advanced civilization that used their minds to build a vast civilization where physical labor has been eliminated, but something went wrong the krell  have all been mysteriously destroyed by means unknown. now your crew is also being killed by something too. what is the price of landing on the  forbidden planet? for those of you that saw this movie as a child it's worth seeing again, for those of you that were to young or not even born yet it's worth seeing to let you observe some of the better sci -fi effects of the day. "},{"Title":"Has it REALLY Been Almost 50 Years?","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While some of the costuming and sets are a little dated, and some of the effects could be improved, Forbidden Planet still impresses. Not only is it the unofficial forerunner of the Star Trek franchise, Forbidden Planet's sound and some effects seem almost contemporary. The ship landing in particular still gives me that Gee whiz. How did they do that? feeling. Even Robby the Robot is pretty contemporary.Most of the casting is pretty good, particularly Walter Pigeon as Dr. Morbius and Earl Holliman as the cook. However, at 26, Anne Francis is too old and too worldly to play Altaira, a 20 year old who's never been around any men but her father.Some of the film is undermined by marketing decisions. For example, the exchange between the doctor and Morbius regarding no instrumentality is unnecessary obscure. A nude sequence is unnecessarily compromised by a tacky swimsuit, poor camera angles and editing. The final showdown with the monster never shows the monster. The spaceship captain's final words are edited, resulting in a noticeable jump cut. Nonetheless, Forbidden Planet is a milestone in motion picture entertainment, which still holds up pretty well. I'll give it an 8. "},{"Title":"New world, new reality.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If Forbidden Planet was a modernization of The Tempest, then many of the subsequent sci-fi dramas on film and TV have been modernizations of Forbidden Planet.  It is easy to criticize details of the plot, the acting (could that wooden Leslie Nielsen be the same actor as the hilarious singer of the US National Anthem in The Naked Gun?) and the special effects (I think that the monster still stands up pretty well though), but you can't get away from the fact that in this film a new world and a new reality are created, and that's what good sci-fi is all about.  It is a must-see. "},{"Title":"An early Sci-Fi that also was a comedy and a farce","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought this movie for 50 cents at a public library VHS sale. I had seen the film before a number of time, on TV, I think.This is a classic piece for a number of reasons. First because it hardly takes itself seriously, with Cookie and Robbie making pure Saint Louie Burden.Also the sex parts are such a farce that one has to break out out laughing. I'm glad I was able to add this classic 1956 Sc-Fi to my collectibles. On a deeper level it appeals to our childish ideas about what our minds might be capable. Conjuring is as old as there has been witchcraft and black magic.For the 1956 period the art and technical architecture is advanced even by some of today's standards.I for one remain impressed also with the technical back drops in 2010, that appeared decades ago, in the flicks, Aliens and 2001.Its a good laughable watch and a fine collectible. "},{"Title":"Dated but Classic","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The special effects of this movie are terribly dated. The acting, except for maybe Walter Pidgeon, is wooden. The score of weird science fictionish noises throughout the entire movie is annoying and distracting. The subplot involving Ann Francis as a hot-looking girl who has never known what it is to be kissed by a man is ridiculous.Still, this movie is entertaining fifty years after it was made. What sustains it is the mystery surrounding the strange invisible monster that destroyed the original mission to the planet, and now threatens to destroy the new one. The resolution to this mystery is satisfying and has a lot to say about the interplay between humans and the technological marvels they can create, but not always control. "}{"Title":"The best science-fiction movie ever made!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can be said about this movie?Even after all these years it still packs a punch as a really great sci-fi masterpiece.Hard to imagine that it's plot was based on Shakespear's The Tempest!The special effects alone were simply stunning and still look great today.Forbidden Planet was the first serious attempt at making a sci-fi movie as most others were rather dull or utterly stupid in it's era outside of The Day The Earth Stood Still in 1951.A marvelous movie and a great cast headed by Walter Pidgeon and Leslie Nielsen.Go get it! "},{"Title":"Incredible performance by Anne Francis","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I realize this has achieved 'cult classic' film status by science fiction lovers everywhere.I feel this is deserved mostly due to the movie being seen as an essential prototype sci-fi flick.But in all honesty, I find this movie to be very amusing, if not quite ridiculous. It is really hard for me to keep a straight face as Leslie Nielsen plays one of his many straight early roles. It's a testament to Nielsen's comedic talents in Airplane! and the Naked Gun that I can't keep from being amused by his appearance here.I do enjoy Walter Pidgeon's earnest portrayal here. He plays Dr. Morbius as if the character were biblical.So, no, I don't put this film up with the classic status of an Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Then again, it is leaps and bounds better than your standard SyFy channel movie garbage.But what I do take very seriously in this movie is the presence of the young Anne Francis and her wonderful pair of legs. Great outfit she is almost wearing. I love it. I will watch this movie again, definitely. "},{"Title":"Frightened Child","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was a child. I remember that I didn't sleep wellthe next night! Several years after, when I was about 22, I watched it again. I was afraid I would be disappointed, but in fact I found it as frightening and exciting as the first time.  "},{"Title":"Most Excellent","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best made sci-fi movies of all time.  The special effects, for the time, were fantastic.  It was good to see the whoopee cushion guy in a serious role! "},{"Title":"We're all part monsters in our subconscious, so we have laws and religion.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Leslie Nielsen was only 30, and in his first role in a movie, a dramatic one at that. Anne Francis, although a film veteran by 1956, was only 25 years old during filming, and looked great in those cute, short futuristic skirts.  I am amazed at the high quality of the design and filming, including the special effects. And, being a traditionalist, love those  saucer-shaped spacecraft.The crew investigating the far-away planet, inhabited by the Krell 200,000 years ago, encounter a mysterious monster that is invisible. All the systems had been so well built by the Krell that they were still working, and servicing themselves.  Turns out the monster was an ID monster, created by the subconscious of the old scientist who didn't want his world to be messed with. Truly a masterfully-written and filmed Sci-Fi story that holds up well even after all the great films seen since then.  Some think Forbidden Planet is the best Sci-Fi film ever, and it might be.   "},{"Title":"Major influence, but hasn't aged that well","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually there are a lot of elements I take into consideration when I'm trying to find a great movie who's the director, what's the story about, when was it made, who's in it, things like that. Forbidden Planet however doesn't need any of that fancy stuff to lure anyone in, it's awesome 50s poster is more than enough of a selling point. It just looks so heavenly kitschy, it promises you things no movie could ever deliver but you appreciate that it tries. The movie itself turned out to be good, but nothing special. It has its moments of campy fun and features a pretty clever plot twist, but apart from that it can be kind of a bore sometimes. Many of the scenes are just too damn long. They're stuck on a far-away planet that's apparently the home of both an unstoppable monster and a wise-cracking robot, is this really the time to start focusing on a rather uninteresting and somewhat poorly acted love sub-plot? This wasn't in the brochure, guys. It still has its share of the sci-fi clichs we all know and love (hell, it invented most of them), but they seem underused when compared to other, more cheesy flicks. Forbidden Planet has an absolutely vast cult following, but personally I'm just not totally convinced. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Planet","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this film once before in college, I know I dozed off and remember most of it being great, but seeing it again was going confirm what I thought overall, from director Fred M. Wilcox (Lassie Come Home). Basically set in the 23rd Century, the United Planets Cruiser C57-D captained by Commander John J. Adams (Leslie Nielsen) and his crew from Earth have been sent to investigate the planet Altair IV, seventeen light years from their home planet. They are contacted and warned by Dr. Edward Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) to stay away for their own safety, but they ignore him and follow their orders, landing and searching for the colony of settlers they have heard about from twenty years ago. Commander Adams and two crew members are picked up by Robby the Robot (credited as himself, but actually played by Marvin Miller), the faithful machine who takes them to and serves Morbius, who is not best pleased to see them, but remains pleasant and helpful for their enquiries. Two scientists originally living on the planet are known to have died, so it is just Morbius and his daughter Altaira 'Alta' (Anne Francis) remaining, the only thing Morbius is explaining is how they stay safe, such as Robby the Robot's safety system, barricades and stuff like that. There is no explanation of why they were warned to stay away or what is killing some people for a while, but it is eventually revealed to be an invisible monster roaming the planet. In the end this monster is revealed to be a creation of Morbius's mind, using the sophisticated mind-directed machinery, so Commander Adams, Alta and the crew members still alive escape the planet and blow it up, and set a course back to Earth. Also starring Warren Stevens as Lt. 'Doc' Ostrow M.D., Jack Kelly as Lt. Jerry Farman, Richard Anderson as Chief Quinn, Earl Holliman as Cook, George Wallace as Bosun, Robert Dix as Crewman Grey, Jimmy Thompson as Crewman Youngerford, James Drury as Crewman Strong, Harry Harvey Jr. as Crewman Randall, Roger McGee as Crewman Lindstrom and Peter Miller as Crewman Moran. Nielsen is here giving a serious character performance years before he turned comedian in Airplane! and The Naked Gun films, he is good, Pidgeon is also good as the complicated scientist, Francis does alright as his beautiful simple daughter, and of course Robby the Robot is a really cool and fun character. The film has a near enough simple story, the special effects, including the moment of animation with the help of Disney studios, really help to take you into this world in outer space, you could argue it is a little camp or cheesy, but being a B movie that makes it all the more watchable, a fun classic science-fiction adventure. It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Special Effects. Very good! "},{"Title":"Perhaps A Widescreen Viewing Would Help","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"17 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked how this started out, featuring some decent special-effects especially for a film 50 years old. There was some pretty impressive scenery. However, the film bogs down fairly early on with some very dumb dialog as the males all try to flirt with Anne Francis Altaira Morbius.)Viewing this in the '90s after a long absence, it was fun to see Francis again, an actress who has done mostly television shows since this film was released....and is still acting. It also was interesting to see a young-looking Leslie Nielsen (Dr. John J. Adams), who I wouldn't have recognized had it not been for this voice I watched half of this movie before the boredom came almost overwhelming and I had a strong desire to go to sleep. I appreciated them re-doing this VHS tape in stereo. but it was a weak effort. This is one those overrated film where elites think is so heavy and thought-provoking. That's nonsense. It only appeared intelligent because the rest of the '50s sci-fi films were so stupid!!Some if the early scenes would have looked great on wideescreen, which I didn't have at the time of this writing. Perhaps another look - this time on the 2.351 widescreen transfer would make me change this review. "},{"Title":"A more interesting idea than a movie","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot and characters are great, and the script is terrific at times. So why is this movie so ponderous and self-indulgent? It's not the production, which is first-rate for the times - Disney studios was one of the early pioneers of special effects. It's not the stiff acting jobs, everyone (except maybe Leslie Nielsen) seems to think they're in a radio play, but it's not entirely out of place (Star Trek got away with it also). I think the direction and film editing are to blame.The sets are amazing and the plot is well-realized, but there is way too much time devoted to exposition and not enough to actual events. I think the director and set designer were too enamored with their achievements in special effects - there are way too many dead spots that do little more than try to wow us with the achievement. And there is way too much emphasis on the pop-psychology of the times. A more satisfying explanation could have been given for events without going into silly Freudian psychoanalytic theory. I imagine this could have been made into a better movie in the 1960s or early 1970s along the lines of Silent Running and THX-1138. "},{"Title":"Camp classic with deep meaning if you can find it.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of horny men and a drunken cook land on a Planet to investigate its habitats who consist of a mad Professor, his sexy Daughter and the legendary, Robbie the robot. Camp fun at a slow pace. Almost European art style!   "}{"Title":"space suburbs","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The good news It's 1956, and you've been given two million bucks to spend blowing the lid off the sci-fi genre. ...The bad news You spend all the money inflating previously digested ideas; saucer-shaped vehicles, mad scientists, space-vixens, horny dolts, stodgy acting & eerie theremin noises.A space crew goes to pieces when all the boys feel the heterosexual imperative, because Anne Francis' female space-sexuality is just too much for them. But hey, they're ready for anything with those space ball-caps. Things go awry, but thankfully Leslie Nelson took a Psych 101 course and saves the day. And normative values are re-enshrined. Whew... I know I'm relieved; it would be a real shame if the norms of the 50s were toppled. Whatver year this is set in, it's really about a hopelessly conventional 1956.Although striking in its own way, this is exactly the film that Kubrick's accomplishment (2001, A Space Odyssey) should be measured against. The story arc is the now-tired mad scientist trope i.e. A mad scientist is tracked down by a bunch of squares, he explains his cool sh*t and his superior social ideas, then croaks. (Black Hole, 20,000 leagues, every Bond movie ever made, about twelve million Star Trek episodes) It has better sets and effects than those of the time. The traveling mattes are astonishing & perfectly matched. But it's soooooo inert, due to a scenario in which a rarely moving camera just kind of records people telling each other things while angled slightly towards the camera. At the dramatic level, people just talk and talk and talk; lots of inaction. Some very poor editing doesn't help. When I was on chapter 26, I had no inkling where I was in the proceedings; whether there were 25 more chapters left or just one. But hey with the triumph of production design over an adequate script, it cleared the way for Blade Runner.The production design is 'period.' The set decorating is over the top, featuring an obsession with circles and bubbles. 'Round' is clearly the new 'square' in 1956. Few of the doo-dads are believable as anything other than props. Some nice effects are undermined by awful background painting. The exterior sets are about as persuasive as zoo habitats. Apparently you'll need a decent set of shoulder pads for space travel, making all the guys resemble Joan Crawford. Robby the robot makes a cash register noise before each remark. ? The cast is a bunch of stiffs, none worse than Walter Pidgeon.A Hard Days Night filmed in 1964 (about 1964) will make you feel more modern than this. "}]