[{"Title":"If this is so bad, why are we still talking about it?","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Give me a break!  The commentary for this movie cracks me up...why don't you nay-sayers give a second to remember WHEN it was made?  It's one of the best examples of 50's drive-in treasure in collective memory.  This silly yet earnest little movie has wormed it's way into the consciousness of anyone who's ever seen it.  Paul Blaisdell's Venusian Carrot remains one of the most memorable aliens to ever grace the screen! Add to this total piece of weirdness one of Beverly Garland's best performances, most memorable in her first sighting of the Carrot So that's what you look like.....You're ugly!!!.  Where was her Oscar for delivering this line with total conviction (and a straight face?)  Yes, there was life before bloated CGI computer effects, and this superior potboiler proves yet again that once upon a time, imagination and ingenuity could work wonders.  One of the all time-great sci-fi movies! "},{"Title":"One of Roger Corman's most entertaining quickie monster movies.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people slam Roger Corman and try and act like every movie he made was worthless schlock, but while he definitely did make a few stinkers in his long career, the truth is that he was involved with more good than bad movies, either as a director or a producer. In fact, some of the movies he directed were better than just good e.g. 'The Trip' and 'Bloody Mama'. His early reputation mainly rests on his quickie monster movies, and 'It Conquered The World' is one of the most entertaining. So okay, it a low budget movie (and I mean LOW), it's very naive and the special effects are poor. The Venusian monster and the flying bat things will probably inspire fits of giggles in most people, but despite all that the movie has lots of energy and it hooks you straight in. It's also helped enormously by having an above average cast. The two leads are Peter Graves and Lee Van Cleef. Graves later became immortal on TV as Mr. Phelps in 'Mission Impossible', and Van Cleef became a Western icon via his work in movies such as 'The Good, The Bad And The Ugly' and 'Death Rides A Horse'. Van Cleef gives an intense performance as a scientist obsessed with communication with aliens. Graves is his more level headed colleague. When Van Cleef intercepts messages from an extraterrestrial that only he can hear, his wife (Beverly Garland) and Graves think he is cracking up. He co-operates with the alien, helping it to try and take over the world. Garland is best known to most people for her later work on TV (e.g.'My Three Sons'), but boy is she sexy here! Hubba! Hubba! Being a Corman movie we shouldn't be surprised to see Dick Miller in the supporting cast. He plays a soldier, as does Jonathan Haze (Seymour in 'Little Shop Of Horrors) 'It Conquered The World' isn't up to the standards of such 1950s SF classics as 'The Incredible Shrinking Man' or 'Invasion Of The Body Snatchers', but it's lots of fun, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys b-grade movies from this period. "},{"Title":"Disappointing DVD release","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is an entertaining, well acted, well edited film of its genre. Classic anti-communist fear, rubber monster, Roger Corman trash fun.Heavily cut on its initial release. BEWARE, the only available DVD release from Siren Entertainment (coupled with Creature from the Haunted Sea) retains these cuts. 29 cuts in total including ALL IMAGES of the monster! Ludicrously, while all images of our rubber friend are removed, most of the human to human violence, some of which is quite strong, remains.I will never understand censorship ! Where Siren entertainment got this copy from I do not know. The film deserves a restored, uncut release. "},{"Title":"One of the best B-movies of all time","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most entertaining sci-fi/horror films of the 50s.  Very much camp with 3 all-time great B-actors (Garland, Graves, Van Cleef, one of the best B-casts ever).  I love every minute of it.  Includes John Haze and Dick Miller as army grunts and an out of this world monster by the now-legendary Paul Blaisdell.  The best scene is where Beverly Garland confronts the monster from Venus  You think you can make a slave of this world?  Well, I'll see you in hell first!  Fans of the Sergio Leone Fistfull of Dollars flicks should enjoy seeing Lee Van Cleef as a scientist who's betrayed the planet earth by helping the monster come to this planet and take over the show.  Apparently, however, the World in this case consists of the environs of Grifftih Park and a few houses up on Coldwater Canyon.  The monster is exceptionally poor -- you can see Blaisdell shoving the bat creatures out of the bottom of the suit. This is a must-see for anyone with a sense of humor.  It is not a bad movie -- it is a witty, fun, romping good time. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sci-fi about a creature from Venus coming to Earth. A scientist (Lee van Cleef) gets in touch with it through some machine. He believes the creature wants to bring peace and helps guide it to Earth. Naturally the creature wants to possess and conquer...Infamous Roger Corman movie which has one of the silliest aliens ever filmed. It's also pretty stupid, dull in spots and laughable. But the acting is actually good (Peter Graves and Beverly Garland especially) and I DO find the alien at the end just...unbelievable. Also it does have two instances of over the top violence (for its time)--a man is set on fire and the thing gets its eye poked out (this is cut from some non-cable prints).Not good but 100 times better than its remake Zontar the Thing from Venus. And Garland and Graves ARE good. I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Cucumber? Try Ice cream cone!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What adjective is best to use when describing a film where Peter Graves fights what looks like the Good Humor alien while also shooting its bat-like minions, ending with a speech about man's nature as being feeling? Well, if it was directed by Roger Corman, it has to be quirky!Drama-wise, the film does well, even if it is an obvious steal from Invasion of the Body Snatchers AND The Day the Earth Stood Still. The male leads, Peter Graves and Lee Van Cleef, perform admirably, but it is Beverly Garland of My Three Sons who steals the show as Van Cleef's ever-suffering wife (I won't love a monster, I won't!) And, of course, there's always the regular Corman cast of stock players, including the cute Sally Fraser, who unfortunately is shot (by her husband, no less - good gravy, this whole film is rather sexist! Killing off all the women characters? Pretty pushy, even back then.) And Russ Bender as the possessed general. And who would've suspected that Dick Miller and Jonathan Haze are the comedy relief soldiers? Let's hope those bat things aim carefully.  "},{"Title":"It Conquered the World  A Cold War Morality Play","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It Conquered the World seems to be trapped in a sort of sci-fi Twilight Zone. Though it has a sizable cult following that appreciates its quirky genius, there are many genre fans who dismiss it as b-grade schlock. Rarely mentioned on lists of science fiction greats from the fertile 50s, the movie nonetheless survives and continues to entertain genre fans today. That It Conquered the World is a b-movie is undeniable--indeed, it is a near-perfect example of the type--but its b-movie status doesn't mean it can't be good. And it is actually quite good.The story of an alien intelligence that takes advantage of a disillusioned scientist to plot a takeover of Earth, It Conquered the World is incredibly ambitious. The globe-spanning plot was typical of science fiction from the period, but director Roger Corman didn't have the budget of War of the Worlds or Earth Vs. The Flying Saucers. Corman had to rely on imagination, and his audience's willing suspension of disbelief. Yes, the limited sets and small cast at Corman's disposal don't always do the story justice--crowd scenes are not particularly crowded, the military response to the emergency is about 1/100th what it should be, etc.--but as a result the more intimate drama becomes a fascinating character study, and the multi-layered plot works as both Cold War paranoia thriller and introspective morality play. Corman and writer Lous Rusoff (and an uncredited Charles B. Griffith) are working with a complex, thoughtful plot that belies the movie's b-level reputation.And the cast does wonders with the story. Headliners Lee Van Cleef and Robert Graves are solid as the scientists whose friendship turns bitter once it becomes clear that Van Cleef has sold his soul to the devil in exchange for revenge upon a cruel world. The beautiful Beverly Garland is often singled out for her outstanding performance as Van Cleef's desperate wife, and her nuanced portrayal of a woman trying in vain to pull her husband out of the pit is indeed excellent, and with her gorgeous looks, charm, and a killer scream Garland is one sci-fi's earliest great scream queens. Often overshadowed by Garland's performance, Sally Fraser's role as Graves's benighted wife is nearly as important to the plot, and Fraser's transformation from a caring, decent woman to alien-possessed temptress is highly convincing. Dick Miller, a genre stalwart, plays an army sergeant whose platoon is hunting the alien down...but what can they hope to do to It if they find it? Critics often blast this movie's special effects, and there's no denying they really aren't that special. But the script doesn't demand a lot of dazzling pyrotechnics, except for the climax, and the lack of high-end spectacle doesn't really take anything away from the drama. The creature design for It is much-maligned, but there is something wonderfully malevolent about It that overcomes any shortcomings. In any event, It spends most of the film lurking in the shadows, where many cinematic monsters are more frightening anyway. Despite the lack of sophisticated FX, even by 50s standards, the story itself draws you inexorably in, and the effects, limited as they are, nonetheless work within the context of the overall plot.Beyond the natural problems generated by the miniscule budget--most of which Corman manages to overcome--the film's biggest problem is pacing. The script, character driven as it is, is necessarily rather talky. Much of the dialog is vital to the surprisingly philosophical plot, but the relative dearth of action is a genuine weakness, and the film does feel rather longer than it really is. While there are moments of humor, the script generally takes itself quite seriously, and the performers do a good job of avoiding the temptation to surrender to parody.It Conquered the World is hard to find these days, but if you can locate a used tape or catch it on late-night TV there are few sci-fi gems from the great 50s that can equal its ambition and creativity. Well-written, competently acted and imaginatively directed, It Coqnuered the World is one of the best b-movies ever made. "},{"Title":"real fun party movie","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It conquered the world is one of my favorite sci fi movies of the 50,s.OK,so the monster is a little ridiculous looking but that just adds to the fun.Beverly Garland is terrific as lee van cleefs aggravated wife and she gives some great screams in her moment of terror.It,s eerie to see people you once trusted turn against you,not of their own volition of course.This movie has good murder scenes,people getting shot down and a great strangling scene,not to mention the monsters way of finishing off his victims.Try to catch this film.It,s corny but habit forming. "},{"Title":"This movie was originally given an 'X' rating in England","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was originally given an 'X' rating in England, and was almost banned. This was in reaction to the violent treatment of the alien at the movie's end (it's shot many times and has a blow torch put to its right eye).The concern was not over the violence itself, but rather that an animal was its object. The movie's director argued the alien was not an animal, but rather an intelligent being. Incredibly, based on this redefinition of the alien the ban was removed.The movie itself? It's lots of fun with some good and familiar actors. If you're old enough to have seen this type of movie as a kid it'll bring back some pleasant memories. "},{"Title":"There is hope, but it has to come from inside, from Man himself.","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While It Conquered the World can't compare with some of the best sci-fi from the 50s, it's still a fun movie if you can get past the special effects. The plot is straight out of the 1950s Guide to Sci-Fi/Monster Movies. An alien comes to earth with the intention of taking over the place. The alien uses some sort of bat looking things to help him gather volunteers to his cause (they hit them in the back of the neck and inject them with some mind-control device). The biggest difference between the plot of It Conquered the World and other similar movies is that one character, Dr. Tom Anderson (Lee Van Cleef), is in communication with the alien and willingly tries to help him. This brings the whole Red Scare subtext found in a lot of these movies to the front as Dr. Anderson's friend and colleague Dr. Paul Nelson (Peter Graves) calls him a traitor. Being called a traitor (i.e. a commie) was about as bad as you could get in the 50s.One thing that elevates It Conquered the World is the cast. You don't expect (at least I don't expect) to see names like Peter Graves, Lee Van Cleef, Beverly Garland, and Dick Miller in the same low budget Roger Corman film. I can't think of many movies shot on this kind of budget with four names I'm so familiar with. Corman really had a knack for spotting young talent.The less said about the special effect the better. The monster is not as bad or poorly thought out as something like Ro-Man from Robot Monster, but it comes close to being just as silly. It Conquered the World might have benefited from not showing the monster. I recently watched The Space Children and noted that Jack Arnold was wise to limit his monster's screen time. What I wrote for that film applies here too &#150; Too often, low-budget sci-fi films from this period look ridiculous because of the desire for elaborate special effects (i.e. monster and aliens) that outstripped the funding it would require. In the end, while you can certainly find better sci-fi from the 1950s than It Conquered the World, you can just as easily find much worse. This one is about average but worth at least one look if you're into this kind of thing. You might want to check it out just to hear Peter Graves closing speech &#150; Man is a feeling creature, and because of it the greatest in the universe. He learned too late for himself that men have to find their own way, to make their own mistakes. There can't be any gift of perfection from outside ourselves. When men seek such perfection they find only death, fire, loss, disillusionment and the end of everything that's gone forward. Men have always sought an end to our misery but it can't be given, it has to be achieved. There is hope, but it has to come from inside, from Man himself. It's worth the price of admission if you ask me! "}{"Title":"VINTAGE 50's PULP PARANOIA","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In spite of the ridiculous, cucumber alien monster (which is fortunatedly kept off-screen through most of the film) this is actually an intelligent science-fiction thriller that's very much in an OUTER LIMITS vein.Misanthropic scientist Lee Van Cleef makes contact with a being from Venus who promises to save mankind from his own self-destruction.  Cleef paves the way for the alien to come to Earth, where it hides out in a hot springs cave outside of a small, remote Southern Californian town.  Upon arriving, the being (or should I say invader) proves to have sinister plans of its own.This early Corman quickie is quite good as long as you're not evaluating it based by today's high-tech standards.  It's naive and unsportmanslike to condemn a film just because it was made decades before CGI was even invented.The film has a certain disquieting mood about it.  The remote setting adds to the sense of paranoia and isolation, and though the plot is sometimes critizied as being awkward, that tells me that the critic may be a short attention span member.  You need to put some brainwork into your film viewing if you wish to gain any savory qualities from it.  Whining because a planet isn't exploding every other minute is very superficial, and true science-fiction isn't for the shallow non-thinker who only has instant, immediate gratification on his non-mind.A subtle sense of terror builds throughout (similar to INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS) as nearly the entire cast meet unspeakable fates.  The story carrys a pertinent cautionary message  Blind devotion to a utopian ideal can lead to the worst kind of disillusionment and tragedy.  History has taught us that many times over.  Science-fiction is meant to be provocative and not just shallow, forgettable entertainment.Sure, if this film had a higher budget, and perhaps a little more script polishing, it could have been one of the top fifties science-fiction films. As it is, it's interesting with intriguing possibilities, and as long as YOU haven't been taken over by high-tech effects and sales hype, you may find it worth taking a look at.  "},{"Title":"What Fun!!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Go easy on this movie.......hell, it's the only time that Lee VanCleef gets to have a wife who actually likes him (at least for a little while). And it's Beverly Garland!!!.... at her sexiest, with her pointed padded Maidenform bra.  What a babe!  This is such a fun movie and a good one of its type......the black and white, 50's, paranoiac, cheesy monster B flick.  There were so many of this type film being made during the 1950's and there are some that are a lot worse than this one.  Sure, the monster is a hoot but it worked for the audiences at the time. The stories were always the same......an outerspace entity (a carrot,cucumber, crawling eye, etc) comes to take over the earth, even though there is only one of them (wouldn't it take a long time to overpower the entire world population?).  Additionally, they always use a scientist as their champion who is so obtuse that he doesn't realize what their game plan is and who always get killed in the end. So it's predictable, cheap, and overacted........so what!  It's a lot of fun and there is a subculture of us out there who love this movie and all the others of the genre.  The next time it shows up on TV, give it a look.....you won't regret it!   "},{"Title":"Great 50's horror flick","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a sucker for old B&W horror flicks.I remember the old 3 films and 10 cartoons as a kid and this was one of them. Beverly Garland was a Horror Queen to me,and Lee Van Cliff over acts,and Peter Graves shows why the Zucker Brothers put him in Airplane. Some may say its bad,I say YEAH!!IF you like those oldies,you'll love this.It delivers on the fems in peril theme as few others do. "},{"Title":"Pickle From Space","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Only Roger Corman could truly explore the horrific implications of an evil vegetable! The acting isn't bad in this, considering the actors were being forced to take the ridiculous monster seriously.  Graves and Van Cleef are both adequate and everybody loves Beverly Garland! Unfortunately, all the themes of the movie are stated in dialogue, especially the long moralizing speech at the end. My only problem with this is that it assumes the audience isn't intelligent enough to figure this out themselves. But oh well, there are a lot of movies that are much worse. "},{"Title":"TOP SCI-FI ADVENTURE WITH A MESSAGE","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Corman has given us so much as a producer/director, and this is one of his best.  It was made during the terrors of the Cold War/Atomic Age era, and was even re-made twelve years later with John Agar.We have a post-Fury, pre-Mission Impossible Peter Graves, a still-getting-started Lee Van Cleef.  Marvelous humor from Jonathan Haze and Dick Miller.  And the always hot Beverly Garland as Van Cleef's wife.The monster, embarassingly bad by Paul Blaisdell, probably might scare my three year old grandson, but, that might even be a stretch.Ronald Stein interlaces his excellent score with the events to heighten the excitement.You can poke fun at the show's smaller production values, the monster, the paranoid atmosphere of the fifties, but, this is excellent entertainment.   "},{"Title":"With a vegetable body and lobster claws, it conquered the restaurant business!","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Is this plan one from outer space? Don't blame aliens, blame the commies when all of a sudden, power sources all over the world are affected by mysterious waves felt by military scientists. But of course, the audience knows almost from the beginning that this is bunk. They saw a space ship enter earth's atmosphere and a carrot like monster with shellfish like claws emerge, sending bat-like critters from its bottom out to attack various innocent passers-by. America goes into a panic, evacuating its cities as strange buzzing noises emerge in the sky. Those attacked by the bat like creatures from the alien's butt are basically body snatched as their minds are now controlled by the aliens, killing anybody who doesn't follow immediate orders to head to a camp for the ultimate conquest.Cult favorites such as Peter Graves, Beverly Garland and Lee Van Cleef headline the cast here, although the credits determine that an unbilled Paul Blaisdell was asked to wear the rubber carrot costume and flail the lobster claw arms. It's too bad that you don't see this costume among all the Elmos, blue breasted hookers and Spider Mans in Times Square. Even more astounding is that with the bat-like alien creatures, there seem to be no strings attached. Unlike Ray Harryhausen (who chose to deal with a giant crab by having him boiled in a hot water spring so those trapped in the forbidden world could have a lavish dinner even if there wasn't any butter or lemon in sight), this monster is a little harder to conquer.While the location footage is well shot, the indoor sets are extremely cheap looking. Van Cleef gets a speech much like Bela Lugosi's revelation in Bride of the Monster where his obvious madness is revealed. Graves (shiskababbing one of the bats) and Garland win audience sympathy. Still, there's a feeling of Haven't we already seen this before? and obviously each of them were done a bit better and didn't have the unintentional laughs that this one does. With classics out there like the original Invasion of the Body Snatchers, this just fails to live up to the moralistic goals it implies. However, when they do retrospects of the history of science fiction movies, this one seems to always get a clip in there, even having been the film that Elvira shows in her Mistress of the Dark movie with the film's conclusion there for those who have not seen it to enjoy in all its campy glory. "},{"Title":"Call of the intruder","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Tom Anderson (Lee Van Cleef) asks his friend Dr. Paul Nelson (Peter Graves) to listen to a strange humming sound, a signal from Venus. Tom thinks that's a Venusian talking to him. Paul just thinks Tom is going mad. Anyhow, an ugly looking Venusian lands on Earth, shuts off all technical devices just like that and sends out bats to bite people in the neck (yes, that's a bit low tech for an invader). Tom is convinced the Venusian can bring progress to mankind by merciless mind control. Paul is convinced that Tom is not making any sense and became a dangerous traitor. Tom is talking to the alien regularly to pick up its instructions. Tom's Wife Claire (Beverly Garland) decides she hates the alien because it took her husband away from her. Time for phone calls is over, she is going to face the intruder...Even though the movie features one of the most ridiculous rubber monsters ever to disgrace the silver screen, it has a remarkably good quality in most other respects. Building up the story as a personal revenge rather than a typical invasion puts the focus on the actors who do a better job than usual in the low budget flicks. Paranoia SF of the 1950s at its best. "},{"Title":"Man Is A Feeling Being.","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This rip off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers isn't as stupid as it might be. True, the story is unoriginal. The special effects are rudimentary. With some exceptions -- notably the two or three principals -- the performances have been bettered by some that might be seen in a high school play in Keokuk, Iowa. But if the whole affair is cheesy, it's at least not that no-fat, tasteless crap that has the texture of gum, with each slice wrapped in its own plastic. No, this is the crumbled Gorgonzola you find only in the specialty section of WalMart.A monster from Venus enlists the aid of Lee Van Cleef in taking over the earth. Lee Van Cleef is described as an illustrious physicist, so you know you're in trouble right off the bat. Lee Van Cleef is not a physicist at all. He's a heavily sun-tanned guy wearing a flat-brimmed cowboy hat and a cape in some spaghetti Western, that's what he is.The protagonist is Peter Graves -- tall, handsome, earnest. And he has a really nice-looking wife, Sally Fraser, whom Graves deliberately shoots and kills after she becomes possessed by the monster's flying bats. (Don't ask.) The film was shot in something like five days on a minuscule budget and this must account for the almost casual way in which Graves goes around shooting friends he's known and worked with for years, with not a sign of chagrin. Can you imagine Kevin McCarthy picking up a .45 and deliberately shooting the pure, elegant, helpless Dana Wynter through the heart and then walking grimly away? No, you can't.Some of it is unintentionally funny. A squad of soldiers is led by the always enjoyable Dick Miller. They carry Springfield '03s and World War I bayonets bought in an Army-Navy store. Some isn't funny. The film closes on one of those dicta telling us that if we expect to be saved, it must come from inside us. Man is a feeling being. He or she loves and hates, and we have to learn to control those emotions ourselves. Graves recites it ex cathedra.Actually, we don't seem to be doing such a hot job of it at the moment. Our cerebral cortex -- all that bulbous matter that is gray in death and pink in life -- has a much older infrastructure that prompts us to act irrationally. Well, let's not get into our imperfectibility except to make the observation, a mere aside, that we could use a little help from Venus now and then. "},{"Title":"It Did?","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Roger Corman directed this cult classic that stars Lee Van Cleef(!) as Dr. Tom Anderson, a disgruntled scientist who aids a creature from Venus in its plans to conquer the world. It uses bat-like creatures to brainwash and control the population to minimize resistance, but Dr. Paul Nelson(played by Peter Graves) successfully overcomes the creatures, and leads the authorities to the cave where it is hidden, though Tom's wife(played by Beverly Garland) gets there first, since she plans to shoot it dead. It is revealed to be a bizarre cucumber-like alien that can only wobble around! Good cast and memorable(though laughable) looking alien can't save this ridiculous film. Not yet on DVD, though has been on YouTube. "},{"Title":"What Made Roger Corman Great","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A well meaning scientist guides an alien monster to Earth from Venus, so that he can rid mankind of feelings and emotions -- but only death and sorrow results.Yes, this is a terrible movie by any real standards. Once you see the monster (or cucumber, or whatever it is) that allegedly conquers the world, you will instantly know this is not a film to be taken seriously.But, of course, that is sort of the point. Roger Corman built his reputation on cheesy science fiction fun. He knew it was not terrifying, but that was not the goal -- grab some popcorn and a Dr Pepper, and just have fun! "}{"Title":"It Tried to Conquer the World","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This 1956 Roger Corman cheese flick is about an alien from Venus trying to take control of people with by little bat-like pizza puppets. The alien also shuts down all stuff from clocks, telephones, cars and trains somehow. In the end the thing is killed by a blow torch to the eye. What I think The alien looks like a goofy traffic cone with lobster claws and devil horns. How anyone can not laugh at is is near to impossible. However the movie is pretty decent. These idea's of loosing ones emotions and thing stopping for a while have been used before, most notably in Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956), The Day the Earth Stood Still(1951) and Invaders from Mars(1953). How Corman is able to get away with this stuff is beyond me. But this does not mean I hate all of his films. despite all the movies problems, it is good for a late night watch. "},{"Title":"American Propaganda at its finest","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 50's sci-fi at its properganderest. You might say that there is no such word but it is true, this movie is simply oozing with anti-communist, pro-American propaganda. I was told by my American History Lecturer that there was a lot of this in the 50's and the first movie that I watch it hits me in the face. This movie is basically a collection of anti-communist monologues connected by a vaguely science fiction plot.The concept is the paranoia of the invisible enemy taking control of the powerful positions in the state and taking over by that. Kennedy says that it is an invasion of subversion, not of tanks or missiles, and this is what this movie displays. The movie focuses on the removal of emotion and freewill and equates this with communism. It believes that communism is conformity and with conformity there is death. This movie promotes individuality and selfishness, yet the main characters fall into a very conforming mould they are both married and are in prestigious positions, namely generals and scientists that worked on world changing projects such as the atom bomb.One scientist though has supposedly been brainwashed by an alien intelligence and it is using him to create a beachhead for the invasion of the world. It promises peace and happiness and in the end brings death and destruction. Thus we are being told to beware of such schemes because they will never work. True freedom, this movie says, is living in a world of conflict.The anti-communist feeling of this movie drifts to the breaking up of the marriage unit. The loyalty to the United States stands far above that of one's loyalty to one's wife. It comes to a point where the main character kills his wife because she is no longer free, but has been captured by the alien force. It also has the other character's wife run from him because she could not accept his views. Communism is something to be feared for it will destroy relationships and split families.This movie is full of individualistic ideologies. Freedom comes from being an individual, not apart of a collective unity helping the whole to achieve the ends. The Bible stands diametrically opposed to this with passages like 1 Corinthians 12 where it encourages people to work as a collective unity -- something that communism stands for. This makes me wonder why Christians become incredibly anti-communist when the system of government that the bible encourages is a very communist one. This baffles me.In the end, this is going to be one of many films that stands up and tells the American people to beware of communism for it will slip in, undermine and destroy their freedom. I do not believe this to be true because I am apart of a collective unity that is the Christian Church yet I know that I am free. "},{"Title":" It will conquer the Earth because it has no Emotions ","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For those of you who like to watch cheesy Black and White movies from the fifties, here is one. The writer is Lou Rusoff, the director is Hollywoods' most recognized creator from the 1960s; Roger Cormon. He gave us other films like Barbarella and Frankenstein Unbounded which were also his film projects. In this movie we have Lee Van Cleef (Few dollars More) inviting a creature from the Planet Venus to colonized the Earth. To stop him before the creature takes the planet over is Peter Graves (Mission Impossible). The alien monster with Van Cleefs' help lands in a small town with a smaller population and begins to harness the population with mind control devices. With little effort, he soon has the authority figures under his control. With the wives of the two main figures helping him, the creature is sure to win. For an early Cormon film, this movie is extremely interesting and fun to watch and despite it's poor visual monster and flying bat-like helpers, it does it's best to hold the audience. OK, so it's cheesy, it held mine as a pre-teen in 1956. Today, I recommend it to anyone who likes early Lee Van Cleef or Peter Graves movies. For those of you interested in Extras, there is Dick Miller, star of many B-pictures as well. See it, you might like it, if you don't laugh too loud. *** "},{"Title":"Ahh...the '50's","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Of course the movie and monster stuff was fun to watch but so were the interior set decorations!! Those wide slatted Venetian blinds, the Calypso Dancer plaques on the wall, that fabulous furniture! One thing I couldn't figure out... can anybody identify the year and make of the stationwagon they were driving to the cave?  C'mon you car guys...you must have noticed it. What was it? Rich  "},{"Title":"One of my favourite Corman pics","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you can overlook the hilarious (but ridiculous) cucumber monster, this is really a pretty good spin on Cold War paranoia. While it's not as good as Invasion of the Body Snatchers, It Conquered the World posits a similar effort---this time coming from Venus---to enslave humanity. Beverly Garland delivers the performance of the film, playing the wife of alien enabler Lee Van Cleef. Peter Graves is tolerable as the hero who impales a space bat with a fireplace poker.  "},{"Title":"The Cast Saves This Otherwise Blooper.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have always found Lee Van Cleef to seem to be a very limited actor. Of course, that is because of the roles he found himself having to play. There was not much he had to do in the spaghetti westerns except stand around and look blankly sinister. Then some years ago I found a copy of this film. I remember seeing it in the 1950s but had forgotten the cast. I remember thinking the film silly back then. Now as I have ripened into maturity (A full grown nut as Ralph Kramden said to Ed Norton)- or maybe I have just gotten ripe- I find I really enjoy this film. A good monster film is never about the monster. The film is about the people dealing with each other and the monster in that order. It Conquered The World fits that rule. The special effects simply do not exist. The alien is totally absurd in its appearance. However, I can ignore all that because of the acting and the plot involving the characters. I found Lee Van Cleef especially effective in this role and I enjoy watching him bring his character to life. He is struggling with his decision to assist an alien from Venus come to Earth to save us all from our jejune frivolities which inhibit human progress. He wants things to be better for people and thinks he has found a way through this alien being. He has his doubts and Lee is well able to act this conflict of doubt to our great satisfaction. Peter Graves is an actor you can count on to give a good performance even when he is not inspired. Dittos for the rest of the cast. In short, if you can ignore the cheap sets, absurd special effects, uninspired means of corner cutting due to lack of budget, and just enjoy the acting- a weakness for the lesser of the 1950s genre helps, too- I would recommend this film with the stated qualifications. "},{"Title":"Better than you'd think","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, it's got one of the goofiest monsters ever constructed, a toothy rubber cone that no one could possibly take seriously.  Never mind that.  This is a nifty little piece of Body-Snatchers style Cold War paranoia about free will and the fear of ideological slavery, with Lee Van Cleef wound *really* tight as the Brilliant Scientist On The Edge, a never-better performance by Peter Graves as his Heroic and Visionary Colleague, and Beverly Garland at her all-time coolest - 50's sweater and all - as the rifle-toting wife who storms into Zontar's cave to settle the hash of the beastie who stole her man.  This is *good* stuff!   "},{"Title":"The zucchini crab from Venus conquers the world!","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" (spoilers) How was that pathetic alien supposed to conquer the world? By boring it to death, perhaps? This b-movie is SLLOOWWW. There are long, and I do mean LOONNGGG speeches from all of the characters while they sit or stand around on cheesy 50's living room sets. It's like watching your Philosophy 101 prof argue with the World Religions prof over the nature of being. Between times, stupid kites that sort of look like bats fly around and latch onto people so that they can take them over and scour them of all feelings. This is a lot like Heinlein's The Puppet Masters, only without the really good plot. Lee Van Cleef looks dour and depressed throughout the film, which you can't blame him for. He got a really thankless role in this one. Then there's B movie maven Robert Graves, playing a rocket scientist who offs his own wife because she's been possessed by the alien. he never even thought of just tying her up and going to kill the alien, then returning to see if she'd been released from its control once it was dead. My theory is that the character had wanted to get rid of his wife for years, and just used this as a good excuse to whack her. Only Van Cleef's wife gets a good role, as a truly kick butt female with a gripe against the alien vegetable. I won't even say anything about the horrible accent on the Hispanic soldier, although I kept expecting everything that came out of his mouth to be about 'badges'. As in, We don't need no stinkin'... The movie drags, but the worst part has to be Graves' arrogant pontificating at the end of the film. His wife, best friend, and best friend's wife are dead, along with his lab assistants and a lot of other people he's known for years. And he's giving bloody meaningful speeches?!! This ain't Hamlet, Graves. We don't need three hours of long winded tripe. Just shut yer yap and bury everybody you ever loved, o.k.!! "},{"Title":"Dated sci-fi monster film from Roger Corman.","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It Conquered the World starts at NASA mission control where an expensive state of the art satellite is being launched, misguided physicist Dr. Tom Anderson (Lee Van Cleef) warns against such actions but his claims of impending doom are dismissed. Later that night at Tom's home his good friend & satellite designer Dr. Paul Nelson (Peter Graves) is round having dinner when Tom says he has something to show him, taking him to some computer equipment Tom claims he can speak to an alien creature from Venus but Paul is skeptical. Then Paul gets a phone-call to say that something is wrong with his satellite which has disappeared from radar, Tom knows that his Venusian friend has hijacked it & is using it as a ride to Earth where it lands in the Californian mountains. Hiding out in a cave & being helped by Tom the alien monster manages to stop Earth's power supply & bring it to a complete halt as it prepares to conquer the entire world by turning people into mindless zombies...Produced & directed by the prolific king of the cheapies Roger Corman this well remembered sci-fi monster flick from the 50's makes a valiant effort to be a bit deeper than most from the period but wooden dialogue, silly moments (some comedy relief soldiers & the rather sudden & cold blooded shooting of Joan by her husband Paul) & the infamously goofy cucumber alien monster prevent it from being anything other than a fun piece of dated cinematic nostalgia. Clocking in at a fairly brisk 70 odd minutes long It Conquered the World still manages to drag in places with it's exposition heavy script, It Conquered the World is a very talky film & I got the impression every line was meant to have some deep meaning but watching it today the dialogue comes across as really wooden & stiff, silly little speeches that are supposed to have great meaning feel tired & actually slow the film down. From the story about alien invaders that arrive under the pretence of peace & idealogical scientists It Conquered the World played on the fear of war while various popular sci-fi themes of the time are mercilessly copied from the stand alien invasion to the body snatching themes of being taken over, the idea of a world without emotion is at the core of the script as it tries to stress how important free will & free thinking is. Of course when all said & done It Conquered the World is still a silly 50's monster film but I saw a little bit more effort & meaning here than other similar films of the period even if it had no great impact or effect on me. The potential was here for a great little sci-fi film that was never realised because of a low budget, wooden script & a laughable monster.Although titled It Conquered the World a more appropriate title would have been It Conquered an Insignficant Cave as the monster doesn't really do that much & it's unclear quite what it's ultimate plan & goal are. Does it want to control the human race or destroy it? When finally seen at the end the monster does look very silly with it static rubber faced features & it's squat little body with a huge cone shaped grown on top of it's head as it sort of glides & shuffles along the ground. It does have two cool looking crab like claws though. There are also some flying bat like alien monsters that look like they are being flown into shot on fishing rods, the props were then reused in Roger Corman's next film The Undead (1957).Filmed in just five days in California it was released by AIP in 1956 on a double bill with The She-Creature (1956), the cast are pretty poor here although it's odd seeing the late great Lee Van Cleef in this.It Conquered the World is not a bad attempt at a sci-fi film with meaning but does fall way short thanks to a talky script & a goofy monster, however there's enough fun & good intention here to make It Conquered the World an enjoyable way to waste on hour. Was used as the basis for the Mystery Science Theatre 3000 It Conquered the World (1991) television episode while it was also remade by Larry Buchanan as Zontar The Thing from Venus (1966). "},{"Title":"IT CONQUERED THE WORLD (Roger Corman, 1956) **1/2","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I would not exactly call this a good film but it certainly exemplifies what a guilty pleasure is &#x96; since it features one of the goofiest monsters ever (actually rivaling ROBOT MONSTER 1953) in its clumsy carrot-shaped Venusian! In fact, I enjoyed it more than Corman's ATTACK OF THE CRAB MONSTERS (1957) &#x96; precisely because of its having well-known faces in the lead roles, namely Peter Graves (well suited to this type of film, as confirmed by the title which followed in my Halloween challenge i.e. Bert I. Gordon's BEGINNING OF THE END 1957), Beverly Garland (though saddled with a one-note character) and Lee Van Cleef (too young to play an eccentric scientist in exile but this actually adds to the film's quirkiness). The 'invasion' takes the form of widespread power failure a' la THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL (1951) and eventually an emotion-drained personality (after being pricked in the neck by a bat-like control device &#x96; perhaps a nod to INVADERS FROM MARS 1953) as with many films of its ilk, the villain here is really Communism and, in fact, Graves brands Van Cleef a traitor for having led the alien to our planet in the misguided belief that it would solve mankind's problems! However, the film &#x96; running a brisk 68 minutes &#x96; balances its cautionary messages with action, movement (scenes depicting military maneuvers and the panic-stricken townsfolk) and even poignancy (Graves is forced to kill his wife after she has been 'taken over'); that said, we still have to contend with Van Cleef's 'climactic' tussling with the ultra-fake alien and the wacky combo of Dick Miller and Jonathan Haze (made to look and sound Hispanic) leading the soldiers! "}{"Title":"remade for TV","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" this is a decent s-f movie for corman but the interesting thing to me was hearing my father talking about seeing the same movie with two different casts at various times on TV! I've heard that corman remade or authorized remakes of some of his early films for TV. Is this true? Does anyone know anything about the remake or who was in it? I know that there are two versions of The Day The World Ended, but no one seems to know about the remake of it, either. It would be fascinating to see and compare the two, especially to see if anyone in the remakes went on to have any sort of career in TV or the movies worth mentioning. And I AM talking about the remakes. I know all about Graves, Garland, Mike Conners in The Day The World Ended, etc. But the remakes (possibly for TV) interest me more. Cindy Dare. cwd2017@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Undeniably Cheap....Diamond in the Rough Nonetheless!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film opens with the look and feel of one of the cheapest films ever produced.  The opening credit sequence has all the imagination of a telephone directory page.  Yet, when the story slowly starts to evolve, we find ourselves(the viewers) engrossed with the idea of an alien from Venus coming to Earth to conquer the planet.  Lee Van Cleef plays an enthusiastic and irritating man who has befriended an alien intelligence promising to help mankind.  Van Cleef gives his chum pertinent information and acts as an accomplice in the alien's arrival, its ability to stop sources of energy, its take-over of key people in the community, and so on.  Trying to stop this madman and the Earth's greatest foe is none other than Peter Graves at his stoic best - no emotion seems to ooze out of him at all from one catastrophe to another.  The rest of the cast is good, with some comic performances given by veteran Corman players Dick Miller and Jonathan Haze. The alien itself...well...a description just would not do it justice.  It really must be seen to be believed!  Roger Corman did it again...he brought us a good story, some imaginative directing, competent/good acting, and a cheap-yet entertaining atmosphere.  Kudos Mr. Corman! "},{"Title":"THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST SCI FI OF THE 50'S","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen a lot of older science fiction films and this one is probably way underrated. It is beyond a doubt - containing the most ridiculous monster from another planet-getting prepared to take over the earth with the use of robotic bats that sting people into thinking of a world revolution. But also, the film has plenty of things to ponder that regard the goodness of mankind or lack thereof- the ability for people to think for themselves...and so on and so forth.. This movie stars a young Peter Graves as the good guy and Lee Van Cleef as the bad guy and if you are a fan of either then you should see it just for that- I think the monster is so dumb looking that it is worth it just for that- But nonetheless, it is a good Roger Corman film in which others may beg to differ with my opinion. Most of all -this show has a very good story line you should pay attention to it because it makes it one of the best sci fi movies of the 50's "},{"Title":"Fresh Veggies from Venus","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think some Academy Awards should have been given out for this one, to Peter Graves, Lee Van Cleef, Beverly Garland, Sally Fraser and the rest for managing to keep straight faces through out the 71 minute running time of this Roger Corman camp classic.There are nine of these vegetable Daleks from Venus left on that planet and they've been keeping up communications with earth scientist Lee Van Cleef. Van Cleef's a scientist who the world has seemingly passed by and he's been convinced that the arrival of these creatures who are possessing superior intellects to rule the Earth will usher in a golden age. They move like the Daleks on Doctor Who with the same general shape accept they got banana like feet and crab like claws. The one that comes to earth on a stolen satellite has to live in a cave above a hot spring to simulate the Venusian climate. And he's earmarked eight control devices for some selected key people, one of them being Van Cleef's scientific colleague, Peter Graves.It was acting of the highest caliber for this group of players to feign fear at this ridiculous looking monster. The monsters on the Power Rangers look more frightening. And Van Cleef and Garland's confrontations with the creature in the end will have you rolling on the floor. "},{"Title":"It tries so hard and it's just so stupid","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Basically It Conquered the World is the original Invasion of the Body Snatchers meets The Day the Earth Stood Still &#151; and the quality of those two movies only underscores how pitiful this one looks by comparison. I'll give Roger Corman credit for being the best director who ever regularly worked at American International &#151; not that that's saying much for him &#151; and for at least attempting to work serious political and social commentary into a few of his movies, including this one. Ideologically, It Conquered the World is a hard-Right propaganda piece (much the way John Carpenter's 1983 They Live took the central premise of Invasion of the Body Snatchers and used it for liberal-Left propaganda) in which the Venusian strategy for conquering the world is exactly what the Right of the time said the Communists were doing &#151; targeting political, scientific and military leaders, recruiting them and using them to subvert the country by stealth &#151; and Lee Van Cleef's character is clearly supposed to be what the Right of the time called a Com-Symp, someone who wasn't an active Communist but so dangerously iconoclastic he was easy prey and all too willing to do their dirty work. But any attempt Corman and his writer, Lou Rusoff, might have been making for serious political commentary is subverted (pardon the pun) by the sheer ludicrousness of the appearance of the Venusian alien. (The makers of the first Invasion of the Body Snatchers showed great wisdom in avoiding any shots of the alien invaders in their natural form.) Maybe the upended half-cucumber with toothpick arms isn't quite as risible as the diving-helmeted gorilla who conquered the world in Robot Monster, but that's damning with faint praise; the ridiculous monster takes what could have been a decent piece of half-serious science fiction and turns it into pure camp. "},{"Title":"Quintessential 50's stuff","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It Conquered the World is reflective of what the 50's were all about. Loaded with charm, fast-paced, and loads of fun, Conquered is must-see viewing for fans of the terrific black-and-white sci-fi films of the era. Watch for citizens stampeding down the street as they evacuate their threatened town.  One guy is carrying a saxophone.  We all have our priorities.  Take yourself back and enjoy this one.  "},{"Title":"Excellent 50's B-Movie","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I caught this movie on late night TV a few months back and I must say, I was laughing from beginning to end. From the endlessly entertaining dialog, to the downright ludicrous monster, this movie is an absolute winner, in a turkey kind of way.Conjured up during the 50's heyday of sci-fi flicks and B-movies, I recommend this movie to anyone that is fan of this era in cinema. Makes me come to the conclusion that Roger Corman is God. I wonder if this set was used on other films, since Corman knew best how to get by on a shoestring budget. For the love of Pete, this is the same guy that made up to 9 films a year, eat your heart out Spielberg!! So basically, to those of you with a truly warped sense of humor, this movie is right up your alley. "},{"Title":"One of the best bad movies i have seen","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be the underdog of all movies.  Let's see, it's a Roger Corman movie, it has Peter Graves who at the time was a b-movie magnet, and a monster that looks like corn-on-the-cob with fangs.  Going in you know you're in for the works, but something magical happens.  Maybe the planets were aligned when this film was made.  There's acting... good acting, with emotion even. You may even find yourself caring about the characters and pondering the questions asked by the film.  This isn't exactly a monster movie.  It's more of a ..body snatchers paranoia film.  Call me a sucker for that kind of formula, but I love it.  Sure there are silly looking foam gloves that are supposed to resemble bats infecting the town, but you can overlook that.  And the whole presence of electricity and plumbing to indicate the enemy is a clever touch. Like Spielberg did with Jaws, Corman holds back his monster in all its glory till the very end.  And that's where the Jaws comparisons end as well.  Here's the B-movie cheese we've all come to know and love.  What a sorry laughable excuse for a monster.  And the fodder that just hugs it and gets brushed to death by flailing arms, not to mention the over the top speech given by Graves.  By then it really doesn't matter, because the film had already tickled your higher taste senses when you left them off guard. The climax may be silly, but without it wouldn't be a good bad movie. It would be just another movie.  Finally a movie that can be enjoyed on its own, and with the MST3K crew.  Check out either version.  "},{"Title":"watch it;if you dare","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you like thinly veiled anti-communist propaganda, pathetic poorly done special effects, and loads and loads of boring mindless dialogue, then this is the movie for you. Otherwise, avoid this putrid pile of pistol packing paranoid pontification.I especially love the scene of the base general just casually taking a walk in the woods near the base(as if the base commander would have the time go on a simple hike while the base was under lockdown).Also the woman scientist being treated so subserviently by her fellow male colleagues(hon, I know you have three phds, but could you just go and make the coffee).And Peter Graves final speech smacks so much of Mccarthy era propaganda, its not even funny.He warns us to be ever vigilant to guard against those outsiders who would try to control us, and change our way of thinking... OH NO!!its the republicans,they're coming...they're almost here...RUN FOR YOUR LIVES!!!! "},{"Title":"Does a super ego equal intelligence?","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Produced and directed by Roger Corman. Very low budget. A monster that to look at is laughable, not fearsome. A story line very much like so many to follow. An entity from outer space comes to our world and needs to enter human bodies in order to conquer it. A once respected scientist(Lee Van Cleef)has the ability to communicate with the invader and wants to be part of the super intellectual take over. His best friend (Peter Graves)is a rocket scientist that unknowingly provided the invader from Venus a way to arrive on earth.The movie of course poses a frightening event in an innocent time. Mr. Graves plays his role very calm with little emotion to speak of. The rest of the cast seems way over the top. The cast includes Beverly Garland, Russ Bender, Sally Fraser and Dick Miller.If the appearance of the monster was left to our imagination, it might have been more thrilling. But we get so disappointed without a creature of some sort to fuel our fears. It came and it conquered...well, conquered for almost an hour. "}{"Title":"One of Corman's best 50's Sci-Fi Films Blaisdell's monster is great!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is a Drive-Inn B Sci-Fi Cult Classic. I saw the Buchanan Remake it is really good. The original I actually like better though. The monster looks similar to a Carrot it is low & squat to the ground. Corman did some research here Venus has gravity like that & a lot of Vegetable Life. So he had Paul Blaisdell design a small creature not very big Co-Star & leading lady Beverly Garland laughed & punted it like a football. Corman said no no no! always make ur monster taller then ur leading lady. So he had Blaisdell design a new 10 Foot Tall Creature. The eyes even move on it. Blaisdell did an excellent job & he makes awesome monsters for mainly American International Pictures Sci-Fi & Horror Cult Classics. He also usually plays the monster also. His others film are The Beast With A Million Eyes '55, Day The World Ended '55, The She-Creature '56, Voodoo Woman '56, Invasion Of The Saucer Men '57 & It The Terror From Beyond Space '58 in that he just made the alien monster suit he doesn't play the monster too like in the others. Also he doesn't play the monster in The Beast With A Million Eyes as well. He plays one of the Saucer Men also in Invasion Of The Saucer Men. Sci-Fi / Thriller about a scientist Tom Anderson played by Lee Van Cleef that is in contact with a Creature from Venus he thinks is coming to save mankind. His wife Claire Anderson played by beautiful Beverly Garland. She is famous for a lot of Sci-Fi & Horror Films in the 50's & 60's he credits include Not Of This Earth '57 another Corman Sci-Fi Classic also The Alligator People '59 & Twice-Told Tales '63. The lead role is played by Peter Graves he is Dr. Paul Nelson in charge of The Satellite Program. Graves most famous for his role in the 60's & 70's T.V. Series Mission Impossible. He was also in a staple of B Sci-Fi Films in the 50's as the leading man & one of his first films was the Film-Noir Classic The Night Of The Hunter (1955). Not a leading role but he got lead roles in these B Sci-Fi Films like, Red Planet Mars '52, Killers From Space '54 & Beginning Of The End '57. Also of course our film. He & his crew send up a Laser Satellite & it changes it's own course the creature from Venus is inside controlling it directing it to earth. By the way the creature had a name Beulah. It makes it to earth Tom has communication with it on a machine he built. The creature makes weird vibrating pulsating noises. It creates these bat flying creatures that plant these metal needle like devices in the back of the victims neck very similar to the 1953 Sci-Fi Classic Invaders From Mars. Anyway this creature eventually gets the General, The Police Chief & some others. It has the town taken-over & Tom still won't believe & Paul is trying to explain to him. Even Paul's wife Joan Nelson played by Sally Fraser who was also in another A.I.P. Sci-Fi Cult Classic Earth vs. The Spider (1958). Anyway Tom finally realizes from Paul that this thing came to conquer mankind not save it. I don't wanna tell the rest Blaisdell & Corman Fans should check it out. It is one of my favorite Alien Invasion Films. I own the rare OOP VHS from Columbia Tri-Star Home Video which I transferred to DVD+R. Sadly not on DVD still. Anyway 8 out of 10 Alien Invasion Film! "},{"Title":"Carrot threatens the world!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It Conquered the World is one of the best so-bad-its-good movies of the 1950's and is one of Roger Corman's best movies.The best thing about this is the carrot like monster from Venus that is controlled by Lee Van Cleef, long before his spaghetti westerns.  This 'carrot' sends small creatures called bat mites to take over peoples' minds and threaten the world.The other main cast in this movie are 50's sci-fi regulars Peter Graves and Beverley Garland, who plays Van Cleef's wife and gets killed by the monster at the end, which itself gets killed by soldiers.I enjoyed this movie a lot and is a must for 1950's sci-fi fans.  See it for the monster alone.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Roger Corman's delightfully dopey 50's sci-fi alien invasion hoot","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A hilariously horrendous schlock picture howler. Lee Van Cleef, looking very young and sporting a full head of hair, stolidly portrays a brilliant, but batty reclusive scientist who contacts a malevolent cucumber-shaped extraterrestrial from Venus over his private ham radio station. Van Cleef helps the creature come to Earth so it can take over the planet. It turns hapless humans into mindless slaves with the assistance of these uproariously hokey propelled on obvious wires mutant bat thingies. Peter Graves, acting particularly starchy, plays Van Cleef's sole good fellow scientist friend who decides to stop Van Cleef and the monster. Beverly Garland as Van Cleef's long-suffering wife spouts lots of choice terrible lines (Bev's immortal response when she finally sees the creature So, that's what you look like; you're UGLY -- HORRIBLE!); she becomes so fed up with Van Cleef's passivity that she grabs a handy rifle, marches down to the cave where the beast is hiding, and tries to blow the unsightly sucker into the middle of next week. Graves has to kill his own wife after she's converted into an unthinking emotionless drone. Dick Miller and Jonathan Haze, the latter affecting a ridiculous Mexican accent, supply gut-busting comic relief as a pair of eager soldiers. Corman's strangely inept direction, the silly, but sincere script by Lou Rusoff, Paul Blaisdell's wonderfully absurd vegetable monster design (the creature's got a mouth full of sharp velvet fangs, horns and lobster-like pincers), the incredibly bad dialogue (The world is full of fatheads -- full to overflowing), the spartan sets, clunky pacing, even clumsier cinematography, a typically moody score by Ronald Stein, wooden acting, cardboard characters, several heavy-handed stabs at philosophical introspection and general all-pervasive air of madly overreaching poverty-row desperation clinch this baby's status as one of the all-time great ludicrously lousy 50's science fiction exploitation nuggets. "},{"Title":"Corman's take on The Day the Earth Stood Still","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  IT CONQUERED THE WORLD is very similar to THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL in plot and execution only in IT CONQUERED THE WORLD, Corman provided exactly what most in the audience would expect from the plot..a manipulative non-humanoid alien bent on world conquest (not on a mission of goodwill like Klaatu in THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL) and to those seeking just these kind of thrills, Corman delivers in spades. The film is indeed a lot of fun to watch and Paul Blaisdell's creation here is unforgettable albeit a little silly looking. Like THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, we have a scientist sought out to help the alien (here manipulated) and at the end we get an impassioned speech from an Earthman about the value of what makes us human..kind of an interesting contrast to Klaatu's speech in The DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL..in many ways IT CONQUERED THE WORLD is the opposite side of the coin and I would say Corman's effort here is in actuality slightly underrated. "},{"Title":"Death...Fire...Loss...Disillusionment","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Peter Graves gives the most dramatic speech of the 50's at the very end of this flick. Fast forward to 60 minutes (of a 70 minute movie) to catch all the action and the harrowing conclusion of...It Conquered the World!He learned almost too late...that man is a feeling creature. And because of it the greatest in the universe. He learned too late for himself that men have to find their own way to make their own mistakes. There can't be any gift of perfection from outside theirselves. And when men seek such perfection, they find only death...fire...loss...disillusionment; the end of everything thats gone forward. Men have always sought the end of toil and misery, but it can't be given. It has to be achieved! There is hope, but it has to come from inside...of the man himself. "},{"Title":"Cheap, yes, but undeniably fun.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found myself totally interested in this film when it came on AMC. Okay, so the aliens were stupid looking. If you can get past that, this movie is rather intelligent for it's time. Not as much fun as The Blob, but you'll have a good time. This proves that Roger Corman was capable of making good movies on almost no budget. "},{"Title":"It came from Planet Dill","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, what were the filmmakers smoking when they made this?The only positive about this film is Beverly Garland.  Other than that, I still shudder at the confusion I felt as the film prodded along (quite slowly).  Apparently, some guy is in chaoots with an alien from Venus and these cheesy bats help convert humans into unwilling slaves.  Really cheap-o budget here, atypical for B movies and even has a young Peter Graves who's stirring speech in the end will confuse any Nobel scientist.  You also have incompetent army guys, conspiracy against humanity, unjustified spousal death, unwarranted use of makeshift flamethrower, and lots of screaming and fleeing in terror.  The scene with the cop shooting some innocent storekeeper was quite amusing.He learned too late that man was a feeling creature and because of it the greatest in the universe... ...next time on Biography! "},{"Title":"Laughable!!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was listening to Frank Zappa's live CD Roxy & Elsewhere when the song Cheepnis came on.  FZ makes a pretty comical reference to this film and it's inverted ice-cream cone with teeth monster.  The way he describes it is so funny it almost makes you want to see this movie. "},{"Title":"It conquered the world, then got bored and went home. We're saved!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly terrible low-budget movie, although according to director Roger Corman, the even lower budget remake was even more terrible! There are basically three reasons for watching this awful flick. First, at only an hour and 10 minutes, it's relatively painless. Second, you get to watch familiar actors Peter Graves and Lee Van Cleef. The former tries to actually make the movie work while the latter suffers through a thoroughly embarrassing role. Finally, you get to see one of the most amusing monsters in film history, a giant rubber killer turnip. At least it didn't look like Crash Corrigan in a monkey suit, so you have to give Corman credit for being unique! "}]