[{"Title":"A comedy-drama very well done!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alternately puzzled, lost, desperate, lonely, confused and unexpectedly radiant with happiness, Marilyn Monroe, with a mixture of humor and pain scores her greatest triumph in Joshua Logan's Bus Stop creating a complete and deeply touching character...Singing 'That Old Black Magic' to a noisy crowd of cowpokes who couldn't care less about her efforts to entertain them, Cherie is pleased to discover a fan in Bo, a young and innocent cowboy who has come to make his fortune at the Rodeo and finds himself an Angel to take back to his Montana ranch...The kiss she gives him in appreciation, determines him then and there to be his beloved wife...Logan gives Don Murray his first and best-remembered screen role, as the gauche simple-thinking cowboy who romances the glamorous 'chantoose'... Marilyn succeeds in making him say please which is the point of the whole thing... Murray was Oscar-nominated for his performance...There are other fine performances in the movie Arthur O'Connell, delightful as the cowboy's pal who big-brothers him with loving patience; Eileen Heckart amusing as the old time friend; Betty Field, strong enough as the bus stop owner; Robert Bray, firm as the driver of the bus and Hope Lange, so auspicious in her screen debut whom Cherie reveals details of her past...With a modern Western background and rodeo atmosphere, and with panoramic long shot and overwhelming close-ups in color and CinemaScope, Bus Stop is a comedy-drama very well done, and a modest entertainment in familiar American vein...The film had one of Monroe's most touching songs 'That Old Black Magic' was as funny as it was heartbreaking&#133; "},{"Title":"Dumb Story & Murray's Stupid Role Overshadows Marilyn","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"63 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently saw a tribute to Marilyn Monroe and it was mentioned that Marilyn called Bus Stop her favorite film in which she acted. She thought she did her best work in that film and it legitimized her as a serious actress. This was one of the few films of hers I had never seen so I was very anxious now to see this, especially on widescreen. Well, it was disappointing not because of Marilyn - she was fine - but the story was incredibly stupid.Part of the problem might be the way our society has changed, although I doubt even 50 years ago - when this film came out - a guy could do what Bo Decker (Don Murray) did in here and get away with it. Nonetheless, to watch this brainless idiot - in a crowded nightclub - chase a woman down, rip off half of her dress, break into her dressing room, follow her out the window to a bus station, lasso her and kidnap her by dragging her onto the bus.....and have NOBODY even attempt to stop him during all of this (and more) is a real insult to any viewer's intelligence. No police? No security? No harassment, et al? The story, like Murray's character who has fewer brains than the rodeo animals he's battling, is just plain dumb. Monroe (Cheri) and friend Eileen Heckart (Vera) are fine, as is the other main character, Virgil (Arthur O'Connell) but Murray is so loud, abrasive and stupid that he ruins the movie. He - not Monroe - dominates the film, unfortunately.Thankfully, Monroe is.....well, Monroe, so all is not lost watching this movie but this screenplay is so dated and so moronic you'll cringe watching the film. "},{"Title":"In Praise of Don Murray","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I'm in agreement with the consensus view on Bus Stop that it is one of the better films with Marilyn Monroe, and I like Monroe as much as the next classic film fan, or as much as the next guy with overactive hormones, I've noticed a relative downplaying of Don Murray's work in the film--often critics outright dismiss him, characterizing Bus Stop as a film that works despite Murray's character and performance. I couldn't disagree with that more strongly. Not to detract from Monroe, but what really pushed Bus Stop over the top for me in terms of quality--in addition to the fine, allegorical story--was the hilariously over-the-top performance of Murray and the sheer absurdity of his character.But maybe my different view on this, and why I love the film so much, is because I'm a huge fan of absurdism. Bus Stop is the tale of Beauregard Bo Decker (Murray) and Virgil Blessing (Arthur O'Connell). They're headed from their ranch in Montana to Phoenix, Arizona to participate in a rodeo. Bo is quite skilled at ridin' and rustlin', so Virgil is taking him off of the farm for one of the only times in his life to give the rodeo a shot, and more importantly, to get him a bit more worldly experience, especially with women. Bo's experience with the fairer sex had been pretty much limited to pictures in magazines. Virgil seems to just want Bo to lose a bit of his innocence, but Bo has in his mind that he's going to find an angel and take possession of her. Because he's only been on a ranch, that's the only way he knows how to relate to anything. He figures once he finds an angel he'll just rope her up like a calf and take her home. As we see from the beginning of the film, Bo has a tendency to be brash and yell at everyone, like he's hollerin' instructions across the range at his partner before they lose control of their cattle.Enter Monroe as showgirl Cherie. She's a hillbilly (heck, we learn that she even almost married her cousin) from Arkansas whose made it as far as Arizona, where she's playing a dive girlie club in Phoenix, trying to earn enough money and gumption to one day make it to L.A. Once Bo sees her, he decides she's his angel. Needless to say, that doesn't go over so well.The bulk of the film consists of Bo trying to ride everything in the world like a bucking bronco while others, including Cherie, try to figure out what's wrong with him. For me, this material was gut-bustingly funny. I had to hit pause on the DVD player a number of times because I was laughing so hard.This is not to say that Monroe doesn't turn in a great, nuanced performance--she does, despite the reported difficulties filming her. According to scriptwriter George Axelrod, she would repeatedly break out in tears, become extremely frustrated, forget her lines, yell profanities, and director Joshua Logan couldn't call cut during her scenes or she'd take it as a personal affront, so Logan would let 900 feet of film just run out while he talked to her, coaxing a performance out of her. And it's not to say that Monroe and Murray do not have chemistry together--they do; if they hadn't, the film wouldn't have worked.But without Murray's bizarre but funny character, which he plays to a tee, I'm not sure I would have thought Bus Stop was a 10. In fact, there was one section where I felt that score might be in jeopardy--during the latter part of the relatively quiet climax set in Grace's Diner/Bus Stop, when Murray tones down a bit. The film is still good at that point--still definitely a 9, but I found myself slightly missing the hyperactive comedy of the earlier scenes.The story for Bus Stop was originally a one-act play by William Inge called People in the Wind. Inge later adapted People in the Wind for a larger scale production on Broadway, now retitled Bus Stop. It opened at the Music Box Theater in New York City on March 2, 1955 and ran for 478 performances. It was quickly adapted for film by Axelrod, who changed the play quite a bit, including dropping major characters.The cinematography in the film is lush, and evidences that we're still in the early days of the anamorphic widescreen process known as Cinemascope. Logan makes use of some broad landscapes and wide shots of the rodeo, crowd and such, but the best uses of widescreen in the film are subtler. Probably the best shot arrives in that quiet section mentioned above, when Cherie has her head on Grace's bar, her torso stretched horizontally. Bo ends up putting his head on top of hers, aligning his body similarly, and together they fill the screen, naturally conforming to the aspect ratio. Logan's direction is great throughout, both for camera work and his actor's performances.As for Monroe, perhaps reflecting (barely) offscreen problems at the time, she easily paints a complex, almost tortured soul. Her performance underscores one of the main subtexts of the film--loneliness accompanied by a kind of melancholy hope. Every character who has more than a couple lines is experiencing this in some way--even Bo, who is covering it up with his boisterousness. Logan and Axelrod also emphasize ironies--one beautiful instance is when Bo announces Cherie as his angel while she's singing That Old Black Magic in a very suggestive costume. And there are nice, unrealized (by the characters) parallels in their quests--in their loneliness and hope, they're really all looking for their own angels, often not recognizing when they're right in front of them. "},{"Title":"Monroe At Her Best","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marilyn Monroe is so good here it's startling. Her Cherie (with the accent on the first syllable, remember) is one of the most lovable characters in the history of film. That the rest of the movie is rocky-going and her co-star is no match for her is unfortunate, but not fatal.Apparently the director, Joshua Logan, was able to create a relatively peaceful environment where Monroe could completely let go and allow her natural fragility and sex appeal to take over. When she's on screen it's impossible to take your eyes off her, not just because she's beautiful (what starlet from the 1950's WASN'T beautiful?) but because she's laying bare her character's soul for the camera (and in the process much of her own soul as well). She isn't just reading lines with various inflections or doing bits of business like so many actors do, she's bringing the character to life.Unforgettable is the moment where she finds herself perched on the shoulder of the crazy, lovestruck cowboy watching a parade and she's trying to pantomime to a friend in the crowd how she wound up up there. Or the way she keeps shushing the loud-talking bus driver so that he won't wake up the sleeping cowboy as she's planning her escape. Or the way she can't make eye contact or get her lazy backwoods accent (that is incredibly charming) to sound firm enough when she keeps trying to tell the cowboy to get lost. Her comic timing is just sublime and unteachable. Don Murray's performance as the cowboy, criminally and inexplicably Oscar-nominated, is cloying, two-dimensional and geared for the stage, not the intimacy of film. He needs to provide some hint of vulnerabilty before he's humbled in the fist fight with the bus driver, but he is tragically not up to the task. His Beauregard is the kind of loud-mouthed, uncouth buffoon that only a greatly skilled comic actor can make sympathetic, and Murray simply doesn't know how to finesse the comic moments and make them work.Monroe receives fine support from Arthur O'Connell as Beau's older, wiser friend Virgil Blessing, but this is her show all the way. She makes it a good movie, but one can't help imagining how much better it could have been had it been directed by someone like Kazan and co-starred possibly Rock Hudson.     "},{"Title":"OK but obnoxious","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is based on a play that I haven't read so maybe I'm missing some of the subtext but as pure entertainment I wouldn't recommend this movie. The characters aren't well-defined and are little more than stereotypes, e.g. Grace, the sassy diner waitress, Cherie, the showgirl with a heart of gold. Marilyn Monroe plays the same type of character that she more or less played for her entire career, but she does it very well; she and Hope Lange provide the only good performances. Don Murray's unsophisticated cowboy was so obnoxious he practically ruined any enjoyment to be had from the movie. The supporting players are decent but that's all. It's a shame, this movie could have been pretty good if they had made one or two different casting decisions.  "},{"Title":"A great performance","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bus Stop has been rightly hailed as Marilyn Monroe's breakthrough performance in a movie as a serious dramatic actress. She is absolutely superb here, ditching the breathless dumb blonde of earlier roles and playing a hardened, Southern chanteuse in search of true love. She manages to convey a whole range of emotions which is testament to her time spent at Lee Strasberg's Actor's Studio in New York. As usual she sparkles and it's difficult to take your eyes off her, but there is a depth and sympathy to her playing that makes you take note of the performance and not simply the curves.However, Bus Stop is a relatively simple picture of unrequited then requited love. The comedy moments don't often work that well and Don Murray's Beau has to be one of the most irritating characters I have ever seen in a film. Him and Cherie coming together at the end of the picture is unbelievable and spoiled the movie for me...I always wanted her to get away!Bus Stop is more enjoyable from the Monroe point of view as her playing is spellbinding and marked a turning point in her career.  "},{"Title":"Ooooo, really bad","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this yesterday and I'm still in shock. Monroe began to ripen as a dramatic actress just mere days (it seems) before she died. For sheer hilarity and dramatic weight, she never surpassed her role in Some like it hot. For dramatic power she was very impressive and powerful in The Misfits. This film, earlier in her career has been hailed as an early dramatic performance.I am not familiar with the play from whence this film came from. I just watched it and took it for what it appeared. I found Don Murray's characterization of the cowboy to be a negative distraction, largely because instead of a real person he came across as a living comic-book character. There was not a moment when he was on the screen except for his quiet moments of remorse at the end, when he was not sounding like a lunatic. Other commentators have noted that this over the top performance was supposed to be this way, deliberately to be funny. Well, in my time, at the end of 2006, this type of behavior looks stupid, ridiculous and unbelievable. Further, Murray spends almost every second in the film shouting at the top of his lungs as if this is the way most cowboys fresh off the farm act when hitting the big city for the first time. Ahhhhh, no I don't think so. The director (Logan) must have encouraged him to act this way and for me it makes him look like an imbecile. Honestly, his acting just made me so uncomfortable from the beginning to the end I wish I could have stopped the film.Then we have Monroe. She looked as she always does, beautiful. But, I did notice that she kept changing the inflection of her voice, as if not quite yet sure of how to morph from a blonde-bombshell-dimwit into a real person, a dramatic presence. She just comes in and out of the place and it strikes me now as quite a fascinating moment in her career, almost at the cusp of breaking out into better acting. Her attempts at an accent come and go and if we were not so distracted by what she looked like we'd take closer note of it. Her skin looked so white next to the cowboy that she almost looked sickly. The best moments were when she was staring into a mirror (very well set up shot) and the doubts and fears that crossed her face felt every bit as real as one could imagine.All in all I was shocked at how bad the film looked, given the age in which we live. The cartoonish characterization that Murray gives just looks ridiculous and hence hard to relate to. I just could not imagine any cowboy acting like a wild baboon on steroids. Sorry, but this just made me cringe. You compare a great dramatic effort like The Misfits and the contrast makes everything clear. If Joshua Logan wanted to make a drama here then he destroyed it with the creation of a character right out of the comic Bizarro. This film just does not age well. "},{"Title":"I almost married a cousin of mine when I was 14, but Pappy wouldn't have it! (Cherie)","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bus Stop is named for the setting of the last half-hour of this film, the bus stop in the snow, somewhere in Wyoming, where Beau finally gets his 'comeuppance', right before he and Cherie reconcile.  If this movie had not been made in 1956, but instead in modern times, it would have received a very laughable reception. As it is, I consider it a cult classic in the genre of The Rocky Horror Picture Show, so horrible and fake are the characters and the dialog. However, Marilyn Monroe, in her 26th film, playing a simple showgirl from Arkansas, does very well with her role. Don Murray as Beau, in his very first film, is so obnoxious that by the time he apologises for his bad behavior, we no longer care about him, and Cherie's accepting him just doesn't make sense. Hope Lange has a small part as Elma on the bus, in this her first film. She and Murray married afterward in real life, but it didn't last. Murray made a number of other films, including the father in Quarterback Princess in 1983 with Helen Hunt.The reason to see this film is Marilyn Monroe in her prime, almost 30, and only 6 years from her death. The story, of the possessive cowboy who decides to marry Cherie and haul her away to his ranch in Montana, is pretty simple and pretty implausible. The scene in the bus stop, where he finally kisses her for serious, was also featured in an episode of Northern Exposure, with Chris playing Beau and Maggie playing Cherie, for a community theater production they were rehearsing for. "},{"Title":"Great combination of comedy and pathos","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The thesis of the film seems to be that, though opposites may not attract, two individuals with real but complementary needs can make their way toward a fulfilling relationship. As Beau tells Cheri at the end If I have no experience with love and you have too much, maybe we can meet somewhere in the middle. The viewer is intended to feel humor toward and sympathy for both the cowboy and the saloon singer; and I at least do, even after having seen the movie 7 or 8 times. The cast is uniformly excellent. As often noted, Monroe has never been better in subtly conveying a range of emotions. It is difficult to avoid comparing Cheri's history and needs with her own pursuit of success as an actress. Murray is hilarious as the naive cowboy in the first sequences, until the unattractive side of his innocence appears and must be subdued before the finale. For an old timer like myself, it was great to see Betty Field playing against the fragile character she created in a few films from the 40s.  "},{"Title":"well worth a stop when passing through","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Bus Stop' is a cheerful and romantic old-style film with part of the action centering around a bus stop and bus journey. Bo, a not-very-bright cowboy, does not know anything about love but has his heart set on bringing a woman back home with him. He sees Cherie (played by Monroe) at a bar and falls instantly in love, but she does not quite feel the same way about him. The film explores this romance and the lessons that Bo (and Cherie) has to learn in order to 'grow up'. It takes him several mistakes and character flaws to overcome, but, with the help of Marilyn Monroe, everything comes to a happy (and quick) ending, like most 1950s films.Overall, 'Bus Stop' is an engaging and funny film and it is worth a watch. However, there are some problems. One of the problems is that I found Bo to be extremely annoying in places. He is too 'in your face'; I am not sure whether Bo's innocence was over-played by the actor or if it was written in the script. The other problem I had was the ending. Older films typically have a rushed ending, at least when compared to the present day. It just seems to abrupt.The film also has some amuzing adult humor, and this is subtle so there is not a chance of a child picking up on it. (Look at the float in the parade!) Overall, 'Bus Stop' is an all-around enjoyable tale about an age past. "}{"Title":"Why Marilyn is Unforgettable","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself is mildly OK. However, this movie shows why MM has been so unforgettable to the American public almost 40 years after her death.Check out two scenes. First, the justifiably famous rendition of That Old Black Magic number. Whether acting or if it's the real Marilyn Monroe, she conveys loneliness in front of a packed saloon; the feeling of recognition and appreciation when the Don Murray (Bo)character berates the patrons to show respect to her while she sings; and the out-and-out sexiness of her when she is lit up in red flames. Wow!!The second scene is near the end when, standing out in the cold, Bo offers her his coat. The look on her face when she realizes that someone, maybe for the first time, is there to look after her and take care of her is absolutely moving. Again we can see the real Marilyn in the character. She so desperately looked for love and acceptance all through her life.This is not a great movie. It is a great showcase for one of the most  remarkable personalities in movie history. "},{"Title":"What was Marilyn thinking?","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film with high hopes, for I had heard that it was one of Marilyn's best performances. I was deeply disappointed, and Bus Stop rates in my Bottom Ten Worst Films. Monroe went to the Actors Studio for a year to study, and then made this film. Why? Her character is one of the weakest, most shallow women ever portrayed on film. This role was even more anti-feminist than the gold digging bimbos that Marilyn played in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and How To Marry A Millionaire. At least those women were smart.I wonder if Marilyn made this film for a contractual obligation, or she actually chose the role. I do admit that she gave a good performance, and it helped to prove she was a real actress. However, her accent came and went, and was a bit overdone. I think a much better example of Marilyn in a serious role is the film Niagra with Joseph Cotten. Coincidentally, the screenplay for Bus Stop was written by George Axelrod, who also wrote The Seven Year Itch (in my opinion another extremely overrated film.)I can't finish this without saying how much I hated Don Murray's character. From the moment he first appeared on screen, I wished someone would shoot him in the head. Bo has to be one of the stupidest, most irritating characters of all time. The story was weak, and I couldn't have cared less what happened to any of the players. About the only good thing I can say about this film is that Hope Lange was cute.Don't stand in any lines for this Bus! "},{"Title":"High as an elephant's eye..","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...is the corn factor in this at times embarrassingly bad Marilyn Monroe feature. I like to cut Norma Jean a fair bit of slack on the subject of her acting ability and will go a little out of my way to watch some of her lesser-known movies when they air on the schedules but I found this country bumpkin nonsense almost toe-curlingly unwatchable.I'm struggling really hard to think of any redeeming features but I find I can't. The story is lighter-than-fluff fluff and one you'd more likely see fleshed out from near-nothingness in a musical of the era. Unfortunately some of the hokiest hillbilly music you'll ever hear does make something of an intrusion into the story and I'm sorry but I find old-style country and western music as harmonious as a nail-scratched blackboard.Monroe looks fine if a little shop-worn at times, gives us a variety of accents from most of the mid-western states and is required at various times to dress herself in a mildly prurient way in a way that no other major Hollywood star of the era would or should have to. However her co-star, introducing Don Murray (how I wish he'd been introduced to oblivion!) gives the most lunk-headedly irritating performance I think I've ever seen as a hayseed country boy who gets the hots for Monroe's down-at-heel showgirl with plenty, in fact, far too much a-whooping and a-hollering for normal patience to bear. I see to my horror that Murray inexplicably got an Oscar nomination for his I hesitate to call it acting which must surely have given hope to every non-actor of the day!The direction is almost as dumb and the dialogue dumber again, - I defy anyone to not laugh out loud at Murray and Monroe's big at long last love scene where their faces fill the screen and unfortunately the world's worst dialogue simultaneously fills your ears.I guess the producer and director were seeking to cash in on Marilyn's ascending star with a light-hearted country-style romantic comedy but really do yourself a favour and give this particular bus the widest possible berth and wait for the next one, no matter how long it takes "},{"Title":"The most willfully stupid movie I've ever seen","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so stupid that it made me change my criteria for evaluating bad movies. Previously I thought the worst movie ever made would, by necessity, also be the dumbest movie. But here we are. Every frame of this is painfully & willfully rock-bottom stuuuuuuupid, but somehow it still can't steal my Worst Movie Ever Made award from either Godspell, or Nothing but Trouble (pick one - it's a toss-up). You have to give it credit though for uniqueness; no other movie ever made focuses on such completely, unredeemably stupid people. It's sort of a deal that filmmakers make with audiences... not to make viewers identify with hopeless idiots at the cinema. Bus Stop never comes close to entertainment or art, because (A) I have a mind, and (B) the writers have not come up with a way to make the problems and low-rent dreams of hopelessly stupid people matter to thinking people. I have never seen a movie this willfully stupid in my life.Neither Beau (Don Murray) or Cherie (Marilyn Monroe) can think. Thinking, it turns out, is hard. So these ignorant characters shout and drawl their way through pointless scene after pointless scene. They're such pig-ignorant morons their minds can't fathom the abstractions we call priorities & delayed gratification. Every impulse must be pursued immediately, because they are hopelessly unarmed with the intelligence to resist any urge; shouting, coupling, marriage, speaking every limp 'thought' that flutters through their withered brains. Getting married and moving to Montana was not my highest priority for the characters. But I would have become very excited to see them rush to a free sterilization clinic or hurl themselves off a cliff.This is positively the feeblest excuse to crank up a movie camera. You should be able to imprison people this stupid. Absurdly, impossibly and improbably this movie gets 100 percent positive ratings on Rotten Tomatoes!!! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably sexist","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's impossible to believe that Marilyn's character Cherie could fall in love with Beauregard. Gorgeous face and body, yes, but what an irritating moron he is. Of course feminism hadn't really caught on in the fifties, so she may not have expected to be treated with the highest respect, but this is supposed to be a woman with a purpose, who then throws everything away for an unthinking lout. Watching this happen was really annoying. "},{"Title":"Love in a mental hospital!!","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm 36 years old, educated, living in the UK, and maybe I was missing something, but this film was just plain bizarre. OK I understand that as the years pass, fashions change, attitudes change, and some things that perhaps were funny fifty years ago, today are less so, but this film just doesn't make sense.Bo is played as if he's fresh out of the mental hospital, and he appears to have forgotten to bring his medication with him. Cherie is seemingly equally stupid. I just find the whole film disturbing and uncomfortable to watch. I'm lead to believe that it is a comedy, but I didn't laugh once. It's not simply because of the age of the movie that I don't find it amusing. I love Laurel and Hardy movies, old Bilco shows, even I Love Lucy... but where is the humour in this film.It is the first Marilyn Monroe film I've watched, and I was staggered by her acting skills. Yes I know the style of acting has changed over the years, but it just seems like a poor performance. She looks awful... was she constantly powdered with talc during the filming? she is so white! I know this is fiction, and of course it's not a documentary of everyday life in 1956, but surely even back then someone had acted like Bo... he would've been arrested (or repeatedly punched in the face by passing strangers).This is probably the worst film I've seen in a long time. How anyone can rate this film over three stars is beyond me.Anyway watch it for yourself, you may have to scoop out most of your brain with a spoon, or have very low expectations but you may enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This one doesn't age well...","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a thirtysomething, this film arrived at least 15 years before I did. In this day and age, the shenanigans pulled by Don Murray's character would land him in jail practically before the opening credits finished up. With that said, the first thing one must accept before seeing this film is that it's a film from almost 50 years ago, and things were different then.Still, though, it's hard for me to imagine audiences even back in 1956 thinking that Don's character (Bo the chauvinistic cowboy) was humorous. As Cherry, or Sherri, or Share-REE, Marilyn's character is humiliated, kidnapped, mistreated and whatever else by Bo. It is played for laughs, but unlike the John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara films that employed this routine, nothing here clicks. Bo is an extremely unlikable character right up to the Hollywood ending (which didn't help the believability film any either). Marilyn is fine, but can only go so far in trying to save the film. The few moments she's given to show her comedy skills are overshadowed by Don's irritations. The single funniest line of the film is given by the bus driver in the snow, but by then this film's pretty much a lost cause. I gave this film a 5. That's one point for the scene in the snow near the end, two points for Marilyn, one point for some well-executed rodeo scenes, and one point for the DVD extras.  "},{"Title":"The most dreadful movie in my memory","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So I got the Diamond Collection for Christmas and was looking forward to seeing this one in particular as I'd seen the others.Oh, heavens; it was wretched.  I love Marilyn Monroe-- she's my hero-- but this was NOT her role.  She plays this mountain hick slut, but she can't maintain the accent.  Even if she could, that's not the kind of thing I want to hear coming out of her mouth.  Her voice is one of my favourite things about her, so naturally I couldn't look at her the same.  And someone had the idea to put this clown white stuff all over the entirety of her exposed body, which was pretty cool until she was sitting side by side with a normally complected person.  Too strange.  While it pained me to watch and listen to her deliberately horrid performance of the Black Magic song, it took talent to do it that frightfully.  I gained a great deal of respect for her after that scene.The plot makes you want to kick whoever wrote it.  I hated Bo's character.  Hearing him yell, 'CHERRY!!!  CHERRY!!!' makes me cringe.  I hated the ending.  Good things?  It has a few undeniably pleasant moments, that one line from Bo in the end made me cry and ooze!!! but otherwise, I am of the belief that it should not have been made. "},{"Title":"MM at her best..","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie departs significantly from the original William Inge script. The original play is a part drama/part satire on the nature of relationships and there are six principal characters the chanteuse, the cowboy, the owner of the bus stop, the bus driver, the waitress and the older male customer. Plus the entire play is set in a diner. Joshua Logan takes this play and transforms it into a wide-screen extravaganza showcasing the looks and talents of Marilyn Monroe. If anyone has any doubts about Ms. Monroe's ability to act, this movie should dispel those doubts. She dominates the movie and is in almost every scene. Don Murray and Arthur O'Connell also give strong performances, but it's Ms. Monroe's movie all the way. "},{"Title":"Annoying characters spoil an already weak story","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Recap Bo has grown up and spent all his life on a ranch far out in the country in Montana. He is a talented rodeo rider so for the first time he is leaving the ranch to compete at the big rodeo show in Phoenix. He has been a quick learner at everything he tried, but now he will try on girls for the first time, something he clearly knows nothing about.Comments Supposedly a romantic comedy starring the legendary Marilyn Monroe, and even if it do star Monroe it isn't that funny, and certainly isn't romantic. The character Bo is supposed to be roguishly naïve and charming I guess, but he is far from it. He is a plain criminal, severely lacking in manners so bad that he doesn't know how to behave inside the limits of the law. Sure, times have changed, but kidnapping was illegal then as it is now.The movies story is having two major faults, the first being completely predictable. The end and entire development is evident from the first moment Bo and Cherie meets. She will detest him to the end when she suddenly and without any real reason just start loving him and go off to marry. But is shouldn't go that far, because as Bo acts, in broad daylight in front of people and security guards no less, he should be in jail several times over, and for a long time. That he isn't is completely implausible.Can't say the movie got a happy ending. Bo is such an unsympathetic character that having things going his way is like Lex Luthor winning over Superman. That is, all the time I wished for Bo to be beat. And even if my opinion is partly based on the character I can't really believe that Don Murray was nominated for an Oscar.Don Murray is making his screen debut, along with Hope Lang and starring alongside Monroe, perhaps the only reason to really watch this.4/10 "}{"Title":"Terrific Marilyn Monroe","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not William Inge's best work but BUS STOP offers an astonishingly good performance by Marilyn Monroe as the talentless chanteuse who meets up with the green cowboy (Don Murray). Seeing Monroe in this film after seeing her solid and funny work in GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDES and HOW TO MARRY A MILLIONNAIRE would leave few doubts that she was a fine actress.Here she does NOT play the blonde airhead but plays a real character whose not not very educated or worldly. Singing in a dive in Phoenix she gets the attention of Murray, whose in town for the rodeo and has never been off his Montana ranch.Lots of funny lines and situations, although Murray's character is a bit wearing. Top support from the likes of Eileen Heckart, Arthur O'Connell, Hope Lange, Betty Field, and Robert Bray.This is definitely Monroe's best performance and she's exceptional in the Old Black Magic number. She purposely sings off key and is so awkward she almost falls off the stage as she staggers away after her number. Remarkable. Her performance is filled with little bits of business and she's totally adorable. "},{"Title":"Good story with good acting.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cowboy goes to Phoenix for a rodeo and fall in love with a girl for the first time.  He tries to force her to marry him and go home with him.  Well acted by Monroe and Murry.  Funny and entertaining, but gets to the point where enough is enough.  Based on a stage play.   ** out of **** "},{"Title":"You Can't Get A Man With A Gun - or a girl with a lasso...","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to confess that for me Marilyn Monroe, like James Dean, is a screen icon whose charms have yet to live up to their reputation; perhaps unfortunate, since I gather from the other comments that 'Bus Stop' is chiefly of interest as a Monroe vehicle! I approached this film from a different angle, attracted by the apparent similarity in source material to the 1943 'The Lady Takes a Chance', a bus/rodeo-set romantic comedy starring John Wayne, of all people, which to my surprise I had very much enjoyed.In this case, I was disappointed.The first ten minutes of the film is pretty fair comedy material; the last thirty finally introduces some much-needed emotional subtlety and character development. The intervening hour constitutes a one-joke wonder - boorish cowboy ropes and carries off woman - that rapidly shades from monotonous to actively annoying.Frankly, this is the type of film calculated to elicit comments of I'm not a feminist, but -   By the time it got to the showdown in the cafe, I was almost convinced from the preceding plot-line that young Beau would whip his aging opponent with the brutal strength of youth, then ride off with a suddenly hero-worshipping bride. The fact that events (much to my surprise and relief) *don't* turn out that way is not sufficient to justify the tedium of what has gone before. As others have remarked, it is only from this moment that the characters gain any emotional depth - with the possible exception of Monroe's brittle, damaged Cherie.  I'll grant, though, that the final denouement does however manage to be both touching and convincing, which is an achievement under the circumstances.Personally, I'd say that the entire centre section of 'Bus Stop' is a waste of time. I suspect that a perfectly good film (and one more appropriate to the title!) could have been constructed by omitting all the scenes save those taking place in the bus or 'bus stop' itself, and substituting a brief account of intervening events via dialogue.The most charitable view I can take of this film is that too long is spent in setting-up for its few worthwhile scenes. The sexual politics shown have nothing to do with the film's era - again, see 'The Lady Takes a Chance' for a superior contemporary take on the clash-of-the-sexes theme - and far more to do with unfunny slapstick humour. And sadly, I can't really say I found Marilyn Monroe as seductive as the screenplay clearly assumes.An interesting piece for Monroe fans, but lacklustre entertainment. "},{"Title":"If Bo were an actual person living in America today, he would've rightfully been in the mental asylum along with Madonna's and Jodie Foster's stalkers.","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is amazing how profound and complex one can look as a person in photographs taken by professionals, no matter how you really are in life or profession. Marilyn Monroe looks sultry, steamy, sophic, luminous and ebullient in her photos, especially in those collected in Life in Pictures autobiography that I expected wonders from her on screen. A celebrated sex symbol and a known method actress are two opposite poles for an actress, and Marilyn has the reputation for earning both the titles. What did I get after watching her on Bus Stop and Prince and the Showgirl back to back? Certainly a top-class bust and a show-stopping backside but other than that, it was disappointment.Marilyn Monroe looks pretty, but there are actresses that are possess a lot more grace than her. Her face lights up on the screen but it never allure, and she has a twittery voice that grates most of the time (especially on Bus Stop, where she was accompanied by Don Murray, who surpassed her in loudness). I admit I see the method acting qualities in her, but she seldom succeed in holding it together, going all over the place and seeming forced. If she had a deeper tonal quality, she would have gone further as an artist but she still would've had to work a lot on her acting process. Marilyn seems like a woman who was very keen on acquiring acting prowess, but never could, even though she tried hard. This may be a reason she was preferred so much in Hollywood, but watching her take acclaim for acting is shocking.In Bus Stop, her name pops up first in red and big font size even though her role is tinier compared to Don Murray's. Don plays a cowboy nicknamed Bo who enters a rodeo competition along with his companion Virgil (Arthur O'Donnell). They take the bus to the city but Bo's rustic background makes him appear boorish and obstinate to others. Virgil advises Bo to look for a gal, but Bo is dreams for an angel. Bo meets the woman of his dreams named Cherie (Marilyn) in a bar, and instantly decides to marry her and take her with him back to his hometown. After announcing his plans to Cherie and practically everyone around him, he abducts her when she tries to escape.This movie has probably the most disgusting and disparaging treatment of a woman I have seen. It doesn't give Cherie any importance and makes her look so demeaning in front of the men. Bo tells Virgil of tying the animal while imagining it were Cherie, Bo abducting her without anyone stopping him and Cherie running away without informing the goddamn police that there was a stalker after her are some of the pathetic parts in the movie. All men laugh at Cherie, treat her like a w&#x97;re and watch her getting manhandled by Bo, the women don't protest when Cherie is going through all this while the children just watch happily &#x96; was this supposed to be funny? I remember a line from Singin in the Rain when the sound video was first shown to the audience in the film and one actress remarked It's vulgar!; ditto for Bus Stop's plot. Apart from being vulgar, the plot is paper-thin and never uses its potential in the desired way. I expected Bus Stop to be a comedy drama where dramatic elements were focused more upon, not some sketchy vile humorless drivel.The acting is atrocious; Don Murray's character is badly written and badly played &#x96; it had to potential to show a person's obsession for another but it never happens. It is impossible to endure him as the film progresses and his character becomes miserable for the audience. Arthur O'Donnell is equally over-the-top and acts miserably when his character opposes Bo. Marilyn puts on a deeply irritating Texan accent while butchering every scene of hers by spitting out her poorly written lines even more cornily. All the actors fail with their poorly outlined characters; much of the blame goes to the script. I skipped the last four chapters on my DVD because I knew it was going to be the 'All's well that ends well' ending. As I expected, it was.There are many great films that were made in the forties and fifties with very talented actors and actresses and I advice everyone to watch those movies rather than spending two hours on Bus Stop. It conjures a relationship of love between a stalker and his victim, something that is thoroughly frightening. If Bo were an actual person living in America today, he would've rightfully been in the mental asylum along with Madonna's and Jodie Foster's stalkers.My Rating 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"That Old, Black Magic - Monroe-Style","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BUS STOP has got to be one of the most enjoyable and entertaining Western/Comedy/Romances that I have ever had the pleasure of watching.With an excellent cast, showcased by the likes of the voluptuous Marilyn Monroe and the virile Don Murray, BUS STOP is a Western/Romance that's certainly worth a second view.When husky Montana rodeo-champ, Bo Decker, finds his Angel, it's love at first sight. Bo instantly falls heads over heels for the sweet'n'sexy Cherie, a fifth-rate nightclub chanteuse.Bo wants marriage. Cherie wants Hollywood.For the headstrong Bo, no does not always mean no, especially when it comes to the wishes of his beloved Angel. And so Bo finds that he must learn the hard way - That he can't just rope a gal the same way one lassos a steer.When it comes to Bo learning a lesson on sheer stubbornness, it's Carl, the rugged and gallant bus-driver, who must intervene and rearrange Bo's face for him.Beaten and disgraced in front of his Angel, everything somehow turns out for the best for Bo Decker. Before you know it, it's suddenly cheers and happy times ahead when Cherie realizes that, yes, she is, indeed, in love with this impulsive, but basically good-hearted cowboy-dude.Released in 1956 - BUS STOP is, most definitely, Western/Comedy/Romance at its rootin'-tootin' best! "},{"Title":"Beau is horribly annoying... Is kidnapping funny?","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rodeo cowboy Beauregard Decker (Don Murray) is a stubborn naive idiot. He takes the bus to Phoenix for the rodeo. His friend Virgil Blessing encourages him to talk to girls but he doesn't have much experience. In Phoenix, singer Chérie (Marilyn Monroe) at the Blue Dragon Cafe, who is aiming to go to Hollywood, is forced to hustle Virgil to pay for her drinks. Bo falls for her right away. She likes him but has no intention of marrying him or going back to Montana with him. He keeps ignorantly dragging her around expecting to get married. She tries to run away to Los Angeles but he literally ropes her like cattle and force her onto the bus to Montana.This is dumb and dumber, the rom-com. I find Beau to be very annoying in his clueless childishness. First, he's a clingy stalker. Then he becomes a full blown kidnapper. I really feel sorry for Chérie. While I understand the attempt to out-dumb Marilyn Monroe, Beau needs to be a lovable dunce. To top it off, he also has that loud mouth and bad singing. Monroe is relatively good but I just hate him so much. I guess he's playing the fool but he fails to find the balance... any balance... any sense that there is a balance. He is all idiot and no likability. "},{"Title":"A horrible movie that doesn't hold up in 2014","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had heard such great things about this movie so I was excited to watch tonight on TCM.To my surprise it's one of the most dreadful movies I have ever sat through. Maybe this was a good movie in 1956 but today it's just laughable. Monroe was embarrassingly bad and Murray's character would be punched or shot if he acted that way in public (whether in 1956 or 2014) so it was totally unbelievable. Over-acting would be a nice comment on this cast. Just horrible.I really felt that I wasted two hours of my life watching this. I think people may be reviewing this movie from memory and not re-watching it to see how bad it actually is. "},{"Title":"Bus Stop","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film from director Joshua Logan (Camelot, Paint You Wagon) was supposedly the film that showed the beautiful star of Some Like It Hot as more than just a sexpot. Basically innocent rodeo cowboy Beauregard 'Bo' Decker (Oscar and BAFTA nominated Don Murray) and his friends Virgil Blessing (Arthur O'Connell) take the bus from Montana to Phoenix to take part in the upcoming rodeo competition. They enter a café hoping to find their angels, and Bo finds his in the form of hillbilly singer and performer Cherie (Golden Globe nominated Marilyn Monroe). He manages to charm her to the point where she might have said something to suggest she loves him, and he wants to get married as soon as possible! Cherie accompanies him to the rodeo where he is taking part, and soon after she tries to run away to Los Angeles, but he forces her to board his bus back to Montana. They are forced to stop at Grace's Diner when a snow storm passes through, and everyone is to find out about Bo kidnapping Cherie. Bo is determined to have Cherie, but she is insisting that there is no real love, but of course after a long talk it turns out they do really love each other, and they get back on the bus for their happy ending. Also starring Betty Field as Grace, Eileen Heckart as Vera, Robert Bray as Carl and Hope Lange as Elma Duckworth. Murray is not bad as the male lead, but the show is ultimately stolen by Monroe, possible most memorable sequence being her deliberately bad singing of the song That Old Black Magic, it is quite a nice story. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. Marilyn Monroe was number 39 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, she was number 6 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, she was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols (she could have been number 1), and she was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good! "},{"Title":"And I'll Throw In Me, If You Will Marry Me","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I doubt that there's ever been any movie hero as naive or as bumptious as Don Murray's Beau Decker in Bus Stop. By his standards the Pontipee family in Seven Brides For Seven Brothers were Oxford Dons. Still apparently in the courtship of women Decker seems to emulate the Pontipees. Apparently in 1954-55 when Bus Stop was running on Broadway there were still parts of the west where women were a scarce comedy. So Murray who apparently has been somewhat housebroken by Arthur O'Connell in a lot of ways, just has had no schooling in the facts of life. Personally I think the greatest schooling you could have is either on a farm or a ranch, but what do I know?Anyway Murray and O'Connell are taking Robert Bray's bus to Phoenix for the rodeo, but Murray has it in mind to bring back a wife. He does in the form of stripper Marilyn Monroe. She's a kid from the country herself, but with a bit more experience, after all she was almost married at 14.William Inge who wrote a lot about rural life wrote Bus Stop following his acclaimed Picnic which also came to the screen in 1956. Bus Stop had a run of 478 performances with Kim Stanley and Albert Salmi in the roles of that Monroe and Murray played. Elaine Stritch won a Tony Award for the owner of the greasy spoon that is the Bus Stop of the title. Her part is played by Betty Field on the screen.Don Murray was inexplicably nominated in The Supporting Actor category, inexplicable because that's one of the leads. It was Bus Stop's only Oscar nomination and he lost to Anthony Quinn for Lust For Life.Bus Stop is one odd story, but thanks to William Inge's writing and Joshua Logan's direction of his ensemble cast, the story actually is sweet and entertaining. And I did love the theme with The Four Lads at the beginning and end of the film.Does Murray get his 'angel'? Well the wrap him up like them their Romans do style did work for the Pontipees. "},{"Title":"Wonderful role for Monroe","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe, Don Murray, Arthur O'Connell and Betty Field are all at the Bus Stop, a 1956 film based on the play by William Inge and directed by Josh Logan. Murray plays a young, ill-mannered, uninhibited cowboy who's never been off the ranch, who comes to town to appear in a rodeo. When he sees Cherie (Monroe) performing at a club, he decides then and there to marry her - and he's so determined, he kidnaps her to get her to return to Montana with him. They're snowed in, however, and have to stop for the night at a restaurant on the route, run by Betty Field.Logan seems to have directed this like a play, and Murray's performance through most of the film is very stagy - big and loud. Bo's character was written for the stage; I'm not certain in any hands it would have translated with ease to film. Today it seems overdone.Marilyn Monroe is fantastic as Cherie, a role done on Broadway by Kim Stanley. She uses a very broad accent - but what she lacks in technique she makes up in charm, beauty and warmth. She creates a wonderful, vulnerable character here that the audience cares about. The other standout is Betty Field, who does an excellent job as the owner of the restaurant who has a little flirtation going with the bus driver. Hope Lange has a small part as a waitress; I assume this is where she met her husband, Don Murray. Arthur O'Connell is terrific as Bo's friend who tries to keep him in line.A really good film with a strong cast and a very iconic role for Monroe. "}{"Title":"A poignant and ultimately redeeming performance","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched the entire film for the first time, and must say it ends better than it begins. That Marilyn Monroe and Don Murray can overcome bad accents, pathetic and obnoxious characters, and humanize them at the end really surprised me. It had all the earmarks of something tragic developing, which would've ruined the film, and is partly why I'd never finished it. All that pathos and irritation needed a counterbalance or redemption at the end, and I was pleasantly surprised to find it had that in its latter portion. No one could portray a tormented, vulnerable, exploited soul better than Marilyn, because she lived it in real life. Watching her desperately wrestle with trying to accept and believe in someone's love for her, despite her character's past, are surely among the best moments she ever put on film. It was conveyed almost exclusively non-verbally. Through most of the film I wanted badly to slap or shoot Don Murray's Beau. His character's flaws were obnoxious and relentless, so I was again amazed that he managed to rehab or redeem the character at the end. The film was made during a less cynical or perhaps less well-informed time. Few of us today would really believe such characters could overcome themselves and their pasts', but that and the beautiful Technicolor film of the time give it a dated charm. "},{"Title":"Josh Logan Brings Monroe & Murray Together for a Great Movie","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Today I took time to watch a movie I have avoided for many years...Bus Stop (1956). I simply couldn't picture 'sweet' Marilyn as Tarnished Angel Cherie & Don Murray as the innocent, virginal, rodeo cowboy Beauregard 'Bo' Decker...Silly Me! Visiting the establishment where she works Bo falls head over heels in love with dancer/singer Cherie. He starts pushing for wedded bliss on his Montana ranch. His rather boisterous pushing scares her, she tries to run away with the help of her sidekick Vera (Eileen Heckart). Good old Bo kidnaps her with the help of a lasso. His sidekick Virgil (Arthur O'Connell) tries to tell him this is not a way to win girl friends & influence women. Bo doesn't listen real well.They're on the bus to Montana. Cherie tries to get away in a snowstorm. The bus gets snowed in at the Bus Stop. As Bo gets pushier with Cherie, Carl (Robert Bray) the bus driver tries to calm him. What do you think will happen? I, for one, was rather surprised. I hope all of you will watch it.Arthur & Eileen are great character actors for their parts. Hope is the feeling you have that the feeling you have isn't permanent. -Jean Kerr, author of Please Don't Eat the Daisies (1923-2003) "},{"Title":"Beautiful Love Story - One of Marilyn's Best Efforts!","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don Murray (in his film debut) plays a rodeo star who falls head over heels in love with saloon entertainer Marilyn Monroe. You'll spend much of the movie rooting for poor Monroe to escape from the persistent Murray, who insists the two will be married. Eventually the wild cowboy is taught a few lessons in politeness, which endears him to his prospective bride, who is still shaking from his rough manners. When Monroe tells Murray that she is not the innocent girl he thought she was, Murray figures that between them they have just the right amount of experience. Of course, the pair ride off into the desert sunset together. The title song by The Four Lads is a nice finishing touch to a very pleasant film. Fans of the star are going to like this picture!  "},{"Title":"Dumb, stupid, no point at all","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love old movies and Marilyn Monroe's movies too, except this one. This movie is pointless, slow going and so, so bad that it seems the only reason this movie was made was probably because the actors needed a buck. Unless you are an insomniac or love to spent an evening being bored and /or wasting your time, skip this movie. "},{"Title":"North Fork Store","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In March 1956, the owner of the store told us snow skiers that a film would be shot at the store location. I was a roomer skier and spent the entire day at the store on March 19, 1956. Several men arrived early with wind machines, a bus, a small crane to be used to lift Marilyn Monroe to a false window opening for the film start. She was to flag down the bus for a ride, but in those days the camera shot too much of Marilyn's neckline for the approval of the censers. It was cut. Most of the acting crew awaited in the store when the 'fight scene' was filmed and near the end of the day a huge snow slide occurred between the North Fork Store and Ketchum due to sudden snow warming. The entire crew was stuck and would have to wait for the snow plows. Since the store was also a small restaurant, the lady owner started to give food, coffee, and cokes to all the crew. The big highway snow plows were still working big snow slides several miles to the northwest. After a snack, the owners who also played musical instruments started a dance, all had a great time, the road opened about 10 pm. "},{"Title":"wish don Murray was out of this movie....","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really wish don wasn't in this he was so annoying trying to get with Marilyn and fails because he tries too hard and I wish I can like every movie Marilyn is in but I cant because this kinda sucks and some other films I feel so bad Marilyn had to be a part of this whatever just don't watch if you hate annoying characters that tries too hard to get a GIRL just don't bother either check out just because Marilyn I guess but seriously who wrote a character like that. he should 've been OK she hates me I'll let her be but instead tries and fails tries and fails throughout the film just really don't bother unless you want to get annoyed and want to go through the screen and punch don because of how annoying he is as a character please "},{"Title":"The best Monroe&#133; makes you miss her even more!","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very entertaining and meaningful movie. One of the few, perhaps only Marilyn Monroe films, where you actually forget it's Marilyn and fall in love with her character. This movie really makes you wish she would have been given more opportunities to diversify and grow. It's really special.  "},{"Title":"This movie was a one-of-a-kind and a must see","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The firs time i tried to watch Bus Stop, I switched it off because I did not see the Marilyn Monroe I had expected to see. Then recently, and for the first time, I watched Bus Stop all the way through and was amazed.It's clear that Marilyn was drawing on her own experiences in portraying Cherie, the put-upon saloon singer. But she also brought to the role an amazing portrayal the likes of which she had never before done, nor ever would again, which is the public's loss. She proved herself to be a real actress and while Don Murray was Oscar-nominated, Marilyn's work was ignored by the Academy, as it would be for the rest of her life.Watch Bus Stop and be amazed. "},{"Title":"Lust and the Bust","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Leaving his Montana ranch to visit a Phoenix rodeo, boisterous Don Murray (as Beauregard Bo Decker) has something else on his mind. Encouraged by older cowboy Arthur O'Connell (as Virgil Virg Blessing), Mr. Murray wants to find himself a woman. Previously, 21-yer-old Murray preoccupied himself with pictures in a magazine. In the big city, Murray is smitten with shapely Blue Dragon nightclub singer Marilyn Monroe (as Cherie). Possessing questionable singing skills but considerable sex appeal, Ms. Monroe aims to be discovered upon moving to Hollywood... She gets waylaid...This is a nicely-cast and adeptly directed movie version of the William Inge play. Bulging in all the right places, Monroe and Murray are one-dimensional through most of the running time, intentionally; this is where they tap into their characters. Much like real life, they are stripped down to pure sex roles and do not build upon routine movie romance. We see the process come full circle after they are stranded at the Bus Stop near the end and Monroe is given increasing depth in the script - but Bo and Cherie remain caricatures throughout...In one of many strange Academy Award moves, Murray was nominated as Best Supporting Actor of the year; he is inarguably the lead actor in this film. There was no Oscar nomination for Monroe (her studio successfully promoted other Fox productions), though she received consideration from the Golden Globes in their musical/comedy category. Both the New York Times and National Board of Review put the film in their yearly top ten. A catchy theme, Ken Darby's The Bus Stop Song (A Paper of Pins) by The Four Lads was a hit single, though the film is not a musical and Monroe wisely sings That Old Black Magic off kilter and in character.******** Bus Stop (8/31/56) Joshua Logan ~ Marilyn Monroe, Don Murray, Arthur O'Connell, Betty Field "},{"Title":"Although I love Marilyn Monroe, I didn't care for this!","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did want to like Bus Stop, seeing as I always find Marilyn Monroe watchable, but I just didn't care for it. The film does look very nice, the costumes are very pretty, the sets and scenery don't look wobbly and superficial and the cinematography is excellent mostly. Bus Stop does have some good music too, and while her character isn't the most likable of all in her career Marilyn Monroe is very beautiful and charming. If you forgive the fact her acting feels occasionally tired in comparison to her other roles, she does do very well with a more tortured and very touching characterisation than ever before.However, Joshua Logan's direction is quite poor. I have never particularly cared for Logan as a film director, excepting the flawed but entertaining South Pacific. His direction is reminiscent of his directing style in Paint Your Wagon, for me that means stage-bound and too smug. The writing feels stale and forced, I accept it was intended as a sort of absurdist kind of humour, but the script was mostly unfunny and lacked freshness. The story is on the weak side as well, in its structure it is an odd and predictable(in the way the romance is developed) one complete with an ending that felt very tacky and artificial and a closing sequence that fitted all too easily. The romance does have its poignant and heartfelt moments, but sometimes it also didn't work. A lot of the problem is to do with the fact that Monroe has the most irritating and at the same time blandest co-star of her career, even more so than Laurence Olivier in The Prince and the Showgirl, in the form of Don Murray who overdoes it to no further ado and it doesn't help Bo isn't a particularly relateable and entirely unsympathetic character to begin with. And that's the problem, a vast majority of the characters I found more annoying than likable.All in all, sorry as much as I do love Monroe I didn't care for Bus Stop really. 4/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Bus Stop- Runs A New Route for Marilyn Monroe ***1/2","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of Miss Monroe's finest performances. She really gets emotionally entangled here and besides, this was probably the first and only movie that she ever made where her co-star, in this case, Don Murray, was nominated for an Oscar. There could certainly be an argument here for Monroe being nominated as well. As Cherie, she is again disillusioned with life, but she conveys it in a whole new manner for her.Amazing that Murray was nominated for best supporting actor. He was practically in every scene of this wonderful film. Surprisingly, pros Eileen Heckart and Hope Lange are given so little to do here. Ditto for Betty Field. "},{"Title":"misses the bus","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I gave this four stars for two reasons. First, it is one of the most beautiful looking movies I have seen. The quality of the cinematography, particularly in the outdoor shots, is stunning, and is a reminder of the unexcelled quality of the late, lamented, expensive Technicolor process. Throw in the vista of Cinemascope, and we have a first rate example of what Hollywood at its height could produce. The second reason is Arthur O'Connell's performance as Virgil, which exemplifies what a fine supporting actor he was. We are put in remembrance of all his wonderful roles in other movies. The bad news is the story and the acting. This is reputed to be perhaps Marilyn Monroe's finest performance, and it is certainly the best work I have seen from her. Still, she is no Kate Hepburn. And they might have eased off on whatever they painted on her to give her that unearthly pale quality. And then take Don Murray. Please. His cringingly over-the-top performance as Beau can, I suppose, be partly attributed to the script, but some attempt on his part to tamp down the outlandishly aggressive naivete of the character would have been appreciated. This role reminds us why he never attained top stardom. Lastly, there is the story, which has not an iota of credibility. This truly stupid and unbelievable tale of unrequited love defies belief throughout, and the completely phony resolution in the last 10 minutes is on a par with the unbelievability of the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"Only in the imagination of a Hollywood scriptwriter...","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beauregard (Beau) Decker is a young cowboy from Montana who, together with his friend Virgil, takes the bus to Phoenix, Arizona, to participate in a rodeo competition. The bus stop of the title is Grace's Diner, a restaurant in the Rocky Mountains (somewhere in southern Utah, to judge from the map) which will play an important role in the second half of the film. Beau, who has little experience with women, is also hoping that he will find a girlfriend in Phoenix, and meets Cherie, a showgirl working in a local bar. (Cherie pronounces her name in the French manner, with the stress on the second syllable, but Beau consistently mispronounces it as Cherry. She gives up correcting him after the first couple of occasions).Beau falls in love with Cherie, and decides that he wants to marry her, but she is not so keen. This is partly because she has no desire to become a Montana cowboy's wife; she has big-time showbiz ambitions and is hoping to make her way to Hollywood. A more important objection, however, is Beau's character; he is gauche, childish, none too intelligent and even his friend Virgil describes him as not having the manners of a monkey. His technique with women is to treat them in much the same way he would a steer or bucking bronco. After the rodeo, when Cherie refuses to return to Montana with him, he simply captures her with his lasso and forces her to get on the bus.Bus Stop is heavily dependent on the charm of its leading lady, Marilyn Monroe; Don Murray's Beau is utterly charmless. Incredibly, Murray received a nomination for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar; seldom can such a nomination have been so little deserved. Marilyn never received an Oscar nomination in her career, but on the basis of their performances in this film she deserved one far more than Murray. I have always thought that an actor or actress's star quality is not necessarily defined by technical acting skills but by the ability to make a film his or her own, to make it impossible to imagine any other performer in the same role. And that is what Marilyn does here (as she does in a number of other films, such as The Seven Year Itch). If any other actress had been cast as Cherie the result would have been a quite different film. Marilyn is excellent at bringing out the two sides of Cherie's character; brassy, sexy and seductive on the outside, vulnerable and rather old-fashioned on the inside. It is quite clear (if only from Monroe's deliberately off-key rendition of That Old Black Magic) that Cherie's Hollywood ambitions are a fantasy that will never be realised.Despite Monroe's performance, however, this film has never really been a favourite of mine. Most romantic comedies have a rather formulaic plot in which the union of the young couple is threatened by some obstacle (class differences, parental opposition, a quarrel or misunderstanding, etc) which is eventually removed. In Bus Stop, however, the obstacle to the union of Beau and Cherie-the fact that Beau is a complete jerk- is not so much removed as totally ignored.An alternative title for the film is The Wrong Kind of Girl; this derives from a remark of Virgil, who assumes that any showgirl who wears skimpy costumes is of low moral character, that Cherie is not good enough for Beau. After the kidnapping, however, he reverses his opinion, and decides that Beau is not good enough for Cherie- an opinion with which most of the audience will probably agree. But not the scriptwriters, who came up with a contrived happy ending. During an enforced stop at Grace's Diner (the road ahead has been blocked by snow), Beau is challenged to a fist-fight by Carl the bus driver who takes exception to his treatment of Cherie, and gets beaten. (This struck me as unlikely- Beau is younger and bigger than Carl and, as a rodeo champion, is presumably fitter as well). He thereupon apologises to Cherie who, overlooking his previous criminal behaviour and the fact that his apology had to be beaten out of him, decides that he is her dream man after all. Only in the fevered imagination of a Hollywood scriptwriter could that be a plausible denouement. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Marilyn's best movie","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. The plot is kind of Taming of the Shrew, with Kate as a cowboy and Petruchio as a saloon singer, although Kate does the chasing and the taming is more of an uncalculated group effort. Like the best movies, it makes you laugh but develops into a story that is both deep and complex.This movie shows Marilyn's incredible acting skills in a way her more popular movies definitely don't. She's hilarious and adorable in the beginning, when Bo is pursuing her and she's trying to get away. At the end, she's completely convincing as she talks about her (back then) promiscuous past and how she feels Bo is better off without her because of it. Throughout, she shows that complete vulnerability that at times is uncomfortable to watch - it's like she has no barriers around her personality. Even in the funny parts, she seems like she could be squashed by the merest touch. No actress before or since has compared in this area.Don Murray is underrated in this movie. He plays an insensitive bulldozer who pursues Marilyn like she's one of the calves on his ranch, and a man who can be both tender and gentle, and is completely convincing in both roles. He's really obnoxious in the first role, but that's the whole point. Possibly he could have toned it down a LITTLE, but all in all, he does a great job. The chemistry between him and Marilyn is great - especially at the end, you totally believe they just can't keep away from each other.The rest of the cast is fine, with the bus depot operator Grace standing out - very funny woman. All in all, a great movie, and one that shows how much Marilyn was wasted in roles that only let her play an airheaded sexpot. "},{"Title":"Monroe is perfect...innocent fun....","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film proves Marilyn Monroe can also do comedy, something we do not see as much crossover with today. I cannot name a decent comedic actress we have today who can also do serious drama. Monroe could, and did.Marilyn is 'Sheree'- a fugitive from the Ozarks trying to get to Hollywood, so she can be discovered. Don Murray is 'Beau', a young cowboy from Wyoming who falls in love with the sight of her. Some good cameos with Arthur O'Connell as 'Virge' and Betty Field, as 'Grace', the final scenes at Grace's diner. Also Eileen Heckart, as Monroe's friend, where they work at a cheap saloon.Basically, Murray pursues Sheree through the rodeo, she avoids him, attempts escape, then finds true love. A basic story which works well due to the actors.It was mentioned in several of Monroe's biographies that she did not feel comfortable with the character of Sheree, a dumb blonde who scraped by to survive she related to the character and her own early, tortured childhood in orphanages and foster homes.Tune into this for a light story and escape. Recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Poignant, Funny Marilyn Hits a Career Peak in a Rambunctious Comedy","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A year after his success with Picnic, director Joshua Logan held the reins for another film adaptation of a William Inge play this time adapted by comedy veteran George Axelrod. The 1956 result is a far more rambunctious and comic story than Picnic but no less dependent on rural stereotypes to inhabit it. The slight story focuses on a dim-bulb, no-talent singer named Cherie (pronounced by her as Share-REE) who tries to avoid the advances of horny rodeo cowboys in a cheap Phoenix dance hall. However, Cherie is hardly an innocent as she is not above hustling unsuspecting cowboys out of their money to fulfill her dream of getting to Hollywood. Enter Beauregard Decker, Bo for short, a loudly energetic, self-confident but thoroughly naïve young buck. He is in town to not only win the big rodeo competition but also find himself an angel. Once he sets his eyes on Cherie, he is convinced she is his angel and manhandles her to marry him. The rest of the story is really about his pursuit as Cherie tries unsuccessfully to escape from Bo's persistent efforts, and it all ends up in a snowbound diner on the way back to Bo's Montana ranch.Kim Stanley played Cherie to great acclaim on Broadway, but it's safe to say Marilyn Monroe makes the role her own. After a brief break from the screen when she went to New York to study at the Actor's Studio, Monroe threw herself into the part with raw vulnerability and instinctive flair, something she would not replicate fully until her last film, John Huston's The Misfits. It's sometimes a bit studied, but her work here is among her best. Monroe manages a poignant scene with a very young Hope Lange on a bus where she talks about what kind of man she wants, and her faux-pathetic, self-lit version of That Old Black Magic is classic. Don Murray does well as Bo, though the character gets so obstinate as to throw off the balance of the story. Picnic veterans Arthur O'Connell and Betty Field lend fine support as Bo's mentor Virgil and sassy diner owner Grace. Eileen Heckart is also terrific as Cherie's only friend Vera. The 2002 DVD, released as part of the Marilyn Monroe Diamond Collection, offers a stills gallery as its one extra. "},{"Title":"MM takes on William Inge; results are pleasant but mild","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe plays a hillbilly bar-hostess in Arizona who is swept off her feet by young Montana cowboy Don Murray; he isn't worldly and knows nothing about women, but his naïve romantic notions nearly convince her this might be true love. William Inge play becomes a decent, glossy vehicle for Monroe, here showing a bit more depth and emotion than in her Hollywood comedies of the early 1950s (though her twang alternates between heavy and soft). Murray (in his film debut) has more enthusiasm than talent, but the supporting cast (Arthur O'Connell, Hope Lange, Eileen Heckart) is strong, Joshua Logan's direction is jaunty, and the production is surprisingly rich and colorful. Monroe memorably warbles That Old Black Magic in one of the film's best sequences. Retitled The Wrong Kind of Girl for early TV distribution. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"8 of 10","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Heartwarming, comedic, story is a wonderful framework for Monroe to reveal her commanding talent. This is tongue-in-cheek entertainment, not realism. Don Murray is charming in a simplistic, but necessary role as the naive, goal-oriented, frisky cowboy, looking to bring home an angel, against which Marilyn can play the confused, semi-willingly manipulated girl who isn't sure she knows what real love is, or how to give in to it when it comes. The subtilty of this story (and the tour-de-force of Monroe's performance) is the balancing act of her desire for his sincere affections and her repulsion from his presumptuous manner. Will one of the characters come to their senses, before its too late?Monroe makes sparks fly, especially in the first kiss scene, and as others have mentioned, at the end of the Old Black Magic number, and when she is given the coat at the end. With an excellent supporting cast, and one of Monroe's best serious performances, this is 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Her finest work...ever..","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To understand the full impact and Achievement of what Monroe accomplishes here, you should watch `Gentleman Prefer Blondes' or The Seven Year Itch' first.Then watch `Bus Stop'.Monroe alters almost everything about herself to become Cherie.The breathy, overly articulated speaking voice used in other films becomes a shrill, high pitched, southern drawl&#133;.Her singing voice, normally pleasant and appealing, is loud and out of tune.Even the very essence of the Monroe personality is changed here. The breezy, devil may care, easy sexuality of her past image is blown apart by the loud, tired, obsessive, annoyed and annoying Cherie.This Cherie has been around the block and is in no mood for anything.Watch Monroe react to her dress being torn by Murray.  There is a depth, an exploration of her soul, there that is simply breathtaking.Had this performance been given by any other actress in any other time period, they would have received an Academy Award Nomination.  "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe At her Sweetest....","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, this was a landmark film for Marilyn Monroe, who for once shed some of her glossy, sex symbol status and proved to audiences and surprised critics that she really could act. I think what made this a stand-out performance, was the fact that she used many of her emotions from a rocky private life and gave the character of Cherie, a depth that only she could master. Don Murray is also very good in this film, playing a rough and tough cow boy, named Beau, who learns the facts of life and love in a very funny and dramatic way all at the same time. Yes, the story line is a little predictable and cliched (boy meets girl but must prove himself a gentleman, etc.) but this is why so many love it! Hope Lange (who was in Peyton Place later on) appears in parts of the movie, too. All in all, this is a cute romantic comedy/drama, that any Marilyn Monroe fan should see. Sensitive people be aware! You'll probably need a box of tissues by the time of the sappily sweet ending! My Score 8 "}{"Title":"Marilyn's Magic","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe was a star for only 10 years before a still mysterious death at age of 36. Starring in this film Marilyn Monroe gave one her finest performances of a career noted for brilliant work All About Eve, Bus Stop, Some Like It Hot, The Misfits et al. Josh Logan directed Marilyn Monroe and MM is so fine in this film MM was robbed of an Oscar nomination. Thought to be a dumb blonde, MM was anything but and brought intensity and realness to a role. Marilyn Monroe is magical as Cherie and the outdoors seems to have a positive effect on MM. Billy Wilder noted MM was nearly error free in her performance in San Diego doing the location shots for Some Like It Hot and John Huston's The Misfits also used on location locales. Don Murray is effective as the leading man but I would have preferred Paul Newman. Josh Logan who directed MM in Bus Stop called her second to Garbo.Betty Grable who was Queen of the 20th Century Fox lot happily gave up her crown to Marilyn Monroe It's now your turn honey! Grable was quoted after MM and Grable co starred in How To Marry A Millionaire with Lauren Bacall. Ironically MM's greatest performances were in UA films Some Like It Hot and The Misfits, both shot in black and white and both classic films.Stupendously famous and likely the most famous woman in the world MM was also a great film actress and worked with in her short career with Billy Wilder, Jack Lemmon, Bette Davis, Joseph Mankiewicz, Howard Hawks, Lauren Bacall, George Cukor, Barbara Stanwyck, Cary Grant, Ginger Rogers, Laurence Olivier, Clark Gable, Montgomery Clift, John Huston, Jean Negulesco, et al. Quite a career for a short life.We miss you Marilyn!MM The Greatest Star "},{"Title":"My favorite Monroe film","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe is lovely in this film and I can't think of anyone else who could have played the part of Cherie any better.It's hard to imagine that someone like Bo could have been doing the rodeo circuit for this long and still been this naive about women, but Don Murray somehow makes it slightly believable.I enjoy movies-from-plays that try to duplicate the original theater experience, where you can concentrate on the characters because extravagant sets don't get in the way. Bus Stop has a bit of pretty scenery but it never detracts from the story or the characters, which are always foremost and well-defined.Personally I don't give Bo and Cherie much chance on a lasting relationship because Cherie will always have the dreams of a being a big-city gal and will once again be stuck in a small town, but the ending leaves us with the hope that she'll be happy with a man who truly loves her. "},{"Title":"Excrement","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know how sometimes you watch a movie and you know it was based on a play? Well this is that kind of movie. I went into it unaware of its origins and could peg it right away. The dialogue and performances are overly theatrical and loud, very much like stage acting. Not realistic in the least. Just terrible acting, especially from the two leads. Marilyn's acting is praised a lot by people who inexplicably enjoy this movie. I guess I see why -- she is stepping outside of her comfort zone and portraying a character unlike anything else she had done up to this point. However, I can't really compliment her performance. Her accent is terrible, for starters. Obviously translating such a broad stage character to film is difficult but not impossible. The performance isn't subtle but, then again, not many in this movie are. Marilyn's makeup is also atrocious. I guess the character is supposed to be pale (why I don't know) so they cover her in makeup in some scenes to make her appear more pale. It's gross really.The worst part of the movie is Don Murray's Bo. He is insufferable to a degree words can't convey. I don't remember the last time I loathed a character as much as this one. He acts like an animal. He even eats raw meat! He barks at people and thinks he can just force them to do whatever he wants. He's completely unappealing as a human being. I recently watched the Joan Crawford classic Trog and let me tell you that troglodyte has more class and humanity than this...thing...Murray plays. Also this is supposed to be at least partly a comedy. Where was the humor? All of that obnoxiousness from Bo? Spit on that! The part in the end where he supposedly learns his lesson, or at least one of them, seemed forced and inauthentic. As with Marilyn, it's tempting to blame all of this on the story and how the characters are written. But I'm not giving the actors a free pass like that. A good actor could have brought some subtlety and humanity to these cardboard roles. But neither lead does that. They just play their parts like the worst community theatre hacks out there. If you're a Marilyn fan, you'll probably want to see this to judge for yourself. But be forewarned there's little of her charm, sex appeal, or personality on display here. Everybody else I can't stress enough how much you should avoid this rubbish. "},{"Title":"Marilyn's Ambitious Challenge","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What do you think about Marilyn Monroe? Maybe millions of people imagine her voluptuous slender body, adorable lips, blonde hair and untouchable beauty. Even Kim Basinger, Debbie Harry, Heidi Klum and Anna Nicole Smith never reached Marilyn's position, fame, popularity or beauty. Marilyn Monroe was the most adorable actress in film history.In her thirties, we can see her sexual side through film. However as time went by she took a challenging film in 1956. She showed us a versatile and mature actress. In 1955, she was a 29 year old girl who stimulated a man's desire and instinct. Yet within a year she portrayed a versatile and surprisingly mature side to us. 'Bus Stop', proved to be her new calling.While watching 'Bus Stop', I thought more about Marilyn's character itself, rather than plot. it was very different from her roles in 'Niagara' and 'River of No Return'. Marilyn expressed a pure and fragile side of herself in character for the very first time. In the scene, when I saw her sing a song in the bar, I honestly felt that I wanted to take care of her, from the bar owner who abused her mentally and physically.Appearing as the character of a Bo Decker, played by Don Murray, was a perfect choice to star opposite Marilyn. Because her character, Cherrie, needed a man who gave her  love, dedication and stability.Marilyn expressed her role very well, by showing how felt on the inside Cerrie. Marilyn was a young and rising star, who started off in juvenile roles.She eventually developed into a mature adult playing in roles that matched her abilities. Hollywood's 'It'girl makes a grand entrance with her most sophisticated character as Cherrie in 'Bus Stop'. "},{"Title":"Cracks in the mirror","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the best on the culture of the American West of the postwar period.  A mile wide and an inch deep - a shiny, tacky piece of cinematic costume jewelry.  The characters are rootless transients, bone-stupid he-men and she-women.  Western existential troglodytes? Not easy roles, but Monroe and Murray play them to the hilt.  Harolds Club or bust! This film improves with repeated viewings, interspersed with readings from Kesey, McMurtry and Stegner.  "},{"Title":"Too Much Acting!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only reason to see it today is for Monroe's undeniably touching performance, and to hear her voice in a different (hillbilly) key.  Josh Logan's directs as if the audience were sitting in the third balcony everyone emotes to the hilt.  The worst offender is Don Murray, whose infantile cowboy Beau no longer seems like an engenuous rube, but an insufferable jerk.  Time has not been kind to Bus Stop, which looks like bottom of the barrel William Inge.  But Marilyn's deliberately awkward rendition of That Old Black Magic IS magic. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as amusing as it once must have seemed","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, was this a disappointment!  Monroe has often been praised for her performance as an abused nightclub singer, but it strikes me that she breaks the first rule of good acting.  She lets us see her doing it with a vengeance.  Unfortunately, the picture is really dominated by Don Murray as an infantile rodeo cowboy who falls for Monroe and won't take no for an answer.  Today, if a woman was confronted with the out-of-control behavior exhibited by someone like Murray in this film, she wouldn't marry him.  She would probably have him arrested for stalking, assault and kidnapping!  As it is, the beating he eventually gets from the bus driver seems richly deserved.  This is then followed by an unbearably mawkish reconciliation scene.  Well, at least the widescreen DVD transfer is just about perfect. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable comedy with Marilyn's beauty in full bloom!","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In her prime, which because of her death at any early age was all of her cinematic life, Monroe was a gorgeous force of nature very much under-appreciated in her thespianism. Once I adjusted to Logan's directional style and to the rodeo and fish-out-of-water concepts, I really laid back and enjoyed this. Though it doesn't feature Marilyn's best singing--she portrays a bad singer, at least at the start--it does have some of her best acting, as she finds out she's accepted for who she really is. Wish that had happened to her in real life. Don't get me wrong it's not by any stretch of the imagination a great film. Yet neither is it the mediocrity other people tend to say it is. "},{"Title":"Don Murray?","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A naive but stubborn cowboy (Don Murray) falls in love with a saloon singer (Marilyn Monroe) and tries to take her away against her will to get married and live on his ranch in Montana.So, Don Murray was nominated for best supporting actor (he lost to Anthony Quinn for Lust for Life). I have to admit I do not really know who Murray was, and today (2015) it seems the only big name attached is Monroe. But then, I have not (yet) seen Lust for Life, so I cannot fairly say if Murray was robbed.The strangest thing about this film is the title. Sure, once you see it you can understand why you might call it Bus Stop, but it seems to be much more about ranches and cheap saloons than public transit. "},{"Title":"After acting training, Monroe gives depth to sexiness","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With obnoxious acting and a thin story, BUS STOP is like a musical with no music.  But the reason to see a Marilyn Monroe movie is to look at Marilyn Monroe.  This is her first movie after employing Actors' Studio training, and, though not a great performance, she gives an honest performance.  The result is a more beautiful Marilyn Monroe.Early on in the film, Don Murray's rowdy cowboy shouts to the loud bar patrons to quiet down while Monroe's Cheri sings her cabaret number.  The band stops playing, and everyone is embarrassingly quiet.  Monroe turns around to start the band again.  She then smiles bashfully at Murray.Oh, that smile.  It is a moment that makes watching this movie worth it. Hell, it makes having eyes worth it.   "}{"Title":"Bus Stop Goes From Comedy to Love Story","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Joshua Logan tested the play Picnic out of town, he had to confront the fact that audiences did not like certain aspects of the William Inge play, especially the ending. Over Inge's protests, he changed the play. It went to Broadway where it was successful. Logan was then pegged to direct the film. He brought the play out of the box of the theater and set the movie in an actual town.After the success of Picnic the movie, another Inge play, Bus Stop was brought to film with Logan again directing. This film has obvious similarities to Picnic even though Logan is not listed as writer. In particular, the scenes that occur before they reach the bus stop--with their slice of life montage--and the presence of Arthur O'Connell. Marilyn Monroe replaces Kim Novak as the small-town girl and Don Murray replaces William Holden as the interloper who enters her life.I disagree with those who find Marilyn Monroe's performance lacking. She plays Cherie--at least that's what she calls herself--a chanteuse from the hill county who has created what she thinks is a refined personality. For those who find her accent uneven, I suggest that it is no more real than her name, so it makes perfect sense that it comes and goes, mixed with her hill folk twang.Don Murray's performance is criticized by some as annoying or overly loud. Beau is a farm boy who has probably never talked with a woman, let alone kissed one. His manners are suitable for the barn because he doesn't know any better. His attraction to Cherie (whom he calls Cherry) is like the first crush of a schoolboy, transformative and tempestuous. He is bursting at the seams with enthusiasm. His ideas of manhood are, no doubt, garnered from ranch hands. Jack Lemmon has played a few characters with similar traits--loud and enthusiastic.The original play was much different and, as Inge intended, much darker. It is a story about the essential loneliness of life. The movie has been considerably brightened. No doubt Logan had a large hand in that. When Cherie and Beau are waylaid at a bus stop with some strangers, Beau is forced to confront his caveman ways. Cherie is touched, leading to her revelation about her background. Somehow the bus stop scene is still the central part of the film. The kiss between Cherie and Beau after their transformations is touching and intense (thanks to the contrast with Beau's behavior beforehand).I don't think Cherie's decision at the end is as risky as the decision Madge makes at the end of Picnic, but it still indicates a major change in the character. In the end, Bus Stop goes from over-the-top comedy to a love story. "},{"Title":"I expected the worst...and was surprised!","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I will start by saying that I am not a fan of Marilyn Monroe and never have been. So, when I decided to sit down to watch this, I was a bit skeptic. However, I was delightfully surprised! This was Monroe's first film after her year long break to attend acting school and one can definitely see the improvement. Although not an Oscar winning performance, the depth of her character surprised me. On a whole, the film itself is quite interesting. The first twenty minutes were a bit rocky for me, but it steadily improved. The last two scenes of the picture were worth waiting for. So beautifully done, with so much tenderness. Again, the film is not a ten out of ten but is worth a try...even if you aren't normally a fan of Monroe.P.S. The theme, which is sung by The Four Lads, is extremely catchy. "},{"Title":"A well written and acted comedy with heart","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bus Stop (1956) / Cinemascope and Technicolor / Directed by Joshua Logan / Written by George Axelrod / Based on the 1954 Broadway play by William Inge / First viewing 12/11/2010* * * Film* * * 1/2 Acting performance of Marilyn MonroeGood writing, most of the way through, along with Marilyn Monroe and Don Murray's exceptionally fine acting performances, make this comedy-musical with heart, worth watching. The story concerns a young cowboy named BoRegard (Murray), traveling from Montana with his father, to Arizona, to participate in a rodeo. When he first sees Cherie (Monroe), performing at a saloon in town, he's immediately smitten and begins his aggressive romantic pursuit of her. The chance encounter love story begins innocently and playfully enough, but slowly turns dark and frightening, as questions are raised about the character and true intentions of this wild, young, headstrong cowboy.The film is entertaining and often heartfelt, but unfortunately, gives in to, what I felt was an artificial and unconvincing happy ending, that really didn't fit the tone and direction of the story or it's two main characters. Adding a happy ending was part of the movie production code of the time. On the other hand, the ending sequence, by itself, was done beautifully (heartfelt and redemptive) and contains Marilyn's best acting of the film, along her monologue on the bus scene. This beautiful romantic and redeeming ending did not really belong in this particular movie. On the whole, the ending sequence was a poor choice, weak, too easy fit and a significant disappointment I had with the film.Marilyn Monroe gives a genuinely sweet, sincere, sensitive, convincing and charming performance as Cherie, a young and naive saloon singer from Arkansas, complete with rural accent. Cherie, (pronounced Sherie), is literally on a straight as an arrow course from her home in Arkansas, westward towards Hollywood and Vine. Newcomer Don Murray is quite good as the wild, immature, young cocky cowboy from Montana. For the conservative standards of their time, the roles of Monroe and Murray were daring. For Marilyn Monroe fans, this film is a must see, to experience the quality of acting she was capable of achieving.Director Logan was a supporter of the Lee Strasberg method style of acting and also respected and admired Monroe as an actress. He campaigned for Monroe to receive an Oscar nomination for her performance in Bus Stop, which she did not receive. To me, Monroe's performance in this film was worthy of an Oscar nomination.People who have seen the film usually mention the negative impression left by the young cowboy character. Today, the behavior of this young cowboy would very much be considered stalking. Also, the film version makes it clear he is kidnapping Cherie. The screenplay (sidesteps) and plays these two plot points down, which is a bit bewildering to a more modern audience. People's reactions of the time seemed ignorant or possibly naive, about how this cowboy was treating the saloon singer. One other weakness of the film was not giving more back story to the cowboy. The change of heart at the end, was too much, too fast. BoRegard was written to be unlikable from the beginning (loud, aggressive, boisterous, without manners). Although he seemed to redeem himself a little at the end, I definitely had reservations remaining about this man. Cherie was, literally, swept off her feet by him in the end and we (the audience), can only hope she made a wise choice to go with him , would be able to escape or quickly end the relationship, if it became abusive or dangerous.Monroe and Murray each have the best written characters in the film. This was Marilyn's first film made under her new production company Marilyn Monroe Productions. Marilyn Monroe was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for her role as Cherie in Bus Stop, but did not win. With the exception of the well written dark psychological drama The Misfits (1961), Marilyn's remaining films would be comedies and musicals. Had she lived beyond 1962, I believe Monroe would have been able to shed the dumb blond persona placed upon her and finally gain some widespread respect and critical acclaim as a dramatic film actress, something she very much wanted. The big changes yet to come, of Hollywood movie making during the 1960's, would have definitely favored Monroe's professional dreams, goals and wishes.Monroe was naturally intelligent, inquisitive, sensitive, vulnerable and charming. A natural born actress. She had a surprisingly good sense of humor, including the ability to laugh at herself. She had serious interest to become a respected dramatic actress and studied at the prestigious Lee Strasberg school of method acting in New York City, during the 1950's. Bus Stop clearly shows Marilyn learned and benefited, from studying the method style of acting with Strasberg. In Bus Stop, Marilyn shows a new maturity as a dramatic actress. Marilyn was a pioneer, pushing the limits of her time and demanded better compensation and more respect for young, unestablished, but financially successful film actors. She had plenty of determination to succeed and be respected in her acting career. Unfortunately, Marilyn got stuck in dumb blond roles, not of her own choosing. Film audiences were less sophisticated back then. Once Marilyn achieved legendary pop/sex icon status by 1953, the movie audiences of her time strongly favored and preferred seeing her in comedies and musicals only. Marilyn had to fit the persona cast upon her by Hollywood and the film going public of her time. During the 60's, the long reign of the mighty studio system, ruled by iron fisted production chiefs, finally came to an end, along with the end of the outdated, religious and conservative moral production code and The Legion of Decency. "},{"Title":"Ride a Cowboy","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Proving once again that Mariyln is much more of a presence (or fabulous model) than an actress, Bus Stop does prove to be mildly entertaining nonetheless. The supporting cast is filled by Fox contract players or future stars making their first appearance here, think Hope Lange. Don Murray is affable enough, however at times he does need reeling in and can be a bit annoying over his quest for Cherie with his hooting and hollering. Country boy goes to the big city, we get it. Despite performances that are fine, the script seems to be very dry and not that engaging. For me, the movie picks up only once they arrive at the Bus Stop. Certain scenes are beautifully photographed, and you do get a sense of being stranded during a snow storm. Barriers melt like the snow and true feelings finally emerge. Cherie and Bo ride off into the sunset together, was there any doubt? "},{"Title":"Absolutely Riveting","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was channel surfing when I happened to catch the beginning of Bus Stop on the Fox channel. I was immediately grabbed by Don Murray's looks. I had no idea he was so handsome. Finally Monroe appears and she is an absolute knock-out. She had a fragile quality that was amazing and my mouth dropped open when the camera finally moved in on her. Wow. I had never seen anything so beautiful in my life. Her close-ups knocked me over. But when Murray and Monroe were together it was too much - his tanned chiseled looks and her snow white angelic face - the chemistry was nothing short of miraculous. The very thing that makes movies so great. "},{"Title":"Terrific performances","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This adaptation of William Inge's play is one of the finest moments in Marilyn Monroe's career. The film itself doesn't always shine, but Marilyn's performance as the fragile night club singer is undeniably among her most memorable ones. Don Murray is equally effective as the handsome but stubborn moron who just won't take no for an answer. Eileen Heckart and Betty Field are excellent in supporting roles, too. Some parts of the film do feel rather awkward to watch in 2002, but the acting makes it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Not really that good but a good chance to see Marilyn in her absolute best role","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe is of course a legend and for all the saddest reasons. She was not really seen as someone to be taken seriously in her own lifetime and because she died of an apparent suicide there was probably a lot of guilt running through the film industry at the time of her death.This is by far her best performance and she plays a character that probably struck close to home, even though her Cherie is really as untalented as she was talented in real life. Therefore, the movie almost plays like an review of Monroe's life and how she could have wound up if not for the fact that she somehow had real sense about her career and own image.The film is supposed to be a comedy but has later been seen more as a human drama and I think that makes more sense since the character Beauregard, played by Don Murray, is really too annoying and sometimes frightening to be funny. He never admits that he is wrong until he gets a thrashing and then we are treated to the usual 180 degree turn he does at the end because how else could it end in the 50's.The other actors don't make fools of themselves either, but their parts are grossly underwritten, except maybe the bus driver's and the café manager's romance story. Don Murray's real life wife also has a few moments but not enough to really sustain interest.Therefore, if you are looking for a laugh riot expect disappointment and the same goes if you expect high drama like something in the Streetcar vein. "},{"Title":"A young cowboy falls for a beautiful dumb singer","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the best performance ever given by Monroe.  She should have gotten an Oscar!  This was her first attempt at a movie since her formation of Marilyn Monroe Productions with Milton Greene.  Considered one of if not the best films she's ever done!  A young cowboy falls for a beautiful young singer, but doesn't realize that the feelings aren't mutual! "},{"Title":"A stupid and annoying film","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like young men with the social skills of a five year old, and young women with low self esteem, watch this film.  The only relief is when the bus driver beats the cowboy up to stop him from pestering the poor young woman any further.There are some comic moments in the film, but it's too frustrating watching Monroe's character treated like an animal. This is not the mood of the 1990s.If you want to enjoy Marilyn Monroe, watch Some Like It Hot.  At least her character in that film has self-respect, even if she's no more than a likeable bimbo. "},{"Title":"brutally bad","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Marilyn Monroe and have consistently rated her movies above the IMDb average. This, however, was unbelievably bad. Start with her butchered southern accent that came and went during the film. The Marilyn I love has the sexy, breathy voice. This was like a bad country singer.Add the incomprehensible decisions her character makes. The suitor is a starter kit for spouse abuse. Even his awakening is short lived. When he changes for Cherie he goes 180 again demanding that his buddy comes home with him. How she ended up on the bus I don't know. How the driver let her on the bus I don't know. Then at the bus stop the driver realized finally the situation on his hands When he's not abusing her the lead is no more coherent a character. Maybe cowboys in the 50's were different, but to imagine someone so completely unaware of the world around him that he has never interacted with women, nor city traffic shatters any tie this movie has to the real world.Stick to anything else Marilyn ever did and be happy. How people think this is among her best performances boggles my mind. I couldn't wait for the movie to be over and in fact had to stop the movie twice to clear my head. "}{"Title":"Overrated and Hype-Driven","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always loved Marilyn Monroe, but bless her, more for her beauty and intrigue than her acting (although I found her genuinely funny in movies like Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and How to Marry a Millionaire).Bus Stop was rated by many as some kind of dramatic achievement for Marilyn, and that's what Monroe lovers, such as myself, are looking for when we finally get around to watching the film. Unfortunately, Marilyn just does not live up to expectations, if anything, her acting is an embarrassment (her laboured, unconvincing accent being the most immediate problem ... MAH NAYEM IS SHAR REE!), and one is left feeling sadly that Marilyn couldn't really pull-off drama after all. Furthermore, if people didn't know so much about Monroe's life-story and her (now mythologised) struggle to be 'taken seriously' as an actress, her performance in this movie would be written off as nothing more than cringe-worthy, both back when it was filmed and today.In terms of other actors and general plot line, Bill Murray plays the cowboy 'Bo' as well and as tolerably as any other actor could have, considering the obnoxiousness of the character (at one point Bo captures his unwilling love interest 'Cherie' with a lasso and then forces her onto a bus). Obviously, Bus Stop was filmed in an era when feminism had not yet gained a stronghold, but even back in the 50's it's hard to imagine, particularly female audiences, warming to a lead character that doggedly pursues a woman and then eventually decides the only way to get her is to kidnap her. Still there is, believe it or not, a certain naive, upbeat charm to Bo (obviously an intentional part of the movie) that could have 'worked' if Monroe had had a better grasp of the character she was playing. Instead of bouncing off him and/or providing a nice contrast to his character, Marilyn's sappy, over-dramatic portrayal of Cherie simply brings Bo down (in fact, she makes him look like much more of a creep than I think was intended) and in places where you guess you should be laughing, you simply can't because Bo just seems like too much of a villain (who knows though, maybe that is more of a feminist contribution on Marilyn's part than anything?!).Anyway, the other characters in the film just seem to fade into the background and you more-or-less end up wondering why they're even there, and the movie can get quite boring and laboured in parts, so rather than being taken on a journey, so to speak, you feel the need to forcibly keep account of what is going on.Overall, I found Bus Stop a disappointment although I must say I wasn't shocked by this - Hollywood has long proved it's ability to hype the mediocre up to mammoth proportions - before, during, and long, long after the event!! "},{"Title":"Not the way I want to remember Monroe.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just saw this Movie for the first time a few days ago. All the yelling gave me a headache. Marilyn looked bloated and unhealthy, especially in the bus when she sat down next to the younger Hope Lange who had a normal looking complexion. All that white makeup made her look like a ghost. After all the film is almost 60 years old. The culture has changed a lot. The boorish but likable hooligan is not exactly in vogue these days. Did I say likable. There's nothing likable about this cowboy. Its just too unbelievable even for 1957. In my opinion, the sweet last scene in this movie is not enough to save the painful 95% of the time taken up but the unbelievable over the top acting & lousy screen play. Sorry but I was not entertained. "},{"Title":"Weren't the Neanderthals a fun bunch?","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BUS STOP centers on Bo, who views women as things to be conquered, like Broncing Bucks and river rapids. Rather than clubbing a potential mate unconscious, Bo just browbeats, incapacitates, lassos, and kidnaps his chosen angel, as he calls her. But since his perceived Cherry pie actually is sloppy eighths, the screenwriters have no problem letting Bo have his cake, and eat it, too. Now that CHARLIE'S ANGELS and Victoria's Secret have made haloed females synonymous with hookers, it's hard to think back to such a benighted decade when someone such as Bo could be so naive and brutal at the same time. In Real Life, this probably was Norma Jean Baker's (Marilyn Monroe's) final chance to live happily ever after. Had she chosen to settle down on a ranch in the boondocks with a protective husband such as Joe DiMaggio (as her character Cherie does with Bo), Clark Gable might still be alive today. Marilyn had not yet killed him filming THE MISFITS, or drunkenly sang Happy Birthday, Mr. President to King Arthur. If she hadn't been bedding half of JFK's cabinet a few years post-BUS STOP, maybe the absence of such a distraction would have allowed CAMELOT to survive longer, along with the thousands killed in Southeast Asia. So it goes. "},{"Title":"Pretty Offensive!","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This isn't exactly a feminist movie! It's much more misogynist. The only thing that the film is worth is Marilyn Monroe. At the time, she was going to learn acting from Lee Strasberg at the famous Actor's Studio. So, her performance here is certainly better and more nuanced than it had been.The cinematography is fine, and director Joshua Logan keeps things moving along. But, at the same time, Logan allows the bracing level of sexism to go on in the movie. Logan was a well-regarded director, and certainly had the pull to change things if he had wished.But, he doesn't. Don Murray, who went on to be a perfectly decent actor, plays Beau with a ham-fisted, way over-the-top quality that is embarrassing, to say the least. His borderline-violent way of going after Monroe's Chérie is difficult to watch. At least Chérie holds off against him for a while, before giving into him at the end.You wonder why women would put up with this. This movie was just on TCM's The Essentials, with Robert Osborne and, inexplicably, Drew Barrymore. I say inexplicably because there are a great many very knowledgeable women in the film business. Barrymore is most likely on there because TCM is endlessly fascinated by the children of famous Hollywood families, like the Barrymore's, Mankiewicz's, Fonda's, etc. Or, she's there because Osborne has a crush on her, like he did Rose McGowan.So, Barrymore didn't have a problem at all with Murray's Beau. She found him attractive, passionate and erotic! There are women who obviously get off on men who treat them like garbage. I think it's about women with a lot of spare estrogen who want men with a lot of spare testosterone. So, Barrymore obviously is one of those women.But, you could tell how Osborne was very much put off with Beau's endless bullying of Chérie. And, the fact that the movie makes it seem to pay off for Beau at the end makes it even more reprehensible.*** (3 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"The play's the thing","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this I roared with laughter. The performances were impeccable, the pacing seemed right and the premise was fodder for a film of the first rank.Upon reviewing it many years later, some points jolted me back to reality. This was a play - a glorious one - that perhaps should been left as is. The celebrated presence of Marilyn Monrow is electric as it so often is but the film itself was turgid and stage-bound. When I think of Joshua Logan I think of Joe Mankiewicz (minus his verbal wit) - filmed photoplays with no kind of cinematic skill to speak of. The characters sink quickly into stereotypes and stereotypical behavior. Any sort of character development is basic and predictable. In this way, it is one-dimensional. It would survive beautifully on the stage with the excitement of live action, but on the screen, it gets frozen and static and worse than that, just plain stale. "},{"Title":"Still great, 40 years after her dead","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marilyn Monroe, a myth even 40 years after her dead...In this movie she plays Cherie together with Don Murray.The cast  *Marilyn Monroe  Cherie *Don Murray BeauregardThe story A kind a western man, Beauregard goes for the first time in his life to a great city. He doesn't know how to behave, but one thing is sure, he has to find a wife. His wife will be as an angel and guess who his angel will be. Yes it is Marilyn Monroe. She doesn't love him, but wants to get her, with a lot of trouble afterwards.  But the romantic Hollywood movies have to end in a good way, so they don't change this time.Marilyn Monroe did a great job as Cherie but it isn't her best film. Her Billy Wilder (died some months ago) films are much bigger and better too.But this film is important, because Marilyn let us see that she is more then only a blond girl, she can act and maybe it was good for her to do something else after The Seven Year Itch...Don Murray is a good actor, although he isn't very famous. But sometimes Beauregard goes too far, catching a woman with a rope, is that normal?Remarks * Don Murray married with Eileen Heckhart (died also recently) after making this film, she was also part of the cast. * Beauregard is the french translation for good looking.Rating 8 / 10 or *** out of ****One thing is sure, Marilyn isn't forgotten after 40 years... "},{"Title":"Wrong kind of girl meets wrong kind of guy","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marilyn Monroe is good in this film and it's a well made film by director-playwright Joshua Logan but it is also irritating. Don Murray plays a rodeo cowboy from Montana who travels with a guy who acts like his father but apparently isn't to a rodeo in Pheonix from their ranch in Montana. Murray as Bo is a intellectually challenged, naive, isolated boy from the country who is jealous, possessive and desperately needs to attend some kind of anger management classes. The Jethro Bodine character from the Beverly Hillbillies must have been drafted from this character except Jethro was a nice guy. (I know, Jethro and Elly May were adapted from Lil Abner and Daisy Mae but there are some similarities with Bo and Cherie) Bo's traveling companion Virgil is played by Arthur O'Connell who hopes Bo can find a girl in Pheonix because there likely isn't a girl in Montana that wants anything to do with him. There are so many red flags that this guy is a potential wife beater that it's interferes with the comedy angle to this film. Bo falls in love with the first girl he see's who is a B-girl named Cherie played by Marilyn Monroe. Cherie is herself originally a backwoods country girl and wants to get out to Hollywood and pursue her dreams of being a legitimate entertainer. Cherie suffers from low self-esteem but has ample sex appeal. Bo literally kidnaps Cherie to take her back to Montana and make her his wife. This film is billed as a comedy-drama. It's based on the 1955-56 Broadway play by William Inge that received 4 Tony Award nominations. In the play Cherie was played by Kim Stanley, Albert Salmi played Bo and Grahan Strich played Virgil several main characters in the play were not adapted to the film by screenwriter George Axlrod. Director Logan only made a dozen films in his directorial career of which many he also wrote including Mister Roberts, South Pacific and Ensign Pulver. Longtime cinematographer Milton Krasner, responsible for such films as The Farmer's Daughter, The Egg and I, Holiday Affair, All About Eve and The Seven Year Itch excellently photographed this film. Rounding out the cast are Hope Lang, Hans Conried, Ellen Heckert, Betty Field and Robert Bray. Murray received an Academy Award and Golden Globe nomination for Best Supporting Actor in his role. A disappointing ending to the film. I would give it a 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Badly Flawed","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No need to recap the plot. This is a badly flawed movie, despite That Old Black Magic, though the magic clearly works for Monroe as she croons out the tune. It's clear that as an actress she's most comfortable with musical numbers, where her sparkle really gels. The basic problem, as I see it, is with the script. There really isn't much story; as a result, something has to be added to hold audience interest besides budding super-star Marilyn. Apparently, colorful character was encouraged to pick up the slack. It looks like TCF found their answer in Murray's ear-splitting version of a Montana cowboy. I guess rural Montana doesn't have any grade schools where basic civility is taught. No need to belabor his maddening effect since others have made the same point at some length. Nonetheless, Murray's witless hollering of every line takes down the entire film. Nor does Monroe's squeaky southern accent that sort of comes and goes help. Nor is the over-extended final scene, where both actors revert to something more normal, enough to compensate for all the gaudiness that's gone before.All in all, the movie's worth a 3, mainly for its excellent Technicolor staging, Monroe's singing, and the catchy title tune that was a chart-topper at the time. But beware the movie's moral, which seems to be a version of All some people need in order to straighten out is a good beating!(In passing&#x97;Despite his misfire here, Murray was an excellent actor. Catch his carefully shaded performance in A Hatful of Rain (1957) or in The Bachelor Party (1957) to sample his true potential.) "},{"Title":"Proof of Marilyn's Ability.","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1956 movie was the film that Monroe starred in an attempt to show Hollywood (and indeed the world) that she wasn't just a one trick pony - that she could, and she would, act in serious roles in thought provoking and important movies. If you look at Bus Stop in this way, it definitely succeeds. Monroe is excellent in the picture and she really shows a depth of acting skill she never got the chance to display before. Her character is fascinating. Don Murray puts in an impressive debut as the highly naive Bo, and he works well alongside Monroe. The two have enough chemistry to carry the movie. I felt the film was undercut in quality by the final scenes which include the fight between Bo and the driver and the points at which everything basically came to a head. The acting was sometimes a bit wooden in these scenes (Not particularly by the stars, more by the supporting cast) and it just spoiled the film for me. Overall, though this a good film as it succeeds in displaying another side of Monroe and is overall enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A sad waste of Monroe's charisma","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As much as it pains me to criticise Marilyn, I must say that her performance in Bus Stop was an embarrassment. Her quasi-Southern accent is like nails on a chalkboard, sounding more like a speech impediment than any accent. The love story is totally unconvincing. Beau, the simpleminded cowboy, treats Cherie (Marilyn) like nothing more than cattle to the very end, yet she still falls for him. However, it is Marilyn, and she comes across as sweet & lovely as she ever has. It's a must-have for Marilyn fans simply because she tries so hard in this film (even if she does fail miserably), but if you want to see Marilyn in a very different role than the dizzy blonde we all know her as, rent Niagra or Don't Bother To Knock. She did have talent, contrary to what her detractors will have you believe, but don't rent Bus Stop expecting to find any evidence of it.  "}{"Title":"Stalking is not comedy","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Roping a girl with a lariat and forcing her onto a bus against her will? Throwing her over his shoulder and slapping her on the behind when she objects to being hauled off to see the preacher so as to be forced into marrying someone she doesn't love? I realize that the mindset of 1956 America was somewhat different than it is today, but I can't see stalking and kidnapping as the basis of a comedy. And the notion that, after all of that, the girl falls for the abusive control freak, is a bit hard to take. This one sets women back more than a few decades. Aside from the inherent sexism, Don Murray's screaming delivery of his lines was like nails on a chalkboard. Watch this movie only if you aren't offended by the portrayal of women as mindless and easily-manipulated bimbos. "},{"Title":"The best film starring Marilyn Monroe ever made!","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" And I mean it. *The acting is very good. Bo is supposed to be an obnoxious hick.* I don't get why it gets so many hate. I mean, just take a loot at it's message board. A lot of users talking about how 'obnoxious' this film is, and specifically how Bo's character was annoying. Well, the character is supposed to be annoying. He's a jerk, who had never been in contact with civilization before. As an ignorant, hick jerk, he doesn't understand that people need to respect the free will of others. The film isn't glorifying anything, and Bo ISN'T a bad person, he is only immature, and he definitely learnt his lesson in the end. Don Murray was also great in it. *Bland cinematography, just like many films from that same age.* I didn't like the cinematography, it just isn't advanced enough nor there is a lot of craft put on it. But compared to other films from the same age, it allows a deeper immersion of the modern viewer in the story so I give it kudos for that. There is a few awesome shots and a nice editing work, such as in the rodeo sequence, and the fight scene between the Bo and the bus driver. *Quite formulaic, but the story is enjoyable enough.* As I mentioned already, the film wouldn't show an ignorant hick as the character who is the bully if it had any intention of glorifying his actions. Is quite the opposite, actually. And I didn't find this film all that annoying at all. In the final 10 minutes there is a bit of insufferable melodrama, and is quite formulaic, but besides that, is enjoyable and even funny at times. Conclusion  *Isn't what I would call a good film, but is definitely the best film starring Marilyn Monroe ever made. At least, the less annoying one...*  "},{"Title":"Marilyn's an Angel, the Film is Not","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although dated and visually pedestrian, Bus Stop has one of Marilyn Monroe's most vulnerable performances and an energetic debut by Don Murray. However, director Joshua Logan, who may have been a talented Broadway helmer, clunked in adapting stage productions to the screen. Bus Stop was among the first stage hits that Logan filmed in a lumbering style that destroyed what could have been great movies. However, after Bus Stop, he went on to massacre such stage gems as South Pacific, Camelot, and Paint Your Wagon, despite eliciting some decent to good performances from his actors.Unfortunately, those great Broadway musicals will undoubtedly not be filmed again, at least on the same scale, because of high production costs and limited commercial appeal. Bus Stop is unlikely to be remade either, but for another reason. Marilyn's performance ranks among her finest, and another actress would only suffer in comparison to Monroe's charisma and charm. Cherie is a fragile angel and embodies many of the characteristics associated with Marilyn's iconic image. For those who denigrate her work, Bus Stop is solid evidence of her abilities and talent. Although the tale of the chanteuse and the cowboy stretches credibility, Monroe and Murray are convincing. However, while Murray carries off his character transformation, the role starts out on a boisterous annoying note, and his Beauregard Bo Decker is often overbearing and loutish.The rest of the cast is fine as well. Arthur O'Connell is solid as Murray's sidekick, and Betty Field seems to have studied under Mae West for her part as the bus stop owner with a cozy apartment upstairs. Unfortunately, aspects of the film undercut the actors' work. The talky film betrays its stage origins; the song Paper and Pins, which is a questionable choice at best, overstays its welcome; and the Cinemascope camera is often static rather than fluid. Some of the situations are corny rather than cute, and two Life Magazine photographers wander into the proceedings for no apparent reason. Although the central characters may bring a tear to the eye by the end, viewers will have to be patient and focus on Marilyn's beauty and appeal to get through to that point. "},{"Title":"astonishing performance from Marilyn Monroe","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a pretty good film with an astonishing performance from Marilyn Monroe. Don Murray is more than a little irritating as the naïve, over enthusiastic young cowboy but it's all eyes on the star. Monroe achieves our attention from her first appearance, sitting on the window sill, her red high heels to the fore. Her wonderful turn in the bar does nothing to distract us and even throughout the crazy antics of the young cowboy we remain spellbound. The rodeo is a slight diversion but even here she is prominent up in the stands and then drastically crossing the arena. For the main it is a restrained and low key performance as fitting the little girl lost who is trying to escape her past and become a star, but she is nevertheless radiant in every frame. Considered by many a key movie for her in that she is moving from the more frothy roles to the more intense, she herself seems aware too in that she seems to give so much to what could have been such a mundane character part. "},{"Title":"I'm gonna get me a... angel.","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you want to see Marilyn Monroe in a good movie, I don't think you want to start here. Though I am surprised by the number of reviewers here that think the film and her performance in it was wonderful. I just didn't see it. Looks aside, Monroe's performance ranged from adequate to somewhat good, but when she sang 'That Old Black Magic', I wondered to myself if she was supposed to sound terrible. To my ear, the song didn't sound good at all.As for Beauregard (Don Murray), well he was enough to make you want to turn the film off just about any time he was on screen. I suppose the director takes some of the blame, but man, he was just plain annoying. I can't believe someone acting like a bull in a china shop just about the whole picture without anyone having to say something about it. Like the scene where he admonishes the crowd in the saloon while Cherie (Monroe) sings her number. His behavior seemed to invite antagonism just about any time he opened his mouth.So with all that said, the finale seemed to come out of left field with Cherie and Bo reconciling their differences and agreeing to get hitched. Considering her aspirations, it would have made more sense for Cherie to head on West to Hollywood like she planned and have Bo find true romance with a sweet girl like Elma (Hope Lange) who shared his background. Seems to me she would have been more at home at the Suzie Q Ranch. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An amusing but very lightweight and only occasionally very funny comedy, it makes okay viewing overall, with quality acting from Monroe at the least. However, at the Academy Awards, Don Murray received a nomination and not Marilyn Monroe, even though his part mostly just involves acting dumb. The naivety of his character is more so plain silly than it is ever funny. The final ten minutes or so of the film are also a bit of a drag, but generally this is rather satisfying viewing. It is not very deep, nor anything to be taken too seriously, nor particularly well made. It is, however, good entertainment of its type. "},{"Title":"Nice sexy model, that is all","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marilyn Monroe is such a beautiful woman.  She can pose like nobody ever before.  She is so good at posing for photos I think she forgot it was a movie she was shooting.  It is a good thing she was an established sex symbol, since acting was not her forte'.  Bless her memory anyway.  The movie was okay if you can forget it's not a photo shoot during her scenes. But that is only one person's opinion, and after all, I did give it a respectful 6/10. "},{"Title":"Mid-level Monroe","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monroe is as glamorous as ever and very charming but Don Murray as Bo seems so hyperbolically chauvanistic that it cancels out his comic dimwittedness, albeit from my slanted modern perspective, making the whole film feel stale and over indulged. I hardly ever laughed and I did not have scarcely one revelatory feeling throughout. However Monroe's charm is enough for me to marginally recommend this film, 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Over-the-top actor meets really unrealistic story=not a very good movie","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't say enough on how bad Don Murray is in this. It's just so over-the-top to the point of ridiculous.This film didn't work for me on a few levels. First being Don Murray and the character he plays. After seeing this, say to yourself, would anyone back in that day and time let a character he plays get away with what he does? I'm quite sure your answer would be ...Nope. No way on this earth in any day and time would anyone let this obnoxious, full of himself, spoiled punk of a character walk through life and yell and scream in public like he does....abduct and force himself on a girl who has no interest in him...all whilst everyone around him just lets it happen. It's just so stupid beyond reason. I was so angry after watching this film, trying to understand, how anyone could give this film a positive review. It's that bad to me. I get more pleasure out of writing this review and getting to say what I wanna say about it than I did watching the film.Second...I can't understand how the masses say this is one of Ms. Monroe's finest roles. She plays a saloon singer with very little mind of her own and can't seem to just put her foot down or even defend herself. She lets her character get walked all over and doesn't do anything to stop it. Most girls would just go to the police but noooo, not this one. She's just too clueless on standing up for herself. An about the white makeup she wears in this one, she works in Arizona and her face is that white? Gimme a break. She almost looked like a mime throughout the film. I'll say she's a lot better in this than most of what she did before this but that ain't sayin much.At first, Don Murray's character will make you chuckle for a few minutes, but for only for a few short minutes. I hope you get aggravated by it like I did and see this is no Oscar worthy performance. What were the Oscar voters thinking giving Don Murray a best supporting Role nomination? It's a travesty.This one, story wise and the Don Murray Character, was a bottom feeder. If you wanna see this for Ms. Monroe...do it but other than that, save your time and read the back of a cereal box. I'm pretty sure you'll get more out of it. "},{"Title":"Amazingly bad acting spoils the film","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film really took me by surprise. After all, by 1956, Marilyn Monroe was a bona fide star, having appeared in such blockbusters as GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDES, THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH, RIVER OF NO RETURN and HOW TO MARRY A MILLIONAIRE, so you would have expected 20th Century Fox to pull out all the stops with BUS STOP. However, despite some decent reviews, the film was a terrible mess due to a poor script and one performance in particular.The biggest fault with the movie isn't Marilyn's overly broad performance but Don Murray's. Her acting was bad--no question about it. However, his overacting not only overshadowed Miss Monroe's shortcomings in her role, but really grated on my nerves. No young man can be THAT naive when it comes to women or when it comes to leaving their home--and that would even include Mowgli from THE JUNGLE BOOK! His performance (if you want to call it that) is more akin to having Jethro Bodine play the role!! It was that ridiculously overplayed and unsubtle. Murray, of course, can be blamed for much of this. However, I assume the film had a director (though it's not obvious) and someone had to write this drivel. You really have to see it to believe it. However, I am not the only one who thinks this about Murray in this film. One reviewer describes him as acting as if he escaped from a mental hospital and is off his medication!! Another said they wanted to shoot him in the head! In hindsight, I guess I'm being pretty kind with my review.Now I am going to admit something that I very rarely do with films. For probably only the second or third time out of over 5300 reviews that I simply couldn't finish watching the film--Murray's character was THAT irritating. That's pretty bad--especially considering all the Ed Wood, Jr., Ray Dennis Steckler and Al Adamson films I have seen! Their films are cheap and meant to be grade-D drive-in movies--what's the excuse for this film for being almost equally bad?! "}{"Title":"If You Love Marilyn Then You'll Love Some Parts Of This Movie!","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes.. (Joshua Logan) directed that, Yes.. (George Axelrod) the one who wrote plays like (Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?) as well as screenplays like (Breakfast at Tiffany's - 1961) and a play who wrote its screenplay such as (The Seven Year Itch - 1955) he's already here also, and yes.. The great actor (Arthur O'Connell), (Don Murray) as the most perfect idiot villager ever, and with (Eileen Heckart) too.. BUT despite the fact that this movie is nice and well.. It wasn't the finest work for any one of those fine persons. ..That was the serious part of talking or maybe the silly part which compares the movie always to the oldest or the best. Although my faith that the strongest evaluation of any film is by comparing it to itself.. To its very own message and how successful it was at making that, even it was a message of pure fun. Here it's funny to watch as one good romantic comedy from the nice days of 1950s with some talented team as enjoyable but not super enjoyable. However let me be self-perception, not that substantive to give all the elements of the movie the words they deserve, to have the time to talk about my great OBSESSION; the most seditious, magical and childish (Cherie).. My yummiest female star of all times (Marilyn Monroe).Despite what is always said about her weakness as an actress (which is often true), this movie proves how talented in comedy she was, and how her performance had progressed over the years even if they were a few years. (Monroe) wanted to be a star and OH BOY she inherently was, she did it to the extent that she still is big one till now, but she wanted also to be a good actress and she fulfilled part of that dream but unfortunately all the dreams ended at 5 August 1962 in her Brentwood home !In (Bus Stop - 1956) she makes her role so cutely effective by her real sense of innocence with that childish sprite, and all of this (for sure !) through her genius inherent sexiness.. WAW.The first title of the movie was (The Wrong Kind of Girl) but believe me she was the right ideally to make this movie THAT eternal. As for me I didn't like her singing in here though I liked watching her in singing ! Simply because HER outstanding movements which were a real Old Black Magic! So I hate the end also for being too easy and very theatrical. But on the other hand I've liked so many things of that movie mostly come from the side of Marilyn  her scene when she was talking about her own dreams as miserable but ambitious, optimistic and happy about that she actually had aspirations.. happy about her being dreaming !, I liked also her being alarmed with this sexually raved boy's chase and his madness over her so at the scene when he put the rope around her before she gets into the bus like he caught her as a hunter I just laugh a lot (this crazy kid did what we all wanted to do for a long time !).Some moments were so humorous when you had the chance to see (Marilyn) and Marilyn only in such events  her running at the competition's stadium, (Bo) cuts her dress's tail accidentally (that was one hell of a sexy event as well as a HOT shot !) and what a performance she did after by saying beautifully angry I hate you and I despise you! Now give me back my tail, a journal's photographer requests Marilyn for taking a photo then we discovered that he wanted a photo for her butt ! Undoubtedly one of the greatest (comic situations, scenes, butts !), (Don Murray) reading the constitution to (Marilyn) when she was sleeping naked under sheets (or trying to sleep) she was so soft, tender, funny and SEXY.. historical SEXY !, and who can forget her scene in the bus when she was forced to change her costume and had to tell a warning to a young boy looks at her; this little scene was too sexy as for me when i've watched the movie for the first time (I was at the age of that boy by the way !). I loved also one of the main posters (with Murray encompasses Marilyn lewdly) it's so naughty and compared to (The Out Law)'s one of the great fuss 10 years earlier.. It's not only more bolder but also bold to the utmost degree noticing the 1950s measures, and as for me it's one of the boldest ever !By the enjoyment's measure as a whole movie starring M.M it isn't up to the level of (Some Like it Hot), or (The Seven Year Itch) from the same screenplay writer. But HEY.. This is a good movie after all which I had so much fun out of watching it with too many memories. So because of this delectable memorable (Cherie), and those previous moments it's a classic for Marilyn's lovers and maybe for the romantic comedy's fans. "},{"Title":"Disappointing film","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've read that many people consider this to be Marilyn Monroe's best performance. Although I don't agree that it's her best, she certainly did a great job with what she had to work with. In fact, I think she is really the only reason to watch this disappointing film.The story is obviously dated, but even in 1957 it seems like it would have come across as ridiculous. The script is mediocre at best and doesn't offer enough lightheartedness for a comedy. Don Murray, whom I haven't seen in any other pictures that I can think of, is too loud and quite obnoxious; really causing a person to want to plug their ears rather than listen to him any longer. He yells throughout most of the picture and his character is simply to dim-witted to be believable.Overall I was really let down by this film. Don't see it unless you like absurd, dumb, not very funny comedies. "},{"Title":"a Masterpiece","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In an era where at least Monroe's acting ability wasn't exactly the strong point of any of her films she makes Bus Stop. This film firmly established her as a very credible actress. The movie has always been a favorite of mine because it draws so much from the actual acting. Murray is often shunned because of his acting and the overall character he portrays. This is INTENTIONAL! I am amused by some of the critics here saying how this would never be taken so lightly or as the farce it was intended as.Step one... this isn't real! Quit acting as if it was and lighten up. the plot centered around a character who had no experience with women at all and was very blunt and abrupt and took what he wanted because thats how he was brought up. This happens more these days than you think. They just don't make movies about it. I also laugh at others who say the film is dated.. er, it's over 40 years old! the film making style of the fifties was actually a treat today as during this time film makers had to compete with the advent of television. They did wonderful things during the 50s with color and perspective. It shouldn't be dismissed as something dated and bad. Most youngsters out there on the board apparently have yet to see many movies that don't involve fluff entertainment values and overly used CGI. That is sad. I am happy that I was raised in a time when you could watch a film and those who made it didn't have CGI and unoriginal .I mean if you have to reply on all films being politically correct and having to have enough CGI or sex in it to keep you interested then you probably wouldn't enjoy a film like this. Obviously not a film for feminists and CGI hounds. It is still a valid entry that established that Monroe was more than a pretty lady or sex symbol. She had so much more to offer and sadly the world will never know what could have been. But turnabout being fair play as it was, the Kennedys got theirs for cutting short this actresses life. Sorry, couldn't resist opening that can of worms, but it would be naive to think otherwise.This is overall a pretty fun movie and in entertaining. If you don't like old movies or anything dated or don't like the idea of a cowboy treating a lady abruptly (as if any of it could have been taken seriously even back then.)then don't watch it. If you want to see another side of Marilyn. A side that can act, then check it out!  "},{"Title":"Hollywood's for 12-year olds","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" oh how wonderful Marilyn is! True greatness ! A true Comedienne! The real deal! On the other hand, this movie shows once again that for the most part Hollywood's products are aimed at 12-year olds... OK, the photography is great, most of the acting is pretty good, the directing is good, etc...etc... But that message!!! Hello!!! Are we all morons???!(Is this the twilight zone???!) I gave this an 8 just because of Marilyn... to watch her in action is always a joy! Too bad that she was so often used just for her obvious sex appeal... By the way, did anyone else notice how androgyn she really was? In the scene on the bus when she's talking to the little waitress that works in the bus stop (on her way back) Marilyn almost looks like a dragqueen... I think that's why everyone loved her.... "},{"Title":"I'm still rooting for Einstein","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Einstein's special and general theories have never been controverted. It must however be acknowledged that the quantum theorists, those who are brazen and gutsy enough , have demonstrated the validity of their ideas of a probabilistic universe to a greater degree than relativity's premises . This brings us, naturally, to Bus Stop and the ethereal and incomparable charm and lovliness of Marilyn Monroe, whose nether bifurcations are an infinite haven to we mortal fools , but which assure  us that Einstein must be right; and if he ain't we prefer his version anyway. I was an ardent Dodger fan when Branca pitched to Bobby Thompson on Oct 3, 1951. Therefore, I know what sustains a soul. "}]