[{"Title":"Giant success","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"87 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a novel by Edna Ferber, Giant is an appropriately Texas-sized western/generational saga that parallels familial evolution with the changing socio-economic nature of the United States over an approximately 30-year period from the 1920s through the film's present, and by extension, a turn of the (20th) century mentality segueing into a more contemporary outlook. It is filled with excellent writing, fabulous direction and technical elements, outstanding performances, gorgeous photography, and plenty of depth via subtly implied philosophical ideas.At its heart, Giant is the story of Jordan Bick Benedict (Rock Hudson), heir, along with his sister, Luz (Mercedes McCambridge) to a family cattle ranch that exceeds half a million acres. As the film opens, Bick has traveled to Maryland, ostensibly to purchase a horse from Dr. Horace Lynnton, who has a sizeable ranch of his own, but also perhaps to search for a wife. Whether the latter was his initial intention or not, he ends up finding a spouse in Dr. Lynnton's opinionated and somewhat irascible but beautiful daughter, Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor). Bick moves Leslie from the rolling green pastures that she calls home to the huge, dusty plains of Reata, his Texas ranch.In the process, she ends up turning his world upside down. Luz sees Leslie as a threat to their routine, an interpretation that Leslie doesn't exactly try to deny. Leslie integrates herself into the daily workings of Reata and initiates changes in the way Bick and Luz behave towards their mostly Mexican staff, among other things. Bick and Leslie have children, but they're not exactly keen on following the family tradition. Other challenges and perhaps the strongest cultural change in the film comes via Jett Rink (James Dean), who goes through a gradual transformation from his early status in the film as a dirt-poor, uneducated ranch hand.At a three and a half-hour running time, and covering decades in the lives of many different characters, Giant is nothing if not sprawling. But this is the kind of sprawl that works. Unlike most sprawling films, the cast of characters in Giant actually turns out to be relatively small, we always have a clear idea of who each character is, and every event leads to the next in a very tightly-written, logical manner.In fact, one of the more unusual but laudable aspects of Fred Guiol and Ivan Moffat's script is the way that characters will mention something in an almost off-the-cuff manner before we immediately cut to the full realization of the previous comment. For example, Leslie and Bick are barely courting before we see them married. Other examples--Leslie goes from telling Bick that she's pregnant to having the baby in the next instant; Bick says that he's going to fly in a plane low over a particular hotel--just for dramatic effect with respect to a certain character--and in the next shot, this is just what he's doing. The first couple times this happens, it's almost a bit unnerving because of its uniqueness. We figure that the characters are in the middle of a dream sequence. But it quickly becomes apparent that the device is designed to enable large time span passages in an instant, and for the overall structure of the film, it works perfectly.Given that structure, it was also unusual in this era to pick younger actors who would then have to be aged 30 years or so (the more standard procedure was to pick middle aged actors who could be made both younger and older through make-up and lighting). But Hudson, Taylor and Dean are perfect. Dean is especially impressive as he undergoes the most significant transformation. All three of his major films are almost heartbreaking to watch; he was an incredible talent but didn't have a chance to do much with it before he tragically passed away. But all three principal cast members are at the top of their game here; each is able to do a bit of scene stealing if they want. It creates a lot of energy throughout the film and enhances the occasional tensions in the script.The smaller roles are perfectly filled as well. I was particularly amused with Dennis Hopper among the supporting cast. Hopper portrays Bick and Leslie's son, Jordan III. This was his first major role, and he meshes well, but at the same time, you can easily see the more infamous Hopper ala Easy Rider's (1969) Billy, Blue Velvet's (1986) Frank Booth, or The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2's (1986) Lieutenant Lefty Enright.The cinematography and production design are consistently beautiful. The stark Texas landscapes (filmed primarily in the town of Marfa) couldn't have more impact. The Benedict home is oddly Gothic and a bit eerie in its exterior (especially post-Psycho, 1960), and lushly gorgeous and Victorian inside. Later scenes give the interior a redecoration to match changing fashions.Giant is extremely engaging in its soap-operatic family drama, but just as captivating for its subtle handling of important social themes. Leslie's respect for the Mexican ranch hands and servants parallels the slowly and occasionally painfully evolving public opinion about different ethnicities that is still developing. She also tries her best to usher in a bit of woman's liberation, open-mindedness in child rearing, and many other progressive attitudes. She's a symbol, in some ways, of Northeastern (U.S.) thinking filtering across the country in the early part of the 20th Century.Giant is heavy on symbolism in many ways. Jett Rink's newfound fortune isn't just a personal transformation, but it symbolizes changing technology and the necessary adaptations to remain viable economically; it's a move away from a more agrarian existence. There is also pithy commentary on World War II--just look at who returns in one piece and who doesn't, and the different attitudes towards this.It would probably take a book to just give an adequate analysis of this film. It goes without saying that you need to see Giant if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated classics in film history","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"66 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was 12 years old.  It instantly became my favorite film of all time.  I've seen it at least 6 times in the last thirty years, and enjoy it more each time.  I was pleased to see that it at least made the top 100 films of all time list, I believe it was the National Board of Review; If not, it was as prestigious an organization.Great characterizations abound! Never has a films with such youthful leads, generated so much emotional impact.  Even though George Stevens deservedly won for Best Director, the film should have garnered more Oscars, it was nominated in 11 or 12 categories. It definitely superior in every way to Mike Todd's Around the World in 80 Days, even though that was a delightful movie, but clearly without the substance of Giant. I always dreamed that subsequent generations would discover this movie and lift it to the blockbuster status that it deserves.  I  encourage anyone to see this movie, it has held up flawlessly over the years.  A honest to goodness fabulous movie! "},{"Title":"The legendary epic that's as big as Texas!","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"44 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The plot Texas ranch owner Bick Benedict (Rock Hudson) travels to purchase a prize horse, but falls in love at first sight with the owner's pampered daughter Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor). He woos and wins her quickly, they marry, then travel back to his isolated ranch.Leslie, after a rough start, proves herself quite the force of nature. Ranch hand Jett Rink (James Dean) falls into unrequited love with Leslie, uttering, in one scene, one of my favorite lines in the film, something like, Mrs. Benedict, you sure do look right good enough to eat, yeah, good enough to eat.... (voice trails off and he looks like he's going to lick his lips) - and then when he strikes it rich with oil, he takes his bitterness out in several ways.With a stellar supporting cast including Mercedes McCambridge, Sal Mineo, Carroll Baker, and Dennis Hopper, Giant is the original miniseries before anyone knew what a miniseries even was...except this is of course a classic film of the big screen, not a TV movie.Directed by George Stevens, the sprawling epic (201 minutes, but it goes fast, believe me) beautifully covers two generations of family and a variety of issues, including marriage, family, childrearing, social snobbery and racism, the latter two being covered especially well. When in the mood for a well-paced, involved, alternately funny, sad, heartwarming, and emotionally fulfilling epic, Giant always fits the bill for me.My favorite bit of trivia - Liz Taylor and Rock Hudson became fast friends on the set, and indulging together in partying/drinking binges most every night, after filming stopped. In the scene where the two are watching a marriage, the two actors had to stop during the filming several times to take turns going outside to throw up, as both were terribly hungover from the previous night's revelries. "},{"Title":"A monument to myths about Texas size, wealth, and vulgarity&#133;","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant met the lush, sprawling Edna Ferber novel on its own level&#133; Detailing the history of a Texas royal family, the movie, like the novel, is a monument to myths about Texas size, wealth, and vulgarity&#133;A well-bred lady from Virginia, Liz is the outsider who marries the big, strong, thick-headed ruler of a family dynasty (Rock Hudson) and who stubborn1y refuses to lose her own notions of right and wrong&#133;In choosing as his bride this independent woman who won't conform to Texas folkways, Hudson selected a wily and persevering antagonist, a lady with a mind of her own who challenges, and loves him every step of the way&#133; At the end, when he fights the owner of a roadside diner who will not serve his Mexican daughter-in-law and grandchild, Liz can count the twenty-five-year battle hers&#133; Playing the liberal to her husband's reactionary, she's succeeded finally in educating her man&#133; It's one of the few occasions when Taylor's the wise teacher rather than the recalcitrant pupil&#133;The marriage&#151;a prototype for the Taylor ménage, in which tenderness and turbulence are closely mixed&#151;is set against the evolution of Texas from old-fashioned to modern&#133; As horse-loving Virginia deb, as new bride, as threat to her husband's mannish domineering sister, as young wife and mother, as patrona of the ranch who would rather talk politics with the men than chit-chat with the women, as the unattainable mistress of Jett Rink's dreams, as dignified, middle-aged champion of American-Chicano integration, Liz is at the center of the epic canvas, and it's a wise and charming performance&#133; Stevens again shots the stillness of her serene beauty, but he also explores the temperament of the Taylor spitfire&#133; Leslie Lynnton is one of Taylor's strong heroines, one of the few women she's played who, if they absolutely had to, might make it on their own&#133; "},{"Title":"A beautiful, sweeping epic","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" George Stevens' 1956 epic Giant is the story of the Jordan Benedict (Rock Hudson), the male heir to one of the largest cattle ranching families in Texas. At the start of the film, we see Jordan traveling to Maryland to look at a horse he is interested in purchasing, There he meets Leslie, (Elizabeth Taylor) the daughter of the man he is purchasing the horse from (and the unofficial owner of the horse) and immediately falls in love with her. The feeling is mutual, so after an incredibly brief (two day) courtship, they marry and he brings her back to his ranch in Texas, Reatta. At first, life on the ranch is tough, particularly while dealing with Jordan's overprotective, no-nonsense sister Luz. (Mercedes McCambridge) Leslie soon adjusts, however, and the two of them start a family. Meanwhile, Jordan is at constant odds with one of his ranch hands, Jet Rink (James Dean) whom he always wants to fire, but is eternally protected by Luz. When Luz unexpectedly dies, Jet is ready to walk off the ranch for good, but discovers that Luz has bequeathed a parcel of the land to him. Partly to tick Jordan off, partly for his respect for Luz and partly so that he can have something for himself, Jett eschews Jordan's cash buyout and instead sets up a homestead on the land. Five years later, Jet strikes oil, and soon he is again at odds with the Benedicts, as Jet, having become one of the richest men in Texas, wants to buy out Reatta, while Jordan wants to keep the ranch for cattle raising, and most importantly &#150; to keep it in the family. The next 15-20 years are spent raising their children and trying to cope with a changing family dynamic, one where the children may not want to adhere to the roles that have been pre-attributed to them, a struggle that is particularly hard for their son Jordan III (Dennis Hopper) because as the sole male heir, his dream of becoming a doctor is seemingly out of the question. Giant is about life, and the ever-changing role of the American family.Giant is a very long film, (about three and a half hours) but this time frame is necessary because the story is so rich. Despite its running time, there are no pacing issues, and no real superfluous scenes. The cinematography is lush and rich (I never really thought Texas to be all that intriguing, but William C. Mellor's photography was exquisite. The performances by the principals were very good, particularly since they had to age 25 years in the film. This wasn't a mere makeup job, you could feel the aging in the way they carried themselves, and their facial expressions. James Dean in particular, perhaps because he had such a fascinating character, was stunning. Jet Rink is a complex character, and Dean really worked the role fantastically. I was also impressed, considering the overly idealistic Hollywood of the 1950's, that Giant, while ending on a happy note, did not compromise its characters in any way to achieve its ending. Jordan for example, is typical old-guard Texas, and therefore looks down on Mexicans. When his son marries one, he has marginal acceptance and is always polite, but even after engaging in a fight to defend the honor of his grandson, he still expresses his woe that his grandson is who he is. Also, Leslie is an unabashed free-thinker who often challenges the Texas traditions, much to Jordan's chagrin. Throughout their years together however, she does not compromise her views and need to express them. I really liked this about the film, because it is rare for the time, particularly when the genre is melodrama.I really liked this film, though when recommending it, have to caution because of the sheer length of the film. Watching Giant is an investment of time, but it is certainly a worthwhile investment. 7/10 --Shelly "},{"Title":"A Film As Big and As Great As Texas.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"42 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Giant is a sometimes forgotten masterpiece which is remembered for its massive budget (becoming the most expensive movie ever made at that time) and of course James Dean's death during the final stages of production. All the sub-stories during the making of this film overshadow the fact that this is easily one of the top ten movies ever made. Definitely in the class with epics like Gone With the Wind and Lawrence of Arabia, Giant is a 200-minute symphony of a movie about the life of a Texas cattle rancher (Oscar-nominee Rock Hudson) and his wife from the East Coast (Elizabeth Taylor). Immediately following their marriage, Hudson's older sister (Mercedes McCambridge, Oscar-nominated) dies after falling off the same horse that Hudson had bought from Taylor's father. Disgusted with the fact that Hudson had married Taylor, McCambridge had decided to leave a small part of her land to quiet cow-hand James Dean (in his finest performance, garnering him his second consecutive posthumous Oscar nomination). Hudson is advised to buy the land from Dean, but Dean refuses to sell. Now Dean is trying to strike oil and is ultimately successful. He becomes a huge oil baron and one of the richest and most powerful men in Texas. Hudson continues to make money as well, but eventually has to swallow his pride and become a wild-catter himself. The hate and friction between Hudson and Dean is sure to lead to fireworks for all associated with the two volatile men. Secretly, Dean has always loved Taylor and even goes so far as to try and get with Taylor's youngest daughter (a brilliant turn by Carroll Baker). Dean is trying to substitute Baker for the lover he has always had for Taylor. By this time Dean is well in his 50s (due to heavy makeup), but he is trying to capture the failed dreams of his youth. Ultimately, Dean has everything except the one thing he really wanted. He lacks love in his life and he suffers miserably through as the film progresses. The older twin children of Hudson and Taylor's both grow up to go in very different directions. The daughter (Fran Bennett) marries and wants to run the ranch, to Hudson's approval and Taylor's dismay. However, the son (a very young Dennis Hopper) marries a Hispanic woman (very taboo back in those days) and wants to go north to become a doctor. Of course Hudson is outraged at this development and nearly disowns Hopper all together. Hudson then decides that Bennett's new husband (Earl Holliman) may be the best for the job. Holliman though is immediately drafted into World War II, along with Hispanic laborer Sal Mineo. Hudson worries about change after he passes away, but he eventually learns that most of the things he obsesses about are not as important as other matters. Equality for females and Hispanic Americans are major messages throughout here. Much like novelist Edna Ferber's equally excellent Cimarron (which dealt with sexism and racism toward Native- and African-Americans in Oklahoma), Giant paints a wonderfully complex picture of humanistic relationships from varying cinematic angles. Overall, Giant is a huge motion picture that is so smart, multi-layered and deep-thinking that it requires over three hours to tell the entire story. Everything here is so magnificent. The Oscar-winning direction by George Stevens, the screenplay, the art direction, the editing, the costume design, the makeup, the sound and the original musical score are all superb. Almost every actor does the best work of their respective careers as well. James Dean and Rock Hudson are the best. Mercedes McCambridge (albeit in a very small role) is super. Dennis Hopper and Carroll Baker (Baker even received an Oscar nomination for Best Actress in 1956 for Baby Doll) both show amazing range at their very young ages. Chill Wills (who plays Hudson's old wise uncle) and Elizabeth Taylor give stellar performances as always. Overlooked in 1956 (the unmemorable Around the World in 80 Days won the Best Picture Oscar), Giant is easily the best film from that weak year and is ranked as the best movie of that decade in my book. One of the most excellent productions of all time. 5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"The Eyes of Texas","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am of the opinion that it is impossible to make a bad film out of an Edna Ferber book. Her backgrounds are epic and she creates characters who fill the backgrounds that their stories take place.Such is the case of Giant and the story of Bick Benedict, Leslie Lynnton, and Jett Rink and all the Texans here, native and transplanted. Giant's story begins with Bick Benedict coming to Maryland to buy a prize stallion and in a whirlwind courtship, marrying and bringing back the stallion and it's owner as well who becomes Leslie Lynnton.Benedict as played by Rock Hudson is co-owner with his sister Mercedes McCambridge of one large piece of Texas real estate named Reata which makes the Ponderosa look like a homestead. 595,000 acres Hudson modestly states to the Lynnton guests at dinner. He's also incurred the jealousy of one of his ranch hands, James Dean as Jett Rink who envies Hudson in all things including his new bride.Hudson and Dean were both up for Best Actor in 1956 losing to Yul Brynner in The King and I, but I've always felt that this was Elizabeth Taylor's film. Liz showed what she could do in George Stevens's A Place in the Sun and unfortunately she went back to MGM and got a bunch of films that were really beneath her talents. It was George Stevens again who even though he wanted Grace Kelly in the part first, got a great performance out of Elizabeth Taylor. Although she's overawed at first by the Texans and their ways, she warms gradually up to the role of mistress of Reata and brings a touch of compassion and humanity to Reata and its people.The leading man was also borrowed by Warner Brothers. Rock Hudson got his one and only Oscar nomination for this role. His character of Bick Benedict ages and grows in every way. Maybe because its Rock Hudson playing the part, but I think it's Hudson innate and underrated skill as a player that makes you know there's a latent decency that's eventually going to overcome the bad things he was brought up with.Of course Giant marks the early tragic farewell of James Dean as player. In one terrible accident that claimed his life James Dean went from rebel actor to eternal legend. Jett Rink was the final piece of his performing career and only a hint of what we could have expected from him. He's a dirt poor ranch hand, as poor as the Mexicans, who mostly work at Reata, but he doesn't identify with them at all. When he strikes it oil rich, he's just put in a position where he can now inflict terrible things on those people he feels superior to.When film fans talk about Giant they talk about the differences between Hudson and Dean. Hudson starts out rich and prejudiced, Dean is poor and prejudiced. Dean strikes it rich and becomes an oil billionaire, but it's brought him no happiness, just richer surroundings to be miserable in. The difference is that Hudson had Taylor and the children they both had. Their lives together, Taylor's love and devotion and his children's respectful rebellion made him see things differently and grow as a person. If Dean had an Elizabeth Taylor, things might have worked out better for him in a personal sense.George Stevens won the only Oscar that Giant got that year, for Best Director. The all-star extravaganza Around the World in 80 Days won for Best Picture, though I think Giant has stood the test of time a lot better. Then again Stevens had an Edna Ferber epic story to work from and as I said before, you can't ever go wrong with one of her stories. "},{"Title":"A Majestical, Awe-Inspiring Masterpiece","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can I say?  George Steven's Giant is a prototype for what a classic epic film should be like.  It takes time to develop its two main characters, and it does a good job of examining the social milieu and environment (Texas) that the characters inhabit.  Rock Hudson's performance reminds me of Richard Burton's in the underrated Joseph Mankiewiek's film Cleopatra, and indeed, there are many parallels (which I won't go into) between Rock Hudson's character and Marc Anthony.  Similarly, Elizabeth Taylor's character in Giant (radiant and wonderful as usual) resembles Cleopatra in many ways.  One can argue that Giant is the story of Anthony and Cleopatra transported to Texas.  And it's almost heartbreaking to see James Dean in his last performance. . . the flow of generations, the gaps between the older and the newer generations, the passing on off dreams by ancestors, the influence of the dead on the living, tradition versus modernity, the lasting and ever-changing nature of love. . . these are all issues which Giant addresses eloquently and majestically.  Oh, and there is a ten-minute section in Giant which has got to be one of the best cinematic passages I have ever seen.  In this passage, without the use of and sound or music, George Steven's portrays death and rebirth through the generations. . . it's nothing short of astonishing! "},{"Title":"Dean matures","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a Deaner, what can be said that hasn't already been said?eh Flawless performance from an American film icon. Giant marked his second posthumous Academy Award nomination. The only actor to achieve such a feat. In light of this, I am astounded at the comments made that Dean was unconvincing as an aging Jhett Rink. Can you picture Leo DiCaprio in the same role? He simply doesn't have the maturity to pull it off. Dean had it, and he was only 24. And long before The Ewings, we had The Benedicts. Edna Ferber's brilliant masterpiece is brought to the silver screen. A sprawling epic that was years ahead of its time. Tackling racism and classism, this shall aways remain George Stevens' signature piece. "},{"Title":"You shoulda shot that fella a long time ago, now he's too rich to kill.","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The opening of the movie sets the viewer up for a bit of a shock later on; all those lush rolling green fields of Maryland give way to a desolate and bizarrely placed Gothic mansion in the middle of a Texas desert. One wonders what Leslie Benedict REALLY thought, because she never let on that this might have been a mistake. But they say love is blind, even if marriage is an eye opener. For my part, I was left wondering what the cattle ate out there to stay nourished, they certainly looked healthy. But of course, that wasn't the point. Giant was one of the earliest epic bordering films to examine racial intolerance and present a strong independent woman, and the scenes that play to those sentiments are the best in the story.I had only the faintest of knowledge about the film, generally cited as a final showcase for one of it's stars, James Dean. What surprised me the most was the presence of such a fine supporting cast behind Dean, Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor. Mercedes McCambridge excels with limited screen time as Bick's (Hudson) manly sister, while Carroll Baker and Dennis Hopper appear as the adult Benedict heirs, each off in their own direction to the consternation of their father. It's always interesting to see Dennis Hopper, especially in very young early roles, to see how he developed his chameleon like ability to morph into virtually any type of characterization.It's fair to say that the movie's three plus hours virtually flies by, and one wonders how long it could have gone if the film hadn't lopped off years between scenes. On the flip side, that might also be the picture's greatest downside. Even though continuity is never lost, it's somewhat disorienting to see a family age by almost a decade at a clip, as there was plenty of room for additional character development in between. That's probably why more than once I thought that the picture might have benefited from a serialization of sorts, along the lines of say, Dallas, other similarities notwithstanding. Is there any way to overlook the connection between Jett Rink's (Dean) prominent initials and those of the eldest son of the Ewing clan? The movie ties up a lot of connections by the time it's over, like Jordy's (Hopper) 'Country Doctor' medical kit and his adult life's ambition. The best though came near the finale when Hudson's character Bick Benedict transcends his chauvinistic and bigoted past to take on the proprietor of 'Sarge's Place'. It was the redeeming moment worth waiting for, set to martial music and inviting the viewer to cheer on the man who was getting his butt whipped. It's a scene that best captures the spirit of Giant, as if defining each of it's principal players as a giant in their own right. "}{"Title":"The limits of good intentions","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By the time the vital theme of racial intolerance reaches its climax in this plodding melodrama, the audience has endured three hours of stilted dialogue and overblown acting. The film's most dynamic performers are either gone too soon (Mercedes McCambridge) or come too late (Dennis Hopper) to compensate for its morass of mediocrity (Hudson) or ineptitude (Dean). Elizabeth Taylor, enduring some of the worst ageing make-up ever seen in a seriously-intentioned Hollywood movie, somehow emerges with her dignity intact.It's difficult to make a picture convincing when its story has to traverse as many years as GIANT. SHOWBOAT, also from a Ferber novel, has the same problem. It does, however, have songs to save it. No such luck here. Attempts by composer Dimitri Tiomkin to give grandeur to what's on offer do the reverse the harder he works, the worse it gets. This is particularly sad when considering William C. Mellor's outstanding photography - by far the greatest pleasure that GIANT has to offer.It doesn't give me any joy at all to write so disparagingly about a film which deals with such important issues as envy, greed, pride and intolerance. Director George Stevens was clearly a humane man who brought a great sensitivity to his work - his previous movie was, after all, the lean and unpretentiously powerful SHANE. Unfortunately, with GIANT, the intractability of his source material and the unevenness of his cast defeated his good intentions. "},{"Title":"Excellent Saga Of Money And Greed","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant was an excellent movie. The cast of characters was phenomenal. Rock Hudson, James Dean and one of the most beautiful actresses ever, Elizabeth Taylor were the stars. I was surprised to read recently that Rock and James did not like one another. This supposedly made the scenes between Rock and James very tense and difficult to do. I also read that some people thought James Dean was too short to play the part, opposite the towering Rock Hudson. I couldn't disagree more. Dean never for a moment allowed Rock's money, greed or size intimidate him. To the contrary, Dean seemed to constantly be an annoyance to Rock. You know from the onset of the movie that Rock and Dean are headed for a fistfight. To make matters worse, Dean is falling for Rock's wife, Elizabeth Taylor. She tries hard through the movie to keep the peace between the two. When Dean strikes it rich, the plot thickens. He makes a pass at Elizabeth Taylor and Rock levels Dean. A couple of guys hold Rock back, so you think the fight is over. Dean pretends to be exiting for home, but turns back and punches the hell out of Rock. Rock is still being held back and Dean just runs off. I wouldn't want to have seen the pounding Rock would have bestowed on Dean if he weren't being held back. When I think of the title of the movie, Giant it may refer to Rock Hudson as well. He was one tall, well built guy. Much of the remaining movie centers on Dean and Rock's bigotry, until Rock's son marries a Mexican. Again, Elizabeth Taylor tries to keep the peace. Dean is now a wealthy man. And of course, he and Rock still have animosity going back many, many years. At a banquet, in honor of, James Dean, Dean punches Rock's son out in a party room filled with people. That was the last straw. Rock then challenges Dean to a fight. Alone, the two head to a back room. I actually thought either Rock or Dean would have a weapon and kill the other. A real fistfight between these two guys? Give me a break. Rock, being about a foot taller than Dean and obviously much stronger, would break Dean in half. Even this part of the movie was very well done. As soon as the fight begins, the cameras move back to the banquet. You only hear loud noise coming from the back room. A few minutes later, Rock walks out. You know he beat the hell out of Dean. It just wasn't shown on the camera. Nicely done. Near the end of the movie, Rock has come to accept the marriage of his son to a Mexican Woman. When a restaurant owner refuses to serve Rock's daughter, because she is Mexican, it's time for another fight. This time the guy is as big as Rock and Rock gets beaten up badly. It was actually an excellent fight scene. In a way, I thought of the big guy as James Dean paying Rock back. In any case, Giant was a great movie. "},{"Title":"Larger than life","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The epitome of the Hollywood epic soap opera, immortalised by the premature death late in the production by its enigmatic star James Dean. Dean plays a brooding ranch-hand bequeathed a parcel of supposedly arid land upon the death of his employer, but rather than exchange it for a handsome sum, turns it into a profitable oil interest much to the chagrin of his former employer's son (and heir to the estate) Hudson.Elizabeth Taylor co-stars as Hudson's wife (affecting a reasonable southern drawl), while notable supporting cast features Dennis Hopper and Carroll Baker as the Hudson/Taylor brood (nevermind the age issues), and Chill Wills, Rod Taylor and the very young Sal Mineo have supporting roles of various importance.I'm not sure if Giant would've become so revered had it not been for the fatal accident that claimed Dean's life before its release, suffice to say it's best seen with an intermission to digest the mammoth three hours plus duration. Overall the story is engaging and the cast is attractive, but the execution is all show and little substance. "},{"Title":"Triumph of the skills","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hey Brad Pitt! James Dean called and he wants his persona back. Seeing where Pitt's Thelma & Louise character came from is just one of the many treasures hidden in this good, often brilliant, epic. A few others a wonderfully staged fist fight between Rock Hudson's Bick Benedict and Sarge, the racist owner of a diner. Fifty years later, they still don't make fist fights any better; the iconic scenes of the Mexican boy's return from war and subsequent funeral. Set up with the jubilant return of the white son-in-law, this is Riefenstahlesque in its capturing of American and Texas patriotism. When Bick hands over the Texas flag, try as you might you will have a lump in your throat. And all because Stevens is a master at withholding information. He shows Bick earlier at the flag case, but we don't know why. He shows the folding and presenting of the Stars and Stripes to the soldier's mother, then, without fanfare, Bick walks up and presents his Texas flag. Powerful, beautiful stuff; the scene in which Bick's tough-ass sister tries to break Liz Taylor's horse is a triumph of film-making, alternating between quick edits of the spurs digging in and a long shot of the horse bucking on the dusty ranch. The acting is too melodramatic, the film is too long and occasionally the anti-racist theme is a too obvious, but the tremendous film-making here makes up for it. An interesting comparison piece would be The Searchers. Ford obviously watched Giant and learned from its faults. "},{"Title":"A classic because of its social tone for its time","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is of course a classic. All films with James Dean are. But this is a social classic about the emergence of the USA as a first rank industrial power.The Benedicts are one of these super big families in Texas who bought Mexican land for a pittance, mind you something like a dime or a quarter per acre and bunches like half a million, one million or more acres. In other words they were the few rich people who had that kind of cash under their hands and who were able to buy a kingdom for the price of a pigsty.The last male heir of the family marries a wealthy girl from Washington DC or that vicinity, a girl with an education and a life style who has learned how to be genteel and at the same time empathetic to other people. When she arrives in Texas she is at once shocked by the way Mexican servants are treated and later by the way Mexican servants and workers are living in misery and squalor with absolutely no care from the rich white people from the super enormously big ranch. She is shocked by a baby who is sick and bound to die just because the doctor of the white people is not supposed to take care of the Mexican servants of the estate. She will bring a Mexican doctor later on for them.Equal but separate and with the means each group has. The poor are equal but poor, so they die young and they are looked down upon as if they were some kind of rattle snakes.She is also surprised by the fact that the husband goes along with the Texan tradition that women are not in any way taking part in politics, business and the managing of the ranch. She runs into the sister who defends her house and kitchen prerogatives, and she does so well that she will exhaust, mistreat and maim the wife's horse who will of course get rid of her in the good old bronco style and she will die by diving head first onto a piece of rock. The husband will shoot his wife's horse because it is maimed but also out of pure spite.She will be shocked from the very start how everyone in the family treats the white jack of all trades on the house and ranch, the one who takes care of machines, cars and other practical matters. He is young and purely trodden upon every single time they can do it. The sister in her will gives him a piece of land that is worth nothing. They try to buy him out but he refuses and keeps the piece of land. They do not shoot him on the spot because that happens with a hundred people around for the funeral. And afterwards they just look over him and do not see him at all. He becomes transparent, invisible. Only the wife keeps some distant contact with him.The husband is a bad father who has decided that his son, out of three children will have to be a rider and a cowboy of some kind. He frightens the boy out of his wits by forcing him to ride a horse at the sweet age of four or so. The wife decides to go back home for a little while with the children.There we have another image of genteel life Thanksgiving. The three children feed Pedro, the turkey, and they are seized with unquenchable sadness when they discover the beautiful turkey that is served roasted and all for Thanksgiving dinner is Pedro.The wife's sister gets married in that period and the wife is the lady of honor or something like that when her husband arrives unannounced. That's a good moment and the two and their children can go home to Texas The last moment of social hatred comes when the jack of all trades of old who has become the owner of a piece of valueless land gets oil out of his water well and is then rich and that will devastate the old ranch life and their 40,000 or so heads of cattle. But when he comes to announce the good news to the Benedicts, all covered with oil, they don't seem to understand, at least they don't acknowledge the situation and Mr Benedict only finds the occasion amusing enough, or disturbing enough, to punch the man in the face. He gets away though before going he brings the Benedict feudal lord down with three punches.The moral is given by some member of that rich band You should have shot him a long time ago before he got rich. Texas the beautiful in all its splendid imbecility.Remember the Indians and their starving reservations that now are the zones where rare earths, silver, uranium and a few other natural resources are concentrated giving the Indians today the economic power that makes them great and powerful, and yet without paying one cent of federal or state taxes since Indian reservations are beyond federal and state law.That's typical of how the whites shot a bullet in their own feet when they had the power to exterminate those they did not like, and now find out that the survivors and descendants of these pariahs are able to turn the course of history around to their own benefit and profit. Never did the whites think that maybe some good equal negotiation and collaboration could have guaranteed a better future. They did not even think of the future. The word future was not even in their redneck-bigot dictionary.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"I Didn't Want it to End!!","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant is one of those movies where you don't want it to end, you want it to be turned into a Television show so you can keep seeing the characters get older and new characters coming onto the show as babies and then you see them grow up, and then newer characters come on, just generations down the line is what I wanted to keep seeing. This movie plays out exactly like a James Michener novel from beginning to end. I loved this movie. Rock Hudson was amazing, James Dean was James Dean, amazing in everything that his short career gave. One has to appreciate Dean's performance, in Giant, in the aspect that he goes against all of the usual acting technicalities (as usual). For example, watch the movie and see how many times all the other actors look down in their scene while they are talking or not talking. Observe how many times Dean does it throughout the movie, that's usually a big no no(looking down) for an actor in Film or TV, but Dean kind of always defied all odds as an actor and broke through with his own style where many mimicked his style for years to come such as Steve McQueen all the way to Heath Ledger. James Dean's few performances made a huge impact on the actor and the viewer. Also the scene at the end where Dean's Character is drunk and the viewer can hardly understand what Dean is saying, that is very taboo not to be heard whether drunk or not, in a movie at least. But Dean didn't care, and that's how a drunk talks when they're going in and out of consciousness. Giant is an epic movie, all 3 hours and 21 minutes of it, although it doesn't feel that long, but it needs to be that long. Giant needs to be that long to really appreciate Rock Hudson's performance because the length of the movie is how Hudson's character comes into his own. It's a movie about prejudices, racism, the good, the bad and the ugly of work and relationships between loved ones. Giant kind of let's me relate to how my grandparents got through the lulls of their marriage, but stuck it out and changed and adapted with the times. Giant makes a bold statement about change. We all change in life and everything is out of our control as the Rock Hudson character learns throughout the years, but I like Hudson's character because even though he may not necessarily like the change, he's a fair man, a good man, who in the end, loves his wife, his friends, and his children, and that love, in the end, always supersedes the Hudson character's Ego and Pride, and one has to respect a person like that, as I know my grandparents to be that way and also my parents too. So it is a movie that helps a generation of mine, the Pepsi Generation ;) relate to the Generations of my parents and grandparents. Hudson's character goes through life finding out through the years what it's like to let his pride go and fall on his ass 'mentally', as then he finds out what it feels like to fall on his ass 'physically/literally' towards the end of the film. Giant is a Monumental film and I recommend it to any movie lover, any Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor lover, any Dennis Hopper lover and last but not least, any James Dean lover. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching, but not a truly great film","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although I like to travel, I never wanted to go Texas (well, maybe San Antonio). And although I live not so far away now (Colorado), after seeing this movie, now I really don't want to go to Texas! Of course, that doesn't address the quality of the film production. And for me, this film was going to have a hard time. I have always liked Rock Hudson, and he plays his part here -- as a rich Texas rancher -- well. But, I'm overly fond of Elizabeth Taylor, but here she lived up to her reputation and played the Eastern-born-and-raised wife of a Texas rancher very well. I never liked or understood the attraction to James Dean, and I still don't. In this film I didn't feel he was believable as a young cowboy or as a rich and older oil baron or as a drunk. How he got nominated for an Academy Award is this film I don't know...well, maybe I do since he died before the film was finished (reportedly, he so badly mumbled in his drunk scene that after his death his speech had to be overdubbed by Nick Adams). One performance that did impress me here (in addition to Taylor and Hudson) was that of Chill Wills, whom I often don't enjoy; but here he put in a subdued performance which I found quite credible.I admired that most of it was filmed on location. Although the opening scenes were supposed to be in Maryland, I knew right away -- having lived in Virginia for a long while -- that that portion of the film was filmed in Virginia. I like that the film tackled the issue of racial prejudice against Mexican-Americans.But, the more than 3 hours it takes to tell the story...well, it could have been shortened quite a bit and still have told the story very well. It lagged. But, it is still a very interesting film, and perhaps one for some peoples' DVD library. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"James Dean's Last Film Is A Classic","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant saw James Dean play a supporting role to Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson. This was due to his desire to avoid being typecast as a young rebel like the previous roles he portrayed in Jim Stark at Rebel Without A Cause and Cal Trask in East Of Eden. Giant was a story about a Texan rancher Bick Benedict,played by Rock Hudson,who visits a Maryland farm to buy a prize horse. While there he meets and falls in love with the owner's daughter Leslie,played by Elizabeth Taylor, they are married immediately and return to his ranch. The story of their family and its rivalry with cowboy and later oil tycoon Jett Rink unfolds across two generations. James Dean plays Jett, an oil-rich Texan. His role was notable in that, in order to portray an older version of his character in one scene, Dean dyed his hair gray and shaved some of it off to give himself a receding hairline.It would be his last film. George Stevens presented an engaging story about how the oil industry transformed the Texas ranchers into the extremely rich of their generation and the racism against Mexican Americans in Texas.Aside from the story and his superb direction,credit him as well for it had great performances from it leads Taylor,Hudson and especially Dean.While in 1956 Academy Awards,Dean received his second posthumous Best Actor Academy Award nomination for his role in this film.This only shows that he is a great actor and could have been the greatest if not for his sudden death as he was credible to play various roles and not only rebellious and troubled young people as evidence in this film.It was too bad that this classic is the last that we are about to witness of the screen legend known as James Dean. "},{"Title":"Big Fish","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everything about George Stevens' Giant is huge. The scenery, landscapes, buildings, compositions, characters, poses, emotions, running time, opening credits, score&#x85;.it's all so damn big. Even the film's message is battered into our brains with the gusto of a gigantic, gale force wind. The plot a super-rich Texan oil baron (played by Rock Hudson) evolves from an anti-Mexican, racist, prejudiced, exploitative patriarch, to a kind old man who fights for minorities. Mirrored to this is the transformation of a white trash villain, played with style by actor James Dean, from a working class handyman to an alcoholic, racist, zillionaire. Hudson is forgiven and redeemed, but Dean, for some reason, is treated as deserving of punishment, the very hand of God striking him down with thunderstorms and indignant bolts of lightning. By the film's end, racism and abuse are less serious crimes than upward mobility, Old Weath is redeemed, daddy is rehabilitated, and those arrogant upstarts who cross class barriers are corrupted and destroyed.The film is overly long and consists of too much hokey melodrama, but the sheer scale of the production is impressive, Stevens' cinematography is great, and Dean's performance has become iconic. Indeed, most of the film's best moments involve Dean, particularly those in which he inherits a slice of land, discovers oil and builds up his oil empire. Unfortunately, Dean's absent for most of the film.Like Visconti's The Leopard, the film attempts to charter the way the social and economic situation of a country (or in this case, Texas) shifts with time, power and wealth passed on not only within families from one generation to the next, but from old magnates to young outsiders.The film is notable for Dean's method acting, relatively new to cinema at that point. Many of his lines were improvised, and he brought a rather raw, naked, edgy veneer to his role. Dean died before Giant was released, his death mythologizing him instantly. Henceforth he became a giant, always larger than life. Today, most acting is ironic meta acting. Consequently giants are rarer, and deaths fail to mythologise.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Overly long Texan family saga","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This story of life in Texas over the course of 30 years is intriguing, but it's very self-indulgent and I found the last hour to drag. I thought that covering a smaller period of time might have made the film more interesting, but as a study of characters and change over such a long period of time, I found it dull and self-indulgent.Some very good acting. I'd never seen Rock Hudson in a movie and he is a compelling actor. One can't take one's eyes off him even when his rancher Bick Benedict is a petulant or immature. Hudson conveys decency even though he is grounded in the racism of his region and, try as he might, finds this tough to overcome. Hudson conveys the internal conflict Benedict experiences superbly and I was very, very impressed by him.Liz Taylor as young Eastern debutante Leslie Benedict, charmed by Bick when he comes to buy her horse, is smoldering in her liveliness. She is charmed by Bick but does not give an inch in standing up for her beliefs and what she thinks is right. It is the fundamental aspect of her character that attracts Bick (and Jet Bink (James Dean)) to her. Her unconditional love for Bick, colored by her stubbornness, enable her to survive and flourish far from home.James Dean as the humorously named Jett Rink is a ranch-hand who is trusted by Luz (Mercedes McCambridge). He is mercurial but knows the ins and outs of the ranch. Dean's performance here once again reminds us of what was taken from us with his death. In spite of his sudden, electrifying fame, he is able to portray a shy, reserved ranch hand very well during the first two-thirds of the film. When he rejects Bick's offer to buy him out, choosing instead to remain, possibly on a hunch about the contents of the land, the course of the remainder of the film is set. Ultimately Jett strikes it rich but at great cost. Dean's performance as Jett during Jett's later years is excellent.Also excellent in the film is Mercedes McCambridge as Bick's tough, masculine sister Luz who resents losing her status as the lady of the manor at Reata, Dennis Hopper as the plucky, principled eldest son of Bick and Leslie, and Chill Wills as laconic uncle Bawley whose cool demeanor and counsel helps Bick and Leslie survive some tough times.As I said, I found this movie overly long. If it had focused on a shorter time period and perhaps downplayed Jett's transformation, or even have been made into two films, I might be able to give it a higher mark, but given its interminable nature, and in spite of great acting from all-comers, I can only give it six out of ten. "}{"Title":"Giant review to GIANT movie","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie, as it was the last movie of James Dean. The last movie before the unfortunate death (accident) of the fine artist. A fine actor who bagged two Oscar nominations after his demise. In this film, James's voice was dubbed by his friend in number of scenes after his death. The movie is huge in length spans three hours long and an era of over 30 years from the main character's (Jordon Benedict) love to Maryland farm's daughter, his rivalry with a cowboy on his return to Texas (homeland), story of his children and grandchildren. The movie convincingly covers two generation of Benedict's family.The direction is top class. First to direct a three-hour long movie is Herculean. The Oscar has recognized and awarded the director for this work. The guild and photo-play members also had their awards for the movie. The movie is adapted from a novel with the same name. The characterization were screen-played deeply with lot of ideas that makes the viewers remember the dirty-minds on racism in that period of time in Texas. For one instance, both the lead characters Rink and Bick are prejudiced against the Mexicans, but Rink is too poor at the start of the movie so he doesn't show it. Instead after becoming a businessman he displays in much cruel way. William C. Mellor's photography was exquisite in every way throughout the two generations in the story.In my opinion, Giant must be considered along with epics like Lawrence of Arabia, Gone with the wind, Benhur etc that made it to the top 250 in IMDb. There were few minor flaws that I could not fail to notice, which included Liz Taylor's acting that dragged the movie. She could've done way better to one of the characters in the movie that carried racial tolerance(Leslie). The next flaw is by the make-up department esp. when the characters got old they don't convince the audience. It could be true that the movie is too old to comment mistakes on makeovers, so am not treating it as one.My final verdict  If you're a fan of old movies that this is one to watch as it is pacey (not too slow). Children can view this as it is free from ratings. "},{"Title":"Epic Texas Soap Opera Devolves Into...","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pretty to look at, with some pretty stars too. You don't need me to tell you the plot--it's just an epic family-based drama of Texans over the early-mid 1900s. You don't need me to tell you how pretty Liz Taylor, Rock Hudson, and James Dean are--you already know.What you may need me to tell you is how tedious GIANT becomes as it morphs from an epic family drama into an endless harangue about race relations and 'white privilege' although they didn't call it that in the 1950s. Guess what? Racism and sexism are really bad. In case you aren't sure, GIANT spends three hours repeatedly hammering this point home, over and over. Although, it's concerned with Mexicans only and the blacks in the film remain in properly subservient roles. I guess we pick and choose our lessons. By the end (it finally does end), Liz delivers the final speech, wherein she declares that by beating up some evil racists, Rock has finally become her hero. Wow, that took a while. Very few long films justify their length. GIANT is one of the many which don't. It's fun for awhile but gets a bit worse with every minute that passes. Time is precious--don't waste it. There--a lesson the film does teach, however perversely. "},{"Title":"Actors and director made this one Giant","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Edna Ferber wrote the novel of GIANT, she covered several topics which at that time, in the late 1940's, were still considered controversial. It appears to have been even more daring when Warner Brothers, a major film studio, adopted same novel onto the screen in 1956. Although other commercially accessible films had been made about racism and discrimination in general already, perhaps most notably BLACKBOARD JUNGLE with Sidney Poitier the year before, GIANT must be viewed as one of the pioneering works in Hollywood that presented such issues so bluntly to the general public. Still, though, this film is, perhaps, not so much about racism as it is about confrontations between different cultures and generations with conflicting viewpoints and social values. A film exploiting so much could easily wind up chewing more than it can swallow, but here GIANT benefits from its length of three hours; the various topics flow quite well and naturally within one another.Other than its status as a relatively early commentary on several then-controversial social issues (some of whom may still be considered controversial in some circles), GIANT is a truly beautifully-looking film. Director George Stevens may be said to have done his crowning achievement with this work; not as visually innovative as the earlier A PLACE IN THE SUN, the story of GIANT is nevertheless told through an astounding use of beautiful photography and camera-work, closeups and longshots, light and shadows. I especially adore the part with James Dean exploring his newly-inherited piece of land; even though the actor appears small in size compared to the mighty and desert-like landscape surrounding him, Stevens places him in a visual context which makes him an irresistibly interesting presence at the same time. From that point on, we do predict something is going to happen with this young Jett Rink whom he portrays. Another moment stuck on my mind is how the reaction of Rink upon hearing that Bick Benedict's sister has died is executed; his face almost completely hidden in shadows, we do nevertheless see very clearly that he is crying.At the same time, GIANT is certainly a product of its time. Some of the scenes, and some of the dialogue, feel rather forced and unnatural; sometimes even by 1950's standards. The task of transforming the novel into the largely visual medium of film is not entirely successful, as some points made with dialogue would possibly have made a stronger impression had they been conceived with more visual methods. What ultimately makes these reservations appear quite minor, along with Stevens' direction, is the iron-strong cast consisting of Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean, as well as several good supporting performances, namely from Carroll Baker and Dennis Hopper. As Bick Benedict, Hudson manages to turn out quite sympathetic despite the recurring intolerance that coins his character; he is a far cry away from the 'typical leading man' that he had largely been devoted to playing up till this point. Taylor comes off as quite modern as Leslie, fittingly so as she works as kind of an opposer against the conservative views of her husband. The performance that truly stands out in my memory afterwards, however, is that of James Dean as Jett Rink. Dean's abilities as an actor had increased remarkably in the two previous films of his; in GIANT, he reached maturity. Not as emotionally intense as his performances in EAST OF EDEN and REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE, with his performance in GIANT I am first and foremost taken aback by its subtlety. In an otherwise very good but in some aspects dated film, Dean appears to have been transformed out of a movie made today.I do know some viewers are uneasy with the fact that the characters age considerably throughout the film, but to me, the later parts of GIANT serve to further confirm the versatility of its main cast. Both Hudson and Taylor appear completely convincing to me; which is also the case with James Dean, so much so that I doubt I'd recognize him in parts if I didn't know it was him on beforehand. "},{"Title":"Big family-drama and I mean BIG.","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie that basically does little wrong. Yet at the same time I just wasn't blown away by it all either.As far as big, epic drama's go, this is one of the biggest ones out there. First of all, it's about a three and an half hour long movie, so that means that plenty is happening in it and the story and its characters progress and go to a lot of transitions, throughout. But to be honest I wasn't interested or grabbed by it all for most of the time. This was due to its characters mostly. The characters just aren't involving enough because they seem like real caricatures, rather than actual convincing or realistic ones. This really goes for most of the main characters but luckily the movie has still some absolutely great secondary characters in it. Basically they are more interesting and keep the movie and its story going. Their stories and developments help to continue the main plot line and add to the overall drama and epicness of it all.Even though I really have nothing against Elizabeth Taylor or Rock Hudson, I can't exactly say that their performances made this movie. They are being the biggest caricatures of the movie and it's often hard to understand their characters and their actions and motivations. And above all things, they really rise the question why these two characters ever fell for each other and got married so soon, even though it was clear from early on already that they were two totally different personalities, who had little in common. Thank goodness for all of its secondary characters and actors portraying them, that still give this movie so much more depth and enjoyment.James Dean out-acts basically every other actor he is in scene with, during this movie. It never seizes the amaze me what a great actor this guy was. His acting style seemed to be years ahead of its time and it really made his character such an amazing and classic one. He actually died late in the production of this movie but luckily enough he had apparently finished shooting all of his scenes. Some other great young actors show up in this movie as well, who turned into big celebrity names later on; Sal Mineo and Dennis Hopper for instance.But this seriously is a movie you can basically say very little bad about, besides the things I have already mentioned. The movie is just far too well made and epic to hold any hate against. Yes, it's long and yes it's a times a rather slow movie that doesn't really seem to go anywhere but in the long run you'll still be able to see the beauty of the entire bigger whole of the movie. It's well shot and well told by director George Stevens, who was the only one that won an Oscar for this movie, despite the fact that it got nominated for 9 more, including best picture. It should had won more really, especially when you see the movies that it was up against. But in fact this was simply a too troubled production, money and time-wise (it went well over its budget and it took actually two years to put the movie together in the editing room), which didn't really made a whole lot of money at the time and therefore just didn't got the recognition of some of the other movies that got released during the same year.It's besides a real beautiful movie to look at, with its empty and desolated looking surroundings and atmosphere, that seem to suit the movie and the story that it's trying to tell. In essence the movie is about changing yourself, not just for yourself but also for those around you. It has some great themes about acceptance but also racism for instance in it, that don't get forced upon you or shoehorned in anywhere and therefore works out very naturally and effective throughout the movie.A real big, epic family-drama, that is well worth your time.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Epic bigger than all of Texas.","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" George Stevens directs a masterpiece. A classic if there ever was one. Based on the novel by Edna Ferber; a sprawling epic with focus on a mega-wealthy Texas rancher Jordan Benedict Jr.(Rock Hudson)marrying a beautiful Virginia socialite Lelsie(Elizabeth Taylor). Upon returning to the cattle empire the new Mrs. Benedict learns the meaning of Texas tradition and even attitudes toward race, mainly the treatment of Mexicans.Making things a bit edgy is Jordan's sister Luz(Mercedes McCambridge),who is not going to give up dominance of running the mansion easily. And there is the laggard Jet Rink(James Dean), who will strike it rich in oil and become one the most powerful men in Texas.Wonderful scenery and on a grand scale. Very few slow moments considering the length of this movie. And the lack of vulgarities is somewhat odd considering the story line. But this film is just as powerful today as it was in the mid 50s. The character development with all the conflict of class and tradition sustains the story.There is a large ensemble of talent fleshing out the cast Paul Frix, Carrol Baker, Chill Wills, Rod Taylor, Dennis Hopper, Jane Withers, Earl Hollliman and Sal Mineo. "},{"Title":"A sprawling film that takes your breath away.","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant is in every way what it's name is. The time is over three hours, the wide angle shots of the Texas plains are gorgeous, and the star power overwhelms in this masterpiece of George Steven's distinguished career. The story slowly and methodically unravels the characters and shows their strengths and weaknesses. The performances are nothing short of magnificent. Hudson and Taylor are dynamic and have great chemistry together. The supporting actors are good as well, but the best performance belongs to James Dean, in his final role before dying tragically young. Every scene he is in is so heartbreaking, so painful, and so tender it moves you every time you see him. The cinematography is stunning and the directing is swift and smooth. What praise has been lauded on this film in the past fifty years is definitely worthy. A landmark film that touches on serious themes such as racism, women's equality, and the changing of times, Giant is a masterpiece and one of the great American films. "},{"Title":"Overall excellent film,and mesmerizing final look of a genius that was taken way too early.","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bick Benedict was a man with dreams.One by one his dreams became nightmares.The sister he depended on so much was suddenly gone.His bitter rival's refusal to take bribe money instead of the stretch of land willed to him by Luz,Bick's dear departed sister.Jett Rink,Bick's said rival strikes oil on his willed land and becomes an ever growing thorn in Bick's side.His son wants to be a doctor,not a rancher.The man he then begins to consider heir to the ranch is drafted into war.In short,his dreams are dashed at every turn,yet he sucks it up and moves on and slowly comes to the realization that life isn't just about him and his dreams.This was,as most may know,James Dean's last film before his tragic death just days after completing his part of the production.You can't help but notice in watching this young genius that he had something special.Despite the fact that he only got to complete three films,he can easily be compared to the likes of Robert De Niro or Marlon Brando.He could've given us so much had he gotten the chance.It runs somewhat long and the age make up on Dean,Liz Taylor,and Rock Hudson leave a lot to be desired in my book,but as a whole I really enjoy this film,and so will you. "},{"Title":"GIANT Makes A Big Impression","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant is for me one of a handful of movies that introduced me to the world of motion pictures at a time when I was about 10 years old, give or take a year or two. Gigi and Around the World in 80 Days were others that I saw in theaters during their original release. They made a huge impression on me.The characters in these movies were larger-than-life. Giant was an enormous film with a number of interesting elements, not untypical of scripts in the '50s', touching on personal conflicts, racism, and of course the love story.But the scenes in Giant I remembered most vividly from that first viewing involved Jett Rink--even that name was larger-than-life--and Jordan Benedict's brawl in the diner with the racist owner who wanted the Chicano family that had come in to leave.But it was the rise & fall of Jett Rink that was the most memorable part of the story to me. I recalled the famous 'gusher' scene when Jett's little well strikes it rich and he drives over to the Benedicts to rub it in Jordan's face (It's a big'n). Next thing you know there is the private plane with the initials 'JR' on the tail and the transformation is complete, from the grubby, lonely wildcatter to the ultra-rich oilman; then years later, the big dinner when Jett is being put up as a political candidate, gets drunk, and passes out on the podium in front of the crowd of 'supporters'.Giant remains a film I can watch from time to time, and probably see something I hadn't noticed before. It is not a great film, simply an enjoyable one, with an amazing central cast all in their prime. "},{"Title":"So different when you don't know the background","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I did not know James Dean died during late production of This movie, heck, I just now found out that he only starred in only three bigger movie roles in his sadly short life. And I would have looked at this movie very differently had I known all this, which luckily I avoided. We get influenced so quickly it's unbelievable. This movie was the highest grossing Warner Bros movie until Superman twenty years later. And I'm guessing it wasn't because the people got thrills out of all that cattle. One man made such an impact (Titanic anyone) and made the movie a cult one. And I am doing the same thin right now, writing about Mr Dean, but I don't have a slightest idea what he was about so I'll stop. There's Elizabeth Taylor, I particularly enjoyed the scene where she starts arguing with the men when they don't want to share their discussion with her because she showed such courage and determination to not just become one of the gals but was still a sophisticated and individual woman. And we have Rock Hudson, also a movie persona with a very interesting background. I spent about 20 minutes just discovering info about these actors here on IMDb and that's what it's all about for me. It's the clash of cult idols in Giant, and I just pinned what was bothering me for the whole two hours. Who was the Giant anyway - it was all three of them all along. "},{"Title":"A True Hollywood Oddity","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spoilers ahead. So what happens in Giant? Or rather, what doesn't? PLOT POINT Handsome, successful, suit wearing Rock brings Liz back to his ranch, to live forever. Immediately upon her arrival, she meets James Dean, a troubled, boyishly handsome ranch hand closer to her age. QUESTION Will Liz find herself in a torrid love triangle, forced to choose between these two very different (but fascinating) men? ANSWER Nope. She has little, if any interest in Dean, and only shares a few minutes of screen time with him. He does appear to be interested in her. But whatever is going on psychologically inside the Dean character isn't well dramatized on screen. He's mostly a mystery, a withdrawn, silent character. He does little if anything to actually try to win Liz's heart. At the end of the film, he seems to suggest that his unrequited love for Liz drove all his actions and ruined his life. But given how little interest Liz took in him, Dean ultimately comes off more like an emotionally immature, lovesick teenager than some tragic figure. And the film doesn't even bother to give us a Liz/Dean scene at the end, to provide closure to this part of the story. PLOT POINT Upon her arrival, Liz also meets Rock's strong willed sister. She's been the queen of the ranch up until now. QUESTION Will Liz and the sister fight over who is in charge of the ranch, and Rock? ANSWER Nope. The sister dies shortly after Liz's arrival, in a completely arbitrary, random horse accident. PLOT POINT Dean inherits a small patch of land adjacent to Rock's ranch. QUESTION Will the two rivals, now living side by side wage war with each other in an epic battle for control? ANSWER Nope. They mostly get along with only minor problems. When Dean's wealth reaches new heights, Rock simply sells out. PLOT POINT Sal Mineo is introduced as a young man who is interested in ranch life, unlike Rock's own kids. QUESTION Will Mineo, in time, become Rock's surrogate son, and new ranch head? ANSWER Nope. Mineo is killed (off screen) during the war. The audience is subjected to a dull, unnecessary five minute funeral scene for his character. (While he was alive, all of Mineo's scenes combined represented about two minutes of screen time. The film inexplicably spends more time on his funeral than it did on him!) PLOT POINT Once grown, Rock's and Liz's kids want to do things with their lives that are different from what their parents want for them. QUESTION Will these disagreements create conflict in the family? ANSWER Nope. Rock lets the kids follow their hearts. PLOT POINT Rock's Latino daughter in law is refused service in the salon in Dean's huge hotel. Rock takes this as a very personal insult to his family by Dean. The two men fight. QUESTION Does this represent a satisfying climax to the film?ANSWER Nope. Technically, Rock is right. As the owner of the hotel/salon, Dean is ultimately responsible for what goes on there. But Dean doesn't seem like a racist. He's never said or done anything racist during the film. Also, Dean seems like an indifferent businessman, more lucky than smart. It's unlikely that he was even aware that these racist policies were even in place. Dean's culpability here is weak at best, and it seems like a tenuous foundation to build the climax of a three hour film on. PLOT POINT At the end of the film, Rock and his family visit a diner. While there, they notice that the owner refuses service to a Latino family, one that Rock has never met and has no connection to whatsoever. QUESTION Rock fights the manager, to express his outrage at the manager's racism, and to convince him to change this policy. The music score swells. Does Rock win? Does the final scene offer any kind of satisfactory conclusion to this would-be epic story? ANSWER Nope. Rock loses and the diner will continue its racist policy. The film attempts to end on a happy note, showing that Rock now cares about people of color. But Rock never expressed any racist views in any prior scene, so this doesn't represent substantive character growth. (His affection for Sal Mineo seemed to suggest a man with no race or class prejudices.) Even if Rock had won, it's just a conflict between two men at a diner. For a three hour film called Giant, it feels like an oddly inconsequential ending. "}{"Title":"Essential viewing for any film lover.","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A classic. Let's hope no one attempts to re-make it, as is being discussed with another classic, East of Eden. Best-ever performances all the way around, with Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, and James Dean all at the peak of their acting abilities, as well as their physical beauty. The supporting cast is unparalleled in film history. Visually spectacular from the lush Virginia greens at the beginning to the lusty Texas browns of the rest of the film (and the startling oil blacks at the center of the action). The soundtrack is one of Tiomkin's best, and the arc of the story is both as relevant and heartbreaking as the arc of one's own life. The story and the film itself are quintessentially American. "},{"Title":"a little slow but the film gets better and better","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie as a kid and didn't think much of it. The biggest thing I remember about it was how long the movie was and the calves' brains scene. Now, I just saw the film again and it changed my perspective quite a bit.The first 1/2 of the movie didn't overwhelm me. Yes, it was good,...but certainly seemed far from great. The scenery was spectacular but rather dull after a while. And, the characters seemed a bit idealized--Elizabeth Taylor's character was sweet and Rock Hudson seemed more and more like a jerk. There didn't seem to be any sort of transcendent message.However, as the film continued, the plot and characters evolved and you don't see that happen too often in films. While Rock was still a bit of an old fashioned guy, he became more and more decent and likable--culminating with the gut-wrenching scene in the restaurant. Then, when he and Liz were at home and she told him she had never been more proud of him than when he attacked this bully, it really made the movie for me. Its message of racism and change was well worth the VERY long wait. "},{"Title":"Dinosaurs were giant too","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Taken from the novel by Edna Ferber, whose also bequeathed the screen Show Boat and Cimarron, Giant certainly lives up to its name. It was Dean's last film, playing Jet Rink, disaffected field hand turned oil millionaire. But it's a film packed with other big names too Hudson, Taylor, Hopper, Carol Baker, Mineo and McCambridge all appear in a larger than life melodrama set over several decades. The film manages to pack in some daring themes too racial and social intolerance chief amongst them. In Show Boat, Ferber included miscegenation among the plot elements. Here it returns, as a Benedict mixed marriage faces prejudice, while Rink's casual racism is also an issue. Finally, there's a strong central female character, played by Taylor, who at one point has the audacity to lecture her men folk on treating her and her kind like a child - an unexpected moment in conservative American cinema, to say the least.Although having been criticised for stodginess (Andrew Sarris once wrote that the director's technique once looked almost like an official style for national epics.) Stevens' grip on the film is undeniably impressive, managing some splendid set ups. Only occasionally does one feel that a little judicious trimming would have tightened the narrative, notably in some of the dialogue scenes between the married Benedicts, which, though well written, drag on a little too long.Today one is reminded of the work of Douglas Sirk, another director of the time specialising in big, colour melodrama, also frequently starring Rock Hudson. The difference is that Sirk injects his less grandiose projects with healthy degrees of coded irony, their subversive elements making his films seem all the more modern today. Giant, for all its aforementioned achievements, seems stuck in the 1950s, its radical edge insincere. In Sirk's Written On The Wind for instance, which also deals with oil millionaires, acquisition and wealth is associated with sexual neurosis, in a way entirely absent here. In fact Benedict's massive, casual wealth and ownership is presented as something healthy and natural, its effects only distorting personality when granted to the 'wrong' people (Rink). Stevens is content to show Benedict's huge mansion as a successful center of a cattle empire, a social hub useful and essential. None of Benedict's possessions come to seem hollow or trivial; in fact there is no criticism of his lifestyle at all, overtly or otherwise, apart from some sexual politicking by his feisty young wife. Miscegenation appears as a topic in Sirk's Imitation of Life too, but with none of the tokenism which one suspects here. In Stevens' work, Mrs Benedict (Elsa Cárdenas) sadly speaks few significant words throughout - except to be grateful to her white benefactors, or in running off for their aid. Despite claims on our sympathies, she remains powerless.Of course, one might go for a long time wishing Giant was the film it is not, as ultimately Stevens views melodrama differently. The finest scenes in his film are those in the first half, where content is most closely married to purpose, and where the trappings of privilege and wealth are still fresh enough to be inspiring. For instance, both the eccentric romancing of Benedict and his headstrong wife to be, and the jealousy of Luz at the new member of the household, are excellently done. Add to this the appearance of Jet Rink, the outsider to the community unexpectedly set to strike it rich, and there is much to enjoy here in scenes revealing emotions frequently as broad and as grand as the country in which they are set.Unfortunately as Rink grows older, so the film grows progressively less interesting and convincing with him. Dean's forte was as misunderstood teenager, his style amplifying the associated angst to the nth degree. The mumbling and recalcitrant characteristics of his method acting ably reflects back an archetypal youthful alienation. But when trying the same trick as a middle aged Rink, these characteristics are not compatible with a successful businessman, who plainly needs to have 'grown up' to sustain a commercial empire. The result is that the older Rink seems increasingly all at sea, his character collapsing under the weight of its inappropriate quirks, like a table at the conference hall.As the ageing Benedict. Hudson does a reasonable job, but it's a role which plainly would have suited an actor with greater range, say Spencer Tracy, bringing increasing gravitas, even a sense of tragedy, to his position as the years roll on. Hudson is always watchable, does his best, but still seems the same age throughout, albeit with padded gut and white hair. And with due deference to the efforts of Dennis Hopper too, with hindsight one would rather have seen Sal Mineo given the important role of sensitive younger son, especially as he had worked so well earlier with Dean in Rebel Without A Cause.Most disastrous of all for Giant's final impression are the closing scenes, a bathetic close that clearly shows a project running out of creative steam. A now contented and platitudinous Benedict couple, staring at their two grandchildren, stared at by livestock, ends up being embarrassing. It's not the moving and symbolic conclusion to a grand family saga the makers undoubtedly intended. Once again, Sirk does it better at the close of All That Heaven Allows handyman-gardener Hudson has a picture-postcard deer too, installed in his back garden. But it's an animal whose appearance owes less to a bogus harmony than to Sirk's sly dig at emotional artificiality, a Christmas card confection of smugness made manifest.Stevens' work remains Sunday matinée material today, and modern viewers will find much to enjoy in its glossy production values and the range of acting ability on display. But the feeling is that it remains overrated, a lumbering beast whose best time has been and gone, a reminder that dinosaurs were giant too.. "},{"Title":"Dean's best performance... too bad the movie doesn't match up.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  GIANT is the tale of a man named Jordan Bick Benedict (Rock Hudson), who visits Maryland one day to look at a horse to bring back to his ranch in Texas. There he ends up meeting his future wife Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor), and brings her back to his homeland. At first she has a hard time fitting in and seeing the ways of Texas--instead of going along with being arrogant, selfish, and old-fashioned, she tries to help the sick Hispanic servants on the Benedict land. Leslie and Bick are both set in their ways--Bick just goes along with believing that these wetbacks are no good, while Leslie believes that they're people too and deserve that right. Also caught up in this mix is Jett Rink (James Dean), who works for Bick but is disliked by him. Jett becomes infatuated with Leslie from the beginning, but is considered only a friend by her and must accept that.After Jett is given a piece of land through a will, he strikes black gold on it one day and becomes a high-profile billionaire. Meanwhile, Leslie and Bick recover from a brief separation and raise their three kids. Bick is upset because his son (Dennis Hopper) does not want to inherit the Benedict land and continue in that tradition, and Leslie is upset because her daughter Luz (Carroll Baker) wants to attend Texas Tech, a man's school. Leslie is conforming to the close-minded beliefs of the Texan people. However, when the Benedicts learn of Jett's plan to open a hotel nearby, they go to show him that the Benedicts are doing too badly for themselves either. The tension mounts, boils over, and ultimately comes to a thrilling conclusion.GIANT, for me, is a mix of good and bad. Maybe I'm biased in that this is a James Dean movie, and I adore him, so maybe I make more allowances for this movie than I would if it didn't star him.  Anyway, since I'm from New Mexico myself, I liked the scenery and atmosphere of the film and it gave it a nice familiar feeling for me. The acting is spectacular, as expected--James Dean is fabulous as always, delivering what I consider to be his best performance. Rock Hudson is also wonderful and Liz Taylor really impressed me as Leslie (I loved her character as well). The supporting cast is good as well and everyone seems to hold the film together. The whole subject of racism and sexism was pretty taboo at the time this movie came out--of course now it's much more talked about and less common in that right. I like that this movie was that adventurous and daring in its subject matter.Now, the bad. This film is much too long. Many of the scenes seem entirely unnecessary altogether. Some of the actors don't do so well in parts, and much of the dialogue is inaudible. I had to turn the closed caption on, in fact! I'm not sure if this is the result of bad technology or just mumbling. The ending was pretty lame, and some scenes are so cheesy and fake that it almost makes me cringe. And most importantly, many parts are rather boring.Maybe I am just biased, but GIANT is probably held on a higher pedestal than it would be solely because it stars James Dean. He does a great job as usual and the most memorable (and best) scene of the movie focuses on him. (The scene to which I refer is when Jett discovers the oil and runs to the Benedict house, covered in it, to gloat.) And though GIANT has its share of good points, it's not a terrifically great movie. Dean makes it happen. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Sprawling, slow-moving epic about the dying days of cattle ranching","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1920s, a wealthy Texan cattle rancher (Rock Hudson) travels to East Coast in order to buy a prize horse. There he meets a woman (Elizabeth Taylor), the daughter of his soon-to-be business partner, who he ends up marrying after a quick romance. The movie follows their lives down in Texas as the seasons change and the old ways begin to give ground to the new century.Giant is an epic. It covers years and years of time and deals with all the prominent themes and problems of those decades. Things like oil business, racial issues, societal status, responsibility of the rich to the poor, and so many others, make an appearance and are addressed in turn. Taylor's character is the voice of the new age, while Hudson's is the voice of the old and their interactions are the driving voice of the film.And it works. It is a very interesting film to follow if you know anything about that particular span of history. The film is over three hours long, and can thus cover a lot of ground and give each subject its due time. Though that can be a problem as well. It is a very slow film, with deliberate, calm pacing. Nothing much really happens most of the time, or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that things happen very slowly. Personally I found the film to be perhaps a bit too slow and deliberate, but if old epics are your thing, you'll definitely get what you're looking for.Giant is to be applauded for its vision. It set out to tell a family saga in its full glory and in that regard it definitely delivers. From modern point of view it can a bit tedious, but I cannot in good faith condemn it for that. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I want to say I've been unable to watch this classic all these years, as the airing times never were on during a time I could watch it. However, last night on TCM the times finally worked out and I viewed the movie from beginning to end. Let me say the cinematography was awesome, and the actors were AMAZING, the entire cast pulled off their roles flawlessly. With that being said, I didn't like a single character in the movie at all. The story was not your typical I want to be entertained happy ending. As a result the 5 rating I give is only for the actors and cinematography of the piece. I finished watching the movie not liking anyone in it as a character there was not one to identify with morally, intellectually, or emotionally. Had there been one character I liked I would have rated it probably higher. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The two disk DVD, by Warner Brothers, is a pretty good package. Disk Two has two hour long documentaries on the film, called Memories Of Giant and Return To Giant. Both are making of films. Both include interviews with surviving members of the cast and crew, mostly minor players like the director's son, George Stevens Jr., and actors like Jane Withers, Earl Holliman, and Carroll Baker, with archival footage of Hudson. There are several theatrical trailers for the film, a TV special of the film's New York and Hollywood premieres, and the Gig Young TV show, Behind The Cameras, about life on the set. Disk One has the film, broken at its intermission, into two parts, the first of which is one side one, and the second on side two. There is also an Introduction to the film by George Stevens, Jr.; a series of interviews with other filmmakers on their thoughts about George Stevens, as a filmmaker; and then an audio commentary track by Stevens, Jr., film critic Stephen Farber, and the film's screenwriter, Ivan Moffat. Of the three, this bland commentary only has moments of interest when Moffat, who was actually part of the film's creation, speaks. Steven, Jr. seems to busy being in awe of his father's work, and Farber just seems happy to be getting recognized as a film critic. Some good points that pop up in the commentary (at over three hours in length, even a few chimps would entertain a few times, eh?) are discussions of why Stevens abjured Cinemascope, so he could have height in his films, as well as width, and why the two Luz Benedicts seem to be obsessive over Jett Rink.Giant is not a film that will stick long in one's memory, and it is not a film of any real political nor historical import, despite the claims made by many of the people featured in the bonus features of the DVD. It's a well made soap opera, a grand entertainment that has a few moments, in its sprawl, that stand out. In brief, it is that old saw a good solid movie that one turns to when down, and in need of relief from reality. It will make a lousy, rainy afternoon a little bit more enjoyable. After all, rain does have its charms, even if little of the wet will quench the soul, much less mind. "},{"Title":"Giant","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I knew that this was the last film to star the iconic James Dean before his tragic death at the age of twenty four in a car crash, and it was good to know it was featured in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and besides him it had a great cast list, so I had to see it, from director Oscar winning, and Golden Globe director George Stevens (Swing Time, Gunga Din, Shane, The Greatest Story Ever Told). Basically in the early 1920's in Texas head of the rich Benedict ranching family Jordan 'Bick' Benedict Jr. (Oscar nominated Rock Hudson) goes to buy a stud horse in Maryland, and there he meets and gets close to socialite Leslie Lynnton (Dame Elizabeth Taylor) who was originally to marry diplomat Sir David Karfrey (The Birds' Rod Taylor) but breaks off the engagement to marry Bick. They return the family ranch Reata in Texas to start a family life, Bick's sister Luz (Oscar nominated Mercedes McCambridge) keeps the household in order but resents Leslie and tries to intimidate her, and there is also trouble with Luz's worker Jett Rink (Oscar nominated Dean) hopes to find his own fortune and has secret love for Leslie. Luz dies suddenly after being bucked by the purchased horse War Winds, and in her will Jett is given the plot of land within the Benedict ranch, and he refuses to sell it back to Bick, while Leslie over time gives birth to children, twins Jordan 'Jordy' Benedict III (Dennis Hopper) and Judy (Fran Bennett), and younger daughter Luz II (Carroll Baker). Jett makes his fortune when he discovers oil and drills for it and he boasts about it to the Benedicts, and Bick punches him when making rude sexual remarks and they have a fight as well, and as World War II goes on Bick refuses any offer to drill with Jett and wants to remain a cattle rancher. With the Benedict children grown up they all want to pursue somewhat different paths causing tensions, with Jordy wanting to be a doctor rather than running the ranch, Judy wants to study animal husbandry at Texas Tech rather than attending finishing school in Switzerland, and these decisions made Bick gives in to a deal with Jett to allow oil production on his land to help the war effort. Both Bick and Jett develop problems with alcoholism, and Luz II starts to flirt with Jett, and as expected the family become much wealthier than before, so much so that they can afford a large swimming pool next to the house. The war ends, but the Benedict-Rink rivalry continues, and it gets worse when Luz II is revealed to be dating the older Jett, and Jordy tries to fight him when his Mexican-American wife Juana (Elsa Cárdenas) is given racist insults by the staff Jett employs, but he only ends up getting thrown out. There is a point when Bick wants to end the rivalry with a fistfight, but facing Jett he cannot come to doing it, and Jett just ends up drunk and falling over to sleep, and after the party guests leave Luz II finds him talking to himself about his sexual interests about her mother. The next day the family, apart from Jordy, drive to have a normal dinner without the feeling of a rich lifestyle in a diner, and with proprietor Sarge (Mickey Simpson) racially insulting again directed at an old Mexican man they all end up in a fight, most of the family are disgusted by Bick's behaviour, but Leslie applauds him standing up to bullies and she had some fun for one, and the last few scenes see Bick and Leslie with their grandchildren and reflecting on their family life. Also starring Sal Mineo as Angel Obregón II, Jane Withers as Vashti Snythe, Chill Wills as Uncle Bawley, Judith Evelyn as Mrs. Nancy Lynnton, Paul Fix as Dr. Horace Lynnton, Alexander Scourby as Old Polo, Earl Holliman as 'Bob' Dace and Robert Nichols as Mort 'Pinky' Snythe. Hudson is charming and manly, Taylor is beautiful and sweet, and Dean does well acting and looking older than his real age, I agree one of the best sequences is him striking oil, the film has no plot as such, it is simply seeing the life of a family throughout the years, all their happy moments, their relationships, their important and meaningful decisions, their heartache and traumas, and experiencing all emotions you can think of, it could be seen as a melodrama almost, it is a little long, but an enjoyable epic drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing, Best Music for Dimitri Tiomkin, Best Writing, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture &#x96; Drama. Dame Elizabeth Taylor was number 77, and Dean number 64 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Taylor was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actresses, Rock Hudson was number 79, Dean number 27, and Taylor number 13 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, Taylor was number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, Taylor was number 7 on 100 Years, 100 Stars &#x96; Women, Dean was number 50 on The World's Greatest Actor, Dean was number 18 on 100 Years, 100 Stars &#x96; Men, and Dean was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good! "},{"Title":"Emboldened By the Time In Which It Was Made","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant is a racially, historically and visually important film that is emboldened by the time in which it was made, 1956, smack in the middle of a decade well known for its superficial luxuries that acted as the furthest limitations of the communal perception of the American masses, the movie industry remaining reticent to showcasing anything too close to reality. Around the same time when another fearless filmmaker named Otto Preminger was releasing The Man With the Golden Arm, the first film for Americans to experience about heroin addiction, George Stevens released this epic, an exposé on degeneration by traditional values, the blood and guts of the classism, racism, and chauvinism in perhaps the proudest of America's fifty states, the core of how a regional community of people had convinced themselves of the justification in their ways and values and imposed these persuasions on generations and outsiders.Rock Hudson, achieving an astonishing embodiment of his role, plays the head of the rich Benedict ranching family of Texas, who as the film opens has gone north to Maryland to buy a stud horse. There he meets the socially prominent knockout who becomes his wife, played by the insatiably beautiful Liz Taylor. They travel to Texas to start their life together on his family ranch, Reata. Reata is a magnificent cinematic creation, as perhaps in a single shot it tells the entire story, sets the tone and atmosphere, and sketches the backstory for its characters In its establishing shot, we see Reata, a giant, leviathan home that is nonetheless a mere blemish in the middle of the rest of its property, a shameful waste of acres upon acres upon acres of land, left dry, barren, depressing, and hardly used in its entirety. It's a perfect characterization of white privilege and ignorant, overindulged upper crust, and their severe detriment to nature, that which is sugar-coated by just how impressive something like Reata really is.This 3-hour-and-21-minute-long Technicolor drama incites fury into its audience, making us resent the community it renders. Truly heartbreaking tragedies and infuriating conflicts occur, the said feelings drawn out to a tee by director George Stevens, a painstaking craftsman with a gifted eye for visual arrangement and a receptive, insightful strike home with actors. He captures things like Liz Taylor's horse following her with its crushingly tender and loving eyes after bucking off Rock Hudson's cruel, vindictive sister, a single shot that makes me weep. I have heard of a brilliant actor's director, but Stevens has transcended this term. He gets heartrending performances out of animals! When oil is discovered in a complicated situation involving James Dean's dense but ambitious young character, pushed around by Hudson, Hudson's blood boils. Tensions in the household later revolve around how the parents want to bring up their children.Really at the core of its intentions, Giant is an epic about the racism against Mexican Americans in Texas, set against the backdrop of how the oil industry transformed the Texas ranchers into the super rich of their generation. When the film begins, Hudson and his sister, played by Mercedes McCambridge (who voiced many of the frightening sounds and freakish fragments coming from Linda Blair's possessed mouth in The Exorcist years later) are racist towards the Mexicans who work on their ranch, which shocks Liz Taylor, who is forbidden to assist the ill and suffering Mexican workers whose living conditions are miserable. By the end of this five o' clock shadow-producing work of genius, however, Hudson has grown just enough to see the wrongs of racism in terms of how it effects his proudly treasured family, which to his dismay has become more ethnically diverse than he ever imagined it would be, and in a surprisingly but earnestly small-scale climactic scene, he finally earns his wife's respect.It's a portrait of the very kind of person perpetuating the disgrace, injustice and erroneous pride inherited by America. He is a wealthy Southern white man, racist, chauvinist, intractable, and obsessively defensive of his masculinity. However, it shows a slow, unpredictable transformation, or at least a shell of one, as life does nothing more than happen, and the natural process of progression and integration force him to change. "},{"Title":"i love the movie giant","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i was raised up in Texas .and i saw the movie giant while i was living there i think the movie was one of the best i have haver seen. so if you don't like this movie then it is obvious you are from the east and have never been west of the Mississippi river this movie is as big as the state of Texas . and the actors and actress's did a great job james dean and rock Hudson and Liz Taylor were great. i think the beauty of the oil wells the landscape the flat land makes it look like the old days in Texas and the oil boom. which did exist at that time. this state of that movie is filmed in from what i understand is not Texas but it sure could have fooled me . "}{"Title":"The house in 'Giant'","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For me, the star of the film is that strange, alien, Gothic monstrosity jutting up out of the red Texas landscape. Along with Manderlay, and the Bates residence, it is one of the great houses in cinema.The house's interior feels especially odd in the first half of the film. Some parts look like a Victorian country house, some parts could almost be inside a Gothic revival church, and it has unexpected, moth-eaten cattle heads poking out from polished wooden walls, which give the interior a very unsettling atmosphere.The pictures on the wall are all cattle-oriented, and the whole film, when presenting action at the house, is dominated by a vast Frederick Remington painting - which is the only thing that survives an egg-shell blue 50s makeover, a feminine makeover which completely ruins the old interior.Later in the film the bare, dusty exterior of the house (which begins on the front step - there is no garden!) is similarly corrupted by the construction of a barbecue area, a swimming pool and so on.I would have liked to have seen more of the house's exterior. It is seen at its best in long shot during the big barbecue scene in the early part of the film.Does anyone know if the house was a real one, and if it still stands? "},{"Title":"As Big As Texas Itself - Giant an Enduring Critical Masterwork","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director George Steven's Giant (1956) is, well&#133;one heck of a giant film experience, full of lusty and intensely drawn characters that speak to the boisterous Texans that populated Edna Ferber's best selling novel. The film stars Elizabeth Taylor as Leslie Lynnton, a rather priggish &#150; if drop dead gorgeous &#150; young woman, whose pending marriage to Sir David Karfrey (Rod Taylor, in an early and fleeting on screen appearance) is thwarted by the sudden appearance of Jordon Benedict (Rock Hudson). Then again, what woman could resist the manly virtue of Rock Hudson in his prime, and, before the realization that he preferred the same as his female costars?The film really has two conflicting flavors that meet somewhere in the middle. The first half of this epic (of which some critics have suggested was partly the model for television's most successful night time soap &#150; Dallas), is a love story gone bad, in which Leslie and Jordon gradually drift apart but are held together by the birth of their children, son Jordon Jr. (Dennis Hopper) and daughter, Luz Jr. (Carroll Baker). Eventually, neither child will live up to parental expectations. Jordon Jr. marries a Mexican woman &#150; forcing his father's hand at re-evaluating his own racist beliefs, while Luz Jr. has her heart broken after carrying on with the elderly Jett. The high point of the second half of the film comes in a showdown between Jett and Jordon Sr. on the eve that Jett's casino and hotel is supposed to mark a new era in the renovation of Dallas' social nightlife. Director, Stevens keeps his narrative tight during the second half &#150; which is rather odd, considering how the first half tends to fall off in bits and pieces of meandering explorations between romantic melodrama and social commentary. Regardless of these shortcomings, Giant was a colossal success upon its theatrical release; its one shadow of regret falling across the untimely demise of James Dean, who died only days after completing his performance on the set.I wish I had better news for fans of this film, but the two disc collector's edition from Warner is a colossal disappointment. Minted from a 'restored' print, made long before digital restoration technology had taken hold in the industry, the picture elements on Giant are worn, faded and miserably mis-registered in spots. Worse, the widescreen image has not been anamorphically enhanced for widescreen televisions. Regardless of this oversight,flesh tones are never anything but pasty and overly pink. Most of the colors are a muddy mess, marred by the addition of considerable film grain, edge enhancement, shimmering of fine details and a lot of pixelization. Overall then, the video quality is anything but smooth and often, distracts one from the performances. The audio is also dismal; strident sounding in spots, muffled in others, and with far too much electronic enhancement to be anything close to natural. Extras include the aforementioned Withers footage documentary and several other anomalies, including the film's theatrical trailer, an intro from George Stevens Jr. and several promotional junkets covering the film's premiere and general release. "},{"Title":"Great cast make it through Ferber's inexorable story","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Power trio clashes under the big Texas sky.  Impressive melodrama traces Hudson and Taylor over 30 years of life and struggles.  Hudson is good but the bit about his anxiety over passing on the cattle ranch becomes tiresome.  Taylor is excellent as an ingenue who turns into a Texan lady.  Dean is great in the first part of the film as a freelance cattle man struggling with his prde on other people's farms, but is less convincing as a ruthless oil baron in his character's later life.  At least, I found it so, because when method actors go over the top, they REALLY go over the top, and if you give someone like James Dean (or Anthony Quinn, or Dennis Hopper, etc.) a drunk scene, you're asking for it.  The photographic quality is excellent, and the directing of the actors is very good.  There are some really good actors here, not just the stars but also Mercedes McCambridge, Jane Withers, Chill Wills, and Carroll Baker (plus the aforementioned Dennis Hopper).  This is probably a movie you could watch with no sound and get a lot out of it, because the actors are so well directed.  "},{"Title":"Sweeping but, not swept","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Certainly, this movie is a classic in it's epic-ness, its look at issues just barely coming to the surface at that time and, its length but, by the time it was over, I was glad it was over. I'm sorry, but I never really felt like it delved into any one issue or persona. Perhaps, because it was so colossal in breath, it had to cover many issues but, it felt more like it was an overview than a treatment of any one topic. Still, not a waste of time since it is cinematically historical - and, it is a lot of time to spend watching one movie! "},{"Title":"A beautiful story of true love and success","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and wondered why I had never heard of it before. I love epic films and am disappointed that this film is being hidden from blockbuster attention.  Elizabeth Taylor could have been another Scarlett O'Hara with her Southern wit and grace.  James Dean does an excellent job as the underachiever who eventually achieves a lot of wealth (not to mention he was a cutie).  Another reason I enjoyed this film so much was because it has positive and negative portrayals of Mexican-Americans.  In the beginning, you see Jordan's rude comments about his maids and ranch hands.  But then Jordan III, marries a smart, beautiful Mexican-American who is mistreated because of her ethnicity.  It is rare that a film can show the hardships of Mexican-Americans without making a joke out of it.  Giant is a great film (for politial and personal reasons). "},{"Title":"Dean's Swan Song","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Dean's final performance is his most interesting. As hired hand Jett Rink, he's the template for Brad Pitt's character in THELMA AND LOUISE. By the end of the film, he's eerily reminiscent of the dying Charles Foster Kane in CITIZEN KANE (and this is probably deliberate). For the first time, Dean is allowed to act without chewing the scenery, and it's surprisingly nuanced work, compared with his first two pictures.Unfortunately, his character is the most interesting part of the film, and it's underwritten at that. He and Bick, the ranch owner, hate each other, but it's never made clear why. When Jett strikes oil and is transformed overnight into a megamillionaire, he immediately morphs into a caricature of the older Charles Foster Kane. We get a glimpse of his continued passion for Leslie, Bick's wife, but only enough to suggest that money hasn't made him happy.Meanwhile, the main story, while competently done, ultimately has no plot. Bick and Leslie meet, get married, have kids, squabble a bit, then deal with their children's problems. It's standard soap opera cum generational saga fare, except for the subplot about racism which only surfaces fully towards the end. We get hints in the earlier part of the picture, but it doesn't come front and center until the climactic sequence.Elizabeth Taylor is good, and Rock Hudson bearable, though typically bland. The supporting cast is uniformly excellent and the photography is solid. The script is generally good, but the story ultimately lacks a consistent focus.Still, it's solid entertainment, worth watching for James Dean's quirky performances, which hint at much that is never fully revealed. Perhaps that's what the film makers were going for. "},{"Title":"Liz was cheated!","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's my opinion that Elizabeth Taylor should have at least been nominated for Best Actress. Her aging performance was nothing short of remarkable - especially considering that she was only 25 at the time. Indeed, her older character was even more credible than her youthful one.On the other hand, I feel James Dean's performance was greatly over-rated.Now, I don't say that Miss Taylor should necessarily have won that year. Deborah Kerr and Kate Hepburn each turned in very special performances and certainly Ingrid Bergman's win with Anastasia was understandable, but to have not even nominated Miss Taylor in her role as Leslie Benedict is simply incomprehensible to me. It makes me think that perhaps we ought to have an award system that applies only after a picture has been released for 10 years. On the 10th anniversary of a film's release, let the IMDb members vote on all the major award categories (film, actor, actress, supporting, director) and then see how things rate. ;) "},{"Title":"A mammoth undertaking, and hugely entertaining until tepid final reel...","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Long but engrossing, entertaining adaptation of Edna Ferber's bestseller about a Texas cattle rancher marrying New England bluebood and bringing her out to his spread; James Dean (uneven in his final film role) plays a long-time family conflict. Quite well-directed by Oscar winner George Stevens, who sorts this story out for us in both formidable and lively terms. The introductions to the many characters are smooth, and after a timid start the plot really gets cooking (however fiery Mercedes McCambridge, as a jealous ranch caretaker, is lost far too soon). Only in the last reel, with Dean overacting in silly old age make-up, does the narrative falter, showing the melodramatic underpinnings of the piece while dispensing with the flair. Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor are nearly flawless, supporting performances by the first-rate cast (Carroll Baker, Sal Mineo, Dennis Hopper, Rod Taylor) also terrific. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A Huge and Hugely Satisfying Movie","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant lives up to its name.This fascinating movie -- part Douglas Sirk melodrama, part historical epic, part art-house film -- follows the fortunes of a well-to-do rancher in the wide-open spaces of Texas (Rock Hudson) and his wife (Elizabeth Taylor), city bred and unused to the rigors of ranching. It spans many years in the lives of this family, beginning with the newlywed couple and following them into their middle age, as they raise their own children. Taylor gives the strongest performance in the film, while Hudson comes off as a bit too bland. James Dean delivers the final performance of his truncated career as a hot-headed oil baron who comes into money too quickly and at too early an age; and Mercedes McCambridge appears briefly but memorably in the first few minutes of the film as the masculine, harsh and frighteningly violent sister of Hudson and arch rival of Taylor's feminine ways.Giant may not be a perfect film -- director George Stevens has been accused of becoming an increasingly ponderous and self-important artist throughout the 50s -- but I think it's a rather astonishing and gripping film. It manages to satisfy the craving for sweeping, wide-screen melodrama, a genre that no decade did better than the 50s, while at the same time give your intellect something to chew on. In this way, it's very much like the kind of epic David Lean would make his own throughout the next couple of decades.Grade A "},{"Title":"Dean's Last Performance, but not his Best One","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant, set roughly in the period between the late 1910s and the early 1950s, is a family saga which tells the story of a Texan ranching family over two generations. Jordan Benedict II, the head of the family, marries Leslie Lynnton, the daughter of a Maryland doctor, and takes her back to his ranch. When Jordan's older sister Luz (pronounced, in anglicised fashion, to rhyme with buzz) is killed in a riding accident, she leaves a small parcel of land to Jett Rink, a poor, downtrodden ranch-hand whom she has befriended. Jett turns down an offer from Jordan to buy the land for twice its value, a decision that initially seems eccentric but which later turns out to have been prudent when oil is discovered there. Jett's good fortune eventually leads to his becoming the millionaire proprietor of a massive oil company. Jordan, however, is too stubborn to allow any drilling for oil on his own land, arguing that he is a cattle man, not an oil man.The action then leaps forward twenty years, focusing on the three children of Jordan and Leslie. Jordan hopes that his only son Jordan III will inherit the ranching business, but rather to his disappointment the young man prefers to follow his grandfather into the medical profession. His daughter Judy, however, who has married the son of a neighbouring rancher, shows much more interest in ranching. His other daughter Luz II seems to be falling for the now middle-aged Jett.The family saga was a popular literary form in the first half of the twentieth century, but it was not one that always transferred well to the cinema screen. Such adaptations always raised the problem of how to deal with the ageing of the main characters, a problem that this film does not altogether solve successfully. The beautiful twenty-four year old Elizabeth Taylor would not, after all, have been most people's first choice to play a grey-haired grandmother, nor did James Dean, the archetypal youthful rebel, seem a natural to play a drunken middle-aged tycoon. Rock Hudson, several years older than either Taylor or Dean, copes well with the challenge of playing both the older and the younger Jordan. This is one of his better performances, and in many ways he acts as the bridge which links the first half of the film to the second. Taylor is unconvincing as the older Leslie; the make-up department's solution to the problem of ageing her seems to have been to give her much more grey hair than the average woman in her forties or fifties while leaving her face completely unlined and youthful. We are always aware that we are watching a twenty-something actress trying to act old.She is, however, very good in the first half of the film. Leslie has an important role as the voice of liberal, progressive ideas imported into Texas from her East-Coast home. She is a feminist, impatient when she is left out of discussions of politics or business by her husband and his male friends. She is shocked by the callous racism shown by many Anglophone Texans towards Mexican immigrants, and arranges at her own expense for a doctor to serve the poor local Mexican community. The more conservative Jordan is initially cynical about what he sees as interfering do-gooding, but later comes to appreciate what his wife is trying to achieve. He raises no objection when his son wants to marry a Hispanic girl, and a key scene comes near the end when, attempting to stand up for a group of Mexicans, he is beaten up by the racist owner of a diner.The contrast between Eastern liberalism and Western conservatism is reflected in the contrasting landscapes; the pastoral green hills of Maryland and the empty, featureless Texan plains. The Benedict family home is an imposing, Gothic-style mansion, and changes in the way it is decorated reflect the changing times and changing social attitudes. In the early scenes it is heavy, grand and baronial, with much dark woodwork. Later it is lighter and more homely, like a domestic sitting-room writ large.Giant is in many ways an interesting film, but overall it has a number of weaknesses, mostly rooted in the difficulties of adapting the family saga genre to the screen. The break between the two halves of the film, when it suddenly shifts from the story of Jordan and Leslie to that of their children, is too abrupt. The film is far too long; a word frequently used to describe it is sprawling, and the adjective seems apt. I have never read Edna Ferber's novel on which it is based, but it would seem that it contained too much source material to be contained in a normal-length film. Indeed, perhaps not all the material could be contained in a film like this one that that runs to well over three hours, as there are a number of loose ends that are never tied up. (Judy Benedict and her husband, who at one time looked set to inherit the ranch, largely disappear for most of the latter part of the film).The biggest disappointment for me, however, was Dean. He seems particularly miscast as the older Jett, fabulously wealthy but broken-down and disillusioned, but even as the younger man he is not very impressive; too often he tends to mumble his words, making it difficult to understand what he is saying. It could no doubt be argued that a young, working-class man of limited education would not have enunciated his words very clearly, but realism of this sort is of little value if it hinders understanding. This may have been his last performance before his tragic death, but it cannot equal his excellent one in East of Eden and his truly great one in Rebel without a Cause. 6/10 "}{"Title":"a film that takes you on a true journey.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An American classic that slipped through the cracks.  Dean, Hudson, and Taylor are simply amazing.  Stevens captured a state of Texas and a state of Giants.  The love, the loss, the family, the power.  All draw you into the movie itself, and 3hours and 20min. doesn't seem long enough. "},{"Title":"What does it mean to be an American?","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That seems to be the question this film is asking. Do you come from the lush, green, civilised East, or the harsh, dry West? Are you rich or poor? Are you Anglo-Saxon or Hispanic? Are you male or female? What values do you uphold? What do you fight for?In previous films (A Place In The Sun, Shane) George Stevens examined different aspects of the American myth. In Giant he brings the story up-to-date by showing Texas in transition - from dusty cow country to industrialised oil fields.I'd like to highlight some scenes which are particularly striking here. First, the funeral of Angel Obregon. I disagree completely that this scene is overlong it is vital to the themes of the film. Angel was a poor young Hispanic whose life was saved as a baby because Lesley Benedict cared enough to help others less fortunate than herself. Growing to manhood Angel gives his life for his country and is buried with full military honours, his parents presented with the flag of our nation, which he defended so valiantly. This sacrifice is still not enough to win acceptance for his people as American citizens, as we see at the end of the film. Bick's fistfight in the diner (with a racial bigot called 'Sarge', presumably trading on his war record to help his business) is *not* an anticlimax or 'tacked on'. As Lesley says, it marks the point where Bick stands up for the rights of others against the Sarges and Jett Rinks of the world, upholding the American ideal where all men are created equal.Other scenes are less weighty, even comic. Rock Hudson lies beside his huge swimming pool and says Here at Reata we live pretty much as we always have. Later there is a party by the pool which is self-consciously 'Western' with its square-dancing provided by musicians in stylised and colourful 'cowboy' costume - both idealising and parodying the past. Compare this with the barbecue Lesley endures when she first arrives in Texas, with its baked calf's head in a bed of mesquite coals.The film is also about change and unpredictability. People and circumstances change, and nothing works out quite how you expect (especially when your son becomes a doctor and makes an inter-racial marriage). I believe this is a great film and it contains great performances. Certainly Rock Hudson never did anything better and James Dean showed us he was far more than just a frustrated teenager, he was an awesome actor who should have had a wonderful career. There is a real drag in the middle of the film where Jett disppears and we get bogged down in Benedict family life, the drama of the film just dies.In some ways James Dean's very presence obscures the true nature of the film as a whole. This isn't a 'James Dean film' (like 'Eden' and 'Rebel') it is much bigger and, in the issues and themes it addresses, more important. "},{"Title":"A Giant of a film in every sense!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This aptly titled Texan epic may well at times feel like being force fed a whole series of Dallas in one viewing but it is certainly one of the most intriguing films of the 1950s.  Its essential theme lies in the discourse between Old Texas (ie. cattle ranching) and New Texas (ie. oil fields) and yet it is ultimately as much of a revealing account of Old Hollywood versus New Hollywood.The antagonism between the main characters in the film mirrored that of the cast that played them.  In their roles as the old style cattle ranchers, Liz Taylor and particularly Rock Hudson, are in every way the archetypal Hollywood studio character actors.  On the other hand we have Dean's portrayal of the wayward social climbing farm hand turned oil tycoon, Jett Rink, representing the new breed of Hollywood self indulgent method acting.Such over-riding tensions make for an interesting movie.  In fact there seems in the earlier scenes to be quite an endearing chemistry between Dean and Taylor.  However, during the latter half of the film, in his portrayal of the corrupted cattle hand, Dean, mainly through his method of ageing (he shaved his hair so that he actually had a receding hairline) seems to create a monster.  The film itself becomes quite disconcerting with Dean acting like he's in a different film to everybody else.  Add to this the fact that Dean's fatal car crash happened only the day after shooting his scenes were completed then the film eventually seems quite a disturbing spectacle.Giant comes to the Gatsby-like conclusion that the futility of the American Dream is that wealth and social climbing cannot be gained without the loss of innocence.  The horror of it in this case was that success came with a price to pay off the screen as well.  "},{"Title":"A glorious glimpse at Texas","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For the uninitiated, a first look at Texas -- that broad, wild sandy plain -- is shocking. The sheer vastness of the place takes your breath away. The sheer audacity of its people makes you gasp. In Giant you see the best of Texas' awesome beauty and the charm of its folks.  It becomes a viable character in a tale of one family's 25-year journey.  Rock Hudson is at his absolute best; Elizabeth Taylor is stunning.  James Dean shows why it only took three movies to make him an icon.  A delightful way to spend a lazy Sunday afternoon and simply one of the best films ever made.  "},{"Title":"Listening to a Fat Guy Eat","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm no stick, but I have a colleague who is just ginormous, and listening to the guy eat is one of the reasons why I sometimes push away from the table. He sounds like he's death rattling when he eats potato chips. Now, don't get me wrong, I think the world of this friend, but he needs to work a bit on the celery, breathe deeply between bites, and stop getting his fingers wet from slobber.You're wondering where the hell I'm going with this, aren't you?George Stevens' Giant is the cinematic equivalent of watching my friend eat snack food (and everything else that's not nailed or glued to the lunch table). It's so wheezy and falumpy and gasbaggish that, after three and a half hours of pork rinds and soap suds, you're ready for the movie-watching equivalent of a lap band around your stomach. Stevens takes so long to tell you that a) Texas is a really big state b) Ranching families are guaranteed to produce weird kids if the dad and mom are Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor c) James Dean sure could mumble up a storm d) Oil rigs suck e) Bigots suck moreWhen the credits rolled at our house, and Rock Hudson finally figured out that the future of Texas actually included Mexicans (shock!), I looked around at the wife and daughter. We all had that glazed gaze that comes from too much cinematic goo and grease. Our breathing was labored, our guts were bloated, and our fingers were all slobberyBurp! "},{"Title":"Summed up in one wordBREATHTAKING","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this film on AMC, This film is breathtaking in every way. Some would argue that this film is too long. I disagree. It's a portrayal of two generations of a Texas oil family-how could it be any shorter?I kind of think that this is the film that inspired the TV series Dallas.Now a word about race This film also deals with race. It is important to remember that this film was made in 1956-5-6 years before civil rights legislation was passed by congress and signed by JFK. Today, it is illegal for restaurants and other public establishments to refuse service to any one because of race,ect.It's too bad this is James Dean last film. Shortly after filming of this film was completed, he was killed in a car accident. His acting talents are astounding! "},{"Title":"A true film classic","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean's last film&#133; Well, it is definitely a great part even if his character Jett is not in the movie as much as I would have wanted to. The movie is actually less about the enmity between Jett and Bick (Rock Hudson) than Bick's and Leslie's (Elizabeth Taylor) family life. That is also the biggest problem with this film. A drama about a family going on for over three hours is a bit too much, if you ask me. If Jett had been in the movie more it would definitely have made the movie more interesting than it is now. Also, the story is not the most original, there are many clichés and the movie seems almost like a tv soap at times.Those were the bad things about this film. I'm happy to say, though, that the film is truly a great accomplishment. It's interesting and very entertaining. I simply loved this film. The acting is nothing but brilliant. Rock Hudson is great, as is Elizabeth Taylor. James Dean should have been in the movie more, but the scenes that he is in are, for the most part, the most interesting and intense. Highly recommended, a true classic. (8/10)  "},{"Title":"Excellent.  Truly a giant in every way.","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found Giant to be a fantastic movie.  I have to admit that the movie started up slow, but it picked up in a very good way.  I loved Liz Taylor in this movie and thought she did a great job.  James Dean is a brilliant performer as always.  Rock Hudson normally does not impress me, but I will admit that he did it in this film.  This is a must watch for any true movie fan.  If you don't like it, well then you don't like ice cream! "},{"Title":"Dated and bloated","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie enough times to know that I could never sit through it again. Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor were too young or perhaps too good looking to pull off aging despite the makeup and gray streaks. The main message of the movie is, see how bad the rich white trash folks treats the poor wet backs. James Dean again was too young to act his way through the age makeup. It takes a good actor to pull off a convincing drunk, and Dean was not up to that task either. Carroll Baker played her usual sex kitten roll. Dennis Hopper delivers a convincing and understated performance as the son. All in all this movie is too long, too preachy and every segment of society is portrayed stereotypically. The movie could have ended when Jett Rink strikes oil. The last part with Rock and Liz trying to act like they were old is painful to watch. "},{"Title":"An existential tale of redemption and bad eating habits.","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, this is an interesting movie. It's about this Washington hottie who falls in love with a Texas hunk (who also happens to be a millionaire) and goes to Texas to spend the rest of her life with him. She is disgusted by the horrible Texans who only know how to eat disgusting food and yell to their cows and then she meets another guy who works in her husband's ranch. She's hot for him but it never gets anywhere. Instead she has has sex with her husband and they give birth to Dennis Hopper. And he grows up to become a liberal doctor, even though his father wanted him to become a conservative farmer, and he marries the ugliest Mexican girl you have ever seen. "}{"Title":"A Giant In Its Day, But Shrinking As It Gets Older (As Most Of Us Do)","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'll never forget seeing this in an old movie theater in my college town in 1968 In that transitional year for films, many of the previous films we had seen up to then were slow, melodramatic films, and some slightly-faster comedies so this movie was tolerable. It was a long, yes, but had some expansive, impressive cinematography and had some big-name stars to watch in Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean. I found it interesting at that time.When I revisited this film a few years after it was released on VHS, my reaction was Wow, have times changed. This is dragging, now. That holds true even more so today in late 2007. This would be very, very tough to sit through at the present, and I mention it for those under 60 who have never seen it. They would probably have the same reaction. It was a different era and stories moved a lot slower than today..As I look back at all the soap operas that were on screen in the '50s, this one looks so typical for its day. I expected affected fluff from Hudson and Taylor, but I was disappointed in Dean's smaller role in this film. It was not memorable way for him to go out, although nobody certainly knew a car accident would make this his last movie. If you want to remember Dean in a more positive light, get the DVD of East Of Eden.Overall, I still love George Stevens' direction and the photography - but you have to really love the melodramas the '50s to watch this thing in its entirety today. I never wound up really caring about these characters in here, either. Maybe you have to be from Texas to relate. Methinks this film gets overrated because of the notoriety of its three stars - Hudson, Taylor and Dean (sounds like a law firm!). "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To me,the second greatest historical drama movie all time,next only to GONE WITH THE WIND.The production was flawless,the story was entertaining and educational,it had the greatest all around actress all time in ELIZABETH TAYLOR,it had the second greatest all around actor all time in ROCK HUDSON (next to Cary Grant),and it had the greatest dramatic boy actor all time in JAMES DEAN.It was Hollywood formula yet underground/hardcore in issues presented.That truly makes this one a GIANT.Very good story telling which made the 3 hours go by well due to it's epic comic book style presentation instead of the heavy novel stye of GONE WITH THE WIND that made time drag more in comparison.A little too liberal for some but these are liberal issues that have proven correct and more maistream now as time passes and people get more enlightened.But it's libralism was also why the mainstream would rather frequently UNDER RATE or tend to FORGET this masterpiece as often as possible.Not for hardcore conservatives at all.One of top 20 greatest movies all time.......         "},{"Title":"long family epic","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Texan rancher Bick Benedict (Rock Hudson) comes to a Maryland farm to buy a prize horse War Winds. He meets the outspoken upper class daughter Leslie Lynnton (Elizabeth Taylor) and marries her. They return to Texas to the vast family ranch Reata. The giant ranch house is run by Bick's hard sister Luz Benedict (Mercedes McCambridge) and she doesn't like Leslie. Her favorite range hand Jett Rink (James Dean) is itching to get out. She mistreats War Winds and it bucks her off killing her. In her will, Jett is bequeathed some land which he refuses to sell back to Bick. After some time, Bick and Leslie have some children. Jett is still pining for Leslie. When Jett hits oil, he and Bick get into a fight. Jett prospers while Bick refuses to drill for oil on Reata. The Benedict children Jordy (Dennis Hopper), Judy (Fran Bennett), and Luz (Carroll Baker) have a turbulent relationship with their parents and Jett over the years culminating in Bick having a redemptioning fight.This is a giant of a movie. It's not only that it's over 3 hours long. It's trying to tell vast winding life stories. No matter how it's measured, this is a grand family epic. There is a central theme of racism. However it's somewhat overshadowed by the soap opera of the family drama. A shorter film and a tighter story concentrating on that may be able to intensify that central theme. Overall this is a well made grand family epic with some big time talents. "},{"Title":"Used to be my favorite movie...","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I ever watched this film I was about 17 years old and I loved the movie because being a Texan, I could relate to some of the themes in the movie.Now that i'm in my 20s, I tried watching this movie again but I just couldn't finish it. The movie goes on way too long, there are so many things about it that just feel too unrealistic like Liz and Rock getting married after only knowing each other for barely one day, and Liz wanting to stay living in an ugly desert after having moved from the beautiful and lush green east coast, etc. But what bothered me the most about watching this film was the hypocrisy of Liz's character. She judges the Texans for their unequal treatment of the Mexicans and yet whenever there is a scene in Liz's home back east the African-Americans are not treated equally to the whites, and yet this hypocrisy is never explored.I think that this was a good movie for its time because it brings up the issues of racism, sexism, and poverty in a time when these issues were not discussed in movies, but now that it's the 21st century I feel this movie is dated and there are other movies out there that deal with these controversial issues much better. "},{"Title":"An epic melodrama and a mostly great one","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While it may not be perfect, Giant is to me a better film than the Best Picture Winner of that year Around the World in Eighty Days, which wasn't a bad film but is among the weakest Best Picture Winners. Giant is a very long film and very deliberately paced but is hugely rewarding. It is a very well-made film with fabulous, colourful scenery and outstanding cinematography(the best of its year and perhaps of the decade too), Texas has rarely looked more beautiful on film. Dmitri Tiomkin's score is one of sweeping grandeur, while the dialogue on the most part is thought-provoking, heart-warming and moving and George Stevens judging from how beautifully he directed this film definitely deserved his Oscar. The story tackles many daring themes, especially for back then, and tackles them with a lot of truth and power, while the film does drag at times and tries to do too much in the last act the story is still compelling and rich in detail with a couple of scenes towards the end quite tense. Especially good is that tremendous scene where Jett strikes oil. It does develop the characters remarkably well too, the characters here are quite complex and far from clichéd, especially Leslie and Jett(Bick also evolves into a much more likable character). The acting is excellent, Elizabeth Taylor has only been more lustrous in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and this is most likely her most nuanced performance. Rock Hudson is a handsome and mostly natural screen presence, a little stiff to begin with but it does suit the character actually. And Jett is probably the most complex of James Dean's three screen roles and is just as iconic and in-depth, and, apart from his very overacted final scene acting drunk(his worst and only somewhat bad piece of acting in three great performances in three great films), Dean gives a performance brimming with authority and emotion. He is also the only one of the three leads to look convincing in his ageing make-up and acts aged the most effectively, whereas Taylor and Hudson still looked too young when made up to look aged and didn't look as comfortable as Dean did. The supporting cast are fine too, Caroll Baker, Sal Mineo and a very young Dennis Hopper being the standouts. All in all, a mostly great epic melodrama where you can totally see why it has been and is so positively received, at the same time though it's easy too to see why some may not care for it as it does take more than one viewing to get into it. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"james dean was truly, truly a genius!","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i am robert dean. i saw the movie giant when it first came out when i was just a boy of 10 years old. james dean impressed me greatly even back then, when i was just a boy. to see him as a middle-aged man, dressed to the nines, with beautiful grey leather gloves on, gripped me back then. i do not know if i have seen the movie since. i grasped it's essence even back then. his death from an auto crash tore me up. it was too surreal. this is now june, 2014, i saw the movie giant, again. from an old man's eyes, one who has suffered as much as i have suffered in this world. i cried! i question God every day of my life now, why He creates such beautiful human beings as james dean certainly was, and, let's them die horribly in an auto wreck! i have just checked out 5-8 books recently, all on james dean. so many, many photos! he studied ballet! ballet! he played baseball as a boy, as i did. only difference i grew up in the city. james grew up on a farm. i am writing this review for the world to know that i think, based on what i have recently seen, that james byron dean was a genius! a real genius! he was the real thing, people. no pretense. bravo, for the director, george stevens, who saw something in james dean, and, allowed him to star in the movie giant. as we see james dean age, on screen in this, his last, movie, we see true genius. "},{"Title":"James Dean's Best Picture","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ah James Dean. Before Heath Ledger, Brandon Lee and River Phoenix became hagiographical symbols of what could have been, James Dean reined supreme as king of his own morbid death cult. Adorning the walls of many a young women's bedrooms since his tragic death in 1955, James Dean is still immortalized today despite that fact that he only been in three movies before his fatal car crash.Yet out of those three films, Dean garnered two posthumous Academy Award nominations for Elia Kazan's East of Eden (1955) and George Steven's Giant (1956). This in addition to gaining heartthrob status in the stupefying Rebel Without a Cause (1955) a film about a troubled teenager arriving in a new suburban town. Before Giant, Rebel Without a Cause was the only James Dean flick I had seen. I honestly thought his work in that film was over-the-top to the point of parody. I understand without Rebel we wouldn't have teen movies along the lines of John Hughes but do you really expect me to swallow Dean's conniption fits in front of his parents? Giant sees the capable actor putting much more depth into his character Jett. The film starts with Bick Benedict (Rock Hudson) and Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor) falling in love and marrying each other. Jett is in love with Luz (Mercedes McCambridge) Bick's sister and fellow stakeholder in the Benedict family fortune. After Luz's tragic death, Jett is bequeathed land which becomes profitable through oil. As the extended family matures and becomes embittered by rivalry, both Jett and Bick become richer through oil and cattle ranching respectively.The movie spans generations with the closing scenes taking place with Bick and Leslie in their 60's. The rivalry between Bick and Jett remains the focus for the first part of the film while the second part is dominated by Bick's frustration toward his three children played by Carroll Baker, Fran Bennett and Dennis Hooper who go their separate paths instead of becoming ranchers. Hooper desires to become a doctor while Baker would like a small modest place with her high school sweetheart. The young Fran Bennett who lights up the screen seems to be the only one interested in life on the ranch but things get complicated when it's revealed her character is dating the much older Jett.They all don't want to be ranchers like generations before them which highlight another theme in the film; the changing attitudes and customs of younger generations. Bick is forced to accept the changing attitudes of his family and society sometimes unwillingly but nevertheless looks to provide everything he can to his family. At the beginning of the movie, Bick treats the Mexicans who work on his ranch with indifference and inflexibility to the chagrin of the more socially enlightened Leslie. By the end of the film Hooper's character falls in love with a Mexican girl whom he later marries.Jett on the other hand becomes consumed with animosity towards the Benedicts after the death of his beloved Luz. All of his actions serve not to destroy them necessarily but to show them he's better than they are. A perfect example of this is when he confronts Bick to allow oil exploration to help the war effort (WWII). While they're technically working together at this point in the film, Jett looks to lord his patriotism and later his wealth over the Benedicts heads. His plans to live better however are undone by his alcoholism and greed.Throughout this review I have made little mention of the film from a technical point of view. That's because the film is for the most part technically flawless; as is the story. George Stevens adapted Edna Ferber's novel brilliantly and the set direction is rich, elaborate and gorgeous to look at. I can see how this sprawling epic can be Texas's unofficial official film. They're obsessed with big things down there so it only makes sense the movie of their choice is called Giant.Yet it's the films size, or rather length that can be too much for some viewers. 3 hours and 20 minutes plus an intermission is a daunting proposition to generations of filmgoers used to 90 minute movies. I was put in the embarrassing position of having to watch half the movie twice because I didn't realize the DVD I was watching was two sided and accidentally watched the second half first. Derp. If I had to choose one sweeping epic film to sit down and make a day of it, I'm sorry to say it wouldn't be Giant.Still Giant is a sight to see and one of Hollywood's greatest epics ever made. The acting on the part of Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor, Dennis Hooper and Mercedes McCambridge is absolutely outstanding. Yet the real draw here is Dean who for better or for worse is the quintessential Hollywood they died too young stories. While East of Eden is still on the ever expanding Must See List, Giant remains in my mind the best example of Dean's method acting mastery.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Only one man can be GIANT","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ep·ic adjective \ˈe-pik\  telling a story about a hero or about exciting events or adventures  very great or large and usually difficult or impressive.The 1950's saw an arrival of wide variety of feature-length epics. Those films were criticized as being an classic. Even today, the films of the 1950's that were epics still live on. Some of those epics from the 1950's includes Ben-Hur, The Ten Commandments, The Bridge on the River Kwai, and Julius Caesar. But, there was one epic that was so long, so original, that it had to be seen to be believe. The name of the movie was Giant. The movie tells the story of a poor man, played by Rock Hudson, who marries an beautiful woman from Maryland, played by Elizabeth Taylor, while on a business trip in Maryland. He is in the business of buying War Winds, a horse that he's planning to stud. Hudson's character soon buys the horse and returns to his homeland in rural Texas. His sister runs the household and sort of jealous in the way Hudson romances Taylor. Meanwhile, another character, played by James Dean, in his final screen appearance before his death, works for Hudson's sister and also butt heads with Hudson as well. The two men are drawn together by the woman that Hudson loves. But, Dean resists on ruining their relationship. He also tries to woo her into his arms, but that doesn't help. As the story progresses, Hudson soon start a family and is in the process of making millions by providing cattle. But, when there's smoke, there's fire, as Dean tries to compete against Hudson by investing in oil. As the years go by, Hudson and Taylor becomes grandparents as their own children begin to grow up and experience marriage. One of his children is play by a very young Dennis Hopper. While Hudson's empire seems to grow more larger and larger, Dean's business starts to catch up with him dominating Texas by becoming an oil tycoon, and even though, the two of them begins to butt heads once again, in the end, only one man can make it to the top while the other stumbles and falls. This is probably one of the greatest rise-and-fall stories ever to be told. In fact, the movie is adapted from a novel written by Edna Ferber. Giant was directed by George Stevens, who also directed Gunga Din and The Greatest Story Ever Told. In this movie, Stevens creates a very large scope of an American family and the generations that come within the family. His vision of the Lone Star state is so beautiful and so vivid that we can't help to stare at the ongoing visual look of the desert landscape of Texas itself. It is almost as if the state of Texas is a character of its own. Besides visual story-telling, Stevens also covered most of the social issues that was erected out of the 1950's. Those social issues include women's rights, racial barriers and tensions, class differences between the rich and the poor and add all that up and you got yourself an very big and very important movie. Not only important, but entertaining. Critics mention that the portrayal of Latinos in Giant was very accurate and very true to its word. In one scene in the movie, Hopper's character marries an Latino woman and he has a Latino child, and later on in that particular scene, James Dean's character verbally insults her and Hopper with racial slurs. That kind of prejudice is very strong and powerful and to make a point, the behavior of the rich in this movie is not at all stereotypical. It reminded me of another movie that came out the same year as Giant, which was John Ford's western, The Searchers, with its portrayal of Indians as well. The performances in Giant is outstanding. Rock Hudson is very appealing as the main character and very convincing. Elizabeth Taylor is very stunning and shines in her role as Hudson's husband. James Dean is absolutely astounding as the kid who tries to undermine Hudson, but always keeps fighting ahead to be king of the state. Most of all, Dean's final appearance in Giant is never wasted. Here is a very popular actor who's tragic death left millions of movie-goers shocked, but within Giant, there's a special and riveting performance that is hiding behind the scenery of beauty. Giant is a great movie, well-directed and beautifully told through the eyes of the people that inhabits the Lone Star state. George Stevens received a Academy Award for his direction in this movie. He fully deserves it. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A marvelous epic about the giant state","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just the title of the movie would and/or should indicate the subject matter of the movie. (As a boy of ten in 1956, I guessed that it was about Texas, and my guess was verified.) This spectacle, based on Edna Ferber's best-seller had quite an all-star cast-composed of Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor, James Dean (who died in 1955 shortly before the completion of the movie's filming), Carroll Baker, Chill Wills, Sal Mineo, Earl Holliman, Dennis Hopper, and Mercedes MacCambridge (who sometimes seemed more masculine than a lot of men)-and certainly contributed to it success. Of course, the producer George Stevens was definitely successful. Therefore, Warner Brothers should be proud of this, one of the studio's most outstanding productions. It follows well a quarter-of-a-century time frame, all the way from about 1925 to circa 1950, dealing well with familial difficulties, acceptable and unacceptable marriages, tragedies of WWII and prejudice toward the Mexicans in Texas. (Of course, Jordan Benedict, played by Hudson, was not, to say the very least, a bit fond of Jett Rink, played by Dean.) For the most part, though not completely, Dean, Hudson and Taylor were aged well in this movie. There was in this movie a fair share of romance, outstanding dramatic action, and occasional modern-day western action. The scenery was beautiful, in its own Texas way, with the dusty dry ground. For those who like downtown Dallas, it was drawing. It should have won the Best Picture Award, but sadly it did not. It had all the elements of a great production. Personally, I believe it is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Giant Edna Ferber Was Never Better ****","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This excellent 1956 film touches on many social issues-bigotry, the rights of women, alcoholism, a changing America, wealth, greed, you name it.A near perfect chemistry existed between Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson.Mercedes McCambridge, as Hudson's sister, represents the dying breed of a Texas woman. Strong, gritty and bigoted along the way, McCambridge was only on screen here for about 40 minutes, but memorable here as she garnered a best supporting actress nomination.James Dean, always great, personified what wealth does to someone.Footnotes here include Both Hudson and Dean were up for best actor for this film. Neither won. Hudson was in 2 pictures that year that gave us a best supporting actress nominee McCambridge in this one, and winner Dorothy Malone in Written on the Wind. Sal Mineo, who appeared with Dean the year before in Rebel Without A Cause, shows up in the picture as a minority soldier and hardly uttered a word.The cinematography is absolutely sprawling and justice was certainly done to Edna Ferber's book. "}{"Title":"Something to Appreciate","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant 1956A movie to see even with its flaws. Movie of that era, and stars of that era are never to return. They seemed bigger than life which coincidently was also the movie's title. This was a time when adult men get up for hostess at the dinner table; this was a time when there was no gender confusion - women know how to be women and men would be men.You see a pristine Elizabeth Taylor and brawny handsome Rod Hudson. They make a very attractive couple on screen. Robert Mitchum was also considered but would be a bad choice because he lacks the appeal of Hudson to match the beautiful Taylor. The early scenes were the best, Taylor flirting with Hudson at her father's house when he came to purchase her prized stallion. In contrast to the rich verdant fields of Maryland, the Texas ranch where Hudson returned to with new bride Leslie (Taylor) appears almost desolate, absent of any vegetation and strewn with rolling moss. But Taylor did not seem to mind and looked genuinely determined to make a new life there. Hudson's Bick was laconic,actually a simply man, steeped in tradition. His sudden transformation to total acceptance of the lower Mexican class was not apparent. Director Stevens could have used Taylor's successful effort in providing health care to poor Mexicans as a boon for change in Bick. That did not happen. Taylor is in her full glory here. Lively,eastern-cultured turned Texan, she is smoldering and lifts the whole story. How would Grace Kelly do had she been casted no one knows. But I personally think a tall cool blonde is not what is needed here.Now about Dean, never understand his dislikes of the Benedicts. The movie does little in explaining that conflict. If Dean is envious of Bick he is doing little to get out of the mode he is in. Not until he inherits a piece of land bequeath to him does he finds incentive to improve himself. But then he only manifests it in front of Taylor and no one else. Why was Dean's role necessary ? It only comes to light the day after I saw Giant. Dean was there to draw a difference. He is destroyed by his sudden riches. Bick, on the other, laments the past when his family ruled a cattle empire, but he adapts to the future and makes peace with himself, even when he lost a fight with a bigoted ex- army cafe owner. That, my friend is priceless.Something needed to be said about other considerable talents here the great Rod Taylor no relation to Elizebath used only sparingly in the first scene. He could have provided some counter punches when Hudson comes to steal his love interest. Sal Mineo as grown-up Angel whom Taylor helped when he was a sick baby had barely any speaking part. Yet overall you want to see Giant for its grandeur and big-ness, and to appreciate a past era and the fledgling, social, economic change for that time, which would give way to the psychedelic years of the 60's and beyond. "},{"Title":"The one and only Texan generations saga","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Decades before the Ewing oil barons redefined the word greed on the TV screens in Dallas and half a century before P.T. Anderson dug even deeper in There Will Be Blood there was George Stevens' Giant. The epic saga clocks in at over 200 minutes, and there's of course the mentioned oil drama, where people get rich and drown in their greed, but this is just one of the many facets of Edna Ferber's rich novel, and all of them made it to the screen in this multi-layered gem. Giant also offers a lot of social commentary on dubious morals, racism and tolerance, it shows men being men and women standing up, it's about national and personal pride and generations growing up and learning to live with each other despite their apparent differences. It had something to say back then, and still has today.On the side of such calibers like Rock Hudson and Liz Taylor Giant furthermore features James Dean in his very last performance, as a young cowboy first and then as the embittered aged millionaire, whose money cannot buy everything. The cast, among them as well Rod Taylor and the young Dennis Hopper, add authenticity, which becomes perfected due to the characters' period costumes, the strong accent, alongside the magnificently shot Texas scenery, and an art direction that really sets you right into a story of epic proportions spanning several decades. Characters grow up, live, and change over the years, and we get the chance to observe them in just three hours. Granted, Giant has a few cheesy moments here and there and it walks a fine line between soap opera and monumental depth, but then again This is Texas in all its glory, and George Stevens paid tribute to that visually and by portraying characters deeply rooted in the soil they came from. And by raising necessary issues about Texas - past and future. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is not much I can say about this film that already hasn't been said A landmark in post-war American cinema, The Movie of Texas, The mother of all soap-operas... Giant has become a myth as big as the meaning of its title word, partly because of its monumental scale and partly because of the legend created by James Dean's tragic death before the film had even been completed.I was ten years old when I first saw this film, and one of its most iconic images has fascinated me ever since Jett Rink lounging in the open limousine sitting in the middle of the yellow prairie with the big house in the background. It is an image that conveys both the grandiose scale and empty vastness of the Texas country and the absurd sight of a Victorian mansion in such landscape. Giant as seen today is just a soap-opera made long before the term had even been invented. It is not only the mother of Dallas and Dynasty but it also is much better than those two put together, and although in some aspects it looks much outdated it still is fascinating. George Stevens and Donald Moffat did the right thing on comprising Edna Ferber's novel -which could have produced a six-hour film. They reduced it down to three instead and turned it into a more entertaining story,in my opinion. I didn't like the novel so much; definitely I prefer the film. I just bought the DVD, which among many extras it contains two documentaries on the genesis of Giant, which are priceless to anyone who loves this film and which I totally recommend. The grandiose score by the great Dmitri Tiomkin, the superb cast, the engaging story of the Benedict saga with all its vulgarity and glamour combined, and the larger-than-life characters that are both comical and fascinating, make of this film a real treat that stands up to its title a giant among movies. "},{"Title":"The Great FIlm","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Thirty minutes into the film, it surpassed PTA's Magnolia (another American epic, despite what viewers say) as my favorite film of all time. There is nothing not to like about this film; unless you dislike long movies, then you should not be watching this anyways. I have not enjoyed watching actors perform this much in a long time. This was the first film I had ever seen Rock Hudson in and I was blown away. He handles the time span of the film perfectly, as does Elizabeth Taylor. They actually pull off being older people. They may not look completely convincing, but the way they move and talk is magnificent. I read a review where he said that the make-up was horrible and that the older characters looked like the younger characters, but that is what worked for the film. It's not about how they look, it's about how they carry themselves and how they mature. "},{"Title":"A really, really, really, really... big surprise...","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I actually really liked this film. It didn't wind up in any of the numerous places that I had it pegged as heading, proving to be much less clichéd than I first thought.I mean, James Dean (Jett Rink) was a young, cheeky and ambitious kid who had the makings of an asshole... then he got older, and drank, and became that asshole. THAT was a surprise! I already had this scene in my head where he redeems himself through his wealth and amounts to this steadfast, rugged bloke who wins Liz's (Leslie's) heart away from her proud, racist husband, during which time they engage in a steamy, but not-too-steamy, affair. Not so.And the acting all round was fairly solid, though Hudson, as Bick, was a little stilted every now and then in the first half. He thrived in later scenes, however, such as when he and Liz have a genuinely well- written quarrel about what their now University-aged children are planning to do for a living.I felt nostalgia for a time I had never known watching Giant, a testament to George Stevens's encapsulation of the atmosphere of this time and place, and his ability to hold one's interest for over three hours. Quite an achievement, that.To be honest, I'm pretty sure this is the oldest film I've ever seen, and I was impressed by how little I was spoon-fed by it. Honestly, I was taken aback by the progression of the story, and was left feeling unsure about the message of the film until the final scene, which essentially summed up the film's stance.It is a scene that is superbly acted by both Hudson and Liz, in which she explains to him how proud she was to see him stand up for his son's wife (a Mexican) and their child (so... half-Mexican) in a very dramatic fist fight in a diner. Though he lost (also, not what I expected), she claims that seeing him do so for such a cause is the happiest she's ever been. Bick claims jokingly that he will never understand her, but Leslie's point has resonated within him and the audience. Giant is simply a film about the the unexpected and uncontrollable changes that we are exposed to in life, and how we react to them whether we adhere to our own steadfast and thick-headed sensibilities, whether we are corrupted by the power and freedom that they offer us, or whether, through and through, we remain good people. Jett gets money, which he's never had before. Jett gets power, and ditto. He gets drunk, metaphorically and very, VERY literally, and becomes an undeniable douche bag. Bink is a racist. He gets a half- Mexican grandkid. And, remarkably, he does the right thing about it.Really, sincerely, watch this film. Don't be put off it by the gargantuan running time or date (1956) like I almost was. It will be one of the more worthwhile things you will do with three plus hours. Seriously, what else have you got going on? "},{"Title":"Big country...","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hulking (I couldn't watch it in one sitting!) but entertaining piece of 50's Hollywood melodrama, chronicling the dynastic progression of the Benedict family, taking as its starting point the meeting of ambling, Texas cattle-baron Bick Benedict (Rock Hudson) and feisty east-coast modern woman Lesley (Elizabeth Taylor) and as the film's dramatic fulcrum, their respective interaction with itinerant ranch-hand Jett Rink (James Dean) who goes from bum to oil-billionaire with the ultimate lucky strike on the tiny bit of land left to him by his protector, Benedict's fierce sister Luz, for reasons to be honest that aren't exactly clear, so loathsome and unsympathetic is his character.The film is famously unusual for ageing its actors as the film progresses with demands on make-up, costume and of course the acting itself, which are accomplished it's fair to say with mixed results. The film is even more famous though as the last hurrah for James Dean before his fatal car-crash not long after the movie wrapped production.What to say about Dean's performance - this in fact was my first viewing of any of his films and I must admit that I don't or at least here, didn't get him. There's no denying his cultural importance in movies, his early death obviously froze him in time as a permanent symbol of handsome youthful rebellion, he didn't get to grow fat and strange like his contemporaries Brando and in a different field (let's not call him an actor) Elvis Presley. However, his slurring, shambling performance, where he overacts and underacts by turn, left me mystified and cold but if his aim in the film is to get under your skin, the way he does Hudson's straight-up character, then in a way he succeeds.I much preferred the more conventional acting style of the two other leads Hudson & Taylor. The former is very good indeed, conveying his character's evolution from dominating prejudiced macho-male to, by the end, a man who makes a stand against the abhorrent little-town racism meted out to Hispanics, in a scene that one would have hoped had resonance in a 50's America just as the nascent civil rights movement was getting its start. I enjoyed Taylor's performance too, her character pushing at the limits of Texan conventions but generally knowing when to ease off and cajole rather than stomp and scream. In support I also liked the young Dennis Hopper as Benedict's son, who rebels against his heritage by going modern and becoming a doctor, Carroll Baker as the errant daughter Luz junior, almost seduced into Dean's world of decadence, debauchery and above all money, while Chill Wills shines as the perennial uncle who acts almost as a sort of sage commentator on the action.The plot moves along as it should with scenes succeeding like big chapters in a book and while the film does have its Little House On The Walton Prairie episodes of family hokeyness, there are ample compensations in the big scenes, notably the posthumous return from the war of the young Hispanic teenager Angel (Sal Mineo), played out in respectful silence after a vibrant celebratory sequence for the homecomings of the living, Hudson's domino-effect symbolic demolition of Dean's massive wine-cellar and particularly Dean's almost Citizen Kane - type moment as he rails at the world (and Taylor for whom he's forever carried a torch) incoherently to an empty banquet-hall in near-darkness, his disgrace complete.The cinematography is suitably grand and must have looked great on the big screen on its original release and director Stevens marshals his massive forces both human and geographical, adeptly. Gone With The Wind it may have wanted to be but isn't, but an ambitious and entertaining epic it certainly is. "},{"Title":"Sprawling","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you've seen this film several times (and I guess it deserves it),you will notice that Jett Rink always remains in the periphery.Be he rich of poor,nice or hateful,young or old,he will always be a Nouveau Riche ,this kind of people Jordan Benedict Jr cannot stand.JR is not present in the long prologue which takes place in Leslie's green country -which makes a stunning contrast to the giant Texas desert landscapes- ,and he does not appear in the short anti-racist epilogue either.In all,I do not think that James Dean appears more than an hour in this three hours+ work.Twice he tried to enter their milieu when Luz Sr is killed ,the bond which unites him with the Benedict family is broken ;it is not a matter a chance if he wants to marry another Luz (Jr).Among James Dean's three famous films,Giant is probably the least interesting as far as he's concerned.He epitomizes the romantic rebellious youth (his performances in east of Eden and rebel without a cause are part of the legend of cinema),so his face that has prematurely aged (thanks to make up) is not really nice to watch.The problem is the same for Elizabeth Taylorcasting young actors (she was born in 1932,Dennis Hopper who plays her son in 1936!)in a story which stretches over thirty years is not easy.All that concerns the Benedict family is gripping.Jordan Jr (Hudson) is the most interesting during all the movie,he is an unkind selfish macho man ;as long as Luz Sr (Mercedes McCambridge) lived,he was dominated by this matriarchal figure later in the movie ,there is an excellent scene where men are talking about politics and where women are invited to have coffee or herb tea (I'd rather go to bed the educated suffragette Leslie yells).It will take Jordan Jr's marriage to a Mexican (educated) woman to make this wealthy man care for the others.My favorite scene is the return of the soldier (Sal Mineo) ;the train in the sunset then the funeral when two flags are given to the family the Star-Spangled Banner and the Texan one. "},{"Title":"Quaint epic?","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Giant in the title would be Texas, the story an epic detailing the life of a rich Texan land owner, his family, and associates. What begins as definitely a giant production, what with large music, large sets, panaramic views, and a massive land to cover unfortunately rushes through a bit too much information over its three hour plus period, but maintains its pace via a daring most films of the time didn't have.The daring I speak of begins right from the beginning with Elizabeth Taylor basically criticizing Texan history right in front of the Texan character Rock Hudson. But soonafter follows a love and family story as Leslie is meant to see it in all of its large, 525,000 acre glory.We stay relatively happily with this couple and the pending drama of a young hand Jett (James Dean) before the story goes into rush mode. This is definitely a situation where the book had a lot of stuff to cover, and the movie had to cover important parts with only a passing glance. It's a testament to George Stevens' skill that we're able to get the idea via the quick shot to an important plot point before the movie moves on, but it has the unfortunate side effect of disallowing the real drama to build. Scenes that are supposed to create a major change for the characters, like finally transitioning from cattle to oil, are ended without a moment of exploration into what it actually means for the characters themselves. Marriages that are supposed to present controversy are sudden and relationships are developed in less than two minutes of screen time. It gets rather difficult to truly appreciate what's going on for all of the characters.On the other hand, the movie still is able to present characters, and presents them in a way that is endearing while still taking the time to comment on controversial issues. Feminism, interracial marriage and prejudice, and the overarching theme of the transition from Big Cattle to Big Oil (think of it as an agrarian-to-industrial transition, if you must transplant its themes to a more worldwide scope) keep this movie from being anything like boring or tedious. The performances are also key in maintaining attention, and indeed every character, even the ones that do things we don't like, are in the end completely relatable.I wouldn't call it a landmark of film, but I can definitely see why it has and will stick around for a while.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Monumental","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" George Stevens' monumental film version of the Edna Ferber novel is an epic in every sense of word. It's sprawling, taking full advantage of the wide open Texas backdrop. GIANT spans several decades and is populated with A LOT of characters --- all fully fleshed out by an excellent cast. The central story concerns eastern débutante Elizabeth Taylor, in a genuinely great performance, marrying wealthy cattleman Rock Hudson and moving to his Texas ranch where she gets more than a rude awakening. Taylor was not only breathtakingly beautiful, she affirmed herself as a viable actress. Hudson has his best ever role and James Dean, as ne'er do well ranch hand Jett Rink, offers a fleeting glimpse of the charisma that made him a legend...he's spellbinding, at least until he's forced to don unconvincing old-age make-up during the film's last quarter. Although it failed to win the Oscar as best picture, Stevens did take home a well deserved trophy for directing. While the film veers toward glossiness from time to time, there are many beautiful scenes including the funeral of a ranch hand's son, Dean striking oil, and a truly strange fight at a roadside diner between Hudson and a band of racist locals. The large cast includes Dennis Hopper as the sensitive doctor son of Taylor and Hudson, Jane Withers, Chill Wills, Earl Holliman, Sal Mineo, Rod Taylor, and Carroll Baker, who brings a lot of high energy to her scenes. Best of all is Mercedes McCambridge as Hudson's older sister, who seems just as jealous of Hudson's marriage as she is of his bride. McCambridge has the movie's deepest role. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Bigger than Texas","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant was for me, one of the best films of 1956 and it stands up today extremely well, although it does lose a lot on TV after having seen it on the big screen. It certainly was Rock Hudson's best film ever, and was very close to Liz. Taylor's also, but despite being a fan of James Dean, I felt he was a bit miscast. The film itself was huge in its scope (outshining Texas a bit!), with brilliant photography flowing from the gentle Green of the East to the dustbowl of the West. A very strong supporting cast were crucial to the success of Giant, and what a great thrill to see Jane Withers after so many years - Mercedes McCambridge, Dennis Hopper and Chill Wills were excellent, as was Sal Mineo in a cameo role. For anyone who has not seen this, I can only say Watch out for it at your Video Store - it will reward you. "}{"Title":"Interesting but Disjointed","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Ferber novel about a Texas rancher becomes an epic film. It works well for about two hours, but loses steam as the story abruptly jumps ahead about twenty years and becomes something of a soap opera. The film could have benefited from tighter editing and a more focused story line, but it deserves credit for not dragging despite the excessive length. It features fine performances from Hudson as a tough rancher and Taylor as his headstrong wife. Dean, who was dead before the production wrapped up, seems to be in a different movie from the others. His mumbling is somewhat amusing initially, but his performance becomes increasingly silly as his character ages. "},{"Title":" There are no Kings in this country, despite some people believing otherwise ","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Edna Ferber's novel and George Steven's direction produced this elongated version of her novel. Much of what was not in the original story eventually wound up in this film. The tale is a multi-generational story concerning the family of Jordan Benedict Jr. (Rock Hudson). Being the son of successful rancher, 'Bick' grew up unfortunately as myopic as his father. Much of the way he lives, is seen in his steadfast and prejudicial behavior towards women, servants and the Mexican people who work for him. Despite facts of history concerning the stealing of Texas from Mexico, Jordan refuses to hear anything except his bigoted education. His life begins to alter the day he travels to Maryland to purchase breeding stock and a thoroughbred horse. There amid the lush green surrounding countryside, he is smitten and eventually marries the daughter of Horace Lynnton (Paul Fix), Leslie Lynnton (Elizabeth Taylor). Though she considers herself a lady of quality and breeding, she nevertheless possesses an independent spirit who establishes herself well in the vast brown desert landscape of Texas. James Dean who plays Jett Rink is said to have made quite a lasting impression among younger audiences, secured a lasting cult-status in this film. Rod Taylor, Chill Wills, Dennis Hopper, Sal Mineo, Alexander Scourby, Carroll Baker and Earl Holliman are marvelously fitted for this saga. For Bic Benedict, life holds more than his bias opinions as he soon learns that life, like his ambitious dreams and his contrary attitudes change as does his family and beloved Texas. **** "},{"Title":"In my view, the best post-1950 movie ever made!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I consider this to be the best movie made. It belongs along side Citizen Kane as the best of the best.Liz Taylor, who had not impressed me before, or since, was fantastic.Rock Hudson is believable as the big hunk he truly was at the time.Enough can NOT be said of James Dean. His skills were at the peak in his ability to play the various ages the role needed. From infatuated young man to depressed, older millionaire who cannot shake his love of Liz. What a shame to lose him at such an early age.Chill Wills was perfectly cast as the Uncle everyone loves and whose understanding helps the plot along.Sal Mineo. Well, he played the small Mexican WWII war hero perfectly.Mercedes McCambridge. I had loved her as a radio star in the 40's and she was even better here.Dennis Hopper. His best performance ever. Too bad he had to go tough guy and ruin the image! The plot and story begin as a love story and the love of Texas hangs on to tie the entire picture together. The Yellow Rose of Texas fight scene still brings tears to my eyes.Fifty years of Texas history in 4+ hours of a truly fine motion picture "},{"Title":"Great Movie Classic","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. I initially saw this film when I was a young girl. My mother was a Rock Hudson and Liz Taylor fan. I recently bought the DVD and watched it again. The 3 main actors, Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean were great. I definitely recommend this movie epic. The wedding scene where Jordan and Leslie reunite after a brief separation was awesome. The facial expression that they had, was superior in my book. You could feel their love and emotion for each other. It was definitely heartwarming. I also loved James Dean in this movie. I wish he had more scenes in the movie. I felt sorry for his character, Jett Rink. To bad this was James Dean's last film. This movie definitely worth watching and I did not find too long at all. "},{"Title":"One Grand and Glorious Soap Opera","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     Giant is a sweeping star-filled soap opera that chronicles two generations of a wealthy west Texas family.  The Benedicts, headed by Bick Benedict (Hudson), have amassed a country-sized cattle range, and are used to getting their way in every aspect of life.  Into this environment waltzes Bick's new Maryland-bred bride (Taylor) with new ideas about the place of women and Latinos in this Anglo-macho world.  Around the Hudson-Taylor relationship most of the movie revolves.    At three and a half hours this is an extremely long movie, but it is so well made that it holds your attention.  James Dean is excellent as Jett Rink, the surly white-trash self-made oilman who is the would-be lover of Taylor and the nemesis of Bick Benedict.  The movie's treatment of minority and women's issues presage the struggles of the next generation.    Not a great movie, but an enjoyable rent for a rainy Sunday afternoon.    "},{"Title":"Big stuff is old stuff","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the 1950s the major studios may have been dazzling the public with ancient world spectacles and hit musicals, but the independent studios and producer-directors were gaining the leverage to make big pictures of their own. Giant is a true epic drama or, if you like, dramatic epic, of a kind rarely seen since Gone with the Wind.The adaptation apparently makes a fair few changes to Edna Ferber's novel, while still remaining faithful to the ideas and tone of the original. I'm not familiar with the book, but I can recognise the brilliance of its screenplay, written by Fred Guiol and Ivan Moffat. Yes, it is very long, but while some might harp on about a story just as deep being told in half the time, length must be correctly suited to the material. It is important to give us the real impression of the passage of time, and allow change to be shown gradually. This is why the skimpy extant version of Magnificent Ambersons is so dissatisfying &#x96; it's not so much the content of what was lost, but the amount that was lost. The stupendous length also allows for believable character development, whereby our sympathies for different characters (particularly Bick and Jet) shift as the story unfolds.But it's not just the screenplay which is rich. Director George Stevens demonstrates a terrific economy of expression, and packs meaning into every shot. His round-the-clock coverage of scenes allows the editors (who were closely supervised by Stevens himself) to quickly insert shots of individuals on the periphery of the situation, perhaps just adding a little visual commentary to a moment, or reminding us of a character's existence &#x96; for example the cut to the black servant's reaction when Elizabeth Taylor states that Texas was stolen from the Mexicans. Sometimes a speaking character will be offscreen, allowing us to follow two threads at once. When a scene requires a continual flow rather than lots of cutting, Stevens still manages to maintain similar effects by staging in depth and keeping multiple characters active on different layers within the set. He acknowledges just how much information the human brain can take in at once, and uses this to tell a story that is a wealth of detail and interwoven narrative, much like a major novel.What's very unusual though about Stevens' direction, is that he is one of the few directors who does not clearly define spaces (other than those who couldn't simply through being inept). What I mean is, the varying shots in a scene are so confusingly different, it's sometimes hard to get a clear impression of the layout of each room. This might seem annoying if you focus on it, until you realise that Stevens chooses his angles entirely in terms of where people are in relation to one another. A good example of this is in that dinner scene a few minutes in, where we get some really freakish angles from the edges of the dinner table. But what these particular angles suggest is that, while conversation is going on all round the table, it is the budding relationship between Taylor and Rock Hudson that we have to watch.An intelligent creative team is well served by an able cast. This is the most convincing upwards-ageing of actors I have seen from this period, and it's not just down to the considerable talents of the makeup department. The leads do their best to actually act old. Rock Hudson is the most successful at this, as well as having the guts to play Bick Benedict as apparently rough and unfeeling, allowing our admiration for him to emerge gradually from his words and actions. James Dean shows some development since his impassioned teenager roles. His middle-aged man act is quite impressive, although once or twice slips into caricature, and his overall performance is still outdone by that in East of Eden. A couple of honourable mentions among the supporting cast &#x96; Chill Wills, nicely understated in one of his best performances, Mercedes McCambridge, who it really appears could do no wrong, and Dennis Hopper, betraying his inexperience but still more satisfying here than in later, more extreme roles.Giant is not quite as well known as many of the other big pictures of this era, but despite its dramatic storyline and lack of razzmatazz it is still gripping and fast-moving. It is a really wonderfully crafted piece of cinema &#x96; all pure beef with not an ounce of spare fat. "},{"Title":"Liz Civilizes Texas.","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant is right. It's a colossal, wide-screen, sprawling, multi-generational epic of a fabulously wealthy Texas family in glorious Bombasticolor and stereophonic sound. They could relieve a worldwide famine with what must have been spent on this gargantuan production.Rock Hudson owns a ranch of more than half a million acres and marries Liz Taylor during one of his few trips away from the farm. They have three kids, each of which goes his or her own way in defiance of their old-fashioned Dad. The grandchildren come. One is a cute half-Mexican, which flusters Hudson. Hudson is in the same position as Topol's character in Fiddler on the Roof. Little by little he's forced to give up his traditions and adapt to the earth that is changing under his feet.It's directed by George Stevens. Stevens avoids his earlier long dissolves. The Age of Dinosaurs could have come and gone in A Place in the Sun while Liz Taylor's gorgeous face languidly morphed into a jailhouse or something. And Stevens is responsible for the occasional touches of subtlety. A young man's body is returned to his village during World War II and during a solemn and moving burial ritual we see a young Mexican boy yawn, then wander off to toss a ball while the casket is being lowered into the grave. (In Shane, it was a boy tentatively petting a nursing colt.) The cast is pretty much what you'd expect. Elizabeth Taylor is a seasoned actress and Rock Hudson handles the mostly comic role of the grouchy but good-hearted patriarch well enough. James Dean is miscast as Jett Rink, the slouching no-goodnik whose hatred of Rock Hudson is reciprocated. Dean was a screen idol at the time and Stevens must have let him have his head because Dean never gave such a mannered performance. (He was excellent in East of Eden.) Here, he's never just -- doing nothing. There is always some piece of scene-stealing business going on. He plays with a piece of line with what is called a monkey's fist on the end during a conversation, whipping it round and round, calling attention to his presence. His best scene is his final one. When he is confronted by an enraged Rock Hudson, twice his size, in a wine cellar and is told to put up his fists, his idiosyncrasies become so outrageous they're actually funny as hell.Edna Ferber, on whose novel this is based, was a member of the Algonquin Round Table but it's hard to see exactly how she fit in. A big novelist from the Midwest who wrote stories centered around strong women and no sign of acid wit. At least none of her witticisms have come down to us, unlike Dorothy Parker's translation of la meme-chose as your zipper is open. I'm not so certain about the values expressed in Giant either. In the end, the story applauds Hudson for changing with the times, but we also get the impression that it endorses the settlement of disagreements among grown men by means of fist fights. And when Chill Wills stares at the departing figure of James Dean, he remarks to Hudson, You know, you should have shot that fella a long time ago. Now he's too rich to kill. And I wasn't at all sure that it was a joke. And the central values are family and materialism. One of the many challenges facing poor Rock Hudson is whether he should give in to the oil interests and get richer, or keep raising beef and just stay as monumentally rich as he already is. When the USA begins to build The Hanging Gardens of Babylon and the golden statue in the Temple of Artemis, they will be built in Texas. The Benedict family of this story will provide the funds and the rest of us will provide the laborers. "},{"Title":"Not For Attention Deficit Order Sufferers!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the best films ever made. However, many of today's film-goers would find this film dull and tedious. This may be due to the fact that today's movies must move at a very fast pace, because most of today's filmgoers are unable to deal with a deliberate, thoughtful style of movie making. The three principles were not only extremely attractive; but gave virtuoso performances. Rock Hudson, James Dean, and Elizabeth Taylor never worked with a better director, and it shows. However, Liz did work with George Stevens in 1951's 'A Place In The Sun.' The cinematography was pitch perfect, for this sprawling saga. Again, this a an in depth story about the strengths and weaknesses of some interesting people, living and dealing with remarkable changes in their world. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of Elizabeth Taylor's best pictures","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is defently one of Elizabeth Taylor's best pictures ever. It's a absolutely a knock out. Know other actress could have played this part better than her. This breath taking epic is basically about Leslie (Taylor) gets married to Jordan (Hudson) and goes to live in his house in Texas.Also living their is Jett (Dean)as a servant. During the next few scenes you realise Jordan's personality he's basically a narrowminded shovanistic pig. Then Leslie has children, 3 girls and a boy. Later Jett stikes oil and becomes rich and a fued of jealousy brews between him and Jordan. Then Leslie and Jordan's  marriage starts to crumble. Then it goes to when the children grow up and Leslie and Jordan are old. The children are into leading their own life style whick Jordan doesn't accept. The son becomes a doctor and Jordan is angered by this as he bought him up to work on the family ranch. The eldest daughter marrys a man and wants to go a school that Leslie doesn't approve of. The the youngest daughter is after Jett who is now an alcoholic. This is defently a must see movie. It's on the Gone With the Wind (1939) level. Also it was sadly James Dean's last film role.It is one of the best films in screen history. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director George Stevens proved that he could make another drama with a western feel with Giant.  After Shane, it seems impossible that Stevens could repeat his success.  But he did, with a perfect cast and a great interpretation of the Edna Ferber novel.  Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean give underrated, fantastic performances.  But I believe that Rock Hudson gives the performance of his career in this movie.  Although he didn't win the Oscar he was nominated for for Giant, he definitely should have. He's the one that truly makes this movie unforgettable.  I strongly recommend this great film to any movie fan! "}{"Title":"Great, sprawling epic.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This summer's release of Pearl Harbor made me realize something epic blockbusters were so much better in the 50's and 60's. Back then, epics were not only made with care and heart, but they starred people with acting talent. Of course, these stars had the whole teen idol thing going too, but they were also pretty good actors. And another thing, the movie actually had enough material to last its 3 hour runtime. Hear that, Michael Bay? (spoilers)The movie begins with Jordan &#145;Bick' Benedict (Rock Hudson) visiting a farm owned by Horace Lynnton. He is here to buy a horse. He has supper with the family and seduces Lynnton's daughter, Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor). They fall in love and move to Texas, where Jordan lives with his sister Luz (Mercedes McCambridge) on a large ranch. Luz and Leslie do not get along well, but that is cut to a brutal end when Luz dies in a horseback riding accident. In her will, Luz leaves a plot of land to the ranch's cowboy/handyman, Jett Rink (James Dean). Rink names his plot Little Reata (after the ranch), moves into a small shack on the grounds, and sets up an oil derrick. It's only a matter of time before it springs.The film spans three decades, in which the Benedicts obviously age. Instead of using makeup, the film uses blue hair dye on Hudson and Taylor. A little blue dye never hurts, but by the time the movie ends, they look like Smurfs. However, it is easy to forgive the movie given that it is 45 years old. The movie raises a lot of issues that seem almost prophetic to its time. This movie comes before feminism and not long after racism barriers were brought down. Taylor's character tries to help around the ranch, but Hudson opposes; she's a woman, she should do what women do. Hudson is also oblivious to the foreign workers who live on his ranch. (I'm not sure what nationality they are. Mexican, maybe?) When one of the babies, Angel, is sick, Bick does not care. He is only the kid of a worker and he can get another one when he wants. Leslie helps him out and Angel becomes a soldier in the Army. He dies in the war and Bick realizes what a fine young man he was.The acting is superb, with a one of the great unsung casts of the 50's. Hudson towers in his role, probably his best. The only thing really associated with Rock Hudson nowadays is that he was gay. That is not only tasteless and gossipy, but it also passes completely beside the point that Hudson was a great actor when the material would hold up. The beautiful Elizabeth Taylor also shines in a role that perhaps suffered a bit from typical 50'S sexism. Her character gives up when she is told to, and she never quite achieves the potential that her character had. Still, that is the script's fault and Taylor is great. My favorite scene is the one where she talks to Jett Rink in the shack. Rink is obviously attracted to her, but she knows that she can't and that she doesn't want. Taylor has given some better performances since then (Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf?) but this one hold up well. James Dean, in his last role (he died only a few days after shooting was done), shows a mastery of emotions not present in his two other roles. Sure, he was great in the others too, but this one is his most mature and controlled performance. The cast also includes other Rebel Without A Cause alumni Dennis Hopper (as Jordan Benedict, Jr.) and Sal Mineo (as Angel Obregon).The script to Giant is generally great, with well-written dialogue and well set scenes, but it suffers from typical 50's censorship/racism/sexism issues. The editing is one of the only problems I've had with Giant. The editing is a bit haphazard, especially when trying to pass time. The only clues you get in the area of passing time is in the dialogue. Scenes which should have been there (Jordan and Leslie's wedding, for one) are missing, and some less important scenes take up too much time (Angel's funeral). Another thing I disliked was the anticlimatic fistfight near the end. I've discussed it online, and I resolved that its point was there, to showcase Jordan's (and Hudson's) pent-up anger but I can't shake the feeling that it looks like WWF without any scantily-clad girls or gratuitous swearing. I think that if only a few punches were thrown, it would have been acceptable, but here it becomes a real battle royale. Too bad.Giant is a prime example of what Hollywood could do back then. An epic with no misplaced feelings, no overly sappy scenes, an actual message to get through and excellent performances. Four things Michael Bay and Jerry Bruckheimer haven't come to grasp with yet. Sure, it has its share of problems, but if you have a choice of movie to waste three hours, then get this. Make me proud. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A film that defines its genre","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For what it's worth, Giant is a classic example of the Block Buster! You get yourself a big production, get the biggest names in Hollywood, and you make sure the running time of the film is at least 3 hours long. In the end, you got yourself a block buster! Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor, James Dean, and Dennis Hopper. The entire cast is a giant! You can't say anything else true about the film besides the fact that it is a giant. The title says it alone! "},{"Title":"James Dean in his last, most unsuitable role - a prophecy?","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What an irony In his third film the young rebel James Dean ended up as an old man (!) and in reality his death followed! It's quite risky to let the same actors play roles over a period of more than thirty years and in my opinion the only one who succeeded in playing old was Elizabeth Taylor, but she was accordingly little convincing in her young part. At least the make-up artist did a good job.&#132;Giant` is a family saga featuring four generations. Therefore it had to be very long (a little too long unfortunately). It's one of those films where in the end you don't know exactly how the film started; you remember the beginning like something that lies a long time ago, not only three hours. I mean this as a positive remark the movie is somewhat well-balanced in its length, a quality epic American dramas often lack. Congratulations to the director; he deserved the Oscar.The story itself is helplessly American and therefore predictable and that's not at all advantageous for a three-hours movie. I don't know if anyone read one of the tomes Agatha Christie wrote with the pen-name Mary Westmacott; &#132;Giant` is very similar to them they both present that popular psychology about how similar a generation is to the generation before. This, I think, was modern in the fifties but today it's out-dated because we're over-flooded by films with always the same system. &#132;Giant` is visually and technically remarkable but generally average and concerning the leading actors it's even below the average. Only the casting of James Dean as old Jett Rink is a bizarre, macabre fact that will prevent this movie from falling into oblivion.  "},{"Title":"Giant indeed","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Perhaps one of the few great 50's epics to stand the test of time. Giant is indeed epic, in it's length at two hundred minutes and it's grandeur in telling the story of three generations of Texas cattle ranchers. The story of Big Bick Benedict and his fiery wife Leslie Lynnton is just the lead in to surprisingly poignant tale of racial tolerance, women's lib and ambition gone awry.Bick Benedict is an old fashion Texas rancher who has a plan. He's looking for a proper Texas wife to raise a family and a son to carry on the family ranching legacy. It's quite a sight to behold as his plans and old style values are challenged and turned upside down by a changing family. James Dean provides the counterpoint with his oscar nominated final role as Bick's life long rival.It was rare thing for such a big budgeted fifties picture to readily portray the questioning of long held values and prejudices. This cinematic courageousness is perhaps the one thing that keeps Giant in the forefront of films from that period. It accomplishes this despite some stiff dialogue and atrocious makeup effects. James Dean remains a splendor to watch as Jett Rinker in a driven, haunting role. A baby faced Dennis Hooper appears as Bick's headstrong son as well as a cameo from the doomed Sal Mineo.  "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It took me several nights to get through this flick after taping it from American Movie Classics. During the second night's viewing I was tempted to ditch it, but by the end of that night I got interested in these people, and from thereon got progressively more involved in finding out what happens to them. I suppose this is how people get into soap operas, and that is really what this huge film is.Miscellany The stuff they added to Rock's and Elizabeth's hair to age them during the movie makes their hair less gray than eerily blue / After seeing Rock do his faux-Texan shtick in the later Pillow Talk, where his fake identity is clearly a parody of his Jordan Benedict here, it's really tough not to think of him playing this as a comedy role / The continuity editor missed Liz referring, mid-film, to the spread as 560,000 square miles where Rock had at the outset said acres - she thus increased the size of Riata by more than 600 times, by my rusty math (I wonder if Jordan had to pay capital gains on this increase) / It's hard to say what to make of James Dean's Jett Rink - he clearly enjoyed the role, but the humorously disastrous drunken finish, first passing out in front of the crowd and later toppling off the podium overwhelms what appear to be his attempt to emphasize the character's sad hollowness. The over-the-top performance is never dull, though.By the bye, this is one epic that doesn't really benefit from the letterbox format. The wide-screen format of the original is not that wide; not much is lost in translating to tv screen format. "},{"Title":"BIG, sweeping multi generational saga","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The lives of a Texan family over the course of about 40 years. There are multiple story lines dealing with death, marriage, racism, alcoholism, etc etc all beautifully directed (try to see it on a big screen or letter-boxed) and well acted. Despite its 3 1/2 hour length, the film is never dull. Elizabeth Taylor is just great as the mother of the family; Rock Hudson is a little stiff, but has moments; James Dean is perfect in what was to be his last role; Dennis Hopper is interesting as their son (he's so YOUNG!). This movie never seems to have gotten the recognition it deserved. Why not?Well worth seeing again and again and again... "},{"Title":"Huge, Uneven, but Engrossing George Stevens Epic...","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" GIANT, George Stevens' massive film production of Edna Ferber's novel about early twentieth-century Texas, is a viewing experience that leaves viewers hot or cold, but never neutral. For every fan who finds the story's broad canvas, unflinching look at social classes and racism, and legendary stars, enthralling, there is another who, by film's end, will complain that the tale is boring, with little in the way of plot or resolution, and that the lead players are merely caricatures of Texas 'types'.In a sense, both points of view are legitimate, and points up one of director Stevens' greatest attributes; an ability to weave such intricacy into a deceptively simple story that each viewer will react differently to what they've seen.The story, of a quarter century in the lives of an 'Old Money' Texas rancher, his eastern bride, and an uneducated ranch hand who strikes it rich in oil, brought together three of the 1950's brightest young stars, 29-year old Rock Hudson, 24-year old Elizabeth Taylor, and 25-year old James Dean (in his final film role; he would tragically die in an automobile accident after filming), and provided each with the most challenging roles of their careers.'Bick' Benedict (Hudson) is a simple man, proud of his heritage and the wealth that his family's labors has accumulated, and content with the white supremacy of the times. The complexity of his Maryland-bred wife, Leslie Lynnton (Taylor), has him totally baffled, from the moment he first meets her, and her firm belief in the equality of races is an alien concept to him. Her friendship to the Mexican-American 'help', in his eyes, is not only silly, but potentially dangerous, rocking the 'status quo'.Then there is young Jett Rink, last member of a family who helped build the Benedict estate, an uneducated, volatile cowboy who 'Bick' despises, but who refuses to sell the tiny piece of property left to him. Rink is immediately infatuated by Leslie, and, when politely spurned by her, sets about on a lifetime quest to 'outdo' the Benedicts, beginning when he amasses his own fortune from the oil found on his land.The cast of the film is huge, with standout roles by Mercedes McCambridge, in a cameo as 'Bick's' sister, strong-willed competitor to Leslie for his affection; Carroll Baker, as daughter Luz, who Rink seduces in his vendetta against the Benedicts; Dennis Hopper, the strong-willed son who turns his back on 'tradition', becoming a doctor and marrying a Mexican girl; and Chill Wills, as Uncle Bawley, offering wisdom to both 'Bick' and Leslie through the years.With one of composer Dimitri Tiomkin's most powerful scores, and a backdrop of the sand-blasted low country of central Texas, the finale, of 'Bick's' awakening to his own prejudices, and a knock down, drag out fistfight with a bigoted diner owner, is an unforgettable capstone to a story filled with success and failure, triumphs and tragedy. True, the film's final image, of two small children, one blond and one dark, sharing a playpen, may not provide 'closure' for some viewers, but the pair are together, indicating how far the Benedicts had progressed, and serves as a reminder that a family's story never truly 'ends', as another generation rises to assume guardianship of the future.GIANT truly lives up to it's name! "},{"Title":"James Dean Final Performance","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most underrated movie of the 1950s, Giant(1956) deals with change that is brought on a rich Texas family during the 1950s.  This was George Stevens best film of that decade along with A Place in the Sun(1951) and Shane(1952).  Elizabeth Taylor gives the most complete performance of her career.  Rock Hudson is terrific in the role of Bick Benedict.James Dean gives his most three demensional role in what sadly was to be his last appearence in a feature film.  James Dean was on his way to become a great actor when a car crash cut his life short.  Mercedes McCambridge is sassy and tough as Luz Benedict.  Giant(1956) is a film that has endured though the ages and continues to do so. "},{"Title":"Hopeless Hollywood mainstream","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 200 minute monster turns up on cable every now and then, and it always reaffirms my original opinion. How did this get made, and why would anyone think it requires over three hours? The art direction, sets and lighting are all so humorously fake, as bad as the acting. After some local color shots early in the film, it goes mostly indoors with a lot of languorous suffering and unhappiness. Is it an amazing, dense epic that requires its 3 hours? Not a chance. Your time is wasted by things like a café fight scene where Rock gets in a fistfight with the racist owner. It goes on relentlessly, with one facial meat-punch after another as these two fly over tables and chairs and not one person in the place gets up to stop it or flee. After maybe three solid minutes of this poorly enacted brutality, we cut to Rock at home in a family scene with a light bruise on his face. Anyone knows that a few face punches leads to stitches and probably broken hand bones, but he is chuckling with his baby. Well, that is but one example of the weird surrealism of this stinker. "},{"Title":"EPIC FLUFF - Tons of fun.......","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Giant (1956) Film as history. Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor portray  dynasty-like head of the  family oil barons. Set in the heart of Texas with  lots of wide open spaces, suitably shot in CINEMASCOPE. James Dean gives an overrated  performance as white trash  making his way up in the world. Epic fluff that's fun to watch, if you've got the time. "}{"Title":"A timeless Classic--Watch it and See a Great Film","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many people call Giant long and overblown but, for me, a New Yorker, there is no way to experience the Texas of the middle of the 20th Century without sitting through this sumptuous 3 hour and 20 minute soap opera.  I thas long been the joke, both within the movies and without, that they do everything big in Texas and this movie is no exception.Yeah, the acting is a bit hackneyed and over the top (was James Dean's character's speech pattern the basis for Boomhauer on King Of The Hill? Who knows) but it is outweighed by great production design, meticulous camera work, gorgeous photography and one of the best unknown scores ever written.In addition, the film is way ahead of its time in the telling of the racial tension that existed in Texas at the time (and which probably still exists). Rock Hudson's beating at the hands of the racist diner owner epitomizes for me the movie as it portrays the fact that good does not always triumph over bad, something that happened in most every other movie of the 50's.Watch this movie. "},{"Title":"More sizzle than steak","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean's last film, during the completion of which he died.  His real life friend Nick Adams and Rebel Without a Cause co-veteran was called upon to do the final voice dubbing for Dean, and Sal Mineo, who also appeared in Rebel, completes the reunion.Is isn't possible to be objective about James Dean anymore. He looms larger than life over the American cinematic landscape.  He was, alas, a mediocre actor who apparently wanted to be Marlon Brando when he grew up, and never got the chance.  His incoherent performance is at times laughable, and he is patently unbelievable as the older Jett Rink.The plot is inconsequential.  Dean lives in the shadow of the wealthy Benedict family until he hits oil and joins the megarich.  Instead of bringing him happiness, his new stature practically destroys him.  And the Benedict family endures, through such weighty scandals as a son who marries a Mexican and wants to be a doctor instead of a rancher, and a daughter who wants to be a rancher instead of a debutante.  Poor little rich kids.The cast, however, is monumental. Taylor and Hudson are more than any movie deserves, especially this one, but neither is given the chance to really open up.  A supporting cast that includes Dennis Hopper, Earl Holliman, Rod Taylor and others elevates this tedious story above the Hollywood blockbuster pap that is really was, but it's really three hours of aimless meandering that almost seemed like a small story that drowned under the weight George Steven's ham-handed, yet Oscar winning, direction. The end result is entertaining and historically significant, but more episodic than epic, more maudlin than heroic, and definitely more sizzle than steak. "},{"Title":"I have the great honour to introduce a legend in his own time","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Giant is probably the least talked about of James Dean's three movies.He had others, of course, though unless you're interested in bit parts like Youth at Soda Fountain in Has Anybody Seen My Gal? or Boxing Opponent's Second in Sailor Beware, then three's your lot.East of Eden is the one that gets all the critical plaudits, the one that saw Dean Oscar-nominated and giving his best performance. John Kobal's survey amongst 81 film critics in 1988 saw Robert Benayoun and Krzysztof Zanussi vote this one in as the 57th greatest film of all time.Rebel Without A Cause sees a cocky, less-controlled performance from Dean, and, while being perhaps the weaker of the two, is yet somehow more entertaining.That leaves Giant. A sprawling, three hour plus tale of fueding Texan landowners, it casts Dean in his final role as a villain who earns a fortune after land he is left in a will turns into an oil field. The fact that Dean's character is more likeable than the aggressive, boastful Jordan Benedict portrayed by Hudson deflects the focus of the film, as does the fact that it deals more with the Hudson-Taylor domesticity rather than any clear narrative pull. A catch-all coda dealing with racism is un-neatly tagged on the end, cementing the idea that this is a film about anything, everything, and nothing in particular, a great deal of which could have profited by seeing the cutting-room floor.Dean's salary had notably increased from the $12,000 and $12,500 of his first two major films to a pay of $22,500, a generous fee at that time. This was, however, still notably short of the $175,000 and $100,000 paid to his co-stars, Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson respectively. A harsh shoot for the actor, disliked by almost all crew members except for Taylor, his resentment towards the stern director caused him to display his displeasure by urinating in public places, including the set. So driven was the Kubrick-like George Stevens that he shot over 600,000 feet of film, with less than 5% making it to the finished product. In fact, the record states that the petulant Dean gave Stevens a ride in his new car to celebrate the end of filming, dropping him off with the words now that it's all over, we don't have to bug each other anymore. Giant is certainly pacy, despite it's three-hour plus running time. Hudson and Taylor meet, fall in love and get married, all within the first twenty minutes. And it is kind of fun seeing the posthumously-outed Hudson feigning interest in Liz. Production, save for a few driving scenes using film backdrops, is fine, as is the direction and the mammoth sets. Of particular note is ambitious sense of scale when Dean's Jett Rink first discovers the oil, massive plumes of the stuff spurting into the sky with great cinematic effect. Incidental music is of the period, overblown, and more suited to an MGM cartoon than a serious dramatic movie.Most importantly, it lacks focus. There's hints that Dean's underwritten, but decently played, Jett Rink has affections for Liz's Leslie Benedict - and that the feeling is mutual. However, this is never resolved and so we lose out on what could have given Jordan realistic motivation to hate Rink. It's interesting how the treacherous oil baron has his initials &#150; J.R. &#150; presented everywhere. Wouldn't have influenced a certain Dallas by any chance, would it? Also of note is the fact that we never learn exactly why the film's called Giant in the first place, unless it refers to Hudson's formidable 6'6 frame. If that's the only reason, then I look forward to seeing the films he made after this &#150; Tall Bloke and Big Bugger.Dean's final scene, playing a defeated drunk, is overdubbed by Nick Adams as the sound was inaudible and Dean had already died before completion. If Giant had not gained a certain notierity by being the final role of James Dean then it would be almost wholly without note. There is nothing inherently flawed with the picture, but then neither is anything particularly right. Obvious parallels for its attempted epic scale are Gone With The Wind, and, in truth, Giant lacks the substance to meet it's convictions. For the actors involved, this would probably be looked back upon as a treadmill work, a run-of-the-mill, average tale to be added to a CV but to be glossed over in favour of higher-profile endeavours. A filler, an extra paycheck towards the mortgage. Rather a shame, then, that the death of one it's stars has given it a much-undeserved, and morbid, fascination. "},{"Title":"we DID steal Texas","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all, I wouldn't call George Stevens's adaptation of Edna Ferber's Giant a masterpiece. Still, it is a worthy look at 30 years of Texas history. The changes in the lives of the family depicted in the movie sort of mirror the changing attitudes around them. Much like how Jordan Bick Benedict Jr (Rock Hudson) and Leslie Lynnton (Elizabeth Taylor) were from very different backgrounds -- he was a cattleman, she was a socialite -- Jordan III (Dennis Hopper) and Juana (Elsa Cárdenas) are from even more different backgrounds.After Elizabeth Taylor* died a little over a month ago, I watched Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and now I've watched Giant. I can't say which one I liked more, since both have their strengths and weaknesses. What I really liked about this one is seeing James Dean. The movie is of course partly famous because he got killed in a car wreck before production ended, thereby cementing his legendary status. Dean's character is the ultimate slimy oilman.In the end, I do recommend Giant. It might not be the greatest movie ever made, but it does give a sense of the changing world that Bick and Leslie inhabit. I would say that the final half hour of the movie -- especially the final ten minutes -- truly sum up the changes that have taken place since Bick and Leslie got married.Also starring Carroll Baker, Jane Withers, Chill Wills, Mercedes McCambridge (the voice of the demon in The Exorcist), Sal Mineo, Rod Taylor and Earl Holliman.*Before Elizabeth Taylor died, the only movie that I'd seen in which she appeared was the execrable Flintstones movie, so I'll say that I started with Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. "},{"Title":"Hudson, Taylor and James Dean getting old","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Made in the mid 50s 'Giant' is a historical and social drama that covers a few decades and two generations in the life of a wealthy Texan family in the first half of the previous century, in a period of social and economic transformation of Texas and the United States. The genre was not really new, it was quite popular in the 30s and had reached its artistic and popularity pick with 'Gone with the Wind'. In a way the theme anticipated the TV series 'Dallas' which would become a hit lately and deals with the same social media, starting about where 'Giant' ends. More than three hours of screening time did not seem to intimidate neither the producers nor the viewers of the time, the film became for about two decades the biggest blockbuster of the Warner studios, being displaced only in the 70s by the powers of 'Superman'. The cast includes a Rock Hudson in best shape and maturity, an Elizabeth Taylor strikingly beautiful but with an artistic sensitivity fully exposed for the first time, and a James Dean at his third and last leading rile, the fatal accident cutting of his career and life before the film premiered. The director is George Stevens, and interesting and almost forgotten personalty, who was in 1945 one of the first people to have filmed the horrors of the concentration and extermination camp of the Holocaust in Europe, then brought to screen in 1959 'The Diary of Anne Frank' finishing his career in 1970 with a film that brought together Elizabeth Taylor and Warren Beatty in 'The Only Game in Town'.The story starts with the falling in love of the Texan Jordan Benedict (Rock Hudson) with the rich Yankee ranch-owner daughter Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor) and the leaving of the couple for Texas where Benedict is a huge ranch owner. One of the workers at the Benedict ranch is Jett Rink (James Dean) who inherits a small piece of land from Jordan's sister, which he refuses to sell to his rich neighbor and former employer. When oil strikes just on that small piece of land Jett becomes rich overnight, the wealth and social status relation swapping, as Jett is faster in adapting to the new economy based on oil rather than on growing cattle. The story develops with the birth, growth and coming of age of a new generation, following the personal but also the social conflicts related to the transition in economy but also in way of life. A secondary theme relates to racial prejudice with a critical look at the relations between white Texans and the Mexican minority subordinated from an economic and social point of view, but paying the ultimate price when World War II breaks.The rich epic allows director George Stevens and the lead actors a careful and detailed development of the characters. I did a fascinating exercise looking at the actors in historical perspective. All were when the movie was made at the pick of their artistic capacities and physical beauty. Make-up and their talent helped them growing old in the movie and reaching an age that Hudson and Taylor reached in real life, but not Dean. Results differ. Rock Hudson matures and gets old in 'Giant' with the same nobility and style he did mature before being hit by AIDS in the last years of his life. Elizabeth Taylor gets old in the film with a dignity and vibration that could not be seen in her public appearances in the 70s or 80s when the excesses and extravagances of her style of life destroyed her physically leaving only her beautiful eyes to continue to fascinate. James Dean makes what was maybe the most interesting role in the film and the most complex in his painfully short career. We cannot know for sure how Dean would have looked like at older age, but we can imagine his physiognomy similar to the one here minus the negative character exaggeration. Another interesting appearance is the young Denis Hopper, the son of Hudson and Taylor in the film, in his first important role, the first in a series of low self-confidence characters role. "},{"Title":"star power still carries this old-school epic","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The word 'sprawling' doesn't begin to describe George Steven's two-fisted tale of a wealthy Texas cattle clan adapting to changing times after the oil boom. Fortunately, the director's appreciation of Western myth and scenic grandeur is better developed than his sense of pacing his multi-generational saga unfolds far too leisurely for its own good, devoting too little time to far too many issues racial discrimination; corporate greed; domestic soap opera melodrama; and the passing traditions of the Old West. Stevens' heroic approach to the story may be dated, but the epic scope alone is impressive, and of course the film is a stargazer's delight. Fans not content to watch Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor in their prime can thrill to the macabre vision of what James Dean might have looked like had he survived to middle age (believe it or not, there's an uncanny suggestion of a well-fed John Waters). "},{"Title":"Not So Giant but still Grand","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant has been a favorite of mine for several decades. It isn't a great masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination but it IS a good movie, fun to watch, beautifully filmed and well- cast. It's really good old-fashioned dressed-up, epic-length hokum, a genre that I enjoy once in awhile, like Ma and Pa Kettle movies, only here Ma and Pa are Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson.Those two iconic actors are the main reason for watching Giant. They are in their early primes in 1956. I don't know which of them is the more beautiful but it's a close race. She went on to make Cleopatra 7 years later and became the Liz we all know today but in Giant she is more akin to the little girl in National Velvet. Rock Hudson was a fairly recent newcomer to the silver screen and this movie foreshadows his ultra-sexy character in Pillow Talk 3 years later. They are totally their starry selves in all their glory, and when the going gets rough, in this basically 2nd rate movie, you can simply feast your eyes on them, even as they age in the most ridiculous manner. I mean, they are only in their late 40s by the end and they are made up to look 65, even though her bust hasn't dropped to her naval and his tummy and behind are as firm and confident as they were when the show started. But they were grandparents by the end of the movie and gramma and grampa can't be sex objects now can they. But he's so sexy in those blue jeans (ahem!) that the mind can't help but wander.There is a splendid cast of characters surrounding the two sex symbols. Old Western hands like Jane Withers and Chill Wills (Ma and Pa Kettle indeed) and a feisty and lovely Carroll Baker (can you believe she is 79 years old this year!) add interest to this large cast. Dennis Hopper was far from his Easy Rider and Blue Velvet days and plays the milquetoast son of Rock and Liz who wants to be a doctor. Earl Holliman makes an early film appearance, the same year he appeared in the 50s Sci-Fi classic Forbidden Planet, appearing opposite to Robbie the Robot and Walter Pidgeon, a film that has much in common with Giant.Giant was made well before the Cinerama vision and over-exaggerated Technicolor extravaganza Westerns like How the West Was Won (1962). Giant looks back to the older westerns like Johnny Guitar (1953) and even High Noon (1952). The magnificent camera work of Willam C. Mellor and Edwin DuPar manages, without Panavision and in a simple box frame, to convey the huge emptiness of West Texas and the endless skies filled with magnificent sunset-tinted clouds. Giant is an apt title for this manner of photography and is probably the greatest aspect of this movie. George Stevens was an old hand at Westerns and his direction prevents these actors from descending into clichéd impersonations of what Hollywood producers think mid-western people, 'Texians' in particular, are like.Elizabeth Taylor does her rendition of Scarlett O'Hara; see also Raintree County (1957) and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958), only not spoiled. Rock and James Dean (Jet Rink) create a palpable homo-erotic aura around their scenes together. Indeed the opening scenes at Reata (Rock's ranch in Texas) reeks of a secret demi-monde in the dry wastes of cattle country. Mercedes McCambridge (Luz Benedict) plays Rock's butch sister who dies early on in the movie. But before she gets bucked (from a horse) the movie has become a steam bath of sexual tension and jealousy. This atmosphere doesn't last long as the story becomes more and more conventional with less and less dramatic substance. Doris Day and Thelma Ritter could have appeared at this point and been right at home in the script.James Dean is disappointing, mumbling and shuffling. His Method Acting training falls short with this cow-hand, but he's fully engaged in the script and makes the most of his pathetic character within his limitations. He is best before he discovers oil on his little patch of land left to him by Luz, who it is explained probably loved Jett but I suspect she was more of a protective lesbian bête-noire to him than a potential lover. Jet's part plummets (no pun intended) in quality and acting opportunity after he becomes a middle aged billionaire with a drinking problem.The climax of the movie is Rock Hudson getting in a fist fight in a diner because the owner disses a Mexican family and won't serve them. As Rock's son, Jordan Benedict III, has married a Mexican woman and this movie is, I was surprised to learn at the end, all about racial equality, 1956 style. This becomes the whole raîson-d'être for this story and results in the most nauseating sentimentality at the end that you can possibly imagine involving a black calf a white sheep and a brunette baby and a blonde baby in a playpen. It is early P.C. schmalz and it flops badly. The movie just stops on this note leaving the story like a floater in a large cinematic toilet boil. It is the terrible ending that knocked this movie down from an 8 to a 6 rating in my book.But don't let the horrid ending put you off. Giant is iconic in the film universe and the production values are first class, no amount of money was stinted in its making and it pays off. It's long but it isn't boring as Rock and Liz are on screen for most of its 197 minutes. "},{"Title":"Dull, melodramatic, sporadically entertaining","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A sprawling epic if there ever was one, Giant is about two generations of a family of cattle ranchers in Texas, led by patriarch Jordan Benedict (Rock Hudson). Benedict travels to Maryland to buy a horse and winds up with Leslie Lynnton (Elizabeth Taylor), whom he takes home to raise a family with.Back at the ranch, tension sets in between Benedict's sister Luz (Mercedes McCambridge) and Leslie; the former feels threatened by the sudden new female presence in the home. Headstrong and full of vigor, Luz is the polar opposite of Leslie. (One neighbor remarks that Luz would rather herd cattle than make love; hmm, an early reference to lesbianism? Maybe, and her name might have been a clumsy clue as well...) There's other tension, too, as Leslie doesn't quite comprehend why certain people (read Mexican-Americans) are treated so shabbily by the Texans. The issue even threatens to drive a wedge between her and Benedict, and she even returns home (with their three kids, by this point), but Benedict's able to get her to return. This turns into one of the central themes of Giant, the idea that the manly men of Texas are the only real men out there, and that everyone else - especially anyone from a different country or of a different ethnic background - is well below them in the pecking order.James Dean, in his final film (he died late during filming), plays a ranch hand turned millionaire with the unlikely name of Jett Rink. Benedict openly dislikes Jett from the git-go and REALLY loathes him when the latter strikes oil on his tiny plot of land and strikes it rich, his wealth soon rivaling (or surpassing) that of Benedicts. Yes, it's another penis-swinging movie, wherein the two leads try to show the other who is, indeed, The Man. Rink is unsteady, an outcast by nearly everyone else in the film, although it's Leslie who befriends him shortly before he strikes oil.Leslie is the one character for whom the audience can root, because she's basically flawless. She's the moral compass for the other characters in the film. She rarely raises her voice, but her views are strong. Heck, they're strong right from the moment she meets Benedict in Maryland, as she somewhat unconsciously derides his prideful state. Leslie is a rarity among Texas women, because she's an independent thinker (or so the movie instructs us), so naturally her stiff upper lip runs counter to what's expected of ladies in Texas society.But all of those tensions are only about half of the story, as the kids of Benedict and Leslie grow and mature and have spouses and kids of their own, and rarely do those choices follow what their father intended. Jordy Benedict, played by a fresh-faced Dennis Hopper, decides not to take over the family ranch and to instead become a doctor; he also marryies a Mexican girl, leading to even more tension. And Luz Benedict, named after Jordan Benedict's sister, falls in love with her dad's chief rival, Rink. Late in the movie, the specter of racism rears its head, as Jordy's wife is denied service on the grounds that she's a wetback. Incensed, Jordy takes matters into his own hands, but his pop's there to help him out.The film itself is beautiful, with breathtaking shots of the Texas landscape that'll leave the city folks in the audience pining for wide-open spaces. Without question, the movie should be seen on a big screen, but since it was made in 1956 it's not terribly likely to show up at any theaters in the near future - watch for revivals or festivals and see it how it was intended.On the littler screen, leaving aside the size issue entirely, the main problem I have with the film is that it's a bit dated. Sure, I know there's still a lot of racial inequality and tension in the world, but I don't think you'll hear the word wetback bandied about often, and even the way men and women view each other, in terms of respect (even in Texas, yee-ha!), has evolved quite a bit.Even if one views the movie as a microcosm of 1950s Texas, it's just not entertaining enough. There's melodrama, there's people acting rather predictably, and in the end everyone grows a little. It's all a little too pat, these lessons of racism and sexism and so forth. Benedict's such a horse's ass at the beginning that you openly hope for his death or dismemberment just so he could get some sense knocked into him.As for the cast, Taylor is magnificent - my GOODNESS, was she well cast! She looks ravishing, with gorgeous wide eyes and a stare that'll freeze her kidlets from fifty yards. She's commanding and beautiful. I haven't seen much of La Liz in her early days, but she's so fantastic here, I should make it a point to see some others. Hudson and Dean are both okay, although Dean's Rink is relegated to mumbling and shuffling most of the time and Hudson's Benedict is stuck with being either a mope or a tyrant. Neither character was particularly appealing, but I never really felt much sympathy toward either, especially for Benedict (although perhaps a little near the end).In smaller, supporting roles, Hopper is delightful, as is Chill Wills as loyal Uncle Bawley and Carroll Baker (in the same year she did Baby Doll) as Luz Baker II, radiant and luscious and just as independent as her on screen mom, Taylor.In all, I found Giant to be a bit of a bore, sad to say, despite Taylor and some great camera work. Watching Giant, despite its length, is sort of like buying a fast-food hamburger; it looks pretty when you see it on the menu, but after you've eaten it you still feel kind of empty. "},{"Title":"flaws in this movie","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen it many times and always wonder how George Stevens allowed such flaws like The pool scene where the men talk of oil taxes, in comes Leslie and ads a remark to a talk she could not have heard before entering,or the Benedict plane approaching the air-port , wheels out, then bazzes over the hotel with wheels fully inside "},{"Title":"something never to forget","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is a monumental film, and although it has quite afew flaws one can never forget the big-house(does it still exist?),the vast landscape which is almost legendary,and the impressing sound track of Dimitri Tiomkin.One cannot forget the jump between two subsequent scenes, the downfall of Jet to the floor and right after that the open convertible on a Texas highway to the brass tune of ;south of the border "}{"Title":"Giant (1956)","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of my all-time favorite films for the past 40 years.An exposure of the apartheid still prevailing in modern USA.I just loved Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson.Brilliant piece of casting this.James Dean is at his best as the young Jett but ageing him put him at a handicap and here lies the film's most notable failing.The rest of the casting is a dream even the kids in the film are superb.Mr.Stevens is famous for his exactness of detail and this film is a monument to his unique talent.Like in his other masterpiece 'Shane' the dialog and the outdoor shooting lends power to the story telling, moods of human nature and it failings.We could conclude that even after 53 years the truth about Texas and the wealthy Texans still hold and perhaps Texas has learned something from this Great film.I never cease to wonder every time i see it.Just wonderful! "},{"Title":"Truly amazing.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really just started becoming interested in old movies this summer. My favorite old movie was always, and may always be, Some Like It Hot, but I thought this film was utterly remarkable.It's one of those movies that for the most part, manages to work very well in the present day. I was astounded at how compelling this film is. I was also very saddened at the realization that this was James Dean's last film. It was truly heartbreaking to see him on screen at times. He gave a brilliant performance, and practically stole the show.One of the most fascinating things about this movie is the way in which Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean aged in the film. I can't think of any popular young actors and actresses who would be able to grow older during a movie, and do it without a sense that it had been forced.Rock Hudson was great in this movie as well, but the stellar performances really belong to Taylor and Dean who made their characters come alive - Leslie with her compassion and intelligence, and Jett Rink with his big dreams, and incredible ignorance.This movie is definitely not for everyone, but if you enjoy long movies with a believable plot and superb performances, this is for you.I give it a nine because as with many older films, the score can be a little too dramatic, and get obnoxious. "},{"Title":"Texas Instruments - Digital version 2003","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Just attended the Dallas screening of the new digital version from Texas Instruments new digital projection system.  The colors literally jump off the screen.  Specifically, the scene where Rock Hudson and Paul Fix are in the car and Liz Taylor rides by and stops to wave to dad, the black coat on her steed just shines like fresh paint.  This has always been a controversial film - too long, can't understand James Dean, too many racial elements, etc.  I love the film and appreciate it's many elements.  Real life for the 3 stars was remarkably unforgiving, but during this film we see each in their prime.  Liz was probably the most beautiful woman in the world, Rock Hudson at his most virile and James Dean acting playful and parodying his media image at the time.  So very sad that we were not able to see what this man could bring to film as he matured.  Fresh faced Dennis Hopper giving no indication of the decades of drug abuse that lie ahead.  Chill Wills provides the comic relief and most of the best one liners.  Mercedes McCambride exemplifying a woman's fear of not being needed.  Carroll Baker as the innocent, bright eyed youngster being used as a pawn and the pain associated when she realizes.  So many great moments that the faults fade away. "},{"Title":"it's a whole 'nother country","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People criticize that Giant is too long. What do they want? A movie by George Stevens about Texas with big-name stars simply had to be vast and sprawling. I've never read the book but imagine that Stevens condensed dozens of written pages into single scenes. Much of the movie's greatness comes from the scenes without dialogue, such as Hudson and Taylor's different expressions when looking over their grandchildren, the Mexican youngster playing outside the church during Sal Mineo's funeral -- and especially the reunion scene between Hudson and Taylor in Virginia.I prefer Giant to A Place in the Sun, for which Stevens won his first of two Oscars as best director. Elizabeth Taylor was in both pictures but in Giant, five years later, has become a mature, independent woman of substance who could stand up to Rock Hudson on any issue. And to think she was 24 when the picture was released!James Dean's character development is a little unclear -- where was Errol Flynn to play an aging drunk? -- but it's interesting to watch Dean's character drift into racism and Hudson's become more open minded. Taylor's purifying effect upon Hudson -- and the lack of such a person in Dean's life -- is most evident.Who knew what lay ahead for Hudson, Taylor, Dean, Dennis Hopper and Sal Mineo. (I never cease to be moved by the newspaper headline Angel Obregon comes home today). All suffered tragic fates, which makes Giant like The Misfits, although clearly a child of the 1950s and in the hands of a master director at the top of his game. Stevens masterfully invests the minor characters, like Chill Wills and Jane Withers, with lifelike roles. Or Jett Rink's right-hand man/handler who advises, We haven't changed anything. Changes tend to throw you! Carroll Baker gives it her best shot and Earl Holliman is, well, Earl Holliman. Essential viewing, one instance of Hollywood competing successfully with TV. Some lines you may never forget, like Jett, you want to know something true? You're all through.   "},{"Title":"A story about a house and a state","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Two of the outstanding stars in this movie are the house at Reata and the state of Texas.  It is interesting to watch as the house changes over the years, but the attitudes of most of the European-heritage Texans stay surprisingly small-minded for such a large state.Also, although perhaps she isn't one of the most skilled actors who ever lived, nonetheless I can never tear my eyes away from Carroll Baker in this, or any of her other films.  I am surprised so few people have commented on Baker's typically naturalistic take on the strong-willed semi-bad girl whose behavior must have resembled that of her namesake in her own youth.Overall, Giant seems a bit poorly-constructed (and yes, poorly-explained), a little too long or too short (either a much tighter or more epic spectacle is called for, I believe), but otherwise a reasonably entertaining view of a family.  As a sweeping view of the land of the West, The Big Country is a better-constructed film.  On the other hand, I liked The Carpet-Baggers, so that's an idea of my taste in family sagas! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a great movie for it's time.  One of the parts I liked the best is when they were on the train sitting in Texas, and she looks out the window. Too funny!  What a stark contrast from Maryland! The sound quality was not that great, and the movie was a little too long, but still a great movie. "},{"Title":"BIG...giant, even.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A really BIG movie, in more ways than one.  It was Liz Taylor's first adult role, Rock Hudson's first major role, and James Dean's final role.  It lasted over three hours.  It was nominated for something like eight Academy Awards.  It covered pretty much an entire lifetime.  It was set in a big state, Texas.  It was about big cattle, big oil, big money, and big egos. It's worth seeing big-time. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie... In Parts","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Giant is approximately 201 minutes long, and yet only less than a quarter of it is watchable. The moments I am referring to are the ones when James Dean is on screen.Here he gives his strangest and riskiest performance, playing the Howard Hughes-esquire character, Jett Rink. The sequence where he confronts his former employers while covered in crude oil is spellbinding.The rest of the movie suffers without his presence. The story is slow and curiously involving.Still, you should see it for Dean's performance alone. "},{"Title":"Not enough Dean","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was unbelievable and long, but still good. Taylor and Hudson fall in love after one day and go live on a ranch together. James Dean becomes racist all of a sudden mid-movie, and Hudson has such a strong hate for Dean just because he took the land that was his and thinks his wife is hot. Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson get waaaaay too much screen time, George Stevens hated Dean, and the boy got maybe a half hour of scenes in the film. He was the saving grace. Every second he was in it made the movie acceptable. Especially when he's making tea. Every time he's not on screen, I find myself recalling the times he was on screen, or looking in the direction of the screen where he last was. His acting is amazing and wonderful, its been said before, but what a shame.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I only saw the picture because after I watched Rebel Without A Cause, I fell in love with James Dean. At first I didn't really like it; Rock Hudson and Liz Taylor have great chemistry, but I didn't buy them falling in love after knowing each other for a day. But when they got onto the ranch, the film became perfect. I've never seen an Elizabeth Taylor film before this one. Her feministic attitude made the film unlike any others from the 50s. Rock Hudson was very powerful in the role of the headstrong patriarch. James Dean... it's so sad he was taken away from the film industry before he could show off all of his talent. His performance was the highlight of the film. "}{"Title":"A Great Epic with Excellent Cast","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw GIANT in 1957 and since then I have seen it at least about 25 times. It is one of my favourite films as it had all my favourite actors - Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean.GIANT is one those films they call an epic and it truly lives to this description.  From the opening scene when Hudson watches the fox hunting scene from the train to the end with the closeups of the two children - one white and the other coloured, the film holds our interest.The film received 10 Academy Award nominations having received only one for Best Director (George Stevens).  Both Hudson and James Dean were nominated for Best Actor category but lost it to Yul Brynner.  Thanks to excellent direction and guidance by Stevens, Hudson was able to deliver a superb performance for which he deservingly received the nomination. He should have been awarded.  Surprisingly, Taylor was not nominated but I felt her performance in GIANT was far better than in BUTTERFIELD 8 for which she an Oscar.Apart from the leading players, GIANT also has an excellent supporting cast. GIANT also boasts a good musical score by Dimitri Tiomkin with excellent colour photography by William C Mellor.I have a laser disc of this film and I still see it now and then.  It still holds good even after 44 years.  I strongly recommend it for those who have not seen it. "},{"Title":"A mainstream melodrama that brilliantly captures the sensibilities of 50's Americana.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best thing about George Stevens grand-scale movie of Edna Ferber's GIANT is the evocative sense it gives of mid-century America, not just from the perspective of it's Texas story and characterizations; but also from the picture's tone and reflective portrait of America at that time. Like Stevens' earlier film, A PLACE IN THE SUN, GIANT offers a fairly unsentimental view of family values, class distinction, and success in a skillfully-crafted melodrama featuring top-notch performances from a first-rate cast.  Stevens' expertise is evident in every frame and the picture is ripe with memorable visual content (particularly the Reata ranch house standing alone in miles of Texas acreage).  If the film has a major fault, it's that it's too overtly mainstream to be a great melodrama about it's true subject (check out Douglas Sirk's WRITTEN ON THE WIND for the definitive melodramatic masterpiece about the Texas rich), but as time goes by, it's this very quality that makes GIANT a sublime epic examining the American persona of the time.  Most viewers will always be interested in GIANT because it's James Dean's last performance, but he's only one of many highlights in the film (in fact it's Mercedes McCambridge brief, effective portrait of the the female matriarch that's the most compelling performance in the film).  George Stevens was one of the great, distinctively American, filmmakers of his time and GIANT will remain a richly preserved testament to his skill and vision.  The bigger the screen, the better for this one!           "},{"Title":"Certainly a Giant of a Movie","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is too long to show in my classes, so I generally offer it as extra credit for students who want to strive harder. One of my students watched the film last weekend and submitted her extra credit paper. I asked her whether she enjoyed it. She said that she loved the movie--there were so many issues that could be found in the film.I agree with my student. I watched the movie long ago, but had forgotten the story line. Then when I watched it last summer, I was reminded of the powerful performance James Dean gave to that picture. For me, it just shows another step in his growth as an actor.I definitely recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous piece of work","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought Doctor Zhivago had totally ruined me for epics. I had taped Giant months ago, and had avoided it until this morning when, circa 5AM, I decided to watch it as an attack against my insomnia. It had quite the opposite effect. Giant is a marvelous film. I'll be the first to say that it has a lot of rough edges, but more often than not it works extraordinarily well. The rough edges actually give it character.James Dean is excellent, but you'd never know from word of mouth that he is a supporting player, albeit the most important secondary character in the film. Rock Hudson and Liz Taylor play the leads, the Benedicts, a rancher and his wife who marry and grow old together, in the meantime going through many trials and tribulations in their marriage. This may be Rock Hudson's best performance, although I cannot claim that I've seen him in too many other films.  Taylor was better at least once, in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, but we all know that she had many great performances, and Giant's is certainly one of the best. James Dean was actually better in Rebel Without a Cause (I haven't yet seen East of Eden). To be sure, he's quite good in Giant, but his accent and mannerisms seem clearly contrived, not to mention that it is difficult to understand him through his mumblings and accent. His final scene in this film, which ended up being his final scene in filmdom, for he died when Giant was being edited, is truly embarrassing. He stumbles around drunkenly, but his drunk acting is awful, as drunk acting often was in classical Hollywood, truth be told. A lot of the scenes when Dean is older don't work too well. He's much better when he is young (Liz Taylor doesn't really pull off the old makeup thing, either; Hudson was the most convincing of the three). His character has possibly the most movie-ish name ever Jet Rink. If I met someone named Jet Rink, I'd beat the heck out of him on principle!This is one Hollywood epic that I wish was even longer. Several sequences pass by too quickly, and long periods of time are skipped in the Benedicts' history. These are really endearing movie characters, and, as much as Giant allowed me to know them, I wish I could have known them more. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"This beautiful, giant epic was years ahead of its time.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Since I hadn't yet seen this classic film, I rented the DVD and invited some friends over to watch it with me.  The film's scope was not only bigger and broader than we thought it would be, but it was also more genuine and thoughtful.  We were astonished!  It is clearly one of the best American films of the 1950s.The film begins in Maryland when Bick (Rock Husdon) visits a wealthy family that owns a horse he is planning to buy.  When he returns to Texas, he not only has the family's horse, but also their beautiful, bright, out-spoken daughter, Leslie (Elizabeth Taylor).  The flat, barren Texas landscape is a shocking contrast from the rolling green hills of Leslie's Maryland home, but she settles in and they begin to face the changes that the next thirty years will bring to their family, friends, land and each other.I loved how this film would seem to be leading you down a familiar path, then suddenly turn in unexpected directions--even in small ways.  For example, Bick's stern sister, Luz (perfectly played by the underrated Mercedes McCambridge), is set up to be an antagonist throughout the film, but because of her lack of adaptability, she self-destructs early on. It also seems clear that Leslie will fall into the idealistic and compassionate arms of the introspective Jett (James Dean) when she realizes that her husband is both sexist and racist.  Here, too, the story takes an unexpected turn as both Jett and Bick change in ways that seem natural and rich with human complexity. This sort of character development is uncommon in works of fiction where so often people go from point A to point B like cardboard cutouts.The issues of feminism and racism are major issues in `Giant' and are dealt with seriously, rather than only lightly touched on as in so many other `modern' American films of the 1950s.  Not only does Bick learn from his young wife that he should treat his Mexican ranch hands with human dignity (this is only as far as most American &#145;50s films would go), but his son marries a Mexican girl, providing Bick with a half-Mexican heir.  Bick, being a realistic, multi-layered character, is still troubled by this at the film's end, but he has certainly come a long way.  He (and the audience) has had to consider what role race and skin-color will play when choosing people with whom to have close relationships and how far he will go to defend those he loves, whatever their nationality.  Bick's `showdown' against racial injustice in Sarge's Café perfectly illustrates his transformation and does, indeed, make him a hero. It is a beautiful and moving scene.Feminism, too, presents itself as a major theme in the film without being overstated.  When Leslie first arrives in Texas, she is outspoken and headstrong, insisting on helping on the ranch as an equal.  She faints in public at the sight of cooked cow brains, but quickly recovers and vows never to faint again, no matter what life on the ranch might bring &#150; and she doesn't.  Her scolding of the local men for their backward attitudes towards women seems neither hysterical nor delicate even by today's standards.  It's spot on.  She later apologizes to Bick for having been rude, yet she doesn't back down, insisting that, in principle, she was right.It was a genuine pleasure to watch an American film (from ANY era) that doesn't undermine its characters' integrity and that gives great actors roles in which they could really shine.  I highly recommend `Giant' to anyone looking for intelligent classic American cinema that explores issues of the era while remaining surprisingly relevant to these same issues today.  "},{"Title":"what a terrible way to go!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm left speechless, having just finished watching GIANT for the very first time.  The only word that is coming to my mine is WHY.  Why did I sit through this neverending film?  Being a large fan of films from the 1950s, I could not help but rent GIANT.  I was anxious to see Elizabeth Taylor and Rock Hudson opposite each other, but more importantly, view James Dean's very last role.  I had heard from several people that this was a wonderful, epic film, so I had high expectations.  They were dashed to pieces.The plot was fairly interesting, though slow at times.  It follows a rich, landowning Texas family through its ups and downs, spanning 25 years or so. Rock Hudson's character goes from one you'd like to beat over the head with a sledgehammer, to being on the road to an acceptable man.  James Dean's character on the other hand, served no purpose, other than to annoy the viewer.  Half of his lines are so mumbled, that understanding them requires turning on the closed captioning.  His character goes from a quiet, simple nobody, to a wealthy, suddenly-racist, evil individual, who I could not wait to see fall off his high horse.  Thank goodness GIANT was not the only film Dean had under his belt before he was taken from us, as this is not a performance you'd want to be remembered by. "},{"Title":"Big-hearted melodrama sinks after Hollywood scenarists alter more complex  source material","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Giant' is the feel-good George Stevens soap opera based on the Edna Ferber novel of the same name. Ferber may have projected some of her own liberal sensibilities on the story of her protagonist, Texas patriarch Jordan 'Bick' Benedict. The Hollywood screenwriters then went a step further, exaggerating the protagonist's liberal bent and turning the novel's more complex antagonist, into a doomed alcoholic.Benedict is a rich Texas rancher played by a young Rock Hudson, who travels to Maryland to purchase a stud horse and while there meets and courts Leslie Lynnton (Elizabeth Taylor), a socialite from a very well-off Maryland family. In the blink of an eye, a courtship develops and before you know it, Bick takes Leslie back to Reatta, the family ranch, as his wife.The first third of 'Giant' is quite slow-moving, focusing on the conflict between Bick's sister, Luz (who basically runs the ranch) and Leslie, whom Luz feels is attempting to usurp her long-held position as head honcho. Luz unfortunately is killed while riding the horse which Bick purchased back in Maryland. Things don't end there, as Luz cedes her small amount of property to Jett, her loyal ranch hand. Bick attempts to buy the property from Jett but he decides to hold on to it.At the midpoint, Jett discovers oil on his land and arrogantly returns to the Benedict ranch proclaiming that he's now rich, makes a crude sexual remark to Leslie, which leads to Bick and Jett exchanging blows. One of the primary weaknesses of the 'Giant' screenplay is that you expect the conflict between Bick and Jett to develop exponentially, but that never occurs.Rather, domestic discord in the Benedict household becomes the primary focus of the second half of Act II. Bick's inflexibility drives Leslie to return to Maryland for a break with the children. But underneath Bick is not so bad all the time, as he shows up unannounced in Maryland, to woo Leslie back.Bick still has a hard time accepting the idea that his son Jordy doesn't want to succeed him running the ranch and really wants to be a doctor. Similarly, Leslie would like daughter Judy to go to a fancy finishing school in Switzerland but she would rather take animal husbandry at Texas Tech.The parents learn an important lesson about tolerance, end up giving in, and allow both Jordy and Judy to pursue their career goals.The conflict between Bick and Jett is further delayed when Bick finally agrees to give up the oil rights to his land at Jett's behest. This makes Bick a multi-millionaire as evidenced by the new swimming pool on their property.Jett finally comes back in the picture when Bick and Leslie are confronted with the possibility that he may now become their son-in-law due to daughter Luz's new found infatuation with the tycoon. The Benedicts attend a gala for Jett where Jordy becomes enraged that his new Mexican-American wife is barred from getting a facial by Jett's employees at a salon in the hotel where they're staying.Jett arrives at the dinner hall intoxicated and is confronted by Bick, who picks a fight over Jett punching and throwing Jordy outside earlier, incensed over his wife's treatment. After Jett knocks Bick down in front of everybody at the dinner, they agree to meet in a stock room and duke it out. But Bick walks out when he sees that Jett is in no condition to fight him.Jett is so intoxicated that he passes out on the dais and is unable to give his acceptance speech. Hours later, after everyone has left, he suddenly wakes up, still in a drunken stupor. Luz is there to see him pining away for Leslie and realizes that he was only using her as a substitute for her mother, who he always desired, but never attained.The fall of Jett at film's end proves to be a 'Giant' undoing. The Hollywood screenwriters end up 'punishing' their antagonist by turning Jett into a pathetic alcoholic who in effect wins a Pyrrhic victory against Bick (this in contradiction to Feber's more complex portrait of the antagonist). Instead of making Jett into a guy who likes himself and utilizing his position of power to get his way, he becomes a laughingstock in front of all his peers (Orson Welles uses a similar strategy to slander William Randolph Hearst in 'Citizen Kane', by portraying him as pathetic and dissolute).The Hollywood scenarists now must improbably place their protagonist on a pedestal by having Bick fight the bigoted proprietor at a segregated diner. Even though he loses the fight, Leslie proclaims him a winner for sticking up for an old Mexican man and his family who the proprietor attempts to throw out. Yes, there may have been a few enlightened oil tycoons and ranchers who believed in civil rights for minorities in a 1950s Texas, but they were probably few and far between. Bick becomes a stand-in for the wish-fulfilling views of Hollywood, but not Ferber, whose view of both Bick and Jett, are decidedly more complex.'Giant' certainly wins points for speaking out about prejudice against Mexican-Americans, not exactly a popular cause at the time the film was made (unfortunately, blacks do not get the same treatment here). Despite this, Giant meanders as Jett unfortunately never becomes a worthy adversary to Bick, leading to a much needed life and death struggle. Jett remains a weak antagonist even in the novel, as Ferber never was able to successfully integrate the character into the Benedict saga&#x97;he pretty much remains a peripheral figure throughout.Finally, I'll conclude this review by judging James Dean the winner in the make-up department. Unlike Hudson and Taylor (who have a sprinkle of gray in their hair to age them), Dean actually looks older with a mustache and hair parted and cut to suggest a thinning coiffure. "},{"Title":"The most Texas Moment","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I too love this movie.  It shows the world the best and worst parts of a state that I love.  But the most telling moment is when Angel Obregon(Sal Mineo) is returned in his casket.  Bick Benedict(Rock Hudson) hands to Angel's father a Texas flag.  This tells you everything you will ever need to know about Texas.  There are still many people who thinks of themselves as Texans and oh yes, we are citizens of the USA. "},{"Title":"Transitional film that attempts to make the audience grow with the characters","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being over 3hours and 20 mins, this is a very long drawn out story about a Texas cowboy who's family ran a huge farm for generations and who just married an independent-minded woman from Maryland.  After the wife, played exquisitely by a young Elizabeth Taylor, adjust to the Texas life and tries to bring about her own convictions, the couple is shown growing old and raising a new generation in a slowly but surely changing world.  The themes of parenting, social equalities and the resistance to change are well explored, behind a forefront of tumultuous family life.  James Dean plays an antagonist to the family who undergoes a personal transformation, arguably to the worst.  His role is somber and heavy so that it can become very tedious to watch.  Rock Hudson as the husband shows a torn man, trapped by tradition and the past, who finally undergoes a discovery with the help of his loving wife.This movie is excessively long, and you do feel that you have actually lived 25 years with the characters, but in the end, the silent triumph of a man in a local dinner and the love, recognition and respect of his wife in the following scene really show the accomplishment of long years of slow transformation.  For those two scenes alone, you should watch the movie and avoid stopping short of the good part.  Another reason being of course, the electrifying performance of Elizabeth Taylor who's talent would make any non-believer understand her status of legend. "},{"Title":"Thoughts on GIANT...","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is it just me--help me out here, people--or does the older Jett Rink look almost just like Joseph Cotten's character in The Magnificent Amerbsons? Maybe it's just the mustache--still... Speaking of Ambersons...I just saw Giant for the first time..and was a little disappointed. I liked what a previous poster had to say in making up other angles, vis a vis Jett and a friend of Liz's character from back east. I would've welcomed more complexties, more complex relationships with the characters... I dunno--what was this movie about? Money can corrupt? Families are complex? Racial integration? Ask me, Ambersons handled the first two a lot better, and (speaking of Rock Hudson), the Douglass Sirk films of the 50s handled the latter two better. Great vistas, some good acting, a memorable score, and to be sure some iconic visuals (the house, those Dean poses), but as Real Memorable Drama, like Ambersons, or Casablanca..I don't think it compares. I preferred Stevens' A Place In the Sun; and to go back 2 Sirk, found Rock's performance just as good there. For his pinnacle in film acting, check out Frankenheimer's Seconds. And *speaking* or Orson Welles--couldn't you see there existing an alternate production of this film--done with the Mercury Theatre players (with some changes) have Bick's father *still* alive--The Cattle Baron King Patriach--a natural role for Orson. Agnes Moorehead instead of Mercedes (though Orson did use her in Touch of Evil)--but in this version, she's alive for the whole thing; J. Cotten instead of Chill Wills...Anne Baxter instead of Taylor? Score by Bernard Herrman? Well, just a what if? "}{"Title":"Beautifully filmed","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've heard about this one for years and finally got down to watching it on TCM in France. The film is slightly overlong but in spite of this, the story holds together though lacking a little in exciting moments. What hit me was the beauty of the actors and actresses. I have no time for James Dean who seems little more than a neerdo'well and a layabout but was subdued by the beauty of Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor ( who was almost as beautiful as she was in the Film  A Place in the Sun  (How I would have loved that that film be made in colour !!! )I also found the Mexican actors very beautiful and was touched by the fact that one of the Benedict Family marries a beautiful mexican girl (which unfortunately causes a racial problem in the café at the end) but that adds spice to the film. Parts of the film are boring, especially when James Dean gets drunk and crashes onto the table instead of making his speech ( I don t like seeing drunk people ! ) and I far prefer the romantic side of the story. One funny thing, I ve never been to Texas, let alone America, but the people there have a very funny accent !  I wonder whether they are all cattle owners and oil producers. One last question at a million dollars why on earth can't you find this film on DVD ? Is it because of its length ?  I've seen far less well known and much crappier films already issued on DVD so this remains a mystery to me ................ "},{"Title":"Far and away the best contemporary movie.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one that I never tire of watching. The characters are real and the presentation is compelling.  Dean, Hudson and Taylor bring reality to the entire time progression.  The supporting cast blends and Mercedes McCambridge, Chill Wills (always delightful) and the rest keep the movie flowingIn addition, the outside scenery is stunning and the music is complementary. The finale (Yellow Rose) grandly finishes off the plot! "},{"Title":"Quickly goes from AMAZING...to GREAT...to REALLY GOOD. 8/10","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Giant is a, well it's a giant of a film.  Epic in scale in almost every sense of the word.  If you have 3 hours and 30 minutes to spare, I can not recommend a better movie to watch.  It's filled with everything Romance, Greed, Betrayal, Racism you name it, Giant has it.The film is so LARGE it's flawed.  Now days this kind of picture wouldn't be made, because there is just so much that could have been cut from the film.  And let's face it, some of the scenes SHOULD have been cut from the film.I found the film brilliant for the first 2 acts of the film, but as the characters quickly began to age, and things weren't as well explained, the film's quality began to drop.  The ending is disappointing, but there is still so much greatness to the film, it's impossible to dislike it.  Great performances by everyone, and for fans of James Dean, this movie is a must for the library. "},{"Title":"Not as touching as East of Eden and Rebel without a cause","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James Dean is one of the most remarkable stars in a film history. He had only three major roles before his tragic death but nevertheless every proper movie fan knows him. With only three movies he became a 50's icon, larger-than-life character and one of the most beloved actors of our time. That's something no other movie star has done and that should tell something about the guy and the magic behind his acting and the few films he was in.I love East of Eden and I practically adore Rebel without a cause (greatest movie of the 50's) but I haven't got a really good grip of Giant. It's not just because Jimmy isn't actually in the leading role. Maybe it's rather because Giant is such a massive spectacle. When I watch East of Eden or Rebel without a cause I love his phenomenal devotion - he is so real, so believable. Audience can easily step into his shoes.Don't get me wrong - once again in Giant he acts like a genius. The difference for me is that he really touched my inner feelings in East of Eden and Rebel without a cause. He has a magnificent role in Giant and he plays it perfectly but it's not touching in a same way. Still, it's interesting to watch Dean getting old and grey - something he never had a change to do in the real life. Like The Eagles sings You were too fast to live, too young to die. He'll always be one of my favorite actors. "},{"Title":"A classic that endures the test of time.","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never understood what a Taxan means until I saw this movie.I never knew that racial conflict ran so deep until I saw this movie.The story in this movie will touch each one of us, especially in your senior years.  Like Gone With the Wind, the epic story line moves each viewer to respond to its moral theme love and compasion, regardless of the color one's skin.  Mexicans gave lives in WWII for our country, too.Hope this title will come out in DVD soon.  It will definitely add color to one's library. "},{"Title":"A classic far-reaching story.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dean, Hudson, Taylor, Hopper, et.al. in a timeless treasure of a point in time.  The great story is supported by the scope and breadth of the performances--one sees the real-world counterparts of each character and situation. "},{"Title":"Dull, Long Hollywood Nonsense","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Giant is one of the most boring, overly-long Hollywood contraptions ever. Many scenes seem utterly fake and without energy. Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor, and James Dean are wasted in this big Hollywood production. A central notion to this movie, that a rancher would ever resist drilling for oil on his land, is absurd, and I know this because I'm from Houston. A couple of scenes, especially Dean serving Taylor coffee, redeem this otherwise boring film. For a much more accurate and interesting depiction about how modernism changed the ranches in Texas, see Hud (one of Paul Newman's great performances) or The Last Picture Show. "},{"Title":"The replacement of livestock production by petrol extraction in Texas","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an old but a good film, which gives an idea how conservative and wild Texas was changed by the discovery of petrol and its extraction. Some poor and perhaps ignorant people became rich when they saw that their land was able to give petrol. Jett Rink (James Dean) is this case while the conservative role is played by the good-looking Rock Hudson. The film touches other issues of the then American society, such as racial discrimination when the Indian wife of Benedict's son was unable to enter in the hairdresser or in the restaurant. Curiously initially poor Rink, who seemed to be in favor of the Mexican Indians, became a racist when rich. Liz Taylor played well as well as Hudson and James Dean, not to forget good acting of that almost unknown star, Mercedes McCambridge as the Benedict's sister. "},{"Title":"Giant","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just before the big oil discoveries, a Texan rancher visits a Maryland farm to buy a prize horse and falls in love with the owner's daughter, then they marry and return to his ranch. The story of their family and its rivalry with cowboy and (later oil tycoon) unfolds across two generations.Visually stunning but interminable, insufficiently plotted and pretty unconvincing family saga from a sprawling period book, that only intermittently grabs the interest, with new method acting talents (James Dean, Carroll Baker, Dennis Hopper) undoubtedly steal the show from the old conventionals. Dean's sudden tragic death after the shooting provided it with a somewhat undeserved reputation. "},{"Title":"You Could Never Remake Perfection","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hope no one ever tries to remake this movie. It simply couldn't be done.Elizabeth Taylor gives one of her best (if not finest) performances of her career as Leslie. She is feisty yet likable; the kind of person you would want to have as a friend. Her warmth eclipsed her youthful beauty until even Vashti, whose dream of marrying Bic Benedict was dashed to pieces, could not help but like her. What Taylor gives us in Giant is a timeless lesson Physical beauty fades with age but if there is substance and depth to a person's inner core, beauty remains.Favorite parts The camera panning away from Taylor as she and Hudson stand by the fence of her Maryland home........never did she or would she be more beautiful as in that moment. Not even as Cleopatra.The Thanksgiving scene where the children are crying at the dinner table and on the stairs. Priceless. Just about every child in this film acted so naturally it brought a sense of normalcy to what could have easily gone in a very theatrical direction.The moving scene when Angel Obregon comes home from the war. I could watch this film a hundred times and I would still tear up when Bic hands the Texas flag to Old Paolo.The pool scene where the faces of Taylor and Hudson speak volumes although the noise of the party is so loud it drowns out the announcement of their son's marriage to the beautiful but dark-skinned Juana. A Not in my backyard moment which was a prevalent feeling in Texas at that time.The scene when Vashti enters the room and says Howdy, everybody!. Again, we see her character age and are still entranced by her. She wasn't a beauty but she was a loyal friend and the life of the party. Equally entertaining was Uncle Bawley rounding the guests up and herding them out like cattle. Priceless! Watching the expressions on face of the actress who played Juana is like watching the birth of the civil rights movement. We see anger flicker across her face as she realizes the hairdressers in the salon have snubbed her. We see real pain in her eyes at Sarge's diner when Bic is speaking with Sarge and he refers to her baby (Bic's grandson) as that there papoose over there. She's felt the sting of racism before and it hurts.The scene in Sarge's diner has to be a classic, up there with one of the best fight scenes of all time. Sarge wins....but does he really? Not in the eyes of the Benedict women. In that moment Bic becomes a real hero. He has had a paradigm shift in thinking regarding his own deep-seated racial prejudice because in his own household, Mexican blood has now become part of the Benedict lineage. He has stopped seeing Mexicans as those people and started seeing them as real people. It is a shift in thinking that represents something that was starting to happen all across the country and would continue to do so as the 60's and Civil Rights grew stronger.This epic film will captivate you and leave you breathless. It is not just a movie, it is an experience. You'll want to watch it over and over again. "}{"Title":"Three Hours of Torture","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Boring boring and boring are the only words that can describe this film. The script is unexciting with racist undertones throughout.  The first 30 minutes is perhaps the most painful. When James Dean gets involved, the film shows signs of promise. Unfortunatley he doesn't make up for the bland character of Hudson and the annoying naivity of Elizabeth Taylor.The reason I sat through this film was because I was too lazy to pick up the remote and flip the channel - plus I wanted to see Dennis Hopper in his early days. It wasn't worth it. "},{"Title":"A little too slow and over-rated.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    The third of the trilogy in George Stevens's adaptation of Theodore Dreiser's An American tragedy, Giant is a very slow movie and gets a little too much credit sometimes.  It gets a little boring at times and drags a lot.  I even thought that some of the scenes weren't of any relevance to the story and could have been very well cut off without ruining the movie whatsoever.  The story revolves around how Jordan Benedict (Rock Hudson) meets Leslie Lynnton (Elizabeth Taylor) as he purchases a horse from her father at her house and then marries her.  What follows these events is simply the life Jordan and Leslie lead as they have children and all the other events surrounding a married couple's life.  Back in Texas, where Rock lives with his sister (Mercedes McCambridge), many things happen to Leslie and her husband.  First of all, Jordan's sister feels her brother's wife is taking the spot she had in his life.  She eventually passes away which leads to another story.  Jordan's sister left a big part of her land to one of her workers, Jett Rink (James Dean). The only problem is that Jordan does not appreciate Jett at all and naturally, this hate leads to many catastrophes including his daughter's desire to marry Jett.  James Dean is probably the best part of this movie.  As usual, he is very good and gives a strong performance.  The main aspect of the movie is Jordan's regard to racism and how he changes opinions about it.  The story is basically the life of an ordinary couple which isn't a thrilling theme to work on really. The directing by Stevens however, is very good, which is why he won an Oscar for it.  If you are a real movie-buff, then you should see it, but otherwise, watch something a little more entertaining and a little less boring like Stevens's first part of the trilogy and without a doubt the best, A place in the sun.   "},{"Title":"a Giant waste of Time","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  warning this is a spoilerthis movie is a waste of time, and a lot of time at that.the main characters played by Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor are neither interesting or likeable. and at the end of the movie i could not feel happy for them, and was wondering instead 'what will happen to poor Jet Rink?' And throughout the entire movie i was more interested in James Dean's character and was always waiting for him to be brought back in the story. frankly i sat through the movie because it was Dean's last film, in my opinion it was his most entertaining performance, but boy the movie really did stink.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic entertainment was what i expected","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was looking forward to watching Giant, but since it was not showing in any Cinema in London. I had no other option but to watch it on DVD piracy, which ain't too bad. Let me Firstly say the movie had a horrible script and the dialogue and screenplay was so old fashion. This movie will not appeal to anybody of tis generation, this is something George Stevens should of understood. The Actress in this film is there to help launch Mimoh. All eyes are on James Dean in this film. He is a fantastic Dancer, but his acting needs a little improving. I am sure that he can mature in the near future, but he will have to lose weight and have a new hairstyle. James Dean was worth watching but this movie is poor. Good luck to James Dean in the future and just wanna say Giant (of 80s) is a class act of Bollywood. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rock Hudson is absolutely wonderful in this film.  He is bigger than life itself.  You feel like you are living back in time and no where on Earth is bigger than the region of Texas!Elizabeth Taylor is a gem as well, all though not one of her better parts.James Dean.  It is too bad that this life was cut so short!  James Dean really comes to life in this picture.  You either want to pat him on the back or knock his block off!  He adds a lot of color to this feature that goes above and beyond the call of duty.The cast is packed with up and coming stars of the time such as Dennis Hopper and many more.  I even get a smile on my face as I think of the closing scene and the two grandparents are baby sitting the grandkids and the lamb and calf are there as well.  Rock Hudson is my hero! "},{"Title":"I dunno","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A video store was closing so I bought a few.  This was one of them.  I bought it because James Dean was in it, and he was supposed to be the original cool guy, so I thought I'd see what all the fuss is about.  All I knew about him was that, and that he died in a car crash (a tidbit I learned from David Cronenberg's film Crash, about people who are sexually exited by car crashes).The movie itself is kinda boring.  But it's very G rated, so maybe it would be good for little kids to plunk down and watch.  James Dean plays a young kid who comes into a fortune and then plays an older tycoon.  He's good in the film, I didn't think he was so cool though.  Maybe I have to see Rebel Without A Cause to get that.Not much else to say.  Elisabeth Taylor is very attractive and doesn't act half bad either.  Rock Hudson's kind of annoying.  It's long, but never stupifyingly bad or boring, but nothing special either. "},{"Title":"Overrated!!!!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If this were not James Dean's last film, I think this film would be forgettable.  Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor have to be the most boring on-screen couple in movie history.  However, when Dean is on-screen, he lights up the screen.  He easily outacts both of his co-stars.  I think Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor are widely overpraised as actors and when they go up against Dean, it shows.  Eerily, the three stars will not be remembered for their work.  Dean died very young.  Hudson was stricken with AIDS.  Taylor has become more known for her marriages than acting.  Seeing the movie in this context, the film is, in my opinion, overrated.   "},{"Title":"Bad Meal at Sarge's","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Films are not like food. With food, you can move from competent chef to chef and happily taste whatever they concoct. Among the many different kinds of good meals you may encounter, you can simply enjoy the variety.Film is different. Film nourishes the imagination and building a life with film involves carefully choosing which films to absorb and which ones demand bulimia. Here we have a film made by someone very much in control of what we see. It is deeply coherent. Small things spin into larger ones; for instance near the very beginning Liz taunts the hunk by noting that Texas is a fiction. She then proceeds to enter that fiction. Moreover, this is essential viewing if you want to see Malick's Days of Heaven, which borrows the key notion of the sex players and the house alone. And there _is_ some importance to the director after all, he invented some now common techniques, and led the charge for film as art.But his mind is not as deep as his ability to speak, so there isn't much real depth to this. It doesn't actually _say_ anything useful, doesn't think in new ways, doesn't transport. Instead of a cathedral we have an expertly done shopping mall. That's a shame because the way he has constructed this film, we aren't watching the story but his vision of the story. The thing isn't rooted in what we see, but in what he sees. He is between us and the characters. So there needs to be a brilliant mind behind the eye and it just isn't there. In fact, he's as dull and flat as the characters we see. His world view is as solid as Rock's.But this project is usually celebrated not for its coherence, or depth but for Dean's performance, and here the competing philosophies are more clear. Dean is intense. He's obviously trying hard. Does he inhabit the character like Streep does? Does he inhabit the space between the character and us like Brando does?No, he inhabits the actor.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"A Giant Bore","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As big as a Texas prairie and equally as boring. Even Liz Taylor, James Dean, Chill Wills, and Dennis Hopper can't float this overbloated boat. Taylor actually LOOKS bad--wrong wardrobe, wrong hair, and wrong makeup--a unique accomplishment in her remarkable career. Hopper gives the only believable performance, and Dean in the climactic scene displays remarkable talent as something we usually don't remember him for--a comic actor. Rock Hudson is his usual prototype of Barbie Doll Ken and makes one wonder what a, say, Redford could have done with the male lead. There is no discernible plot that provides any tension until the final twenty minutes, just a pastiche of milestones that have little relationship to each other. Except for Hopper, there is no character development, only a collection of cardboard cutouts that pop up periodically for no discernible reason like random targets in a shooting gallery. To its credit, the film does tackle racism and sexism at a time when they were taboo subjects, and it does have SIZE, making it an excellent choice for ridding yourself of unwelcome house guests. Those with the DVD version can spare themselves some of the tedium by starting with the second disk. You won't be missing anything of interest. "},{"Title":"What a long movie","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" WELL THE BEGING OF THE MOVIE LOOKed GOOD after 25 minutes it started to boring. i watched the movie because i saw it had a lot of votes and i'm a fan of James dean. so i watched and thought it will get better till it got to the end of the movie . This movie to me had no DRAMA no ROMANCE no ACTION. i didn't get the meaning of this movie. i think this is a movie of dumbness . i wouldn't recommend the movie nor would i watch it again. I think i know when i see a bad movie because I'm a huge fan of classic movies and my sisters is too and see thought it was dumb to. thank you and have a wonderful day <3 StephanieThank You and hope that helps/ "}{"Title":"Yet one more overinflated blimp of a Gollywood confection gone south, especially the MIScastings . . .","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With all due disrespect for this George Stevens Sr. epic of miscastings and misreadings, I can only wonder that the James Dean legend could survive this outing, I submit that then-studio obeisances to bankable box office giants came a cropper of its own 'gigantismoses'. Nor were Rock and Liz that much better off. Let us just say that the televised Dallas was the authentic heir, even if contemp(tuous) latterday Texans like Lay and DELay, not to mention our putative president of these here Yewbenighted States of Amurrika, perform a one-upsmanship of dastardly global dimensions. I never read Edna Ferber's original, but will lay odds it is head and shoulders superior to what got on screen herein. And all those well-paid, I would imagine, supporting actors of note and celebrity notwithstanding, Giant is, to me at least, a midget of scant merit, never mind the promo campaigns. "},{"Title":"The most overrated film ever made","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elizabeth Taylor never could act at all and she was just her usual annoying, untalented self in this film. This was before she got so fat but she still looked very short and dumpy. Rock Hudson was OK as Bick Benedict but clearly an actor with more range like William Holden would have been better. James Dean certainly proved he knew how to mumble his way through a movie. The whole film is incredibly slow and goes on for far too long. The actors were all too young and lightweight and none of them aged convincingly due to the poor make-up. Hudson looked ridiculous just being padded out and Dean and Carroll Baker were obviously the same age.0/10. "},{"Title":"A typical 50s drama, watchable but forgettable.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a trio the leading characters turned out to be Taylor collects husbands and million-carat jewelry, forms close bonds with pedophiles (MJ), and is now semi-demented and doesn't even notice the birds nesting in her awful wigs. Hudson, it turned out, hated doing kissing scenes with leading ladies and preferred men. And James Dean, it turned out, was a bisexual, and chose to live short probably because that made him more cool. (There is even rumour that Dean and Hudson had an affair during the movie, but whether this is true is hard to say.) And what about Dennis Hopper? He's in here, too. Well, next to those three he seems conventional and even dull. The movie itself? A little on the soap-operatic side, but there is sufficient activity so that the plot isn't static. Plus, the leading star-trio is quite good. But, I guess the movie has more value for film historians and rabid Dean fans than for the casual film-goer.If you want to read my biographies of Dean, Hudson, La Liz, and other Hollywood people, contact me by e-mail.My favourite line in the movie is Money isn't all, and guess who says it? La Liz! Yes, money isn't all, but diamonds are an old Hollywood senile diva's best (and only) friend! "}]