[{"Title":"A Hollywood fairy tale","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"49 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Having read most of the comments on this picture, I was astonished to see how little understood this classic musical is.  Yes, it takes place in 19th century Siam, but it is a fairy tale Siam in the same sense as the fairy tale Paris in An American in Paris.  It is not supposed to be a true representation of Asian life.  Wake up, Folks!  Its a Hollywood adaptation of a Broadway musical!  Let's leave the realism to Phat and Foster.This picture, with its infectious score and dynamic performances, is one of the best of its genre.  Who can fail to see the sexual tension between the two leads?  Who can not marvel at the entrance of the royal children (check out Brynner's different reaction to each child).  How can one not applaud the fantastic House of Uncle Thomas performance at the diplomatic dinner.  How can your heart not reel to Shall We Dance?This is old-line Hollywood at its very best, and may be the last truly great musical.  Check your historical, racial, and PC hats at the door and don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Brynner is irresistible and seductive, a towering figure as the king...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" In the Golden Age of musical movies, Rodgers and Hammerstein took three looks at the clashes of Eastern and Western cultures Joshua Logan's South Pacific, Henry Koster's Flower Drum Song and The King and I.'The King and I' derived from Margaret Landon's fascinating novel 'Anna and the King of Siam.' The film concerns a genteel British governess who, with a son of her own, journeys from England to 19th century Siam (now Thailand) to instruct the king's many children, in the ways of the West... Upon her arrival in 1862, the uptight widow immediately clashes with the powerful ruler over his refusal to give her 'a brick residence' of her own outside the walls of the palace as had been promised... As the film progresses, and in a world where women had basically no rights, the 'very difficult' governess learns to temper her outrage at the Siamese court and its treatment of women.. And while she was admiring the king's personality and brilliant mind, she quickly discovered that the major challenge facing her is much more in the education of the volatile king than of his cute family... Despite his open-mindedness about other cultures, the proud bald king was besieged by both colonial powers and Siamese traditionalists... At least in private, he consults Anna on how to handle the threats against Siam from England, Burma, and France... He turns a deaf ear to her complaints about having to live in the royal palace, and fascinated by science and geography.. he gives 'a puzzlement,' the proper mixture of arrogance, wonder, and confusion...In this historical account of conflicting cultures and sexual mores, we watch two people of very different backgrounds drawing apart and then together, culminating in that most moving and triumphant of moments, when they dance together for the first time... The image of Anna is swept 'high up' by the king as they whirl across the palace floor... His bare feet seductively touching lightly the edge of her satin gown... When the king tells Anna that something is not correct with the way they are dancing, and extends his right hand to place it around her waist, it's the climax of a romantic love that never ignites...This good-hearted story, enriched by some of Rodgers and Hammerstein's most enduring tunes, permits the meeting of two polar cultures explored with wit and humor... It permits us also to enter into the complex mind of a stubborn king, stern and imperious, whose words and whims become the law of Siam..). But the king is graceful, comic and virile... And into the feelings of an intelligent woman equally-stubborn, intrigued, and deeply irritated by a man, that quickly found she was also instructing him in the niceties of dancing and dining...Brynner is irresistible and seductive, a towering figure as the king... He is blessed with a resonant baritone voice, both for speaking and singing... His stance, fierce, and magnetic eyes (denoting a royal leader who cannot be questioned or denied) have an optimum vision and an inquisitiveness that reflect an agile mind as well as a vulnerable heart... He is humorous without imagining it, particularly when receiving the bows of his adorable children... Like Yul Brynner, Kerr radiates charisma, and the two work well together... From their first meeting to their last tearful parting, the give and take of their relationship provides the performance its emotional spark... The supporting cast is also strong...Rita Moreno is Tuptim's ill-fated lover who criticizes the system of slavery and concubinage and voices her desire to be free; Carlos Rivas carries his role comfortably as her Burmese beau, Lun Tha; Terry Saunders arouses Anna's sympathy for Tuptim by explaining that she and Lun Tha are deeply in love; Martin Benson plays Kralahome, the King's right hand man; Patrick Adiarte brings tears to our eyes and pride to our hearts in his far-seeing strength of character necessary to bring the film to a triumphant finish...Graced with a rich and singularly beautiful score, and skillfully directed by Walter Lang, 'The King and I' was nominated for nine Academy Awards... It received five, including the Best Actor Award to Brynner... The sets and scenery are gorgeous, and Lang did everything to convey its grandeur... You'll certainly love the impressive procession (March of the Royal Siamese Children) when the king summons his sixty-seven children to meet their delicate schoolteacher...Under Lang's direction, 'The King and I' proves to be the best of the Rodgers and Hammerstein adaptations, for reasons that involve East-meets-West flirtation, racism and authoritarianism, pageantry and spectacle, female determination coming up against vanity, civilization against barbarism, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera... "},{"Title":"A magnificent, emotionally packed unusual love story","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I originally saw THE KING AND I at the Roxy Theatre in New York when I was ten years old.  My grandmother took me after a day trip to the Statue of Liberty, and I was expecting to see one of my favorites, Jan Clayton, the star of LASSIE, in the starring role.When the movie unfolded I was enraptured by the beautiful redhead playing the lead and realized it wasn't Miss Clayton (whom I later learned had played in the road version of the show, and kids that age don't really know the difference).  I went out into the theatre lobby and looked at the ornate program, which listed Mrs. Anna as Deborah Kerr.What an impression this woman has had on my life over the years from the retelling of the classic tale of the British woman who comes to Siam to teach the king's children.  It is superb, not only musically, but from a story standpoint holds up as the best of the Rodgers & Hammerstein musicals. It is essentially a women's lib story, which makes it as relevant today as it was fifty years ago when it premiered on Broadway.The fiery, but compassionate Mrs. Anna who is at first turned off by the king and then charmed by him, and who little by little changes him from a near-despot to a man who can grow.The subplots are fanciful, but lovely and, in the ballet of Uncle Tom, as performed by Tuptim draw a direct analogy to the unpleasant lives endured by Siamese slaves, in particular women. It does so with majesty and intelligence, no less so than Arthur Miller did in The Crucible, contrasting the Salem Witch Trials with the awful McCarthy political witchhunts on Capitol Hill.It is an extraordinary achievement, and it is shocking that it did not even make the top 100 AFI films a year ago.  It is continually fresh and alive, and every time there is a festival or re-release it does well.  Indeed, a few years ago it was shown on a huge screen at The Hollywood Bowl, with orchestral accompaniment, and it was a smash again.My only regret is that Deborah Kerr (six times nominated for an Oscar) was not gifted with an Academy Award along with her co-star Yul Brynner.It is a film that should be seen for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I was a personal triumph for Yul Brynner and Gertrude Lawrence when the musical made its debut on Broadway. The king of the story seemed to be tailor-made for Mr. Brynner, who made it his signature role and returned with it to the musical theater, again and again. As captured in film, directed by Walter Lang, The King and I is quite a splendid showcase for Mr. Brynner. Since Ms. Lawrence was not chosen to repeat the role of Anna that she created on the stage, her substitute was Deborah Kerr, an immensely talented actress who was a delight in any of the films she graced with her talent and charm.As a spectacle, this movie is full of exotic colors of what Hollywood thought Siam would look like in the years where the story takes place. The film works as well because of the charismatic performance of Yul Brynner and the terrific chemistry he and Ms. Kerr projected in the film.All the elements of a Rodgers and Hammerstein's musical are in place. The music serves the story being told. The King and I will charm its viewers because of the amazing impact Yul Brynner made in it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful musical that will be loved and remembered forever!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  In the 1860's Mrs Anna Owens was appointed by the King of Siam as the teacher of his children. He wanted to give them (and himself) a modern education, to impress visiting dignitaries with how up-to-date he was, so that they would accept him as a world leader, like them. He thought it would be a simple communication of knowledge and understanding, like someone learning a new set of jargon.This naive and misguided motive, seeking to impress without really wanting modernity, produced a clash of cultures. Fortunately for all of us (and especially for the film industry) Anna kept a scrupulous and detailed diary of the whole affair. It was made into a film starring Rex Harrison, which was rather more historically accurate than this musical version, and was a very appealing film in many ways.This film, however, has become legendary. Although it is based on the principle Never let historical facts get in the way of a great musical, that doesn't matter at all, because it is a truly great and deeply moving romantic musical film. For example, has there ever been a more loving love-song than Something Wonderful, which the king's number one wife sings in explanation of her devotion to him? I seriously doubt it! It's one of the best-written songs of all time, and could only have been written by someone who truly understood love!The simple charm and joyful exuberance of Getting to Know You, the unforgettable Hello Young Lovers which is a message of hope and encouragement to all those who love under difficult circumstances, Whistle a Happy Tune which helps when we are frightened and alone, and all the other songs have become famous.Yul Brynner, who had been a relatively unknown bit-part actor with hair, shaved his head and gave a towering performance for the part, then spent the rest of his life basking in the glory of that one role! Deborah Kerr, who had given so many exquisite performances in so many films, also rose to the occasion in this one. Rita Moreno, who was a pin-up girl as well as one of the world's greatest actresses, is beautiful as the runaway slave.It's a film that everyone must see at least once, especially now that they've put out a restored version. I've given it 10 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, glorious colour and Brynner in his finest hour.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Brynner is so strongly identified with this role that it is difficult to remember him in anything else. He gives his all in this performance, sometimes way over the top, but it fits with this movie which is in itself over the top, offering us the Hollywood version of Siam and introducing 1955 sensibilities to the era of 1862. No matter.The musical numbers are great and hummable, most done by Marni Nixon, who dubbed for so many in that era of endless musicals and no-voice stars.People who protest about the insensibility and racial aspect of these musicals (Showboat and South Pacific, etc. also comes to mind)don't get it - that this is a musical, composed about an unenlightened era and is not a documentary and cannot be taken seriously.The play within the play is truly magical, I could watch it over and over again, it is a perfect little opera.Deborah Kerr is terrific in this and should have received an Oscar. I felt sorry for the boy who played her son - I think they appeared again together in Tea and Sympathy, but I could be wrong - there was not much to his role, he had to stand around and just be pretty and nod at his mother a lot. Very difficult. Rita Moreno excelled as usual.8 out of 10. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"So Many Happy Tunes","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I has been my favorite Rodgers&Hammerstein show for many years. I love the score and the only real criticism I have of this film version is that it did not contain the entire score from the Broadway show. It also did not contain the magical performance of Gertrude Lawrence in her final role. But that was beyond the scope of 20th Century Fox and Darryl Zanuck.The versions of The King and I that we usually see performed give emphasis to the role of the King. As Gertrude Lawrence was dying in 1952 she made a deathbed request that the billing on the show be changed and that Yul Brynner be given top billing instead of whatever female would be replacing Lawrence as Anna Leonowens. That was done and it has remained so ever since.The role of King Mongkut of Siam became like Dracula was for Bela Lugosi, a part that no matter what else he did, Yul Brynner couldn't escape from. The air of authority he establishes as the King holds you and binds you to every move he makes in the part. I'm told that as good as this screen version is, to see him on stage was the real deal. The critical acclaim he got from the Broadway run no doubt led to him winning an Oscar as Best Actor for 1956.Standing in for Gertrude Lawrence quite ably is Deborah Kerr who got one of her several nominations for Best Actress for this film. Unfortunately her voice is dubbed by that well known vocal stand-in Marni Nixon as is Rita Moreno as Tuptim and Carlos Rivas as Lun Tha the second romantic leads. The part does call more for an actress than a singer. Gertrude Lawrence was the very best of both.So many popular standards come from this score, more than any other score Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein, II wrote. From philosophical tunes like Getting to Know You and I Whistle a Happy Tune and such romantic ballads as Hello Young Lovers, We Kiss in a Shadow, Something Wonderful and Shall We Dance will be done forever. Somewhere now on planet earth there is some theatrical company doing the King and I and performing these great songs. You can't also forget those that didn't make the cut here like I Have Dreamed and My Lord and Master.The most interesting song that Dick and Oscar wrote is the solo for the King, A Puzzlement. It's very similar to the Soliliquy in Carousel where the song explains all the character motivations of Billy Bigelow. King Mongkut, a very real historic figure who wanted very much to move his country into the modern era, but his entire upbringing fights against his desire. A Puzzlement is a wonderful number that goes into the problems of governing and not just for monarchies. Listen to Hammerstein's lyrics, they are very much relevant today.I visited Thailand in 1999 and learned a great deal about the country in those two days. King Mongkut's descendants rule today as constitutional and beloved monarchs. In fact this film which probably did more to encourage tourism to Thailand than anything else is banned in that country. Because it shows the king in what the Thais feel as an irreverent light. It is indeed a puzzlement.The film has preserved forever one of the great Broadway shows of all time forevermore. Reason enough to see it and whistle its happy tunes. "},{"Title":"Best musical EVER","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Though I don't remember the first time I saw the movie it was a movie I grew up on. I grew up on Rodgers and Hammerstein and have loved all (but State Fair) of their movies that I've seen. And I have to say that this movie is their very best and the very best musical ever made. Yul Brynner was great and was very deserving of the best actor Oscar. I love every thing about this movie and it tugs on my heartstrings every time I watch it. Even know I know how it will end a huge lump comes to my throat as my heart sings when he dances with her across the room just wishing that they can be together some how.If a movie can move you like that every time, than it's top notch and The King and I does it best. "},{"Title":"The King and I All About A Great Film ****","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner lit up the screen with this 1956 great film as English teacher, Anna, who takes a position as tutor to the king of Siam's children and along the way finds adventure and love, be it ever so brief.A widow, accompanied by her son, around the time of the American Civil War, Anna soon finds cultural differences exist to a great deal between the two societies.Yul Brynner, as the king, does a magnificent job depicting those differences.The music and dancing are enchanting though Marnie Nixon sings for Miss Kerr.Look for brief appearances by Rita Moreno as a young lover caught among the kingdoms social mores. Getting to Know You, a lovely tuneful song sets the mood for this charming, romantic, endearing film. Great picture for children as well. Be brave young lovers, so eloquently done, in a masterful production producing yet another Oscar losing nomination for Deborah Kerr. 1956 was a big year for Brynner. Besides this great film, where he received the best actor Oscar, he also appeared in The Ten Commandments, and Anastasia. "},{"Title":"A musical classic","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Known best as a musical version of 1946 FOX film Anna and the King of Siam starring Irene Dunne and Rex Harrison, The King and I often takes a back seat to The Sound of Music. Whilst the latter is both my favourite all time movie and musical, The King and I is only second to it. Most of this, is due in part to the wonderful performances of Deborah Kerr, Yul Brynner and a delightful supporting cast. Musical characters have been immortalised by few in the time musicals were fashionable. A few would be Julie Andrews' Maria, Gene Kelly's character from Singin' in the Rain, Judy Garland's Dorothy and James Cagney's George M. Cohan from the biopic Yankee Doodle Dandy. Brynner, in his best and most defining role, has forever left his mark on the King, arrogantly fierce, so simple, so desperate, so true. Although not a singer and well known to be dubbed by Marni Nixon, the 'ghost' favourite of Hollywood musicals, Deborah Kerr gives another beautiful and loved performance as the English governess, with son Louis, travels to 1860s Siam to be tutor to the Royal children. Her performance demanded character, command and charm, and Kerr managed to successfully combine all three in a memorable performance. But it is the Rodgers and Hammerstein score that tops it all off. The element of the screenplay in the FOX movie adaptions was not always the strongest. Tentative and urging was Something Wonderful. I Whistle a Happy Tune, bright, calming and inspirational. Getting to Know You sets the mood of happiness, Hello, Young Lovers keeps a note of optimism, and the rich, lush score of the overture and throughout the film make it memorable. But it is Shall We Dance?, a joyful song that I believe to be the best of the lot. Although it is melodiously challenged because of Gertrude Lawrence's low voice range, it is still one of the best of the duo's scores. Cinemascope, used first in the first of the Rodgers and Hammerstein movies of the year Carousel, provided opportunities to open up moments in the picture. On a widescreen print, only then can the real grandeur, splendour and colour of the enormous sets and opulence of the movie itself can be fully appreciated.Despite my love for the musical, since viewing both Anna and the King of Siam and the new Jodie Foster, Chow Yun-Fat movie Anna and the King, the flaws in what was previously believed to be an accurate and true account of Anna Leonowens story, have unfortunately ruined the musical, both in Anna's life and the depiction of the Siamese court. The non-musical versions have been obviously more historically accurate, and the comparison of the three different FOX versions have all been noticably scripted to the fit the time of release. But I have not yet allowed that to get in the way of enjoying a great musical. With Anna and the King as my favourite movie of 1999 of the moment, I hope it won't spoil things further. Rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Films and stage shows come from the oddest sources. The diaries of Anna Leonowens, the English nanny/tutor to the children of King Mongkut of Siam are not the most obvious choice to be turned into a musical, yet the Rodgers and Hammerstein stage show was enormously successful, as was the film which inevitably followed. And the reasons why are easy to see.The culture clash story is engaging, being both entertaining and thoughtful. The performances are all good, with Deborah Kerr being excellent, and Yul Brynner perfect regal, mercurial, thoughtful, imposing, and humorous. It is a most human portrayal of a man whose position often required him to suppress his humanity. The production value (with a small caveat for an element of staginess) is spectacular and sumptuous.And the songs... Rodgers and Hammerstein never came up with a bad song, but all the songs in The King And I - every last one of them - is a showstopper.A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Lively songs, fiery Brynner, very entertaining","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner give spirited performances in 'The King and I', a musical adaptation of Margaret Landon's book. Brynner in particular brings an athleticism and intensity to his role which won him an academy award. The two share an unusual chemistry. The film is dated but remains entertaining and ranks among the best musicals of the fifties. The music is very enjoyable with several catchy tunes which are well choreographed. I specially liked A Puzzlement and Shall We Dance. Some parts are a bit corny but the film is still well worth watching.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"a decent musical marred by two big problems","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The music is lovely and the is a very visually pleasing film as well. However, two outstanding problems really prevented this movie from being anything other than just average.First, the movie DIDN'T have an ending. After running about 2 hours, the king inexplicably announces he is feeling depressed and is about to die. Everyone cries and then the king (so vigorous only a scene or two before) just drops dead! Huh? Were they running out of film so they slapped on this ending?! Second, and probably more important is the fact that the movie portrays the King of Siam as some sort of idiot who needs the educated Westerner to show him what a boob he really is. The best example is the king's idea to send President Lincoln a herd of MALE elephants so they can populate the forests of America. NO ONE is that stupid! This is made worst by the fact that the REAL king was college educated (Cambridge or some other high-brow school) and Anna was by far the less intelligent of the two. This just seems rather insulting the way they are portrayed in the film. "},{"Title":"A magnificent musical","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I is a fictional account of a historic era and some people who lived during that era. The setting is 19th century Siam. Anna is a widow to travels from Europe to Siam with her young son at the behest of the King of Siam. He is a monarch who sees the world changing quickly around him--especially with the opening of trade between the Orient and the West--and wants to educate his royal family in the Western ways.In the process, the king discovers that Anna is not a submissive woman. She stands up for herself and demands what is best for her son. As imperious as the King is, Anna discovers that although he is dedicated to maintaining the illusion of a perfect monarch, his innermost motivations are love for his family, his country and his subjects. Improbably, the two develop feelings for each other.The King and I is one of the great American musicals. The story is written with great sensitivity and creativity, the Rodgers and Hammerstein score contains some real gems, the orchestration is exciting, the sets are beautiful, the costuming eye-catching, the singing top rank.There are many in the cast, but the two leads create the magic that drives this film.Yul Brynner's portrayal of the king is the crowning achievement of his career, both on stage and on screen. It's an iconic portrayal. Though the script gives him the opportunity to create magical moments of cinema, his king perfectly captures the strong veneer of an absolute patriarchal monarch overlaying childlike enthusiasm for knowledge, pride in his family, fear of obsolescence, tenderness for Miss Anna, and confusion caused by personally-held beliefs that contradict.Deborah Kerr, as Anna, embodies the duality of the strong female role--feminine, mothering, and sentimental combined with intensity of purpose, strength of conviction, and bravery in facing uncertain circumstances far from home.I have loved this film since I was a child. Because of its clever storyline and its singable score, it remains a favorite. "},{"Title":"A Classic Musical","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I is a musical directed by Walter Lang.It stars Deborah Kerr,Yul Brynner,Rita Moreno,Martin Benson and Terry Saunders.The screenplay comes from the story written by Anna Leonowens, who became school teacher to the children of King Mongkut of Siam in the early 1860s.The screenplay by Ernest Lehman is adapted on the Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II musical which was based in turn on the book Anna and the King of Siam by Margaret Landon. English widow Anna Leonowens comes to Siam in the 1860's to tutor the many wives and children of the country's progressive King. The culture clash between Anna and the King is but one aspect of their multi-layered relationship. Through her, the King learns the refineries and responsibilities of modern western civilization.She meanwhile comes to realize how important it is for an Oriental ruler to maintain his pride and to uphold the customs of his people. After a successful evening entertaining foreign dignitaries, Anna and the King celebrate with an energetic dance, but this is cut short by a bitter quarrel over the cruel punishment of the King's new Burmese wife Tuptim, who has dared to fall in love with someone else. Despite the many rifts between them, Anna and the monarch come to respect and love one another. When the King dies, Anna agrees to stay on to offer help and advice to the new ruler of Siam, young Prince Chulalongkhorn.The movie boasts a career-making performance from Yul Brynner, repeating his stage triumph as the titular monarch and proving to moviegoers that bald can be beautiful. It's Brynner's proud king that provides the fulcrum to the plot, and it's Brynner himself, with his piercing gaze and graceful physicality, that demands our attention.While Deborah Kerr is superb as Anna.Also,it has a the composers insert a superb score, echoing Asian motifs, as well as a bouquet of lovely songs including Hello, Young Lovers, Shall We Dance, and two ensemble pieces for Anna and the royal children such as Getting to Know You and I Whistle a Happy Tune.Overall,it was a big-costumed and classic musical. "},{"Title":"Good......If You Like This Sort Of Thing ('50s Musicals)","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is a kind of genre thing, meaning you either like the 1950s musicals or you don't. If you do, you'll love this. Personally, I prefer the 1930s and most of the '40s musicals with the dancing talents of Astaire and Rogers, and Eleanor Powell, Bill Robinson, Ruby Keeler, James Cagney, Shirley Temple and so forth but the songs of the '50s, the slower dance numbers and the soapy melodramas of the decade all turn me off.This film is a case-in-point. The first song was okay but the next three did nothing for me. By then, the story didn't have much appeal, either. The presence of Deborah Kerr is another minus. I don't think I've seen a movie she starred in that I liked, including this one, where the goody two-shoes English teacher she portrays spends half the movie threatening to leave Siam. (I which she had!). However, divorcing myself from likes-and-dislikes, there is no denying this Rogers and Hammerstein production has a lot of appeal to many folks, particularly those who liked The Sound Of Music a decade later. There are similarities in the R&H musicals. Thus, if you liked the Julie Andrews flick, you should like this, too. This is a Lavish production with, yes, a capital L. This is the kind of big-production musicals you rarely saw after that generation. You also get the dubbed singers, unlike today, where the actress isn't able to really sing so Marnie Nixon comes to rescue of Kerr, as she did with Natalie Wood in West Side Story and Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady. Yul Brynner is King Mongkut and is the stereotypical traditionalist, the kind filmmakers always portray in a negative way. He isn't progressive, as the left wingers like the say, but the education teacher (Kerr, as Anna Leonowens) will set him straight. Secular-progressives of today always place teachers higher than people trying to cure cancer! However, Yul is good in this role and even employs some comedy along with his more-bark-than-bite character. Justifiably, he is the big star of this film. Brynner had magnetism. Even in The Magnificent Seven, Yul was the one cowboy who mesmerized the audience.In summary, it's a fine movie for its day and millions of people enjoyed it. I'll leave it at that. "},{"Title":"Lavish entertainment, but revisionist history","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I is a lavish musical filmed by Twentieth Century Fox in 1956. It was made just 10 years after Fox made Anna and the King of Siam. Both films were based on the novel by Margaret Landon. The first film was truer to the book, and closer to history.Yul Bryner is superb as King Mongkut. The role made him a star. Deborah Kerr is excellent as Anna Leonowens. Rita Morena is very good as Tuptim, and Martin Benson plays his part well. More about the real characters below. The rest of the supporting case are fine, including the many children. This movie had three hit songs from Rodgers and Hammerstein Hello, Young Lovers, I Whistle a Happy Tune, and Getting to Know You. Marni Nixon is uncredited but sang the songs that were dubbed for Kerr's singing.The best part of this film is the play the children put on for the royal dinner guests. Based on Uncle Tom's Cabin, they call it The Small House of Uncle Thomas. Adult performers were used in this beautiful dance and pantomime sequence. Jerome Robbins directed and choreographed the scene for the original stage play as well as for the film. He also staged all the dance and musical numbers in the movie.While this is a very entertaining musical, when I watched it again after many years, it seemed to have an agenda. It seems to scold Siam for its backward culture and barbaric customs of the mid-19th century. The film isn't discreet in its praise of America as the bastion of freedom and progress. It is so overt in its flag-waving that it almost detracts from the music and movie. I found that funny because in the U.S. of 1862, only white males could vote, and we still had slavery. And when the film came out, the U.S. was still years away from the Civil Right Act of 1964.One expects Hollywood to change, revise or adapt stories for films. But it sometimes goes too far. When a movies goes beyond entertainment, and begins to preach and promote, should it not portray historical matters accurately? Well, The King and I departs some from the book and much from historical facts and accuracy. Some examples follow.Margaret Landon's novel came out in 1938 and was a huge success. She based it on a story she heard when she and her husband served as missionaries in Thailand from 1927-37.Anna Leonowens was an Anglo-Indian author, teacher and speaker. She was born Nov. 6, 1832, in India. Her mother was from India and her father, Thomas Edwards, was a sergeant in a British engineer regiment. Anna hid her true background for most of her adult life. In 1849, she married Thomas Leon Owens, who worked as a clerk. He later merged his last two names to Leonowens. Anna knew several languages and opened schools or taught wherever they lived.From 1853 to 1857, the couple lived in Australia. They lost two children in infancy. A daughter, Avis, was born in 1854, and Louis was born in 1856. In April 1857, the family moved to Penang, Malaysia, and in early May 1859, Thomas died of apoplexy. Anna was left impoverished, with two young children. So, she move to Singapore where she created her new background.The New York Times of Oct. 10, 2008, called Anna a con woman, but not derisively, in a review of the latest book about her. Bombay Anna &#x96; The Real Story and Remarkable Adventures of 'The King and I' Governess, was written by Susan Morgan. On disembarking in Singapore as a young widow in 1859, this gifted con woman subtracted three years from her age, relocated her birthplace from Bombay to Wales, forgot her mother's Indian parentage, promoted her father from private to major and changed her husband from a clerk to an army officer. Anna opened a school for children of British officers. She built a solid reputation as an educator and was accepted in British society. Then, in 1861, King Mongkut asked his agent in Singapore to find an English governess to teach his children. And that's how Anna Leonowens wound up in Siam. She was there five years and taught the king's many children, as well as the adults in the royal household.King Mongkut was born in 1804. He was 58 when Anna arrived in Bangkok and he died six years later, in 1868, at age 64. But Mongkut did not become king until 1851. Before that, he was a Buddhist monk. He was an accomplished scholar and abbot of a Bangkok monastery, which he made into a center of intellectual discourse. It included the study of western languages and science and was open to American and French Christian missionaries as well. Mongkut is known for opening his country to Western influence and initiating reforms and modern development. This was years before Anna Leonowens went to Siam.In the 1946 movie, Kralahome, the prime minister, is much more accurately portrayed than in the 1956 musical. Kralahome had been a monk, scholar and friend of Mongkut before he became king. Kralahome shared the king's hopes and dreams for reforms and changes. In this musical, he is against change and favors ancient practices. That's a clear revision of history. Kralahome helped Mongkut enact treaties in 1855 with Great Britain and America. Again, this was well before Anna arrived in Siam.In both films, Mongkut is shown writing a letter to President Abraham Lincoln in which he offers him elephants. Mongkut did write a president with such an offer, but it was James Buchanan who served 1857-61. And that, too, was before Anna arrived in Siam. "},{"Title":"Rodgers and Hammerstein are a one trick pony","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Praise Sets, costumes, Deborah Kerr, Yul Brynner, the ballet Small House of Uncle Thomas within the storyCritique This film outshines previous Rodgers and Hammerstein works such as Oklahoma! and South Pacific because it explores topics outside the humdrum of romance, such as education, politics, and cultural differences. However, it sputters throughout the final half hour by backsliding into an extended analysis of male-female relations. Interaction with the children gets minimized. Siamese accouterments practically disappear. Consequently, the king's death does not pull upon a single heart-string. "},{"Title":"A fantastic piece of Cinema History","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I personally feel The King and I is a fantastic piece of Cinema History. I found it amazing how the Studio uses simple tricks with Props, Perspective Shots and painted Backdrops to make the Palace look opulent and Grand. The extremely well written and catchy Songs stood their ground even without great Vocals. The Casting was absolutely brilliant! In a Role that seemed to be written only for Yul Brynner who showed his incredible ability to go from a joyful smile, to the Kings menacing frown within moments was absolutely superb and the coupling with Deborah Kerr despite her seemingly trying to out-act Yul in most scenes worked well. The Siamese version of Uncle Tom's Cabin showed just how much thought went into this Movie etc, etc, etc "},{"Title":"Brenner Rules Humorously.","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I (1956) Dir Walter Lang / Cast Yul Brynner, Deborah Kerr, Rita Moreno, Terry Saunders, Martin Benson Technical achievement for director Walter Lang about the humble humbling the authority. The king in question is played with surprising authority and humour. He is king of Siam and has too many kids to count. Deborah Kerr play Anna Leonowens, a widow with a young son. She arrives from Wales by ship accepting a job opportunity to teach the king's numerous kids. They butt heads when she becomes the one person who dares counter argue the king. She claims that he promised her a house while he declares that she remain in the palace. This is surprisingly witty in its humour thanks to Brynner's performance as a king who refuses to admit his shortcomings. Kerr is able to communicate so that he may maintain his image. The climax regards a banquet put on in order for the king to improve his image in the face of false claims. In supporting roles are Rita Moreno as the latest female presented as the king's umpteenth wife who is secretly in love with another man. This subplot is poorly resolved and a weak element in the film. Terry Saunders plays Lady Thiang who intervenes for the king when he refuses to address Anna. The musical numbers are often corny but the set decorations is an art all its own and render it fit for any king. Score 8 / 10 "}{"Title":"THIS King and I movie is way better than the animated remake","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I have recently watched this movie on my VHS tape for the first time I can remember, because my grandparents used to own the tape and they gave it to us. I have to say that, while this movie has a depressing ending (unlike The Sound of Music which I enjoy even more), this movie has a really good soundtrack, and I love all the beautiful gowns Deborah Kerr wore in the film. Not to mention the phenomenal performance of Broadway star Yul Brynner, who played the King of Siam in the film as well as the show. He was great. However, the other reason I give this movie 9 instead of 10, is because there is an animated remake of this classic that, in my opinion has very floppy animation and is literally frightening to gaze at. Watch THIS King and I or The Sound of Music with Julie Andrews, but just avoid the animated remake of this musical, because I like this version much much more. "},{"Title":"It really was a pleasure Getting to Know Him.....","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Yes, the King of Siam might seem like a Barbarian to us descendent's from Europeans, but even behind an apparent Barbarian is a human being with real emotions, desires and ambitions. It's the King's ambition to take on the best that European society can offer, so he's reviewing the situation with the help of an English nanny and teacher for his many children from his many wives. The towering presence of Yul Brynnur took the King from featured billing in the original Broadway production to above the title, and a featured actor Tony to leading actor Oscar, one of the few times in history that an actor won the award for the stage production then another one for the film production.The original musical Mrs. Anna was England's Gertrude Lawrence, and she got top billing over the title and Mr. Brynnur, but after she passed away, his success in the role moved him to the star spot with Mrs. Anna often second billed and often under the title when presented with him. Yul played the King on stage so many times that only Carol Channing's Dolly Levi rivals with him, and even when he was much older and dying from cancer, he was still performing the role on stage. There was even a T.V. series based upon the stories with him repeating his role. No actor since then has been able to become as identified with this part, and when you see this film, you will understand. It's not a puzzlement! in this case.Even though Rex Harrison (My Fair Lady) had already played the role on screen (oppposite Irene Dunne in Anna and the King of Siam), it is Brynnur who dominates the memory of the philosophical king who can't quite escape his roots. Through his imperiousness, his tenderness and his love for his children, the King is quite a man, and it is understandable as to why Anna would constantly forgive him. As Lady Chiang (Terry Saunders) explains, He'll always need your love, so he will get your love. And that is what makes him wonderful to each and every one of his wives, his mistresses and his children. Just not to Tuptim (Rita Moreno), the Burmese slave girl given to the king as a present. As other characters in a more adult time would explain, He may get my body, but not my heart.Rodgers and Hammerstein took a universal story and transfered it to the stage and later to the screen with the passion of a Florenz Ziegfeld and a Cecil B. De Mille. This is a lavish world of elephants, jade and bamboo, but unlike a 1999 animated feature version of the musical, none of the non human animals talk. Deborah Kerr may have needed to be dubbed by Marni Nixon as Mrs. Anna, but the singing voice and Kerr's speaking voice mix naturally which unfortunately wouldn't be the case for two other actresses Nixon dubbed-Natalie Wood in West Side Story and Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady. This is perhaps why Kerr was the only one of those three nominated for an Oscar and the other two were overlooked.There's much carping on the casting of the Puerto Rican Rita Moreno as Tuptim, but she carries it off perfectly with grace and tenderness. Of course, Tuptim is as far from West Side Story's Anita as Rex Harrison's king would be from Henry Higgins in My Fair Lady. Harrison would have talked/sung this part had he been cast, but Brynnur's singing is very real and quite moving. Terry Saunders as the head wife Lady Thiang is also very touching, and Carlos Rivas is loyal and tragic as the doomed Lun Tha. There's a touching friendship which develops between the king's son (Patrick Adiarte, later of Flower Drum Song) and Anna's son (Rex Thompson) which gives the indication that all of the King's dreams which wouldn't come through now will because the tides are turning in the world of supposed Barbaric kings and influences of peace-loving people are finally working together to close the barriers between Europeans and those, as Hammerstein wrote in a song against prejudice, whose eyes were deemed to be ugly made.Ready for another revival on Broadway, The King and I is a musical drama which will never leave the repertoire of the live theater. Several small non-Broadway New York revivals were very popular, as were two revivals with Brynnur and a mid 1990's revival that was highly acclaimed. The glorious score, breathtaking choreography, opulent costumes and sets and a passionate story of a love between a man and a woman that transcends physical lust are highly timeless. "},{"Title":"Simply the best of the best, overall","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Although it's a rather difficult choice to make, this is probably my favorite R&H-scored film. Like the others, it's filled with mostly memorable songs. However, the screenplay, lavish sets, quite exotic setting, cinematography, and up and down relationship between the main characters, played by Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr, are equally important in giving it a superior rating. Based upon the historic 6 year relationship between world-traveling, widowed, Brit Anna Leonowens and Thai King Mongkut, it introduces some significant fabrications, especially as relates to the controversial last portion, when The King somehow wills his death, after a very emotion confrontation with Anna over his imminent flogging of harem girl Tuptim for her disloyalty in running away with her preferred lover. Historically, The King died suddenly of malaria, after Anna had left for Britain, she being dissatisfied with some of the terms of her employment. By then, she was no longer teaching the palace children and women, but serving as The King's secretary, as suggested in a scene where The King is dictating a letter to President Lincoln, offering to send some male war elephants to help defeat the seceding states. This scene, as many, suggests that The king regards females as grossly inferior to males. Also, he took very seriously the custom of his subjects prostrating themselves before him, never being higher than his head. This functions as a running gag, along with the too frequently repeated etc., etc.,etc., even being included in the King's death scene. This is in contrast to the historic King, who actually instituted some reforms, raising the status of women, although he didn't go far enough for the critical feminist Leonowens. His son and successor , Chulalongkorn, would, over a much longer reign, institute many more reforms, as minimally suggested in the finale. As suggested earlier in the film, both kings were largely motived to institute radical legal, financial and political change to discourage being taken over as a protectorate of some European power, most probably the UK. However, as I understand the meaning of the last portion of the film, The King is conflicted as to whether to enforce his traditional way of dealing with a personal crisis, which Anna labels as barbaric, or do what she recommends. The King was determined not to appear 'barbaric' to western observers, yet felt emasculated in giving into Anna's criticism of his traditional way of dealing with the crisis. Thus, he felt he had to die, and hand over his throne to his young son, who lacked his 'baggage' of a long life of traditional Thai culture, and thus presumably felt more free to institute many European-based social and political reforms. The historic Chulalongkorn was actually mid-teen, rather than the younger boy cast, when called upon to assume the throne. Although he had a regent for a few years, he felt considerably more qualified as a young king than the boy in the film, who has to initially lean on others, including Anna, in beginning to take on the role of king.Although The King periodically says that he is determined not to be considered by Europeans as a 'barbarian', in fact, Brynner, comes across as looking and often acting like a classic palace-bound pampered oriental despot, with his large harem, shaved head, bare feet, frequent menacing look with semi-oriental eyes, sometimes with defiant Mussolini-like hands on hips or arms folded across his chest posturing, frequent finger-pointing, and generally bombastic persona. That is the central irony of the screenplay! Adding to this irony, Anna periodically states that she doesn't consider him a 'barbarian'. Yet, clearly, she(as representative of a western audience) considers some of his excesses in trying to demonstrate his overpowering authority as king as symptomatic of a 'barbarian'...Of course, Brynner had plenty of practice on stage to perfect this persona. As some have pointed out, he often acts as if he is speaking to a live audience, rather than a film audience. However, this exaggerated bravado and gesticulations actually much enhances the irony of the conflict between our perception of him and his verbal statements of how he wishes to be regarded.Scottish-born Debora was quite good in her role as a school-marmish independent-minded feminist, who refuses to be squashed by The King's immense ego, but sometimes diplomatically accommodates his disapproved actions, in the hope that eventually she can change him. Their relationship rather resembles that of a marriage between two very head-strong people, who eventually divorce, after periodic threats of separation over disagreements. Although Anna clearly couldn't become one of The King's harem, just before he dies, The King gives her a valued ring to wear , in remembrance of him thus functioning as sort of a wedding ring, in recognition of his respect for her gumption and frequent wise advice.The forbidden romance between new harem girl Tuptin(Rita Moreno) and her Burmese boyfriend Lun Tha provides a somewhat visible romance , in a story where the lead male and female clearly cannot fully express their romantic feelings toward each other. This romance also provides the impetus for the unique Uncle Tom's Cabin production, in a traditional Thai drama style, as well as the tragic-appearing last portion of the film. We are left perhaps wondering what became of Tuptin, after she is dragged out of the room, having learned that her boyfriend drowned himself after her recapture. Did she also commit suicide? That would have been too much sudden tragedy for the ending of a musical. Her great granddaughter claims this historic woman became one of Chulalongkorn's harem.The melody for one of my favorite songs in this film Getting to Know You, was a reject from the previous South Pacific, but fits in quite well with Hammerstein's new lyrics.Perhaps I especially like this film because, as a Westerner, I am married to a SE Asian from a traditional agrarian culture and, yes, we are both quite headstrong. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous musical","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Nothing to dislike here. THE KING AND I is a sumptuous screen staging of a stage musical, replete with exotic locations and vivid song-and-dance numbers to keep the pace running along smoothly. It's a film that's bolstered by a fine pair of central performances from the perfectly-matched Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner, two actors who bring empathy, wit and warmth to their parts as governess and king respectively.Brynner in particular is one of those actors who's so memorable that I'll watch a film based on his presence alone. He's in his element here as the vain, arrogant, fey, funny and deeply human King of Siam, his energy helping bring the movie to life. Kerr is the emotional heart who holds it all together.The songs are fine and the moments of theatre are particularly good; the restaging of UNCLE TOM'S CABIN is, in particular, the highlight of the movie for me. But it's just one highlight in a movie that's full of them. Yes, some of the supporting performances are weak and often the theatrical roots of the production are all too evident, but for the most part this is great stuff. "},{"Title":"Yul is incredible","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I was a personal triumph for Yul Brynner and Gertrude Lawrence when the musical made its debut on Broadway. The king of the story seemed to be tailor-made for Mr. Brynner, who made it his signature role and returned with it to the musical theater, again and again.As captured in film, directed by Walter Lang, The King and I is quite a splendid showcase for Mr. Brynner. Since Ms. Lawrence was not chosen to repeat the role of Anna that she created on the stage, her substitute was Deborah Kerr, an immensely talented actress who was a delight in any of the films she graced with her talent and charm.As a spectacle, this movie is full of exotic colors of what Hollywood thought Siam would look like in the years where the story takes place. The film works as well because of the charismatic performance of Yul Brynner and the terrific chemistry he and Ms. Kerr projected in the film.All the elements of a Rodgers and Hammerstein's musical are in place. The music serves the story being told. The King and I will charm its viewers because of the amazing impact Yul Brynner made in it. "},{"Title":"This is just fantastic!","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is just a beautiful film,much better than the animated version. It has the most gorgeous score by Rodgers and Hammerstein, although it is not as good as the Sound of Music. The film itself is beautiful, and I felt enchanted watching it. The main attraction is the scenery and cinematography, they were just amazing. Yul Brynner undoubtedly gives the performance of his career, he is magnificent here. Deborah Kerr, who sadly died recently, matches him beautifully in a touching performance of Anna Leonowens. The intermission was a delight to listen to, and for me the highlight of the movie is the scene, the play. Speaking of the ending, it is so sad, and I hated the fact that the animated version completely changed the story. Give this a try, you'll be enchanted. 9/10-it is a bit long. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The way DVDs should be made","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" There are enough reviews here on the movie itself there is nothing more I can add. What I can comment about it is one of its treatments on DVD. The version of the movie I most recently saw was the 50th Anniversary Edition issued in 2006. I had previously owned the VHS version. I liked my library's copy of the DVD so much I bought my own. The film quality over the VHS tape was extraordinary - clear and pristine. The sound quality was obviously top-notch too, in 5.0 Dolby surround.However, what contributed most to my enjoyment were the added features. The now obligatory audio commentary (this time by film scholars and historians Richard Barious and Michael Portantier) was both interesting and informative. What I really enjoyed however was the version of the movie with ONLY the orchestral soundtrack - no dialog and no singing. I wish all musicals had this feature for study purposes - I found it truly fascinating, wishing I had the printed score to follow along.Other features included a few featurettes (which added nothing to the package). Disc Two of the set included the television film pilot of Anna and the King starring both Yul Brynner and Samantha Egger, in both its original version and a commentary by Ms. Egger. It was watchable enough to make me wish I could view other episodes of its one season. Most bizarre was that the series was produced by the same team that created M*A*S*H the same season.Other extras are excerpts of two songs from the Broadway show by Yul Brynner and Patricia Morrison for a 1950s television special, and one deleted audio from the movie - Shall I Tell You What I Think Of You. All in all - the two DVD set is worth picking up. "},{"Title":"Thank you WTCG and Ted Turner!","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I first saw this movie as a teenager one summer in the late 70's or early 80's. We didn't have cable TV yet back then, but were sometimes able to pick up TBS (then called WTCG out of Atlanta - we were in NC) on our roof-top TV antenna. Anyone remember all the special TV offer ads they would run, that would end with the announcer telling you to call 800-257-1234 to order? Anyways, they would run movies in the morning, and I was bored and didn't have anything else to do. I NEVER liked old movies before, so I indeed must have been bored out of my mind to turn this on.But a strange thing happened as I began watching. I found myself transported to a different time and place, and I don't think that had ever happened to me before. It was like a completely different world. The costumes, the colors, the music, the beautiful surroundings so majestically depicted on the gorgeous sets. It seemed like the 2 hours I spent watching just melted away in no time (no small feat for a bored teenager)! And so started my love affair with old movies and their ability to transport you to a different era - to give you a glimpse of history (albeit an often fantasy version of history) frozen in time.The strange thing is, I have NEVER been a fan of musicals, before or since. This is the only one I like. Not even Sound of Music does much for me. I'm not sure the reason for this - but clearly this is a very special picture because of this fact.It has to be because of the engaging performances of Yul Brynner & Deborah Kerr. I can't imagine anyone else playing these roles. They had originally considered Marlon Brando for the king, and both Dinah Shore and Maureen O'Hara for the teacher. I'm so glad none of those actors successfully won the role. Brynner & Kerr were the only ones I think could have pulled off this movie as they did.If I had never come across this movie as a teenager, I might never have discovered my love for old, classic movies - and so I am eternally grateful to The King & I and Ted Turner for the wonderful gift they gave me that one summer as a teenager! "},{"Title":"Watch this for the music and lyrics!","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Like the stage musicals on which they are often based, many of the great Hollywood musicals provide superb viewing for those who enjoy this type of presentation. But their appeal is chiefly through the lyrics which often comprise a major part of the actual story; and in most cases the latter is no more than a very bland fictional romantic drama. Just a few major musicals are based on historic stories and perhaps a different standard needs to be applied in judging these. In a musical, whether originally written for the stage or the screen, the music has to come first and foremost, and it has to be recognised that no attempt will be made to provide historical accuracy - the most that can be expected is that the basic storyline is recognisable, and that as far as possible downright distortion of actual facts is avoided. Miss Saigon and The Sound of Music probably provide good examples of how far most creators of a stage or screen musical will go in this regard. But The King and I is probably unique, even among historical musicals, because it is based on an earlier 1946 film Anna and the King of Siam featuring Rex Harrison and Irene Dunn, which in turn was based on a novel of the same name by Margaret Langdon prepared from the actual diaries of Anna Leonowens, a feisty English widow who went out to Siam as governess for the children of King Mongkut during the 1860's. These diaries are themselves of questionable value as historical records when not backed up by other data. Anna herself appears to have had strong views about the importance of Victorian England in providing a role model for the development of backward civilizations, and to have had little recognition of the depth and longevity of the indigenous culture of the country where she was working. Siamese culture can be traced back for almost 2,500 years and it would be distasteful for anyone from western Europe to claim that it is less rich than that of Europe. Anna's diaries were almost certainly slanted to imply this, as well as to exaggerate her influence over the king, and her role in the modernisation of the country which ensured that it never fell under the control of any of the three colonial powers (British, Dutch and French) that were eying it enviously at the time. They would be of much more value as historical documents if they could be compared on a point for point basis with contemporary records compiled by a responsible indigenous Siamese court official, but so far I do not believe this has proved possible. The story that reached the screen in this film is the fourth generation dramatic reconstruction of these already questionable diaries, so it is imperative for viewers to recognise that its link to history is very tenuous. King Mongkut was a well educated and intelligent ruler who recognised the pressure which would be placed on his country by the vigorous colonisation of most of the countries around him and wisely decided to take steps to strengthen his position. It is interesting to think that when Queen Victoria sent him her greetings she probably knew nothing of his country, but had been advised that it was wealthy and provided a very valuable trading partner for Britain. If he could be persuaded to offer her his allegiance, so that his country could be incorporated into the Empire on which the sun never sets, all this trade could be reserved for the benefit of Britain alone. Now, with hindsight, we see that almost all the classic European monarchies with which the nineteenth century British Royal Family might have considered union in marriage have disappeared. Those of Britain and Thailand are among the very few which have proved sufficiently adaptable to survive until today. In the latter case Anna certainly made a significant contribution, and her story is therefore of great historic interest. A later film, Anna and the King (1999), makes a real attempt to tell this story more accurately and is the one which should be watched by anyone interested in history. The earlier films have been banned in Thailand for their inaccuracies, reputedly at the 'request' of the king who was the grandson of King Mongkut.This background is essential for understanding The King and I, but for those who appreciates Hollywood musicals the inaccuracies in the film do not necessarily spoil the enjoyment of viewing it. It should be regarded as another fictional work and enjoyed simply for its music and lyrics which many viewers regard as among the best in any musical currently available today. The hint of the exotic east in the music has little to do with Thai musical culture but makes for very interesting listening. The list of the much loved songs from great musicals which originated in this Rogers and Hammerstein offering (or its stage equivalent) includes I Whistle a Happy Tune; March of the Siamese Children; Getting to Know You;; Something Wonderful; Hello Young Lovers; Is a Puzzlement; Shall we Dance?; and several more. If you want to enjoy hearing these, delivered against a colourful and well choreographed Eastern (but often not Siamese) background you cannot go wrong watching this film. But if these are of no interest to you, there is nothing left - and in any case you must remember not to delay watching it until your forthcoming holiday in Bangkok! "},{"Title":"Hollywood did this musical proud","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Hollywood has an unfortunate history with Broadway musicals. They usually go for box office names over singing talent. The King and I is an exception;. Here, Yul Brynner is allowed to bring his stage brilliance to the screen, something that such Broadway stars as Larry Kert (West Side Story) and Julie Andrews (My Fair Lady) were denied. The result is a triumph. Coupled with Deborah Kerr (who's singing is dubbed by Marnie Nixon), the movie does justice to a time honored musical with warmth, humor and style. I guess the supreme compliment is that my 2 year old daughter constantly badgers me to but The Keeing on the VCR. "}{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  One of the most opulent musicals ever made, The King and I is a film that grabs you with the  impressive art direction and lavish costumes and holds you until the exit music plays.  The film  gives us the ever hummable Rodgers & Hammerstein tunes with the powerful voice of Yul  Brynner and Mari Nixon, who doubled on the singing for Deborah Kerr.  Try to watch this film  on DVD if at all possible.  The main reason being the letterboxing recreates the original  Cinemascope-55 and you get to see every inch of the amazing sets.  The color is balanced so you  see the red in Deborah Kerr's hair and the King's outfits.  One of the other joys of watching  this movie is the relationship between Anna and the King.  He's a blowhard, and she's rather  demure and steadfast.  They're both equally stubborn, but at the same time, they respect each  other.  A charming film that will remain in the hearts of viewers for a long time.        "},{"Title":"THE BEST KING OF THEM ALL!!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  There have been so many versions of Anna & The King Of Siam, starting with the 1947 version with Irene Dunne & Rex Harrison, but, none would match the 1955 version, the first as musicialized by Rogers & Hammerstein. Yul Brenner IS THE KING, and will always be one!Best viewed on DVD, in letterboxed!!! "},{"Title":"A Prequel to Sound Of Music","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"    I am a big fan of R&H, the musical genre has unfortunately faded away but there exists the corpus of their work that are among the best ever created.  This is Yul Bryner's signature role and deservedly so. Deborah Kerr's counterpoint to his King is rather less than equal. That's OK though since another performance like Yul's on the same screen would have been overpowering. A brief but important note on the hurt feelings of the Thai peoples In 2002 I can't imagine anyone seeing this movie from 1956 and believing it represents truth. But I would encourage them to tell the actual facts of their beloved king at every opportunity. Perhaps then the movie will act as a jumping off point for expanded knowledge of Thai history.   Taking the movie at face value (a period piece musical) it does work most of the time. But this film is important for another reason just seven years later, R&H did The Sound of Music wherein a red-headed, English speaking actress portrays the role of a governess with a mind of her own to a large house full of the children of a very stern man. Sound familiar? Same picture different cast...almost. Point is Hammerstein would not have much of a stretch to change a palace to a large villa or a King into a Captain. Not that this is bad...perhaps they just gravitated to certain stories fit for musical treatment.       This is one of R&H's best. As far as the tunes go I'm guessing audiences were humming Shall We Dance? as they left the theaters in 1956. I wouldn't know...I weren't borned yet! The subplot of the young lovers with a pre-West-Side Story Rita Moreno is a tad weak. And without too much of a spoiler WARNING......PLOT REVEALED!!... there is not the classic happy ending seen in a lot of musicals. I think the main plot or the main idea, if you will, is a metaphor out with the old, in with the new. The issue of slavery comes up several times in the film. The time is 1860's or so and slavery is an issue in the USA and in active practice in SIAM (Thailand). Perhaps R&H were adding a little social consciousness to this film on the eve of the civil rights movement. Take a look at their films. Without being heavy-handed they addressed a range of social themes in their work. Or maybe their works are rich enough to support multiple interpretations at many levels. I give this a top 5 in R&H's work and a top 10 in all musicals. When you see it, try to imagine yourself in 1956, otherwise you'll come away less than satisfied.                     But Yul is perfect........   "},{"Title":"East meets west, and the barbarians rule","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Lots of gorgeous scenery, beautiful Oriental women, great props and colorful clothes, sterling performances, and interesting dialogue and songs makes this one of the most lively musicals I've seen to date. Yul was perfect as the arrogant, deluded King; I loved his crisp gestures and butchery of the English language. He was most amusing. I bet this one would be great on stage. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Enchanting Perhaps the Best of Rogers and Hammerstein On Film","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" THE KING AND I has a remarkably convoluted history. Anna Leonowens (1831-1915) was indeed a real person who did indeed teach in the royal court of Siam. She did not allow fact to get in the way of a good story; while her memoirs were extremely popular, they were also fictionalized. They became further so in 1944, when novelist Margaret Langdon retold the story in the novel ANNA AND THE KING; a play and film, the latter with Irene Dunne and Rex Harrison, soon followed and proved popular as well. According to theatre lore, actress Gertrude Lawrence, one of the great talents of her era, encountered the material and recommended it to Richard Rogers and Oscar Hammerstein with the thought that she herself might play Anna in a musical version.Opening on Broadway in 1951 with Lawrence in the lead, it proved a tremendous success. Sadly, Lawrence did not live to recreate the role for the screen; she died of cancer during the New York run. After much indecision and not a little argument, the role fell to Deborah Kerr--a memorable actress--but one whose singing voice was hardly up to the role. In consequence the songs were voiced by the ubiquitous Marnie Nixon, a performer who specialized in this work throughout the 1950s and 1960s.As a film, THE KING AND I belongs to a period during which Hollywood tended to approach musicals from a theatrical rather than a cinematic point of view there is no pretense that we are any where but on a sound stage and the camera itself seldom moves, creating an effect that is very much like that a performance given on a proscenium stage. It is a style which has not aged well--but THE KING AND I is the exception that proves the rule with outrageously colorful sets, brilliant costuming, memorable music, and remarkable performances it remains as enchanting as it was when it first debuted in 1956.It is also distinctly of its era in terms of casting. Voice aside, Deborah Kerr was a natural choice for the role of Anna; she too was a cultured Englishwoman. But although minor roles were generally played by people of Asian origin, none of the leads and few of the major supporting roles were. Yul Brennar was of Russian origin; Rita Moreno was Puerto Rican (and, like Kerr, her singing voice would be dubbed); Martin Benson (Kralahome) was English; Carlos Rivera (Lun Thai) was Mexican-American; and so on. Such would be quite unthinkable today, but there is no getting around the fact that all these performers give performances which are not only credible, but often extraordinary--with Brennar and Moreno cases in point.Regardless of who, what, why, and how, the end result is enchanting from start to finish, the sort of musical that is stamped as a special event from start to finish. Everything glitters; the music is among the best created by Rogers and Hammerstein; the larger-than-life performances are spot-on. The story itself is both endearing and touching--and, as is often the case with Rogers and Hammerstein, makes an oblique statement against racial prejudice. While it may not be good history (the story so annoys the Thailand government that it is banned from that nation in all its many incarnations), it is delightful entertainment... and, in my opinion at least, the best of the Rogers and Hammerstein musicals both on the stage and on the screen.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Brynner's masterful performance is the film's high point","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The wonderful performance of Yul Brynner is definitely the high point of this film adaption of Rodgers and Hammerstein's play. The production is very impressive, with a fully fleshed out technicolor Siam practically bursting out of the screen. Deborah Kerr's costumes alone are just about worth the price of admission. The only thing bringing the film down somewhat is the fact that the film occasionally feels patronizing towards Asian culture and the sometimes deliberately infantile lyrics of Oscar Hammerstein, excellent in some places as far as characterization but in other places again seeming to reinforce the film's patronizing attitude towards its characters (and audience?).Brynner's performance ranks among the very best in the history of musical film. It's important that we do not see him sing or dance right away, and in fact he waits until some of the film's final scenes to actually bust out on the dance floor. When he and Kerr go into Shall We Dance? and he is practically sprinting around the dance floor barefoot, I'm sure many in the audience literally drop their jaws. In general, we can say that Brynner's performance managed to capture both the menace, dignity, and authority of the King, while at the same time he was able to wring buckets of humor from the premise of the King's attitudes about women and society in general without compromising that dignity. That alone is a great achievement, but Brynner also manages to give the character great warmth and charm, making him a very appealing character to the audience and almost making us feel that his many transgressions are just minor details in his overall makeup. Simply astounding work.Kerr is decent, actually quite good through most of the film until it comes to the point where she has to be completely angry at the King (because he would not let one of his wives escape with her lover). Then it seems like the work she's done to give this character equal dignity (and almost equal authority) with Brynner's King seems to collapse and we're left with the impression that she's a bit silly, especially as she tells the Prime Minister (Carlos Rivas) I wish I had never come to Siam! and runs off crying. We have the same problem here dramatically speaking, though to a lesser extent, that we have in South Pacific when Nellie decides she can't love the frenchman because he has native children. This doesn't have those racial problems, but it's equally unconvincing really as a dramatic stimulus, making us feel that the primary character has somehow failed to learn what we the audience have learned just through watching them go through their travails! I also feel that the ending in general was a bit rushed. We have Anna going off in a pout crying, and then in the very next scene not only is she leaving Siam but we hear the King of Siam is dying. All very abrupt and feels a bit forced, as if the King had to go onto his deathbed just to wrap the film up.As far as the humor in the King's character, although I admire the way Brynner was able to pull off all these elements, there were times when I personally felt uncomfortable to laugh at the King... something I did not feel when I saw this film as a young child in the early 80s. I guess you can say I'm more racially conscious, but it seemed to me that they were at times encouraging the audience to laugh at the King and even at his court simply because of how backward they were. For instance here we have a King who seems to have a good command of English but who mispronounces a word or skips a word in the sentence if it will make the crowd in America laugh. Not that I think the King should have spoken like an English professor, but I'm convinced that there were moments where I and most modern audiences would cringe where the film's and play's creators would have wanted us to laugh.I didn't want these comments to pass without giving notice and praise to the Little House of Uncle Thomas vignette designed by Jerome Robbins I presume and which also shows some really amazing camera work. The effects here are very cinematic but it's done in such a way that you can believe that the things you're seeing could actually have been done in the 1860s when the film was set. Really excellent work on that portion of the film.Hammerstein's lyrics do not in my opinion rise to the level of Rodgers' music. The patter songs that Brynner does like A Puzzlement are wonderful, but there are just too many songs on here that feel like an imposition of warm family vibes on the story. That's Hammerstein's MO create supremely dramatic situations and surround them with songs that wouldn't be out of place in a nursery school. Things like Hello, Young Lovers, Getting to Know You and I Whistle a Happy Tune make this musicals fan wish for the days of Rodgers and Hart when Rodgers' music could be funny without being so darn clean and family friendly. Something Wonderful is a technically superb song that is completely un-memorable, an example of where Rodgers tried to imitate Kern's style to suit Hammerstein's ambitions. But the duo do make it up to us somewhat with the superb Shall We Dance and Rodgers' solo contributions like March of the Siamese Children.All in all, this is a very solid musical entertainment. Because of Brynner's performance it is a true classic for all the ages. There is enough good here overall to outweigh the bad. This is one that people will be talking about many years after we are all gone. But it's not a perfect film. "},{"Title":"A Worthy If Not Ideal Screen Adaptation","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Director Walter Lang does his best to ruin what may be Rodgers & Hammerstein's strongest stage musical, but he's no match for the stellar material.He directs with a stodgy, anonymous style -- why actually move your camera around a set when you can root it to the floor as if it's a potted plant? With the exception of Yul Bryner and Deborah Kerr, he elicits performances from his cast that would be at home in a cheesy sword-and-sandal Biblical epic. And the film has that overblown, garish visual design too common to big films from this time period, that manages to look both cheap and expensive at the same time, as if all the sets are made out of brightly colored plexiglass.But, and this is a big but, this musical tells a beautiful story about cultural tolerance that remains intact in the film, and the movie offers the strong performances of Bryner and Kerr, both perfectly cast in their roles. Carousel may have given audiences the most sophisticated R&H score, but for me, the music in The King and I remains the most glorious. Too bad the adapted film score severely truncates its stage counterpart many songs are missing entirely, and almost all of those left are shortened versions.Happily, the Small House of Uncle Thomas ballet sequence remains in the film and retains the original Jerome Robbins choreography as it appeared on stage. It may just be the most memorable musical number ever conceived for stage or screen.This film isn't the best possible screen adaptation of a nearly perfect stage show, but thanks to Bryner and Kerr, and of course R&H, it'll do.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Brynner and Kerr create Cinema Magic in one of the Greatest Musicals to come to the Screen","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The 1956 film version of THE KING & I was one of the most lavish and enchanting film versions of a Rodgers & Hammerstein musical ever made. Based on a book by Margaret Landon and a 1946 film starring Rex Harrison and Irene Dunne, this is the story of a widowed schoolteacher during 1860's who accepts the position of teacher to a tyrannical King in primitive Siam that leads to the ultimate culture clash/battle of the sexes, set to some really lovely music. Yul Brynner recreates his original Broadway role as the King in an electrifying, Oscar-winning performance that made Brynner an instant film icon who will forever be associated with the role and the gold standard to which all other actors who tackle the role aspire to. Deborah Kerr makes a lovely Anna Leonowens who, even though her singing is dubbed by Marni Nixon, still delivers a charismatic performance as the strong-willed Anna that also earned her an Oscar nomination. The chemistry between Brynner and Kerr is immediate and obvious and they absolutely light up the screen together in the most romantic non-romantic relationship ever portrayed on screen. A young Rita Moreno also makes a strong impression as the slave girl, Tuptim, whose best song, My Lord and Master, has been cut from most versions of this film. But we still have Whistle a Happy Tune. Hello Young Lovers, We Kiss in a Shadow, Getting to Know You, A Puzzlement, and March of the Siamese Children. There is also an extraordinary ballet entitled The Small House of Uncle Thomas which merits attention. Lavish scenery and Oscar-winning costumes are icing on the cake in one the most emotion-charged and moving screen adaptations of a Broadway musical to the movie screen. They don't make 'em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Fit To Be Thai'd","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" First I suppose I should declare an interest I'm a dyed-in-the-wool Larry Hart fan and though I understood the reasons why Dick Rodgers finally decided to call time on Larry and throw in his lot with Oscar I've never really forgiven him. There's a paper waiting to be written on why the Rodgers and Hammerstein Broadway musicals - or at least the first four - seem so lacklustre when transferred to the screen - and, YES, I know that lots of posters claim to love them and even claim Classic status for them on these very Boards and all I can say is they're easily pleased. It's undeniable that Dick Rodgers only had to sit down at a keyboard to pour out glorious melodies but sure as shooting Oscar would schmaltz them to high cholesterol level. Actually that's incorrect because unlike Larry Hart, who would set a melody by Rodgers, Oscar wrote his schmaltzy frustrated-poet lyrics first and then Dick would set them so we have to conclude that Dick was incapable of writing a banal melody even when faced with banal lyrics. I've seen all the film adaptation with the exception of The Sound Of Music which I've made a point of avoiding as I avoid all formulaic movies - though I had a lot of fun imagining the story conferences Let's see, singing nuns, that'll give us the Catholics; young kids, there's your family audience; Nazis, that'll draw the action buffs, but SAY, do you think we could work in a part for Lassie that way we've pretty much covered ALL the bases - and on balance I guess I'd say Carousel was the best of a bad bunch. This time around they begin by omitting I Have Dreamed, a strong ballad then assembling a cast who contrive to give the impression they're performing in different movies, God knows who came up with Martin Benson - a veteran of dozens of British Z movies and Short Ends king - for a major supporting role. Deborah Kerr's take on winsomeness is akin to being held hostage in the Hershey plant and force fed. One poster made the bizarre claim that Deborah Kerr was 'substituted' for Gertie Lawrence who created the role on Broadway whilst the truth is, of course, that Gertie died in harness a short way into the run.The score is the usual competent stuff we've come to expect from the duo but there's the constant feeling that something's missing. Oh, yes, Larry Hart. "},{"Title":"Stick with The Sound of Music","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Yul Brynner is highly entertaining, the sets and costumes are impressive, and there are a couple of interesting or funny moments, but The King and I is fairly dull and shallow most of the time.  Lang's direction crawls along, Lehman's script is surprisingly weak, and the main character - Kerr's Anna - is too priggish and tiresome to be very much fun.  (Where's Julie Andrews' Maria when you need her?)  Most disappointing of all are the songs by Rodgers and Hammerstein, which are mostly unmemorable.  Only Getting to Know You and Shall We Dance standout much.  The subplot romance between the two Latinos (Rita Moreno and Carlos Rivas) playing Asian lovers is achingly unoriginal and uninteresting.  The film is also condescending in its view of the little Asian people.  And what are we to make of Anna's son?  He appears at the beginning, then disappears throughout most of the film - which isn't a bad thing - only to reappear at the very end.  Finally, SPOILERS!! the tear-jerk ending seems rushed, unclear and disappointing.  One wants to be moved by the King's unexpected death, because Brynner makes us like him so much during the film, but it all goes by so quickly that we just don't care.The film does contain one of the most surreal Hollywood sequences of all-time, up there with Marlene Dietrich singing in an ape costume in Blonde Venus The Jerome Robbins choreographed dance of The Small House of Uncle Tom.  Here we have a latina actress playing a Burmese girl, narrating a play based on a novel about blacks in the southern U.S. written by a white woman from Connecticut, and the Thai dancers strut their stuff to Western music that sounds vaguely Asian, and there's some blackface and a statue of Buddha and amazingly cool costumes and the whole thing takes place at a lavish dinner given by the Siamese king trying to act civilized in front of the wealthy Europeans living in Bangkok, and it's all quite bizarre and post-modern in its own way... but Jerome Robbins wins out, giving us the most interesting part of the film.All in all, if you want a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, stick with the Sound of Music.I do want one of those cool jackets Yul Brynner wears, though. "}{"Title":"Too dated for modern viewers","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" This classic musical extravaganza stars a contrasting pair Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner, a British widow Anna sails to Siam to be the governess of King Mongkut's many children and wives in the early 1860s, as the king is dedicative to modernise his country with western civilisation.This premise is grating enough to introduce the scenario completely based on westerners' wanton concoction and superior hubris to a less civilised society. As a successful adaptation of a sensational play, the film practically is a more lavish play in a giant set, it won 5 Oscars (Brynner won for BEST LEADING ACTOR) with 9 nominations altogether including the big five.The film goes extensively into the ostentation and extravagance of its exotic setting, which must have been marvellous for audience then, all that glittery, kitschy bells and whistles are visually winsome, most prominently is the enthralling choreography of a Thai version of UNCLE TOM'S CABIN. But the central story, an oriental king versus a dignified British lady, fabricates the drama which is too primitive and too on-the-nose, what's more disheartening, the film in shamelessly biased in the Thai culture, and not in an ironical way which one can laugh about it as a self-mocking ridicule, under today's world, it is untimely, irrelevant and politically incorrect (at least hiring some real Asians in the extras for Christ's sake!). Brynner's Oscar-winning performance is quite a novelty then, a star-making opportunity for him to introduce to audience with his unique handsomeness and virility, with a bald head although it is a reprise of his role in the original play, he insistently flaunts his sinewy bod to justify his masculinity, verbalises his lines with peculiar accent and extracts a lively combination of royal panache and congenial naivet albeit his plot twist in the end is too brusque to accept.This is maybe Deborah Kerr's most memorable role and she is so fearlessly engaging in embodying all the virtues of a dignified woman with nobility, candidness kind-heartedness and self-respect, sadly both her and Brynner cannot rescue the entire film from becoming awfully outmoded after nearly 60 years.All its music numbers are standard show-tunes from a bygone era, some is bordering on cringe-worthy for my ear, simply not my cuppa. The story itself is a detritus made only for the world-view of 19th century, our concept of ethnology has thankfully evolved through one and a half centuries, so sometimes, something better being left in its own time-frame, otherwise heedful readjustment is indispensably needed to adopt the new mindset of a different generation, as much as I adore two leads' performances and all the efforts behind the production team, the film I really cannot endorse. "},{"Title":"Lavish but Overlong","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" An Englishwoman is hired to teach English to the royal family in Bangkok in this lavish but overlong musical. Brynner brings a lot of energy to his signature role, but he does tend to be a bit of a ham and does not always clearly annunciate his lines. Kerr is well suited to the role of the prim and proper school teacher. Moreno plays a pretty maiden who apparently is a gift to the king from Burma. The Rodgers and Hammerstein songs are OK, with the most memorable being Getting to Know You and Shall We Dance. The highlight is an extended ballet scene based on Uncle Tom's Cabin. The sets and costumes are colorful, but the plot is silly and the ending is ridiculously contrived. "},{"Title":"Fun, If a Trifle on the Sentimental Side","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Of course this movie would be sentimental, but that doesn't mean that has to be my favorite trait about it.R&H's The King & I is an interesting way to spend 2.25 hours. It is the pleasantly told and executed story of an English widow who tutors the children and wives of the Siamese King, played by Yul Brynner in classic form. Deborah Kerr's performance, while not perfect, is still very good, but some of her scenes go by with a lot of unnecessary warbling.The songs are an honor to listen to (except Hello Young Lovers). You should especially enjoy Small House of Uncle Thomas, which is when one of the King's slave girls puts on a very Siamese production of Uncle Tom's Cabin-- it's one of the film's best moments.The King and I is a movie that isn't quite the best of the R&H bunch, but it can still keep you in your seat. But, in the 2006 DVD Collector's Edition, a great injustice has been done to this movie the overture and possibly intermission have been cut! "},{"Title":"more than one dance","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" In an era when musicals were giving way to realism following the grittiness of film noir, the King and I defies any attempt to be overshadowed as an outdated piece of glamour. It can take on the likes of Brando and New Wave cinema and realism since it contains Yul Bryner who can teach many of them a few things. He was experienced with this role on stage. The script equally delivers an effective performance. It does contain glamorous flourishes which mark it as distinctively musical but the sympathetic writing of Deborah Kerr longing for her dead husband and Brynner's tortured king when he struggles with to know more and doubts on how to be a good ruler. A subplot which weaves itself tightly into this is Rita Moreno's princess who is in love with another man. Unknown to anyone at the time her appearance in this has a new echo. The actor and parapsychologist Stephen Armourae has painted more than picture of a woman called Catherine who looks like the Tuptim character,as anyone can see who sees the film and then manages to see a copy of the portrait anywhere. With added irony character and this other woman are believed from neighbouring countries. Tuptim's desire to be reunited with the man she loves is melodramatic and truthful. Since such feelings are expressed as overwhelming and out of control. Her battle against the king is presented as Anna's main social objection to his rule. This culminates in scenes devastating for them both and presents a contrast to the humour and intimacy of their conversations and dancing together. In addition to a musical there is a film with a social commentary not seen in many musicals. WHen it does appear in others it is done so heavy handed it cannot match the touch of the King and I "},{"Title":"Wonderful family entertainment","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" 'The King and I' is a much-loved family classic because it combines catchy songs with lush sets and an endearing, entertaining storyline. Like many musicals, it is overlong (I feel that musicals work best at about a 100 minute run time) and over-the-top, but it is wonderful escapism that the whole family can enjoy.Yul Brynner won an Oscar for his turn as the King Of Siam, and he is very good in the role. English-rose Deborah Kerr plays her usual English rose role, as the live-in-governess to the King Of Siam's many, many children. Her Anna is a lovely, steadying presence to the theatrics of many other cast members (including Brynner). Kerr did play a lot of variations on the same role, but her acting talent gives each performance a slightly different quality.The Rodgers and Hammerstein musical numbers are great, as usual, and the set design is magnificent. The scale of this production was remarkable in 1950's Hollywood, and it still looks very impressive, even to the modern eye.8/10. "},{"Title":"Yul Brenner at his best","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I never cared very much for Yul Brenner in most of his performances. Except in the King and I. He owns the part of the King of Siam. Anyone else who plays the King will always be second best to me, no matter how good they are. He did more by saying Ha! than most can do with entire sentences. I was privileged enough to see his last Broadway performance as the King and I'm glad to say that, as sick as he was, he still managed to do the sweeping polka in Shall We Dance? Deborah Kerr is wonderful as Anna Leonowens, a widow who travels to Siam to be the school teacher for the King's children. Along the way, she and the King learn about each other and from each other.The musical numbers are spectacular and memorable, but more than that, the background score is incredible. Once you see the King present his children to Anna and hear the accompanying music, you will never be the same.This is a touching, wonderful musical, the likes of which we will never see again! "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I am a fan of Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr. I especially loved this movie. And I have watched it over and over thru the years. I also had the wonderful privilege of seeing Yul Brynner perform the play in Atlanta, GA. around 1982-83. I haven't been able to see the newer version that is out but don't think it could ever top this one. I also saw a movie with Yul Brynner called Once More With Feeling that I liked. Would like to find a copy of that one sometime. I also liked one called Kings of the Sun. And Deborah Kerr was very good in An Affair to Remember with Cary Grant, King Solomon's Mines with Stewart Granger and Heaven Knows Mr. Allison with Robert Mitchum. These were two very versatile actors. "},{"Title":"A wonderful romantic movie, worth watching again and again!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Rogers and Hammerstein should be considered as the best writers of the century, possibly any other century. (Alongside Irving Berlin) The combination of catchy music with terrific lyrics is a winning combination, to be sure. And nowhere are they finer than in The King and I. They manage to take a lovely book, and turn it into a musical epic, that makes you laugh AND cry. I fall in love with the King every time I see it, and I've seen it probably 40-50 times. And the golden dress that Deborah Kerr wears is to die for! Every year since I was about 10, I've wanted one for Christmas!This is my all time favorite movie musical. Characters are wonderful, music is terrific, and the ending. Sigh, it's all about the ending! Tears every time!! "},{"Title":"On the Whole Excellent","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I is probably Rodger's and Hammerstein's best musical after Carousel. The brilliance of the piece is that it is a love story that is not romantic, but still a love story. Walter Lang translated the piece beautifully to the screen, remaining mostly faithful to the stage version, dropping some songs and adding some scenes of dialog, but keeping the brilliance of the piece, possibly improving it. original stage Anna Gertrude Lawrence died shortly after she ended her run on Broadway, making reprising her apparently dazzling performance on screen an impossibility. But Deborah Kerr is excellent in the role, even if her singing is dubbed (Marni Nixon is excellent on the vocals). And then of course there's Yul Brynner. Brynner is one of those performer's who has truly made the role his own, and he is in even better form in the film than he was in the original stage version, ( he was a little to young when he opened on Broadway). The journey he undergoes through his relationship with Anna is truly magnificent. After The Sound of Music, this is probably the next best film version of an R&H show. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Yul Brynner brings much life to this film in his Oscar winning role as the slightly eccentric King of Siam, and his acting, together with the film's grand music, are what primarily makes this quite watchable stuff. I would be cautious to call it any better than above average, as the storyline is very ordinary, at times dull and often predictable, plus it runs on for too long, with dry sections between the songs. There is one very well done sequence in it though the play that is performed by the children of Siam. It has an interesting flavour to it, and it is very well choreographed. The attempts at humour in the film fail more often than they succeed, and the material can easily be seen as racist. Still, it is good enough viewing, with lavish sets and costumes to please the eye, some great tunes to please the ear, and Brynner to liven the characterisations. "}{"Title":"Lyrical Fictionalized Biography; Two Empires' Minds Clash; Unusual","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" This in many persons' minds is the most-overrated or else the most- moving of all musicals; as with a taste for retsina Greek wine, it is going to about your number one or something one omits. The play staged in New York with Yul Brynner, then relatively obscure, and Gertrude Lawrence was a triumph of staging and for its charismatic stars. Perhaps of British singing actresses only Patricia Morison could also have succeeded in the part; she played it on the road and in a TV appearance with Brynner, and then as not even mentioned by the PBS staff--a criminal omission. Deborah Kerr, a non-singer, was cast in the cinematic version in the role of Anna Leonowen, a widow hired to teach the Siamese royal children in the western way. This is a fictionalized biography, then, of Anna, and of the monarch who hired her. It is not non-fiction, an historical treatise on the mystical greatness of an Eastern totalitarian monarchy nor particularly an example of western barbarity toward people who had yet to discover individual rights, lives and other qualities (belonging to the citizens of democratically-erected republics but most certainly not to the British Empire's subjects in the 19th Century either). What the film is I claim is an interesting comparison of the blindnesses of both people's best representatives toward one another's ways; and as from the first when Anna demands a separate house for herself and her boy we realize this is not going to be an easy partnership. What is unexpected is that the haughty and over proud king is also a handsome, intelligent man capable both of inspiring others and of learning from them. There are actually comparatively few incidents in the storyline. Anna is captivated by the children; the young crown prince is being taught to be like his father; two young lovers without royal permission run off and we never learn their exact fate; Anna allows us a glimpse of her past with her husband, and she tries to change the court ladies' ways; the girl who later runs away writes a Siamese version of Uncle Tom's Cabin, allegorically commenting on the plight both of Siam's females and of the king's subjects, including herself; Anna finds herself falling in love with the king; then on point of leaving because of his cruelty, she is called to his side to learn that he is dying. He dies; and she departs with her young son, a wiser person. The cinematography by Leon Shamroy was colorful and difficult to obtain; Irene Sharaff's costumes were wonderful, as was Jerome Robbins' stylized ballet and the staging of the allegorical Cabin of Uncle Thomas. Lyle Wheeler and John de Cuir did the fine art direction, Paul S. Fox and Walter M. Scott the exotic set decorations. Walter Lang's direction was intelligent but the production looks staged to me at some points, perhaps unnecessarily. This was an A production, and it looks as if it were, one; but the decision was made by Studio heads to avoid real harbors, real places, etc; so it has a claustrophobic feel at some times, though not a soundstage look. The other star of the film in the music and lyrics by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II. Oriental music is no easier than near Eastern; and this score seems to most to be subtly right.The songs such as Shall We Dance, March of the Siamese Children, Hello Young Lovers, We Kiss in a Shadow , Is a Puzzlementand others delight audiences now as they have for years. But this is by no means the team's best book or best score; what this film has is energy, telescoped events, interesting characters caught in an amber element made of strands of totalitarianism, fear, unwillingness to deal with reality, good-heartedness, etc. The atmosphere of the screenplay is actually as oppressive at times as the fog which greets Anna and her son on their arrival. In the lead, Yul Brynner is very good in his famous role of course, and Deborah Kerr, contrary to some reviewers' notions, underplays her part very intelligently; Marni Nixon did most of her singing. Rita Moreno is vivacious as the tragic TupTim in love with handsome Carlos Rivas, a good actor; Alan Mowbray, Geoffrey Toone, young Patrick Adiarte, and Martin Benson are very good also. Characteristically, the wives in the screenplay were largely ignored, even in a serviceable narrative by Ernest Lehman and Hammerstein. Margaret Landon's moving book here received quite a bit of what its author could have hoped for, in my opinion; in the way of a realization on screen; but without a singer in the Anna part, whether Getrude Lawrence or Patricia Morison, the production I suggest could never have risen to the heights it might otherwise have achieved, as excellent as it is in many respects. It is a film to be watched and savored more than once by my standards, and a fine holiday offering. "},{"Title":"This is definitely a Yul Brynner 's movie !","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Even though this is my most #1 favorite movie in the world. I love it from start to finish. Everything is flawless (the cinematography is magnificent and colorful). The entire cast and the costumes was fantastic. But as a woman, why we women are so attach to this movie? because of Yul Brynner's sexy body physique and drop dead gorgeous looks! He just has a body of a God ! I had a total crush on him even when I was a child. Even his costars Deborah Kerr and Rita Moreno says that he was so sexy! There so many scenes when Yul just parted his shirt and shows his sexy muscular abs and topless scene as well when he almost whips Tuptim. After Yul took his top off for the whip scene I just heard a choir singing Hallelujah! in my ears . Every time when he shows his body it makes you go back and rewind. He is just so very drop dead gorgeous! He has gorgeous brown eyes that are so hypnotic and seductive, you could not turn away. He deserve every bit of that Oscar. Whoever plan those scene must have been a genius ! If I was one those actresses or leading lady like Deborah Kerr in The King and I or Anne Baxter on The Ten Commandments with Yul as my leading man I would consider myself as the most luckiest woman in the world! Yul is very talented actor with lots of charisma, poise, sex appeal, wonderful body language,drop dead gorgeous looks,the sexy but great body physique and great presence. His death scene as The King always bring me to tears. Mr. Brynner is known to be the most sexiest actor both on Hollywood screen and Broadway history. This guy is definitely a true mega star! It was Yul's body that made the show!!! (and that is so very true) A Yul Brynner fan forever... "},{"Title":" --- a gourmet feast for the eyes and for the social conscience","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King And I (1956) won five Academy Awards, including bests for actor, art direction and costume design, and musical score and sound -- and although nominated, not for Best Picture. Around The World In Eighty Days won in a distinguished group that also included, The Ten Commandments with Charlton Heston, Giant with James Dean, and Friendly Persuasion with Gary Cooper. Films and performances not nominated are equally impressive -- it was a great year to go to the movies.My mother beams when Yul Brynner (King Mongkut, 1804-68) sashays onto the screen for his tour de force performance -- as the King of Siam who hires a British school mistress to educate the royal family. An experienced and luminous ensemble enables Brynner, in an already award winning role, to burn with nova brilliance. Terry Sanders, Rita Moreno, Deborah Kerr, Martin Benson, and Patrick Adiarte, give performances worthy of more than mere praise. Deborah Kerr (Anna Leonowens, the school mistress), honored with many awards during her career, was never recognized by the Academy with a win -- sadly, she deserved better.So many categories of the film are deservedly esteemed; but highest honors belong to Oscar Hammerstein II -- for his playbook and his lyrics (with Richard Rogers' music). The songbook which includes Getting To Know You and Hello Young Lovers, is unforgettable; however, Hammerstein - the humanitarian and the battler for justice and equal rights - stands taller than his works. South Pacific, Oklahoma, Carousel, Show Boat, et al., are unabashed choruses of poetry - sometimes sentimental and homespun - from his compassionate heart.Borrowing the play-within-a-play format from Shakespeare's A Midsummer-Night's Dream, Rita Moreno (Tuptim, the King's newest wife) narrates a breathtaking presentation of Uncle Tom's Cabin (Harriet Beecher Stowe - 1852) at the royal dinner for the British Consulate. With its creativity in dance, its skilled adaptation of traditional and folk arts, and for its timely message in our country's civil rights struggle, this is the visual event of the film (and remains so after nearly fifty years)-- a gourmet feast for the eyes and for the social conscience.Margaret Landon's book, Anna And The King Of Siam (1944), and personal accounts (1862) by Anna Leonowens may elicit mixed feelings; but The King And I gives America positive and lasting impressions of the Siamese Kingdom.Moreover, progressive King Mongkut and Oscar Hammerstein II are members of a mutual admiration society -- with each working to make his respective and beloved country a better place. And both would agree that Thailand is a better place today, where good people in the calm and stable eye of a storm have sheltered neighbors seeking refuge, while conflict raged on all sides. But I shall remember a serene and gentle place too -- an early morning breakfast with my wife at Bangkok's Oriental Hotel, then a journey up river on the Chao Phraya to Ayuthaya, the ancient capital of a Land Of A Thousand Smiles. "},{"Title":"The Film that shot Deborah Kerr to fame","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Having previously appeared as leading lady in 'Quo Vadis', 'The Prisoner of Zenda' and 'Young Bess', Deborah Kerr finally got top billing in this delightful stage adaptation of 'The King and I' with Yul Brynner. Although you could argue that this was a Yul Brynner film, and that it was in 'The King and I' that Cecil B. DeMille spotted the talent of Brynner and enlisted him in 'The Ten Commandments', Brynner has been remembered for more films than 'The King and I'. For example, in 'The Ten Commandments', everyone remembers Yul Brynner for the line 'So let it be written. So let it be done'. They also remember him for 'The Magnificent Seven'. In addition to these two films, they also remember him for 'The King and I'. With Deborah Kerr, however, she is first and foremost remembered and associated with her performance in 'King and I'. Every other film that she appeared in, her performance took second place. "},{"Title":"An all up great movie with music and talent","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  It's really good.  I played louis leonowens for a major school production once and it was great fun.  The reason I like it and that 836 people also do is because of the wonderful movie line it has to it.  The movie is also good because of the wonderful fun that everyone is having "},{"Title":"A charming little musical stuck in the 1950s","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  A modern audience may find it difficult to see Hollywood actors trying to act like characters from southeast Asia. Especially Yul Brynner singing Puzzlement in a vague accent. But it's no better or worse than the attitudes of other movies of this period, and if you can overlook that you will find a charming little musical with a well-textured leading role for Brynner. The translation of Uncle Tom's Cabin to a Siamese theater piece is mesmerizing, but many of the musical numbers have lost their appeal over the years. "},{"Title":"One of the classic musicals of the fifties","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Deborah Kerr runs around in huge hoop skirts while Yul Brynner wears no shoes.  And people wonder why this movie is still banned in Thailand. Actually this is a musical (and pretty shallow version) of a diary entitled `Anna and the King.'  The Thais feel that it makes the king look foolish and backward but of course they just don't understand that musicals like this make everybody look foolish and backward.  If you like musicals you'll love it.  If you don't like musicals you'll REALLY hate it. True to form for the fifties they managed to make this movie using nobody who was actually from Thailand. "},{"Title":"Simply the Best","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Out of all of Rodgers and Hammerstein's masterpieces this one is simply the best one ever! Yul Brynner's performance was well deserved of the Oscar that he got for it. No one could have pulled off the role as well and perfectly as he did. Deborah Kerr in my opinion was robbed of the Oscar. I've seen Anastasia In fact own it) and thought think it to be good Deborah's performance in The King and I was much better. The King and I is a movie that can draw the same yet different kind of reaction and emotion out of you no matter how many times you watch it. And the ending scene will tear you up even if you've seen it a million times. Any movie that can draw that kind of emotion out of you every time is one for the books and goes down in history as one of the best movies ever made. And for me The King and I is such a movie. "},{"Title":"The King and I, a true masterpiece","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" The King and I is, in my opinion, one of the greatest musicals ever made. Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr are an amazing couple. I've seen this film at least 20 times and I feel so happy after I watch all those splendid musical numbers, magnificent costumes, the set decoration and, of course, the marvelous interpretation of the leading actors, who are simply perfect for their roles. I am very glad that Yul received the Academy Award for best actor in 1956, but I wish Deborah received an Oscar, too. The King and I is still very popular thanks to its qualities. And I think that the major quality is the hard, but admirable work of a perfectionist, who was not only the leading actor, but also the true director of the film-Mr.Yul Brynner. The King and I is a memorable spectacle of color, glow, glamor and deep feelings. "},{"Title":"Rameses Meets Terry McKay","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Maybe I should have titled this review Marni Mixon dubs Deborah Kerr who dubs Marni Nixon. As far as I know, this is the first movie Marni Nixon dubbed for an actress, but what everyone does not know is that Deborah Kerr did a lot of her own singing in this movie. It's very hard to tell when Kerr stops and Nixon takes over and vise-versa. Shall We Dance and Getting To Know Your is all Deborah Kerr. Hello Young Lovers is all Marni Nixon, but it's hard to tell who is who on I Whistle A Happy Tune even though sometimes it sounds like both of them pieced together! With Anna's soliloquy, it's very east to distinguish the two voices. Maybe that's why they cut this from the final version, plus the Song to the King! But, you don't really know what really happened in the vocals because Deborah Kerr was interviewed on one of the talk shows and I remember she said that she helped only on the higher notes that she couldn't reach! At that time, no one knew who Marni Nixon was and everyone thought that it was really Deborah Kerr doing her own singing! The dubbing is done exceptionally well combining the voices, but when Nixon dubbed for Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady. It's quite obvious who is doing who! One of the prettiest songs I Have Dreamed Was Deleted and My Lord and Master was deleted, but this needn't have been if they would have picked the acting pace up a little more!So, is the rumor true, as it stated in the programs given out in the theaters. that no other actress was considered for the part of Anna than Deborah Kerr, and the rumor that Yul Brynner was the one who highly recommended and wanted Deborah Kerr for the role of Anna? Well, uh - noooo! The first person that was contacted to play Anna was Maureen O'Hara. After all, Maureen O'Hara had one extra thing going for her beauty, acting ability, and feisty way about her to play Anna; she could do her own vocals because she was an excellent singer when it came to the vocal department! Let's face it! All Irish people are great singers! But, Rogers and Hammerstien balked at the idea, and said something catty like A Pirates Wench play Anna? Never! So, that ended any more hopes that Maureen O'Hara would play Anna in the movie version of The King and I. Too bad! She would have been great, and much better than Deborah Kerr! So, what about the movie? Well, it's good, but there's something about it that doesn't ring true. Too operatic. Much too long. Sometimes drags. The pace could have been picked up faster in the acting. It's obvious that the Ramesis and Terry McKay are in love. I think that gradually they should have made that a little more obvious and if they had, it would have made more sense why Terry would have wanted, even more so, to stay on and complete the work that she had promised Rameses.I know that there is a longer version of this movie that hasn't been seen for years. I remember when it played at the Valley Theater and the sign read The King and I - Un-cut! Intact! Which means that this version had the complete score in it which isn't in the version that I saw at popular prices as a teenager which is the same version we have on Video today.But, like I've said in other reviews I've submitted It's just a shame that people today can't see these movies on the big Wide-Screen with Stereophonic Saound as they were meant to be enjoyed! We used to have a theater here in Cincinnati, Ohio called The Emery which used to show everything from Silents to Early Talkies to films like The King and I, but the theater is no more! Sad! There's just something about this movie that makes it just a good movie and not the classic that it deserves to be! Maybe Maureen O'Hara had something to do with it! "}{"Title":"Mmm, your basic musical","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I was never really a fan of The King and I. Even the Broadway version I couldn't get into. Although there are many fans of this film/musical, I couldn't become one. But I do know some great work when I see it. I don't like the musical, but I like how the movie was made. It was very beautiful. I was impressed with the cinematography. The acting is also impressive. It looked like everyone enjoyed doing this musical. And the story is very wonderful. Like I said, I couldn't get into it, but I do like the way it was made. That I'll give credit for. But when it comes to musicals, I'll stick to Oliver or West Side Story. Those are the best in my opinion.6/10  "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals ever made!!","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner sparkle in this beautiful musical together. I like the Shall We Dance? Dance number performed by Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner. I like the actors who were in it. This movie will be memorable... even for the years to come.Marni Nixon dubs Deborah Kerr. She did a perfect job, too. This is way better than Annie, the movie. I'm happy they picked Deborah Kerr instead of Maureen O'Hara to play Anna. Maureen O'Hara just didn't look right for the role.Anyhow anyone who's a fan of old movies should buy this one on video right away.  "},{"Title":"Classic lovely film with an unfortunate failing...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  That failing would be Deborah Kerr. She's been in so many fabulous films, so many wonderful roles, and yet she continues to annoy me endlessly. Aside from her cackling singing voice, her melodramatic over-acting, and her attempting to out-act everyone else in every film she does, she's not half bad;)Yul Brynner, on the other hand, is absolutely wonderful. Deserving every inch of the Oscar he won, he steals the show here. Every scene he's in is better for it. And the fact that he actually has *some* Asian stock in him, and was raised there, helps a lot (as Hollywood hadn't really acknowledged the existence of acting Asians at that time...)This film won 5 academy awards, and aside from Brynner's, the others were all to do with production. And the production is simply marvelous. Gorgeous, lavish sets, brilliant costumes, wonderful sound. It's one of the best-looking musicals I've ever seen; on par with Oliver! and Singin' in the Rain in terms of just being magical to look at. And that helps to overcome some of the faults.What are the faults? Aside from the irksome performance of Kerr, the film is too long. It's very hard to sustain a musical for 2h15, and about 1h45 into the film it started to *draaaaaaag*. As Anna prepared to leave for the twenty billionth time, I just couldn't stand another sob scene with children and wives all pleading and begging for her to stay. I had to sponge the melodrama from my tv screen at least two or three times. And the cheezy, anti-climactic death scene didn't help to save my lunch much either.On the other hand, some of the scenes were absolutely wonderful; especially the marvelously clever 'Siamese' Uncle Tom's Cabin scene, with interesting reverbrations and allusions to her own plight (except the one moment where she tries to whine her way to the king, Rita Moreno was *really* good, better than Kerr even...), and I quite liked the dancing scene as well.Overall This film could easily have rated an eight or nine in my books, but the ending and Kerr's performance just didn't cut it. It's still a wonderful film, however, a classic in every sense of the word. And Brynner's performance is worth the whole film. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful costumes; not-so-great story","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  While I didn't care much for the plot of this story or its ending especially(because the King dies!), I did enjoy seeing those magnificent costumes of the Orient. Quite elaborate! I didn't appreciate the story, however, because it left some unresolved episodes.  Whatever happened to Toptim--- that Burmese slave girl and her lover?  The story didn't quite resolve that part in my opinion.  Also, the characters seemed a little too unnatural in their acting, especially the King, although he did do a nice job of it.  I also didn't appreciate the very artificial props for the outdoor garden where Toptim and her lover meet.  But, having said all that, I do think it's a great film. "},{"Title":"Past its use-by date","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I had looked forward to seeing this film again after a couple of decades, but it has not aged well. One theme it hammers into the ground in every scene is that the Siamese are /quaint/ - most especially so in the Small House of Uncle Thomas ballet. The King's mannerisms - scientific for rational, and etcetera, etcetera - are especially irritating. How good did Anna become at speaking Thai, I wonder - or writing it?Not for a moment are we invited to look at the West through Siamese eyes. On the contrary, history is falsified by making Anna a 1950s feminist. The impracticality of her hoop skirts is hinted at when the wives kowtow in them, but that is immediately undermined by her reaction to their lack of underwear. (/Would/ she have worn any?) Couldn't Hammerstein find ONE way Thai culture is preferable to ours?It does still have great songs, and Something Wonderful is a vastly better Stand by your man song than the appalling What's the Use of Wond'rin' in Carousel.Edit I've just learnt that the part of Anna was written for Gertrude Lawrence, who couldn't sing, but who cares? (Agnes de Mille). That explains Getting to Know You Hello Young Lovers and Whistle a Happy Tune. "},{"Title":"Silk Rain","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There are some deadly flaws here. Except for Yul, the acting is dreadful, with perhaps history's worst child actor performance in Rex Thompson (Louie). The songs are uninspired or worse. There's some rather heavy racial insensitivity and a rather dumb `siamese twin' joke.Anna's dresses are very nice, especially when she dances and sits on the floor. Some cinemascope shots are really quite good.But there are only two reasons for seeing this film. One of them is Yul. Its a performance that captures really well three layers a theatrical actor who plays large playing a character; who is playing the role of King (who also is playing large, but in a different way); who incidentally sometimes plays a European. Yul's career outside of King is lackluster, so here's an example of a narrow talent finding just the right vehicle. (Lots of examples but for some reason Sean Young in Bladerunner comes to mind.)The other reason is the marvelous play within a play. Other than the trampling on political correctness (no small matter), it is a real gem. It is placed precisely the same distance from the story (in terms of theater and `reality') as the presentation of the story to real life. I've watched just that part several times. It contains one of the best effects I have ever seen the silk threads as rain.  "},{"Title":"Gives 'old-fashioned' a bad name...","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Disappointing musical version of Margaret Landon's Anna and the King of Siam, itself filmed in 1946 with Irene Dunne and Rex Harrison, has Deborah Kerr cast as a widowed schoolteacher and mother who travels from England to Siam in 1862 to accept job as tutor to the King's many children--and perhaps teach the Royal One a thing or two in the process! Stagy picture begins well, but quickly loses energy and focus. Yul Brynner, reprising his stage triumph as the King, is a commanding presence, but is used--per the concocted story--as a buffoon. Kerr keeps her cool dignity and fares better, despite having to lip-synch to Marni Nixon's vocals. Perhaps having already played this part to death, Brynner looks like he had nothing leftover for the screen translation except bombast. Second-half, with Anna and the moppets staging a musical version of Uncle Tom's Cabin is quite ridiculous, and the Rodgers and Hammerstein songs are mostly lumbering. Brynner won a Best Actor Oscar, but it is feisty Kerr who keeps this bauble above water. Overlong, heavy, and 'old-fashioned' in the worst sense of the term. ** from **** "},{"Title":"something wonderful","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Yul Brynner took the role of the King of Siam that he had done a few years earlier on stage with the incomparable Gertie Lawrence (she died during the run) and makes his definitive stamp on the movie version.  Deborah Kerr takes on the role of Mrs Anna - interesting to compare her with Irene Dunne (the same role in Anna and the King of Siam, the earlier non-musical version of the story) though Kerr comes off better backed by those wonderful songs.  Hello, Young Lovers is one of the best to appear in a musical film.Two other laurels need to be offered - Terry Saunders for the song 'Something Wonderful', beautifully put-across; and for Rita Moreno's Tuptim.  The King and I is a spectacle, and the widescreen and colour did it justice.  The animated version recently is a pale shadow of this classic. "},{"Title":"Richly satisfying musical drama is stunning to watch...","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" THE KING AND I has been transferred to the screen from the hit Broadway musical with all the lavish care any major studio could give it, blessed by the performances of YUL BRYNNER and DEBORAH KERR as the King and Anna and a competent supporting cast.The score, of course, has those wonderful musical moments, most notably springing to life in the Shall We Dance? number so expertly filmed and choreographed, with Marni Nixon's voice subbing beautifully for Miss Kerr.The many children in the cast are charming, the costumes opulent (especially some of the gowns for Miss Kerr), the expensive set decorations are tasteful even when ornate, and the score (while omitting a couple of excellent songs) is performed brilliantly under the baton of Alfred Newman.Any lover of film musicals will find a lot to admire here, including the stylized Little Eva sequence, and any fan of Rodgers and Hammerstein will appreciate the beauty and wit of their sumptuous score.Well worth it for fans of the golden age of musicals. "},{"Title":"Fairly Good Record of the Broadway Production","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Although the King of the title is portrayed as a buffoonish caricature of the historical man, The King and I remains an entertaining film largely due to its tuneful Rodgers and Hammerstein score and the often under-praised performance of Deborah Kerr as Anna. Rama IV, who was also known as Mongkut, ruled Siam from 1851 to 1868 and was the first Siamese monarch to grasp western culture and technology. His reign began the modernization process in Thailand that was carried on by his son. How unfortunate that such a gifted and intelligent man should be portrayed as an arrogant simpleton who would suggest sending a herd of male elephants to populate American forests. How demeaning to portray a learned man, who could read Latin and English and speak several Asian languages, as a cruel tyrant who would stoop to involve himself in harem intrigues. Unfortunately, Broadway and Hollywood accepted the pseudo-fictional writings of a Victorian Englishwoman, Anna Leonowens, rather than historical documents. Miss Leonowens was evidently more interested in inflating her own status as teacher to the royal children and in concocting a good story about her relationship with the King than in dealing with the facts. Thus, it is not surprising that her book, Anna and the King, and subsequent films adapted from it are not welcome in Thailand today.Yul Brynner's over-praised performance as the King likely played well on stage, however, his broad gestures are exaggerated on screen, and he often seems to playing to the second balcony. The rest of the cast evidently took their cues from Brynner and perform like a stage troupe. Only the lovely Deborah Kerr realized that she was being filmed and that the smallest gesture or glance would be magnified on the huge Cinemascope screen. Although criticized because her singing was dubbed by Marni Nixon in this film, Kerr was an outstanding movie actress. She quietly and authoritatively anchors the film and keeps it from sliding into the orchestra pit with the rest of the oddly cast actors. Only in 1950's Hollywood would a casting director conceive of Latinos as Thais. Unfortunately, the film's art direction has dated as badly as its casting. Fifty years ago, few people made the trek to Thailand. But today, countless viewers can compare their memories of the Royal Palace in Bangkok with the version in the movie. 20th Century Fox's Bangkok resembles a theatrical set stretched to fill a sound stage. In fact, with only a few faux-Siamese touches removed, the sets look suspiciously similar to those of Ancient Rome and Egypt in Cleopatra, which came from the same studio and used the same team of designers.However, The King and I is not a disaster by any means. Despite its flaws, the music is captivating. The scene when Anna and the King dance to Shall We Dance is the glorious highlight of the film. The costumes, especially those worn by Brynner, are eye popping, although probably not historically accurate if photographs of the real King are to be believed. Rodgers and Hammerstein were not well treated by Hollywood. Their best musicals were often poorly adapted as the clumsily directed Oklahoma and South Pacific attest. Ironically, one of the pair's weakest musicals, The Sound of Music, received arguably the best screen adaptation. The King and I falls somewhere in between and stands as an acceptable record of the Broadway production, although the film betrays its stage origins. The often-lauded Small House of Uncle Tom number, which may have been a show stopper on Broadway, adds little but footage, which could have been better used to restore the three missing songs. For a gracious performance by Deborah Kerr, one of Rodgers and Hammerstein's best scores, and a glossy, colorful production, The King and I is good family entertainment. However, after the movie, youngsters should be sent to their history books to learn of the real King Rama IV and his accomplishments. "}{"Title":"Wonderful, brilliant, colorful, vivid, etc, etc, etc....","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" After seeing The Magnificent Seven I had this curiosity of understanding how good Yul Brynner could have acted in The KIng and I in order to get the Oscar for best Actor in 1956. Moreover, 1956 was one of the most prolific years in film making and delightful performances (see the lead actors in The Ten Commandments, Anastasia- also with Yul Brynner, High Society, Around the World in 80 Days, Lust for Life etc.). To get to my point, Yul is absolutely fabulous as the King of Siam although my feeling is that the King's character should have been exploited more, maybe even over a mini series...I mean the movie simply flows away so quickly that one remains with a bitter taste of incompleteness. Not to mention the ending. Of course, it could have been difficult to finish this movie upon a merry tonality but I reckon something nicer than this could have had a better impact on viewers.Well, it's just an opinion...Deborah Kerr is just as charming as ever, although as the rest of the cast seems to count too little in the economy of the film. People just seem not to matter here as individuals; their ideal only is brought forth. The theatrical performance within the movie is wonderfully conceived (way ahead of the time and setting of the movie) but too long and sophisticated as compared to the rest of the film.Maybe I expected too much from both the leading characters and actors and felt a bit annoyed by not having been offered a entire exhibition of their talents in these roles which simply fit as a glove to both Yul and Deborah.This movie should have been continued somehow, but with the same actors. The actors, the script, the plot, the music, the characters, the costumes are simply magnificent. At the end of the movie, you'll realize that something misses... you tell me what it is. "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" This was the first movie I saw in the theatre when my parents took me as a very small boy, so I admit it I have a special fondness for it. That said, I think in many ways it represents a high point in the history of the film musical. I can think of no other filmed stage musical that is as well done, except perhaps West Side Story and Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. Both of these, however, make extensive use of exteriors, while the King and I retains the feel of a lush stage production, which it has in common with the great Fred Astaire and Ginger Roger's musicals of the 1930s.In fact the scenery and art direction are one of the glories of this film (I am a set designer by profession). They are elaborate without losing the stylized simplicity and elegance that a staged version would by necessity have. The play-within-the-play of Uncle Tom's Cabin is the highlight visually, and its poetic effects anticipate the choreography of the Lion King and other Broadway shows of several generations later. I fear that because of our increasing infatuation with projection as a scenic technique- which is ironically a result of audiences being conditioned by film, the wonderful effects possible with a little imagination, such as a waving silk cloth to represent water, will become a lost art.There is of course much more to this film than the art direction, including wonderful performances by Yul Brynner, Deborah Kerr, and Rita Moreno, the glorious score by Rogers and Hammerstein, exquisite costumes, and an intriguing story. Put this on your must see list. "},{"Title":"Not politically correct ...","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" ... and still so much fun. Yes there is drama too and for a musical there might be too few musical numbers (I liked that, not being that fond of musicals in the first place), but it still is the charisma of Yul Brunner that carries the movie ... etcetera etcetera etcetera! (btw. user jotix100 has this quote as his Summary line and it might be one of the best, if not the best for that movie! Haven't read his whole review, but that summary line sums the movie up in quite a nice way! o) Even if you have been spoiled (I guess mostly in a bad way) from the Remake with Chow Yun Fat and Jodie Foster, you better watch this to enlighten you in more than one way! It shows you that the premise can work and is a pretty good one indeed! Recommandable! "},{"Title":"How can someone NOT love this movie?","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Yul Brynner and Debrah Kehr work perfectly together. I grew up with this movie and I watch it all the time! I love the songs and the entire story is simply magnificent! This movie deserves 20/10 stars because it's just that amazing! I remember when I received the DVD, I flipped out! This is such a moving story and it just flows perfectly from one scene to the other. I am in love with the characters and the actors who portray them. Brynner and Kehr are wonderful in this film, and I don't think there are any words to describe how fantastic this movie is. It's a classic, and it will always be until the end of time. I will show this movie through generations, and it will be by far the best film I will ever see in my life! "},{"Title":"My third grade teacher","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  My third grade teacher taught our class to sing Getting to Know You and I Whistle A Happy Tune.  We were mesmerized by this new movie.  I saw the movie.  I later saw it again, as an adult.  I had been assigned to read the book, Uncle Tom's Cabin, by my high school English teacher.  So when I saw the King & I movie again I was quite impressed with the Tuptim-dance about slavery, the Small House of Uncle Thomas, and the river (Ohio river?) turning to ice just in time for the slave trackers to be stopped.  This directly relates to the American time of slavery, when Southern slave owners or their agents followed slaves across the Ohio river to Southern Ohio, a hotbed of the Underground Railroad; there were large financial rewards for turning in runaway slaves......   I really like this movie.  I love Mrs. Ahna's singing, even if she didn't sing it.  I thought the kid who played the #1 Prince was super-cool.  My favorite song and dance number is Shall We Dance?  I have a beef that Mrs. Ahna thought she was SO OLD, that she was too old to have a love for herself.  She can't have been over 35, if that.  My, how elderly.  Yes, she does put the king in his place.  He's such an idiot, but she does manage to smack him around in her ladylike manner, and he deserved it so much.  I love dancing, and whoever said she taught the king to dance was wrong, because all of a sudden in the Shall We Dance number, he dances as if he's been a pro all his life, and of such 'western' decadent footwork. "},{"Title":"Just Sit Back and Hear a Story About a Place Called Siam.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":"  A huge commercial and critical monster in 1956 that honestly never has been very endearing to me. A widowed British woman (Oscar-nominee Deborah Kerr) and her young son go to Siam to teach the children of the nation's king (Yul Brenner, in a vastly over-rated Oscar-winning role) how to speak English. Naturally conflict starts immediately as the accommodations for Kerr are not to her liking and Brynner appears cold and unfeeling. Right away though the friction turns to love, but Kerr is bound by English customs and does not know what to make of Brynner's harem and his chilly nature. This is not near as dark as it sounds though as the film-makers opted to make this into a pure musical that staggers with its tone and suffers from ho-hum direction by Oscar-nominee Walter Lang. The greatest culprit is a screenplay that is not sure what it wants to be and it appears that the translation never got the scrutiny it really deserved. Even with a list of problems present, The King and I is still ultimately a pretty good production. Brynner's enthusiasm makes up for his character's lack of depth and development. The production values are also sky high and the movie nearly becomes a truly memorable romantic epic, but not quite. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Now that Yul Brynner's gone, he tells us Anna Leonowens was Boris Karloff's great-aunt!","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" I find it a little hard to believe that anyone in Thailand would have been particularly eager to be western, contrary to what The King and I portrays. A prim and proper English woman trying to condemn the treatment of women in another part of the world should have also looked at the treatment of women in her own country. This movie represents what the western powers wanted to believe that the non-white cultures desired. As far as I can tell, the non-white cultures would rather maintain their own cultures.The thing is, musicals just don't usually enthrall me (my reviews of Oklahoma! and The Sound of Music demonstrate this further). I spent most of this movie throwing out comments like Mike, Servo and Crow launch at the crummy flicks sent to them by Dr. Forrester on Mystery Science Theater 3000. Among my jeers were-Show that you're not afraid. Lady, have you ever seen a picture of Michael Jackson? -How can some people know one thing while other people know something different? By watching FOX News.-There should be only one man for one woman. Try telling that to the Mormons.When they showed the map representing Siam as larger than any other country, it reminded me of a map called The World According to Ronald Reagan, in which California occupies half of the United States (also, the Falkland Islands are enormous, while mainland China is Their China). And as far as I'm concerned, if Anna Leonowens really wore such a giant dress in a tropical climate, she must have spent the whole time sweating her ass off. And as long as they were going to talk about the American Civil War with the aim of freeing the slaves, they should have used the occasion to explain that the United States had RACISM.All in all, I prefer to remember Deborah Kerr from Black Narcissus, Yul Brynner from Westworld, and Rita Moreno from West Side Story. This isn't the one that I would recommend over others.And yes, it's true Anna Leonowens was Boris Karloff's great-aunt. If King Mongkut's children had watched any of Karloff's movies, they would have been all like That's the grand-nephew of our teacher?! From there, it probably would have led to one of those Now I've seen everything! moments like in Looney Tunes cartoons. "},{"Title":"The King and I","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" Based on the true story of an English girl falling in love with the King of Siam, this is a fantastic musical with both enjoyable songs and performances. Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Deborah Kerr as Anna Leonowens is sent to Siam where she is promised a home, but in the mean time she must educate the many children of King Mongkut of Siam (Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated Yul Brynner). The King has over 100 children, and almost as many wives, but that is no problem for the posh and polite teacher. It is not a big story, but there is also a romance going on with one of the slaves and a friend of the King's. Before the film, Yul Brynner performed the character on stage, he definitely deserved the Oscar for playing a not-all intelligent and arrogant, but lovable and laughable King. Also starring Rita Moreno as Tuptim, Martin Benson as Kralahome, Terry Saunders as Lady Thiang, Rex Thompson as Louis Leonowens, Carlos Rivas as Lun Tha, Patrick Adiarte as Prince Chulalongkorn, Alan Mowbray as British Ambassador Sir John Hay and Geoffrey Toone as Sir Edward Ramsay. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Music for Alfred Newman and Ken Darby and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Director for Walter Lang and Best Picture, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy, and it was nominated for Best Film Promoting International Understanding. Deborah Kerr was number 27 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, and she was number 9 on Britain's Finest Actresses, Shall We Dance was number 54 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 11 on 100 Years of Musicals, it was number 31 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, it was number 92 on The Ultimate Film, and it was number 23 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Very good! "},{"Title":"Disappointing musical...","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Musical","Review":" 1st watched 12/6/2009 - 4 out of 10 (Dir-Walter Lang) Disappointing musical from a character development standpoint, in my opinion, from this much-heralded Rodgers and Hammerstein piece. There a couple of good songs and a decent comical portrayal, at times, of the King of Siam by Yul Brynner -- but the movie doesn't really do a good job of presenting the situation and the settings. I can only blame the screenplay and possibly some of the acting as to why we don't fully understand the character's and their situations. I know it might be a little too much to ask of a musical meant for the enjoyment of the songs and the dancing, but even this part didn't stand out a lot for me. The basic storyline is about an English woman coming to Siam to teach the children about upscale European things. We find out later that the King is actually the biggest pupil. There is a side forbidden romance between the King's newest wife, played by Rita Moreno(a latino as an Arab--come on!!) and a former lover that causes some complications but nothing really mesmerizing added though. Deborah Kerr, as the main female character Annie -- is OK but not that convincing either. The King learns some things because of her presence and then the movie fades away as he does. This is really a miniscule story with some songs and dancing but not that great of an experience for a viewer really. "}]