[{"Title":"Excellent example of the work of Ray Harryhausen","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a prime example of the work of one of the masters of stop-motion animation, a form of art that is rapidly being supplanted by CGI. Ray Harryhausen was the ultimate master of this technique, having trained under the likes of Willis O'Brian. His work is still the inspiration for many of the special effects wizards today. Granted, the movies of the 1950's do seem stilted and silly, but quite frankly, the worst of them are probably still superior to most of the direct-to-video drek produced today, and likely better than most of the films produced by major studios. I was raised on films such as 20 Million Miles to Earth and have no problem letting my child watch films like this. I cannot say the same for most of what is released today. 20 Million Miles to Earth is a unique, fun film. It, like others of its kind, comes from a different era, when people were not as jaded and world-savvy as they are today. Save the critical eye for the more cynical, overproduced films of today. Enjoy it for what it is.  "},{"Title":"Better than average","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a simple enough film. Rocket returning from Venus crashes near Sicily and a foetal thing grows to become a giant lizardy humanoid type thing. The acting is ordinary and the script predictable.What makes it better than average for a 1950s monster movie is the Ray Harryhausen animated Venusian, called a Ymir here. Photographed in atmospheric black and white, its progress from small caged creature to being loose and dangerous on the streets of Rome and fighting an elephant is engrossing. You can't help rooting for the Ymir, attacked along the way by dogs and soldiers. The Ymir becomes a character like Frankenstein's creation or the Creature from the Black Lagoon. Excellent work by Harryhausen, and far more interesting than the CGI dinosaurs from Spielberg's over praised (and underwhelming) Jurassic Park trilogy.  "},{"Title":"This creature scared me in 1957 - love to see it again.","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this gem in 1957 at the Vineland Drive In, La Puente, California (which still exists! Saw Hellboy there last night.) The creature was so believable it scared me into peeking from beneath a blanket. I was eleven. I was hooked. Sci-Fi rules. Harryhausen's work is amazing and reason enough to seek it out. I was thrilled to discover it is available on DVD, and disappointed that some TV stations cut the elephant/creature fight scene for fear of upsetting animal rights folks. I will definitely find that DVD - and thanks to someone for noting the Full screen version is best, the Wide-screen is actually cropped top and bottom. I wanna see it all! "},{"Title":"Harryhausen delivers --- as always!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The thing that distinguished Ray Harryhausen's movies from other '50s science fiction pictures was truth in advertising. Other producers crammed their posters with all kinds of things you knew you were never going to see on the screen, but with Harryhausen you got what was advertised and then some, whether it was flying saucers decimating Washington or (as in this case) a giant Venusian reptile terrorizing Rome. This movie is fast-paced, well-made, and intelligently crafted. The scene in the barn is a gem. And enough of this crap about the special effects being old fashioned. We're not talking about fashion here, children, we're talking about art. Stop-motion is an art form in itself and it may only appeal to minority tastes but so what. To slam Haryhausen's work for not looking like CGI graphics is like criticizing Rembrandt for creating pictures with a brush and paint instead of using a digital camera. Fashions change, art endures. That's your lesson for today. "},{"Title":"More excellent work from Ray Harryhausen","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ray Harryhausen always wanted to film a monster movie in Europe and he got his chance with 20 Million Miles to Earth.A spacecraft returning from a trip to Venus crashes into the sea just off the coast of Italy.  Local fishermen rescue two of the occupants who are still alive just before it sinks.  One of them dies just after and the other is taken to a local hospital.  Then, a small boy finds a canister containing a strange jelly substance and takes it to a visiting circus to see what it is.  The owner of the circus takes charge of the jelly and a strange creature, the Ymir emerges from it.  The following day, the Ymir has grown into a giant and it escapes and goes on the rampage, eventually ending up in Rome.  The Military are called to try and capture it, but fail.  While in Rome, the Ymir is put in the zoo as a tourist attraction, but it escapes from there, fights and kills an elephant and climbs the Colosseum, where he gets shot down and killed.This is Harryhausen's personal favourite movie and he has a cameo appearance in the zoo sequence.  As well as the Ymir, the elephant is also done in stop-motion.The movie stars 50's sci fi regulars William Hopper (The Deadly Mantis) and Joan Taylor (Earth vs. the Flying Saucers).This movie is one the better monster movies of the 50's and one of my favourites.Rating 4 stars out of 5.     "},{"Title":"Hurrah for Harryhausen!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The moment the film begins it draws the viewer into its story about a US mission to Venus that brings back a specimen of a creature that grows at an incredibly rapid rate in Earth's atmosphere.  The creature is like nothing else ever before on screen with its lizard-like human head and human torso, and dinosaur like legs and tail.  The story naturally concentrates on capturing this creature before it destroys Italy.  Like other monster films where the monsters are the sympathetic ones and the real monsters are the people, 20 Million Miles to Earth depicts a creature that is inquiring, basically harmless unless provoked, and heroic despite its eventual fate. Ray Harryhausen did a terrific job with his stop-motion animation, especially when we see the beast battle an elephant in the streets of Rome. The acting is decent, not as bad as some critics would argue.  The film is pure entertainment and yet another commentary on mankind and the whole concept of the stranger within our society. "},{"Title":"Fast-Moving & Fun Flick From The Fifties","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think the best thing about this movie is that it's fast-moving. The filmmakers don't waste a lot of time with unnecessary dialog or a sappy romance. They get right to it and stay on track for almost all of the 82 minutes.Thus, if you like somewhat-hokey 1950s science-fiction movies dealing with space or monsters, or in this case both of them, you should enjoy this little film. Most of it involves trying to cope with a specimen from Venus which quickly grows into a Godzilla-like monster (but smaller).It seems a space ship had gone to Venus, but crashed on the way home. Only good-guy William Hopper, who used to help Perry Mason win courtroom cases on TV about this same time, survives the crash. The ship lands in a big body of water off Italy. The specimen, about the size of a trout, washes onshore where a little boy finds it and then shows it to his scientist-uncle. Within hours, it seems, the thing begins to break out of its ice encasing and - presto! - we have a small little Godzilla. Hours later, it's about the size of a small man. Very soon it's several times the size of a man.Here's the good and bad news on the special-effects, which are crucial to a film like this. With Hall of Fame FX man Ray Harryhausen, you know you're going to get the best of what you can expect from a film 50 years ago. Compared to most films of its ilk during the '50s, this is good stuff and the creature looks and moves in a pretty realistic manner. The only goof is that in some scenes, such as the one in the barn, the monster looks about three feet high in some shots, and 20 feet in others. The scale gets thrown out of whack a few times and then several times later in the film. Thus, you never really know how big this lizard-creature is. Overall, however, it's still done extremely well for its time period. There is a scene, too, where the alien creature fights an elephant! Once again, for something 50 years old, they did an excellent job re-creating what that fight might look like. It was well done....and how often do you see a monster fighting an elephant?? Pretty cool stuff. By the way, I watched the colorized version and the monster was green.The acting is passable, too. Hopper, as Col. Robert Calder, knows what's he doing, as do most others in here. Some of the actors are familiar faces from '50s and '60s television. The female interest - which is played down - has Joan Taylor as Marisa Leonardo. She's a bit bland but not bad-looking. She reminded me of Phyllis Coates, from the first season of The Adventures Of Superman.All in all, if you're looking for a campy and fun, along with fast-moving classic-era sci-fi flick, this is highly recommended. You won't be bored. "},{"Title":"See it for the monster","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's state the obvious right off the bat. If it weren't for the stop-motion animation in this film, it would be simply awful. Awful acting, awful script, mediocre direction, this film has it all. But once the monster appears on screen, none of that matters. Ray Harryhausen's animation is, as always, simply spellbinding, giving the monster, paradoxically, both a heightened reality (as it really is a physical object photographed in real life) and a dreamlike quality. It's easy to see how Harryhausen's work set the standards for monster special effects until Star Wars and computer animation came along many years later.This film is a particularly good example of his work for a number of reasons. There's only one monster (unlike the Sinbad/Jason/Titans movies), so all his effort is spent on that one character. The monster also starts out small and grows huge by the end of the movie, allowing us to see it in a variety of settings. And, the fact that it's a humanoid (rather than a dinosaur or big octopus) allows it to act in a much more expressive manner (not unlike the original Kong). So while this movie may qualify as little more than MST3K fodder as a science fiction work (did I mention how truly awful the script is?), as a piece of animation, it's a pure classic, deserving a space on your shelf next to King Kong, Snow White and Fantasia. "},{"Title":"Why is it always, always so costly for Man to move from the present to the future?","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth is written by Bob Williams and Christopher Knopf from an original treatment by Charlott Knight. The film was produced by Charles H. Schneer's Morningside Productions for Columbia Pictures and directed by Nathan H. Juran. It stars William Hopper, Joan Taylor, Frank Puglia and a Ymir, a creation by stop-motion maestro Ray Harryhausen.The plot sees an American rocket ship on its return from a mission to Venus, crash land in the Mediterranean Sea near the Sicilian village of Gerra. Some fishermen aid the stricken ship and manage to pull free two survivors, Colonel Bob Calder and Dr. Sharman. Once Calder recovers it becomes known that an important canister brought from Venus has not been found after the crash. However, Pepe, a young fisher-boy who was present at the rescue, found the container and sold its rubbery contents to his Zoologist friend Dr. Leonardo. Whilst in the hands of Dr. Leonardo the gelatin like substance gives birth to a tiny Venusian bipedal creature called a Ymir, but it doesn't stay tiny for very long...As the work of Dynamation legend Harryhausen got more accomplished and praised, it became a standing joke that his creatures were better actors than most of their adult co-stars. That's never more truer than with 20 Million Miles to Earth, where one of his best creations takes centre stage and acts the actors off the screen. It's also true that some, not all, of Harryhausen influenced movies are just thin clothes lines to hang his work upon. Thankfully that isn't the case here, for although it's homage a go go to King Kong, where Harryhausen hero Willis O'Brien pioneered the stop-motion process, Juran's movie has intelligence within its on the surface monster on the rampage plot.There's nothing totally new in this genre piece about mans pursuit of more via technological advancement, the unremitting pursuit of science as a tool or plaything. So where Jeff Goldblum mused in Jurassic Park many years later, about that nobody stopped to ask if they should be tampering with science and nature, so it be here. Where the Ymir creature is whipped from its home planet, starts off harmless, afraid, puzzled and very much a stranger in a strange land, yet is provoked into an aggressive state. This even after we are told that the Ymir only attacks if being attacked first, cue next scene as man who said it starts poking confused creature with a big pole! You would laugh if it were it not so adroitly cunning.Not only does the big question of why? loom large as things spiral out of control here in Italy, but animal rights are also given a poke, as is a nice thread as regards guns. It's just too cute not to mean something as Pepe, quite the capitalist indeed, wants to be an American cowboy. Buying himself a Texas hat he happily starts clicking away with his toy guns like some Western cowboy of the silver screen. You just know what is around the corner, soon enough the mighty army are throwing everything at poor Ymir, guns, tanks, bazookas, flame throwers, you name it and the mighty military are using it. America flexes its weaponry muscles on foreign soil, indeed. Against something that they are responsible for being here in the first place! You would laugh if it wee not so cunning...Of course the trump card here is the creature itself because it shows a number of basic emotions. Harryhausen works his magic as Ymir goes through the various stages of its sad stay on Earth. From its brilliant birthing sequence where it rubs its eyes and shies away from the light, to the rousing finale at the Colosseum where rage and anger has fully taken over as the creature fights for its life; on a planet it doesn't know or wanted to be on anyway. This thing may eat Sulphur, but it has one hell of a personality thanks to Ray, who sat at his table for days on end creating these wonderful sequences for us to enjoy. Letting the creature breath, flick its tale and wrestle other animals. Quite a character indeed.No personalities with the human cast though, Hopper (son of actress and gossip columnist, Hedda) is lantern jawed adequate enough for the role, and Taylor is pretty but playing a totally perfunctory character. While the Italian characters are as stereotypical as they come. But just like King Kong, 20 Million Miles to Earth has many fans who just adore it. More so now as advancements in DVD technology have seen remastered releases (even with a colour choice that's not bad at all) reach a new and interested audience. A fine fine film that rises above its failings due to a wizard at his work table and some brainy cheekiness from its writers. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Nice Companion Piece","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 50s sci-fi film has always been one of my favorites from that era.  As with another Columbia Pictures film, Earth vs the Flying Saucers, released the previous year, 20 Million Miles To Earth features some of the same cast. This film has a relatively simple, straightforward plot, perfunctory acting, and a brisk pace.  And as with Earth vs the Flying Saucers, the main attraction is the outstanding Harryhausen effects.  It is because of these similarities that I consider the two films companion pieces. Leonard Maltin calls the film one of the best monster-on-the- loose movies ever made and I certainly agree.  The sulphur- eating, reptilian-like Venusian creature, the Ymir's titanic struggle with an elephant in the streets of Rome, preceding the climatic confrontation in the Colosseum with mankind, remains one of the greatest one-to-one creature battles of all time. Definitely recommended for the 1950s sci-fi connoisseur. "}{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen's creature steals the film...","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or should I say, Ray Harryhausen's creature IS the film. Compared to the creature, the human habitants here don't have a chance to emote and are only what one might charitably call adequate to the task.WILLIAM HOPPER lacks the energy and personality he put into playing Paul Drake in all those Perry Mason TV movies. He appears to be almost immobilized and never changes his expression, even when the creature is doing maximum damage to the surroundings. JOAN TAYLOR is quite forgettable as the girl, a woman who tells Hopper that she's almost a doctor, when introducing herself. She's almost an actress too.But nobody is going to give a whit about the acting in this sort of thing, so I'm happy to report that the frightful looking bit of slime that turns into a fast-growing creature with a human torso and scaly skin is extremely well animated by Harryhausen, who creates some very realistic looking fight scenes and displays of temper as the creature goes on the loose. There's an awful lot of screaming going on, both from the creature and the spectators who run into him.Helpful too is the fact that this was filmed in Italy, where the action takes place, and there's a terrific climax shot in the Roman Coliseum where the creature finally meets his fate.For the child in all of us, this is terrific fun--but just don't expect much from the human cast. The story is absurd and follows the usual sci-fi pattern of keeping you glued to your seat just to see how it all turns out. "},{"Title":"Good for Harryhuasen Fans","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rented 20 Million Miles from Earth because it was one of the few Ray Harryhausen films I'd never seen. Overall, the movie is a pretty average 50's grade B sci-fi film. What makes it worth watching is the character of the Ymir, the creature from Venus. In later years, Ray Harryhausen remarked on the innocence of this creature and its final resort to violence only when it had been tormented to its breaking point. If you watch the performance of the Ymir (the best in the movie!), you can really see that it's essentially a non-violent creature that's highly confused and just looking for it's home (and some food!).I think a scene that really captures this is when the rapidly-growing Ymir breaks out of its first cage. Although the professor and his daughter are standing 5 feet away from it, and the professor has placed it in the cage in the first place, the Ymir doesn't attack them. It paces back and forth, then turns to them and gives them a quick roar, as if to say Why did you do that!? If you watch the creature closely, most of the time it's scared and just trying to get the humans to leave it alone. A very good piece of work.Overall, the movie is very silly and pretty stupid. People are constantly screaming about the monster's great danger,then they go after it, poke it with a big stick, and wonder why the thing's ticked off! Nobody ever get's the V-8 moment and says, Hey, why don't we just feed this thing, it's probably starving! The reason, of course, is that you don't get to blow up the Coliseum if you're just having a nice picnic! "},{"Title":"Good 50's monster flick!!!!!!!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fun little gem from the 50's about a spaceship that has returned from Venus, Bringing with it a small alien creature, and when it is exposed to earth's air and climate, it begins to grow, soon escaping and terrorizing a city.Fun monster movie has some really good special effects by Ray Harryhausen and a swift pace. A must-see!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Average 50s Sci-Fi with Superior Effects","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth has a plot similar to all too many fifties creature features, following an alien creature that is brought to Earth and unwittingly set loose. It borrows from movies ranging from The Thing to King Kong, and the characters are figures you have met in a dozen other movies like this. Why should you watch it?The answer is some excellent special effects by Ray Harryhausen. The Ymir is depicted with surprising realism, with many shots holding up even today.Although stop motion animation may not compare with the best CGI works,such as Jurassic Park, at its best it is more than a match for the lame computer graphics that characterize most modern creature features.(e.g. Anything produced by the SyFy Channel)As the first paragraph makes clear, this film has a lot of flaws. Aside from its unoriginality, the film's first half moves slowly, and gives too much attention to an annoying young Italian boy who vanishes during the second half. Nevertheless, 20 Million Miles to Earth should be on the watch list of any special effects enthusiast. "},{"Title":"Incredible! The creature has to be taken alive!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit I was drawn to this because it was set in Sicily, but they really never got far from Rome.It is a significant film for the fact that special effects were done by Ray Harryhausen, who has a cameo in the film (watch for the man feeding the elephant at the zoo.).William Hopper, who played Perry Mason's assistant Paul Drake, will be a familiar face for those who grew up during the 50's and 60's. Joan Taylor was also on TV a lot during those years. They both have a rich sci-fi history in films like Earth vs. the Flying Saucers, Men Into Space, and Conquest of Space.The little Godzilla-like monster from Venus is the focus of the film as they try to find and capture it. Of course, Hooper knows all about the creature when facing it. Such plot holes would raise howls of derision today, but it was common in the films of the 50's.An enjoyable reach into the past with a film that entertains more than a lot of the DTV we see today. "},{"Title":"Grade B movie with Grade A Harryhausen effects","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A purely grade B level science-fiction thriller with C level acting from William Hopper (Paul Drake on Perry Mason) and grade A special-effects courtesy of Ray Harryhausen.  A secret space flight to Venus leads, of course, to disaster when the specimen Hopper brings back to Earth grows into an impressive and surprisingly sympathetic creature.  He only asserts himself when threatened, and, naturally, he IS threatened, first by a dog, then by a farmer.  Like Frankenstein and King Kong, the creature seems likeable, while the humans who pursue him are the true villains.  Watching this Charles H. Schneer production on video, I was reminded of the Cleveland Cinemateque's 1993 Evening with Ray Harryhausen, at which a member of the audience asked the Oscar winning dynamation wizard how he managed to make his effects seem much more lifelike than the actors in his films.  It wasn't too hard, he joked, later saying he believed the performers were competent.  True, but the fact remains that the creature in this film is far more lifelike and believable than the human cast, and it's Harryhausen's creature that makes this film worthwhile.  "},{"Title":"1.371 or 1.851?","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a clarification as to whether 20 Million Miles to Earth was shot for a 1.37 or 1.85 frame (as discussed by other reviewers here).First, by 1957 it was routine in the U.S. to shoot movies in the full 1.37 Academy frame even though they were intended for matted (cropped) widescreen projection in theaters. The full Academy frame was exposed in the camera, but the viewfinder had line markings defining the widescreen frame (usually 1.85), so that the camera operator could frame the action within the widescreen space, but avoid unwanted content (studio lights, microphone booms, etc.) in the full frame space. This is called the 'shoot & protect' technique.During theatrical projection, the widescreen aperture plate would matte the frame to obtain a widescreen format (usually projected with a shorter focal length lens to get a larger image). When such movies were broadcast on television, the 'full' 1.37 frame would be reverted to so to match the then standard 1.33 (43) TV screen. The extra space above and below the 1.85 frame would fill out the TV screen, but, it contained no vital, relevant information. This approach was normal for most non-anamorphic widescreen movies from the mid-1950's onward.While anamorphic widescreen movies (CinemaScope, or just Scope) had nearly half their frames cropped off when panned & scanned for the 43 TV screen (thus justifying full-frame letterbox versions), the 'full' 1.33 video versions of cropped-1.85 movies do not provide any additional pertinent visual content. They were made available only to appease viewers who disliked letterboxing.There is still a lot of 'shooting & protecting' of some kind going on today (especially in broadcast television), but the introduction of flat panel widescreen TV's has rendered much of the issues discussed above more or less resolved. "},{"Title":"Average entertaining 1950s monster flick","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course, nothing that was achieved in 20 Million Miles to Earth was what you could call original. It had a very similar idea and style to many movies that were before and would come after. An incident involving space travel and landing on another planet results in the birth of a creature on Earth that is seemingly immune to our weapons. A rough and tough leading character who has a position of authority stars in the film. Alongside him are the typical secondary characters for a monster flick an under-developed love interest, a scientist wanting to preserve the monster, politics wanting to eliminate it, and so on and so forth.The creature in the film was brought to life through the fantastic art of stop-motion animation, done by visual effects pioneer Ray Harryhausen. As in most films, it is flawless with perfectly smooth movement performed by the creature. There is a battle sequence, again typical for a 50s monster film, and although it's nothing primal like the T-Rex fight from the 1933 King Kong, is fascinating.20 Million Miles to Earth, while not what I'd consider a classic monster movie, is the perfect film to watch on a weekend morning or evening. And it still holds out today, fifty years since its debut screen appearance, as a fun monster movie. "},{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen's creations are better than the story itself","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth is no classic by any means, but is an enjoyable little b-movie. Like most of the films he worked on, Ray Harryhausen's creations are better than the story itself. His Ymir is so lifelike and emotional, it almost makes you forget that the story is just a simple King Kong ripoff. Almost.The story is about a spaceship from Venus that crashes on Earth off the coast of a small Italian town. A small cannister from it winds up in the hands of a scientist. A creature emerges out of it and seems harmless if lost and lonely at first. Than it begins to grow rapidly until it attempts to adjust to the strange new world by destroying it. The characters are all one-dimensional, except for the Ymir itself. Like King Kong, you can't help but feel sympathy for him. Thats more than you can say about the actual heroes, who are bland and forgotten immediately after the film is over. Its an amazing accomplishment on Harryhausen's behalf. This is probably his best science fiction creation. Plus, Nathan Juran, while not a great stylist, knows how to keep the story moving at a very brisk pace making for some entertaining monster mashing. The final note is that this isn't a perfect film by any means, but it is entertaining with one of Harryhausen's finest creations. Nathan Juran also directed the bad-movie classic The Brain From Planet Arous later that year. (6/10) "},{"Title":"A Time Capsule","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Excellent in the way a classic car is excellent The accepted standards of the past. Col. Calder (Paul Drake of Perry Mason fame) is always lighting a cigarette; every speaking actor wears a coat and tie or a uniform; the women, dresses. Except for the one Japanese scientist, everyone is white; the Italians speak English with an Italian accent, even to each other. The supporting actors are memorable. Commissioner Chiara is voluble and excitable; Pepe,clever and fixated on his Texas hat and horse. Paying Pepe his half-million lira, the officer utters a classic line I have to see a man about a horse. Ray Harryhausen's idol and mentor was Willis O'Brien, of King Kong fame the echoes of that movie drive the plot of 20 Million from the zoo lab (chained down like Kong) through the rampage in a Rome (New York) through the climbing of a famous landmark (Coliseum = Empire State Building) to the last fall. The battle with the elephant parallels Kong's with the Tyrannosaur. And both movies end with memorable quotes eliciting sympathy for the beast. "}{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 million miles to Earth.It's one of those must-see movies if you are a fan of black-and-white monster movies. A spaceship crash lands on Earth after a trip to Venus. The planet Venus?Ah-hum, on the ship is a cylinder. Inside it is a creature brought back from the planet. After some time, it hatches from it's egg? and is caught by the local doctor. He finds out that the creature is growing at a remarkable speed. Predictably, it breaks out after awhile and it's up to the army to stop, capture or kill it.The effects on the creature are really amazing for it's time. One scene in particular, where the creature attacks a man in a barn, looked really believable. Harryhausen did a wonderful job with this monster.I really enjoyed this movie. 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"20 Million Miles to Earth","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spaceship, visiting and studying the Planet Venus, crashes into the ocean near a smallish Italian fishing village. Only one member survives, Col. Robert Alder(William Hopper)thanks to being rescued from the ship by fisherman pulling their nets. A canister containing the gelatinous cocoon of a Venusian creature is opened by a young boy named Pepe(Bart Braverman)who sells it to a local who pays for animals to send to zoos. Dr. Leonardo(Frank Puglia)whose daughter is studying to be a Doctor assists Calder back to health, but he realizes that no one from his crew was so lucky(..many of them perished from contacting a disease while on Venus). When back to health, Calder must find the creature brought from Venus and realizes that the thing escapes from Dr. Leonardo's cage as he was attempting to carry it to the prestigious Rome zoo. Something in the Earth's atmosphere is increasing the creature's metabolic rate and it continues to grow..until at a massive size, it's considered a threat. Calder wishes to try and trap it for study before the Italians decide that it should be destroyed. The idea is trapping it in a cage, but when that doesn't work due to a farmer seeking revenge for his dog's death at it's hands, the creature breaks free to roam the countryside. The monster isn't really a threat, though, unless provoked which adds an extra element to this film..it is being shot at and constantly bothered & attacked because it's misunderstood. It's hard not to side with the monster because it clearly just wishes to be left alone. Calder finally comes up with a plan to shock the monster with electronic wiring in the hopes that he can keep it under sedation as scientists study it. But, through a mishap that unleashes it again, the creature will again try to flee from those who wish to destroy it.Excellent creature feature thanks to Ray Harryhausen's astonishing stop-motion work. Particularly stunning is the battle between the monster and an elephant in the zoo, the Rome Colosseum sequence where the monster uses stones to crush Italian soldiers firing at it, and the monster's attack on the farmer who stabs him with a pitchfork. "},{"Title":"He was a stranger in a strange world","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" **SOME SPOILERS** Crashing off the coast of Sicily Rocketship XY21 has only one survivor out of it's crew of 17 Col. Robert Calder who was saved by Sicilian fishermen Verrico & Mondello. What no one knew at the time was there was another survivor of the crash but he, or it, wasn't human.Found by little Pepe in a glass container on the shore a jellied egg containing a Ymir, a native from the planet Venus, also survived the crash. The Yimr would later grow to the size of an elephant and destroy a good part of Rome in it's attempt to escape from the US and Italian armies who were out to kill or capture it.Great special effects by Ray Harryhausen makes the movie 20 Million Miles to Earth a lot better then it's plot or the wooden acting in it. The Ymir never comes across as anything more then a confused and scared creature who's constantly being attacked by the people on earth for just having the misfortune of being taken away from it's home back on Venus and brought to earth to be studied like a rat in a laboratory with electrodes stuck in it body. Growing from an eight inch toy-like creature to about a some 20 to 30 foot tall monster the Ymir is chased tormented and finally captured with an electrified steel net and brought back to Rome to be studied by a battery of international scientists. Out cold and not offering any resistance the Ymir is brought back to consciousness by a screw-up by Col. Calder who causes it to awake and take off. Confused and on foot Ymir runs into a bull elephant in the nearby Roman Zoo. Taking on the charging pachyderm the Ymir battles it all through the streets of Rome finally putting the elephant down, but not killing it, as the creature jumps into the nearby Tibor River. Still not content to leave the poor thing alone who only attacked those who attacked it. We earlier saw the Ymir approach a little lamb who was separated from it's mother and just peacefully walk away from it because it wasn't aggressive or threatening to it! Why couldn't people have the same common sense as the lamb did?Driven from it's underwater hideout by the US and Italian military dropping grenades into the river the Ymir takes off to the ancient Roman Colosseum where after a desperate attempt to fight off it's attackers, killing a number of them. Ymir is shot and killed by a combination of machine guns and bazooka's as it fell to it's death with half the Colosseum's masonry landing on top of it.You just couldn't dislike the Ymir even though he was supposed to be the villain in the movie. Being brought back to earth against his will, the Ymir wasn't even born when he was taken aboard on Spaceship XY21, his brief existence on earth was that of a fugitive who's only crime was that he was both different and unique then any other living creature on earth. For that he was to loses his freedom and later, when he revolted against his jailers and torturers, his life. "},{"Title":"Why is man's trip into the future so expensive?","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three reasons to watchone of the best black & white Sci-Fi movies; F/X by Ray Harryhausen; and a giant monster. On a return flight from the planet Venus an American craft crashes into the sea off the coast of Sicily. The only survivorsCol. Bob Calder(William Hopper) and a sulfur eating creature from Venus named Ymir. Great scenes of the monster roaming the streets of Rome and a lop sided fight with an elephant. Harryhausen's stop-motion near perfection. Hopper puts a lot of energy forth for a B movie. Also in the cast areJoan Taylor, Thomas Browne and Frank Pugila. You have to feel for the creature for it is a long way from home and constantly the butt of mankind's ill treatment. Recommended highly. "},{"Title":"Venus If You Will, Please Send A Big Reptile For Us To Kill","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles To Earth finds William Hopper, very shortly to be Paul Drake in Perry Mason, the one lone human survivor from a trip to Venus. Arthur Space dies shortly after the return and a little creature from Venus hatches from an egg they brought back. Everybody else on the expedition died there and before we go again, we want to see just what makes Venusian life survive.William Hopper says the creature is docile, but its actions are anything but docile. In fact it's never really given a name, but he's mean and ugly reptilian type animal, one of the best that the fertile mind of Ray Harryhausen ever designed.Unfortunately the story that came with the creature from 20 Million Miles To Earth didn't survive the voyage as well as the monster did. The science here wasn't the least plausible, it all being explained that the normal laws don't apply to Venusian creatures. Especially when they grow real fast in our atmosphere. Maybe he's got some built in steroids.The ship crash lands in Sicily and the final confrontation with the lizard from Venus takes place at Rome's Colosseum. What Emperor Nero and the gang back then would have paid to see a few of his best gladiators take on this guy. "},{"Title":"Go ahead and shoot, its only the Colloseum we're destroying","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the opening of the Sicilian fishermen watching as a ridiculously big rocket embeds itself in the seabed of the Mediterranean like a big dart to the ending big shoot out in the Colloseum, this movie is just wonderful.There's an Italian kid who is really focused on Texas he wants the cowboy hat, the horse, the pistols. There's the horny astronaut, always hitting on the professor's daughter (and visa versa). There's the professor. Then there's the monster. Man, what a monster!The Black and White is beautiful in this film and the ending is so crazy that you just have to experience it.  This one turns up pretty regularly on TCM and other stations, so watch your local listings for this mesmerizing, goofy sci-fi klassic. "},{"Title":"Great monster effects. See it for that, and nothing else.","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ray Harryhausen, the king of stop motion animation, presents a wonderfully realized creature from Venus in this film. That is the one and only reason to see 20 Million Miles to Earth. Everything else in the film is, frankly, a train wreck.The entire plot consists of nothing more than rocket ship crashes, creature escapes, gotta find the creature; and that's all in the first 10 minutes. The rest of the film is simply a showcase for a very talented animator. Scenes involving the creature and the actors are very nearly seamless, and really allow you to suspend your disbelief and become immersed in the adventure.The writers make a few attempts at subplots, like the boy who thinks Texas is a cowboy country near America, and a half-hearted romantic interest. However, none of that goes anywhere interesting, and everything always falls back on the monster chase. The entire film ends up seeming like nothing more than a delivery vehicle for the final line of dialog, which is nearly the only thoughtful writing in the script. The actors do an admirable job with the material they're given, but a bad script is still a bad script.As a one-shot viewing, the film can entertain nicely. The monster looks great and there are at least a couple good action scenes. If that's all you need, that's what 20 Million Miles to Earth has to offer. "},{"Title":"From Venus, with Life!","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fishing village in Sicily is rocked by the crash-landing of a spaceship in the Mediterranean. Locals think there may be people in the aircraft. The ship is XY-21, from the United States, and it has returned after colliding with a meteor, from a twenty million miles trip to the planet Venus. Only one of the 10-17 American astronauts survives, stilted blond William Hopper (as Robert Bob Calder). He develops an arm wound treated by pretty medical student Joan Taylor (as Marisa). If you think romance ensues belongs here, you know where these two are going (before they get there)...Now, thrown from the ship is a clear metal container containing what looks like an embryo, representing the life form prevalent on Venus. Italian fisherboy Bart Bradley Braverman (as Pepe) sells this egg to Ms. Taylor's grandfather Frank Puglia (as Doctor Leonardo) for some Texas cowboy regalia. Yes, he's the cute kid who called himself Giuseppe on I Love Lucy. He and Mr. Puglia make the supporting cast fun. The Americans state they have relatively little interest in the discovery of life on Venus (!), preferring to mine the planet for minerals, instead. But, astronauts took an egg back to earth, anyway... The Venusian creatures are warm-tubed, eat sulfur, have no heart or lungs (but breathe like humans), and GROW really, really BIG due to Earth's sulfuric (?) atmosphere. Too bad they don't eat chickens, since stagehands do throw them into camera range. The Ymir (as it's been named outside of the movie) eventually goes bananas, and livens up Rome and the Colosseum... Technical effects wizard Roy Harryhausen deserved better than this, one of the most scientifically silly creature features from the fifties.***** 20 Million Miles to Earth (6/57) Nathan Juran ~ William Hopper, Joan Taylor, Bart Braverman, Frank Puglia "},{"Title":"20 MILLION MILES TO EARTH (Nathan Juran, 1957) **1/2","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is yet another Charles H. Schneer/Ray Harryhausen sci-fi title which, however, emerges to be a lesser effort than their two previous black-and-white outings – IT CAME FROM BENEATH THE SEA (1955) and EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS (1956).Two factors which let the film down is the second-rate cast (the silly love-hate relationship between the protagonists feels entirely misplaced) and the Italian setting. The latter may have been an interesting concept – to take the horror and mayhem away from overly-familiar surroundings (though we still get to see numerous U.S. brass at the helm of the requisite army mobilization tactics!). Yet, the whole rustic ambiance – with the locals themselves a combination of simple-minded fisher-folk and flustered officials, to say nothing of a kid with a grating cowboy obsession (none of whom can muster a decent accent!) – somehow doesn’t suit the ‘intelligent’ proceedings; even the zoologist who proposes to study the alien creature comes across as a benign presence, certainly more dotty than deranged! While the scaly Venusian creature itself (cleverly made to escalate in size as a side-effect of Earth’s atmosphere) – subsequently called Ymir but never actually referred to by this name! – is a wonderful creation (surely Harryhausen’s first great ‘monster’), it’s also somewhat over-exposed during the course of the film. Its prototype was clearly King Kong – and, accordingly, the Ymir is largely treated as a misunderstood beast – but it doesn’t develop in any significant way, since it’s not made to interact with humans at all other than on a strict pursuer-and-pursued basis! The initial effect of the crash-landing spaceship is rather variably achieved but, as I said, the monster’s movements are impeccable most effective, perhaps, is the scene where it’s cornered inside a barn (aided by moody lighting and the inherent suspense of the situation). However, the fight between the Ymir and an elephant on the streets of Rome is also very well done – and the climax set inside the Colisseum (where the creature valiantly stands up to the relentless military onslaught) is justly celebrated, if slightly overstretched for its purpose.In the end, to be perfectly blunt, the film isn’t particularly worthy of a “Special Edition” (in view of the superior work Schneer and Harryhausen have done – that is, unless Columbia intends to revisit all of their fantasy titles) and, even if I only own a DivX copy of it, I doubt I’ll be springing for the upcoming 2-Disc edition (which will also include a newly-colorized version supervised by Harryhausen himself!)... "},{"Title":"Great animation, bit flimsy on story","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great work of stop motion animation from the early days of its perfection. Even though it had been around a long time, it seemed to take on new life in movies such as this one. The monster in the movie is stunning. And its much better than most of the costumed actors of the time. It is believable and helps in the suspension of disbelief. Where the movie is lacking, however, is in the story. The story is straight forward, and we don't get any of the man meddling where he shouldn't preachiness of its contemporaries. I actually kind of like that overall theme. This one does not offer it, and it seems to be tacked on in the last line of the movie. Like the director said, Oh yeah, what does it all mean? But besides having a thin plot, it is still an entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"A lot of fun...","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An American spacecraft returning from Venus crashes in the sea off the coast of Sicily. One of the pilots is rescued by fishermen, but what they don't know is that a cylinder containing 'something' is picked up by a stupid little kid. Naturally considering that this is a monster movie, something bad is going to come of this. And, from a very small size grows a gigantic Ray Harryhausen creature that threatens the city of Rome. Bummer.I've seen about all of Harryhausen's films, so it's nice I can evaluate this in light of other similar films he made. I actually think this is one of his very best films as instead of emphasizing LOTS of crazy stop-motion creatures like his ancient Greek stories, here the emphasis is on the lizard creature. Sure, there's also a stop-motion elephant late in the film, but I think because so much of the film depended on one creature, the creature simply looked better. Plus, unlike the 6-legged octopus from his earlier film (It Came from Beneath the Sea), this one had a bigger budget and better production values. Part of this could have been because it was filmed in Rome--a definite cost-cutting decision (plus a nice place for a vacation) as many Hollywood productions were being made there in the 50s and 60s. So, there was more money left for the important effects--and it shows. And frankly, there's really nothing I didn't like about this film--exciting, well made and effective. See this one. "},{"Title":"An interesting,  yet forgettable story film","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth is a great 50's sci fi movie. Its only major flaw is how overkilled its story actually is. An alien comes to earth, grows huge, then attacks the city. Its a good little flick, but blends in with other movies of the era.The stop-motion battle between the elephant and the alien is by far the highlight of the film. As usual Ray Harryhausen effects are breathtaking, and you find yourself giving sympathy to the alien. The alien is just now experiencing a new world and he is being hunted.I recommend for genre fans (like me) but not the average movie goer 7/10 "},{"Title":"Monster from Venus is let loose in Sicily...Arrivederci Roma!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ray Harryhausen strikes again. Tolerable science-fiction balances government talk with action after an American rocket en route from Venus crashes into the Mediterranean; two men are pulled from the wreck, while a Sicilian boy fishes out a strange cylinder filled with a gelatinous mass. The kid unwittingly frees the sticky substance, and everyone is initially fascinated by the emerging lizard-like monster which walks upright like man...only it won't stop growing, and soon takes on the Army. Plot has an amusing case of King Kong-itis, but--despite great effort all around--this creature never develops a personality (sympathetic or otherwise). As a result, it's just a case of when and how the soldiers will bring the monster down, along with bits and pieces of the Coliseum. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Lively","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What surprises me is that the production company, Morningside, actually popped for location filming all the way to Italy. It may not be Sicily as in the script, but how many of these 1950's monster epics actually got beyond greater LA and a minuscule budget. Must be an inside story here. Anyway, the special effects are amazingly smooth for the time, and make up for a rather annoying creature with a scream like the proverbial fingernails across a blackboard-- my eardrums are still vibrating. Plus, what plot there is amounts to trying to corral the creature that keeps getting bigger just by breathing&#x97; and catch how the scientists explain that one! Then too, as the man leading the army posse, William Hopper tries hard, but looked a lot more comfortable in the old Perry Mason series. And catch those awful romantic interludes between Hopper and Taylor, so typical of these drive-in specials. The world could be ending in 10 seconds, and these monster-movie producers would still insist on 5 seconds of forced clinches and bad romantic dialogue. But, hey, what about that great All-Worlds wrestling match between the reptile from Venus and our very own African elephant. I was rooting for our heavyweight and he was winning too, until that alien critter used an illegal neck bite, ruining all the fun. Still, my money would be on Godzilla in a best 2 out of 3-fall All-Worlds grudge match. Anyway, these drive-in specials were a lot of fun in my then teenage world, and, I'm happy to say, are still a lot of fun in my now geezer world. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movie monsters","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't expect more from this fun old monster mash than a truly great monster. The acting is merely average, though the setting is nice. I believe the film was made in Italy because Harryhausen wanted to travel there and this was merely an excuse to get producers to indulge him. And he certainly made it pay off.What the movie lacks in dialogue or characters it overwhelmingly assaults you with one of the baddest beasts since Kong The Giant Ymir from the...Planet...Venus. Some might not think of this movie as a horror flick, but horror is one of the tags IMDb saw fit to give it, and while the plot has scifi origins(ahem, Venus), there are some great scare scenes. The Ymir starts off about a foot tall and rapidly grows, probably due to our oxygen-rich atmosphere(remember Kong and Skull Island? the creatures there became gargantuan due to that heavy layer of clouds that constantly surrounded the island, supercharging the animal life with the ability to either grow large or maintain a level of life acceptable for dinosaurs when the rest of the earth could not support them). The Ymir is mainly portrayed, like Kong, as a sympathetic creature. His highly humanoid body also lets the viewer associate him with a creature possessing more than animal intelligence. Also, though speechless, his vocalizations are great.Probably the best scene takes place in an old barn, where the creature takes time out from fleeing from pesky humans to nibble on a bit of sulfur. He isn't let be for long as the farm dog charges into the barn and takes a bite out of crime. The director wisely shows this battle in shadow; I'm sure the dog would not have looked that believable as a miniature. Then when the pesky humans arrive, one guy decides to pitchfork the beast, and he receives a delicious come-uppance, and rather violent for the time. The Ymir beats him down and bites him several times. It's not bloody but high effective.The next best sequence shows the Ymir battling an elephant in the city streets. While a great rough n tumble fight, the elephant is not properly made to scale and unfortunately is too huge for his own good. The fleeing citizens are about twice as small around his crashing legs as they should be. But, given my admiration for the Ymir, I can overlook it as a serious flaw and just enjoy it.I've heard that for the film's 50th anniversary, the film was colorized. I haven't seen the colorized version and probably won't. This is a movie that works very well in black and white. I rank this high on my list of guilty pleasures. I hope it's never remade unless the designs for the Ymir are kept completely intact. "},{"Title":"Dim movie saved by a shining Ray (Harryhausen)","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's not much to say about the plot of this film. It's the old story of a space ship coming back to earth with dangerous (living) cargo, which of course runs wild among the human population. And it ends in true KING KONG fashion, but without the blonde.What makes this sci-fi movie stand out are the locations and the Ray Harryhausen animation. While many B space movies were shot on back lots or chintzy sets, this one takes advantage of real Italian scenery, including the Roman Colosseum and zoo. And for fans of Ray Harryhausen, there's nothing like one of his reptilian monsters to stir the blood. This is a good one a wailing Kraken-like Venusian that grows uncontrollably when in contact with Earth's atmosphere. The monster/elephant battle is a classic.William (PERRY MASON) Hopper and John (TIME TUNNEL) Zaremba are the two protagonists, trying to capture the rampaging monster. The love interest falls flat (the girl's annoying), but there are enough other interesting supporting characters (and of course, the monster) to make this a bearable 50s sci-fi thriller. "},{"Title":"20 Million Miles To Earth","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles To Earth was one of the first Sci Fi movies I watched as a child and I was intrigued. It still sends goose bumps up my arms when I think of it, and it's been ever so long since I've even seen the movie. The Monsters animation was so far ahead of it's time, it was remarkable. I would love to own the movie. It rated up there with Creatures From the Black Lagoon. So you know it had to be pretty extraordinary to rate that high with some one who normally doesn't like scary movies. I don't even remember the plot to the movie, I just remember the gradual, growth of the Monster. From the tiny creature out of the capsule, to the Monster he became, Something the child could play with, to something fierce. Something to be reckoned with. Would that we all could say we were empowered with. Stand Fierce, Steadfastly whether right or wrong, and never weaver. Thank You, "},{"Title":"The most action-packed sci-fi of the 1950s!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Ray Harryhausen's most memorable creations, a Venusian life form which comes to Earth as an unhatched animal specimen aboard a U.S. rocket returning from Earth's sister planet.  The film's opening scene (the spectacular crash of the rocket in the ocean near Sicily) is one of the most memorable special effects of the 1950s.A young Sicilian boy finds the egg-blob when it washes ashore, and he takes it to an old zoologist (Frank Puglia).  The creature hatches and begins to grow at an alarming rate.  William Hopper (Paul Drake from `Perry Mason') is the only astronaut who survived the crash.  Thomas B. Henry and Joan Taylor (both from `Earth versus the Flying Saucers') costar.  Taylor plays Puglia's granddaughter, a medical student who nurses Hooper back to health.While Puglia is transporting the creature (now 6 feet tall) to the zoo in Rome, it breaks out of its cage and escapes.  The alien creature takes on the police, the military, and a bull elephant -- the latter of which the creature battles though the streets of Rome.  If THAT isn't enough to dazzle you, don't bother watching ANY of the 1950s sci-fi movies.  Look closely for a very brief on-screen appearance by Ray Harryhausen himself -- he runs past the camera when the crowd flees from the battling monsters!Harryhausen and producer Charles H. Schneer originally planned to make `20 Million Miles to Earth' in color, but they decided to save the money and use it on `The 7th Voyage of Sinbad', released the following year.  One of the metal armatures used for the Venusian creature was stripped of its latex skin and rebuilt as the cyclops in `The 7th Voyage of Sinbad'. "},{"Title":"I've been cooking over a hot creature all day","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not only does this monster flick have amazing special effects by the master Ray Harryhausen, it also has an intelligent script and truly terrifying scenes, even by today's standards. I wouldn't let the kiddies watch the scene between the alien creature and the mob in the barn. It undoubtedly would give many of them nightmares. Later, the fight to the death between the creature and the elephant is a marvel to see. The demise of the creature takes place in the Roman Colosseum. Harryhausen learned from another master of F/X techniques, Willis H. O'Brien of King Kong fame. So he always gives his monsters a degree of humanity to create an element of pathos for the audience.One interesting facet of the film is how secretive the U.S. government kept the manned space journey to Venus from the general public. Just over a decade later when the first men walked on the moon there was so much media hoopla that nothing was left to the imagination, pinpointing a major difference between fact and fantasy.The cast headed by Perry Mason stalwart William Hopper is adequate for the goings on. After all the alien creature is the real star of the show. Another plus for this sci-fi flick is the on location shooting in Italy, especially the sequences shot in Rome. It was rumored at the time that Harryhausen wanted to film it there because he had always wanted to go to Rome but never had the money. Now the studio would pay for it all. Whatever the reason it worked out well for everyone. The emphasis on the Sicilian boy who discovers the creature in a tube that has been washed ashore and wants money for it so he can buy a cowboy hat points out the fascination Italians had with the American oaters which would lead in a few years to spaghetti westerns.The script is witty and never takes itself too seriously, which is always a good omen for a monster movie, especially if there are to be several scary scenes involving the creature. At one point in the blooming romance between Col. Robert Calder (William Hopper) and almost doctor Marisa Leonardo (Joan Taylor) when Marisa is helping keep the alien creature under control and sedated, Robert asks her what she's been doing. She replies with a grin, I've been cooking over a hot creature all day. Growing up in the 50's the group I ran with loved monster movies involving creatures from outer space. My close friend, Joe, always had one question, How do they kill the creature? These indestructible aliens fascinated him and finding out how to kill something that couldn't be killed was certainly a challenge. Find out how the creature from 40 million miles away is killed in the Colesseum when he can't be killed with bullets because he doesn't have a heart or lungs. "},{"Title":"Ahhhh....Ray Harryhausen","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of my all time favorites.I am a huge admirer of Ray Harryhausen and this gem doesn't disappoint.Some here say the acting and script are weak and to see this movie only for the creature.I agree that the Ymir is the show stealer here,but the acting is par for the course 50's monster fare.William Hopper is always sexy and fun to watch in all of his 50ish creature/sci fi flicks he made.He is also in another of my favorites , The Deadly Mantis(1957) ..he is always a pleasure to see.The other actors in my opinion weren't too bad either,I especially like Frank Puglia's part. The real star is definitely the Ymir,once again Ray brings to life ,out of a clay model,a character that frightens some and thrills others.I fit into the latter statement.I love creature films such as this,Them!Earth VS the Spider etc and Ray's movies are always my favorite fantasy films.Clash of the Titans is some of Ray's finest work and all of the CGI effects today cant hold a candle to his imaginative work.10/10 stars from me on this one.  "}{"Title":"What I have to say you'll find incredible, but true.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's probably being picky, but it wouldn't have been too much trouble for the film makers to find out that the closest Earth and Venus ever get depending on where they are in their respective orbits, is about twenty six million miles. Oh well, I guess they rounded down to come up with the title.I always get a kick out of these 1950's era sci-fi and monster flicks, doing the best they could with whatever the story writers came up with. I had to laugh when Colonel Calder (William Hopper) warned the others on the monster chase that the creature only got ferocious when provoked, at which point he poked him with a stick and beat him with a shovel. I wonder how he thought that was going to work out. And while I'm reading here that the beast was called an Ymir, I never heard it referred to by that name, nor did I see it come up in captioning as I watched the picture. If anyone could help on that score I'd appreciate it.As for the creature itself, it was a pretty cool Harryhausen creation, with that neat appearing handlebar mustache that really topped off the look. The battle against the elephant went a full three out of five falls if you were counting, by which time the Venusian beast was fully realized due to Earth's atmosphere. I'm not quite sure how Calder determined that the creature was susceptible to electric shock; it could have been a good guess but when they specified it took just the right eighteen hundred volts to keep it tranquilized, I knew they had to be making this all up on the fly.But you know what - none of this silly science stuff matters if you go for this grade B stuff from the Fifties. In a way, the picture seemed to be an ode of sorts to a couple other classic favorites of mine from the gorilla genre. When the Ymir broke the giant metal clamp pinning him to the lab table it reminded me of Mighty Joe Young, and the creature's death summoned up the way King Kong died in the original. If I ever get tired of this stuff, just throw one of those electrified nets over and haul me off. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen good, rest bad","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some movies stand the test of time, this one does not. I'm not sure it ever did.The monster was good as far as 50s FX go. Yea Ray. But the opening spacecraft crash - really? So cliché as it floats nose down (I suppose that's where the heavy engines are?) way too high in the water, and then sinks like a rock once the rescuers disembark. It never gets better. The portrayal of the Italians as basically stupid is insulting. Air Force Colonel Robert Calder's (William Hopper) initial interactions with Marisa Leonardo (Joan Taylor) were probably intended to make him look like a forceful military man. Instead he comes off as an arrogant bully. The alien is treated completely without compassion. Grim.Spoiler alert! Bob and Marisa's relationship eventually warms. The monster dies. Who would have suspected?Here's the way any outline of this flick should actually read American astronauts return to Earth with a kidnapped alien from Venus. The alien, struggling to understand its situation and gain its freedom, is brutalized and then killed while the Earthers lament their bad luck at having suffered any losses. "},{"Title":"humans could be such asshats...","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't get me wrong, it's an enjoyable flick, but it typecasts humans *perfectly*, for the asshats they usually are.This is the King Kong epic, only with a reptilian ape kidnapped from Venus, not some obscure tropical isle. And of course, humanity wins by murdering the creature when it proves to be inconvenient.I'm hoping the purpose of the flick was to be a sort of expose', rather than rooting for the good guys to kill the bad creature, and if so, this hits the mark dead-on.The unfortunate creature, Ymir, is taken from his native Venus as an egg, where he later hatches into a cute little lizard-critter. But of course, the scientists react by grabbing, capturing, and caging the little critter, to be experimented on, without even wondering what it needs as far as food, water, etc. And the nerve to call it so ugly... like it'd think the pink squishy things imprisoning it were paragons of beauty?? Okay, Joan Taylor is seriously hot, but still...So, when Ymir can *finally* escape, all he does is grunt at his captors and wanders off, never so much as touches them. Only when provoked does he react in anger; they even *say so*! He wants to eat, gets attacked by a dog, and only then gives the dog a beat-down. He gets repeatedly attacked, and only when pitchforked in the back does he attack his attacker. He's electrocuted and recaptured, experimented on some more, and only through human incompetence is able to escape again. But from there, he's met with guns, flamethrowers(!), tanks, all sorts of weaponry. Finally, in his last-ditch effort to escape by just blindly climbing to nowhere in particular, he's howitzered and finally murdered. Yes, murdered.Yay, humanity.So then, finally, can the gorgeous almost-doctor and square-jawed military-dood go have a nice quiet meal in a dark cafe. Gives ya the warm-fuzzies just allllll over.Again, I'm really hoping that was the intent of the movie, to show humans in the light they've earned throughout history. Maybe it'd be a wake-up call to some. We can only hope. "},{"Title":"A monster  movie where you genuinely feel sorry for the monster.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Put em' back where you found him! That's the only solution to this issue, bringing a creature from Venus down to earth in order to study how they can survive on Venus's atmosphere. Of course, if some Earthling was pulled off this planet by a Martian or any other planet for the same reason (or any reason), they wouldn't like it either. This all starts in the coast off of Sicily where a space craft suddenly plunges into the sea as fisherman watch. Two of them and one of their younger sons head to the craft to help rescue any possible survivors, not even sure if they are going to be earthlings. Fortunately, their gamble pays off, but the little boy finds a remnant from the ship which he turns over to a local scientist and his daughter (Joan Taylor) for examination. This object contains a monstrous looking creature from Venus which starts off as arms length but quickly grows thanks to the earth's atmosphere, soon traipsing all over Italy and ending up in Rome where it takes a tour of the grounds where Nero once fiddled and Caligula once tortured Christians. By this time, he's the size of Godzilla and not at all happy that the military (mostly American) won't leave him alone.Superb in every aspect (with a few goofs that only today's audiences would pick up on thanks to advanced special effects that just aren't as fun as what Ray Harryhausen does here), this roars by in under 90 minutes and is filled with so many great sequences that to mention just a few would be a detriment to those who have not seen it before. Still, to see this sad creature being tracked, almost electrocuted and placed in solitary confinement, and finally, breaking out of the zoo and battling an elephant, you can't help but be touched by it. When the creature does finally find some seclusion, it's in the middle of Rome's famous Colosseum where even there he can't find peace. William Hopper's surviving astronaut seems compassionate to the poor creature but, knowing it's too late to take them back to their home planet, is resolved to the fact that he's going to either have to kill it or watch the earth be destroyed by it. His acknowledgment that through every advancement mankind makes, the costs are greater, is one of the great theories of our times, and one which should wake today's audiences up to how we further destroy ourselves and potentially our own planet and species, through messing in science where we should just leave it alone. "},{"Title":"A 1950's Rampaging Monster Story","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you enjoy crazy rampaging monster movies from the 1950s, then 20 Million Miles To Earth is sure to give you an extra-satisfying adrenaline rush with its top-notch special effects by Ray Harryhausen.As the story goes - The 1st spaceship to Venus crashes into the sea off the coast of Sicily. Its only 2 survivors are its pilot and a fast-growing Venusian monster who doesn't hesitate to fight back when frightened.With an intelligent, fast-paced script - This Creature Feature's wild climax takes place at a showdown between monster and man in the Colosseum in Rome.20 Million Miles To Earth's running time is only 82 minutes. "},{"Title":"A very, very fine film of its kind.","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An American spacecraft that had made it to Venus crashes into the sea off the coast of Sicily. Two survivors are collected, one of them Colonel Robert Calder (William Hopper). Also rescued is a cylindrical container containing a tiny Venusian monster. Exposed to the Earths' atmosphere, the monster continuously grows. When it goes on the inevitable rampage, Calder and others would like to recapture it alive, so that they may learn what keeps the creature alive in the poisonous Venusian atmosphere.Superior Ray Harryhausen technical effects are the true stars of this nicely paced sci-fi thriller from director Nathan Juran. The script, by Robert Creighton Williams and Christopher Knopf (based on a story by Charlotte Knight) is absorbing, and the monster itself (not named in the film, but known as the Ymir to its fans) has quite a bit of personality. Juran gets efficient performances out of Hopper, Joan Taylor as his love interest, and Frank Puglia, John Zaremba, Thomas Browne Henry, Tito Vuolo, Jan Arvan, Arthur Space, and Bart Braverman. Hopper behaves like a real jerk to Taylor at first, but once he's able to calm down, finds himself quite taken with her. Fortunately, Juran never spends too much time with the romantic subplot.Also, the director knows how to maintain a real sense of urgency and excitement for the smashing climax. Eventually, the Ymir makes it to the Roman Colosseum, which adds to the fun. The Ymirs' struggles with a dog, a man, and an elephant are extremely well executed. The stock music is all well selected, and Irving Lippman and Carlo Ventimiglia contribute some very sharp cinematography.All in all, this is solid entertainment and one of the best monster on the loose tales ever told.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ymir","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20000000 miles to Earth is a decent film with good special effects provided by Ray Harryhausen.An expedition from Venus returns (yes seriously) and bring back a creature from the planet. It gets looses and grows drastically in size each day. Then its the same old stuff with monster movies from this time.The plot is actually interesting how they actually are coming back from a trip to Venus. Also the distance to get to Venus is pretty close to the title. I also thought it was cool how the Ymir monster changes size constantly each night.The effects and the Ymir monster are very well done like usual in a Harryhausen film. The monster itself in this film is pretty cool, its not a true evil monster it more so just defends itself viciously. Seems like it is out of place in its new setting and thats the root of its problems.Pretty good action in this film and the film does have a good flow. You don't really have to wait around much for the monster to appear.The acting is pretty boring in this film. Nothing special and none of the human characters stand out.Pretty entertaining movie, I recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"The Ymir Rocks","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A rocketship crashes in the sea off the coast of a Sicilian village and two survivors are rescued. The ship was also carrying an alien specimen in the form of a pod with a creature inside it. The pod is found by a boy named Pepe, who sells it to a scientist. Soon the alien hatches from the pod and, growing rapidly, begins to terrorize the countryside.Early Ray Harryhausen film is one of his best. The monster, known as the Ymir but never called that on screen, is an impressive creation. It's great fun to watch the Ymir fight people and animals before ultimately facing the military...on top of the Colosseum no less! The actors in the film are nothing special. The Italians are all walking stereotypes, especially Pepe, but are amusing nonetheless. The square-jawed hero of the film is William Hopper. Hopper was the son of famous gossip columnist Hedda Hopper but is perhaps best known to modern audiences for his role as Paul Drake in the Perry Mason TV series. Joan Taylor is an attractive but bland female lead. The chemistry between these two is sparkless and stale. Really though nobody is watching this movie for the humans. They're watching for the awesome Harryhausen special effects and some simple fun entertainment. And on that front, the film delivers and then some. It's a truly fun sci-fi monster flick from the 1950s, the defining decade for science fiction films. "},{"Title":"The Beloved and Remembered Ymir","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Movie has one of Ray Harryhausen's most beloved and remembered creatures. The Ymir. Not only is it a marvel of design and personality, we get to see its birth and that alone can endear on a subconscious level. Also, it is a chemivore only feasting on sulfur.So when our friend from Venus is attacked and viciously pursued we are truly on his side and we have more empathy than any Monster on the Loose character except King Kong (1933).There are many highlights. The elephant battle and the barn scene stand out among other delightfully visual confrontations in and among Rome's background. There is a fine musical score and some brutal violence, and along with the popular Monster, make this one of Harryhausen's best. Even before the birth of the beast there are some impressive spaceship shots that set everything in stop motion. This is an unforgettable Movie forever locked in its time frame and is an example of an Artist reaching excellence and about to attain greatness, because this one is the precursor to the following year's 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) Ray Harryhausen's Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Technical Effects Wizard Ray Harryhausen Is All You Need to Know","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1950s science fiction and western genres were extremely popular American movies, and 20 Million Miles to Earth is one of the better sci-fi features. A USAF rocket ship returning from Venus crash lands into the Mediterranean Sea off the little Italian village of Gerra in southern Sicily. Several brave local fishermen enter through a hole in the downed aircraft to extricate two American air force men before the craft sinks underwater. At the shoreline, a local boy picks up a sealed glass cylinder from the wreckage and conceals it. Later he opens it to find a gelatinous mass that he sells to an Italian zoologist/professor. The zoologist has a laboratory in a trailer. His Italian-American granddaughter, who aspires to be a doctor, sometimes assists him. One of the Americans soon dies in a local hospital; the other becomes the gradual love interest of the woman.From the mass of jelly is born the Venusian creature, which has a human torso although it is reptilian. Immediately it walks upright. Apparently affected by the earth's atmosphere, it grows exponentially. It is apparent that the monster is confused and frightened, and would prefer being left alone. Escaping from the trailer cage, and harassed by humans and dogs, it raises havoc after being provoked. The reptile, resembling a carnivorous dinosaur, eludes capture by the local police, and also by the American military in the area (post World War II occupation forces?). The Italian police would rather kill the strange reptile, but the higher-ranking Americans want to study it. Finally captured, and of enormous size, the sulfur-eating lizard is examined by Italian scientists before escaping a second time. His destination is in Rome, the eternal city of many monuments.Popping his head from the Tiber, the creature destroys the Ponte Umberto (Humbert Bridge); there are nice special effects here. It moves through the old Roman ruins. There is a tough battle with an African elephant from the Roman zoo, which the monster mortally wounds. The Italian army (commanded by the American brass) finally traps the Venusian reptile in the Roman Colosseum, ironically the setting of the wild beast hunts two millennia ago. The monster then moves along the Colosseum walls, where the Italian forces pepper it with bazookas, rifle fire, and artillery. Bye-bye creature (although now known as the Ymir, it is unnamed in the movie) Several positive aspects make this Indie, all of which are important. The first item is the script, which is underrated, and the movie moves quickly. The sympathies are all with the monster, which had an unhappy short life in a faraway planet. Secondly, the on-location shooting in Rome is always a plus. We get to see the Rome of the 1950s, which is better than stock footage. Third, there is Ray Harryhausen, the greatest stop-motion animator of all time. Look at the personality and many movements of the creature. See how it swings its body and flips its tail! As a counterbalance to the positives, the acting is bland, especially by the male and female leads. Also, the ending and another scene or two borrow closely from King Kong (1933). Finally, the Italian people are stereotypically cast (including heavily accented English spoken in Sicily). Nevertheless, Leonard Maltin is right about this one; the B/W movie is worth watching. The more recent colorized version was not viewed. "}{"Title":"As Enjoyable As It Is Silly","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1950s science fiction had replaced horror in American cinema . Instead of a monstrous figure of myth such as werewolves or vampires stalking dark hinterlands we now saw aliens from another planet . Often these aliens would be communist metaphors . 20 MILLION MILES TO EARTH refreshingly doesn't follow this political line . It's not faultless but but watching this movie as a child I enjoyed it and the affection for it stayed with me . The creature effects are by Ray Harryhausen so what's not to enjoy ? Well first of all the characters played by not very good actors whose idea of flirting is saying things like  Wait till I tell you about my nightmare that I'm all alone in a bar and the candle is about to burn out  There's also a disregard for science . Apparently the Venuisian monster is growing to a gigantic size because of the air in the Earth's atmosphere etc etc But no one came to this film hoping for dialogue written by Doestoevsky and it's an enjoyable romp helped in a large part by a rather sadistic edge . Some people might read to much in to it and conclude the subtext involves animal cruelty but this is not cerebral science fiction . That said the audience can't fail to notice how badly mammals are treated by the Venusian villain . A dog is killed in a barn and the most memorable scene involves a stand up fight with an elephant where a zoo keeper gets crushed to death as do a fair number of extras as they battle the monster at the film's climax In short this is far from a great film . It's silly brainless fun with a sadistic edge but it is massively entertaining helped in no small part by Ray Harryhausen's stop frame animation monster . A lot of people on this page state how much they enjoyed it from childhood and still enjoy it now as adults and it's easy to see why "},{"Title":"Good mid-50s monster movie","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Twenty Million Miles from Earth is about an American spaceship which crashes off the coast of Sicily, killing nearly all of the crew save three survivors two crew members (one dies soon afterward), a colonel, and a baby creature from the planet Venus. The creature gets loose of course and grows very quickly, causing it to spread mayhem in the city of Rome.I expected hammy acting, bad creature effects and long drawn-out dialog that would go nowhere. Was I ever wrong! This is a surprisingly good movie! Considering that this was decades before CGI, the stop-action motion of the very detailed creature was admirable and believable. The acting was solid and nowhere did the story drag - it went smoothly from one well-planned action sequence to the next. There were a few times when the scale of the creature looked out of whack, and the size of the elephant also looked much larger than I think even an African elephant really is. Oh, and the fight sequence between the creature and the elephant was terrific! All in all, a surprisingly good mid-50s monster movie - seven stars from me. "},{"Title":"Decent, but passable Harryhausen Monster Flick","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty wholesome, kid-friendly, black-and-white, at the drive-in style monster movie featuring stop-motion animation from Ray Harryhausen. The story plays out pretty similar to a Godzilla film, but the monster is shown more sympathetically here. I rented 20 Million Miles to Earth to see the Ray Harryhausen stop motion animation, which was excellent. However, the rest of the movie was not really very exciting. Totally watchable, but it definitely is not my favorite Harryhausen film. Nonetheless, if you are in the mood for a pretty wholesome, old-school monster movie, full of archetypal characters (e.g. Army Colonel, town doctor, etc.), and impressive special effects work, this one should fit the bill nicely. Lastly, the Special Features section of the DVD includes an excellent, 1 hour short film covering the life and work of Ray Harryhausen. I think the short film is worth the price of admission alone, particularly if you are interested in learning more about Mr. Harryhausen and his impact on movie special effects. This is a pretty solid package for Harryhausen fans. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Ymir!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth is a pretty good Sci-Fi film. The location(I don't know if it really is Sicily)at the beginning of the film is beautiful. The action doesn't really start until the Ymir(an animal specimen from Venus)escapes and runs wild. He's then captured and escapes again. The final scene in the Roman Colossium is a nice touch. William Hopper is better in this film than in The Giant Mantis. Joan Taylor(The Earth vs. The Flying Saucers) adds the love interest. One thing that I have to be a little picky about is the Italian accents. Being of Italian descent, I found them almost comical. Ray Harryhausen's special effects are wonderful. This is probably my favorite creature of his. The pace of the film starts slow then picks up steam toward the middle of the film. Thomas B. Henry(one of my all-time favorite B-movie actors) stars as an Air Force General. It seems like he ALWAYS plays a military officer. This is an enjoyable film from the 1950s. "},{"Title":"You got to love those 50's creatures","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of B-grade Sci-Fi movies came out in the 1950's and were quite popular at the time, now they're considered virtually classic material. The craftsmanship of Ray Harryhausen in charge of the special effects is infamous for them. Who can forget such magical films like; Jason and the Argonauts (1963)&#133;. One Million Years B.C. (1966)&#133;. First Men in the Moon (1964)&#133; The Golden Voyage of Sinbad (1974) and The Valley of Gwangi. They pay homage to an exceptionally talented man. The plot is a similar one to a few other films of the genre, but we can easily overlook this and concentrate and appreciate the visuals of the Venusians creature.20 Million Miles To Earth commences with a space rocket crashing into the sea near Sicily, Italy. Only two survivors are dragged from the wreckage before it sinks. Unbeknown to the rescuers another small passenger has escaped the sinking craft and is washed ashore. A village boy sees it and secretly picks it up and sells it to a local zoologist. What happens after that you'll have to watch the film to find out. The film is shot in B/W and the cast are fairly competent as far as B-grade Sci-Fi films go. I also noticed too, the leading man 'William Hopper' I have seen in a few films before especially one of my favourites;- The Bad Seed. Just sit back and enjoy it for what it is&#133;. 7/10 "},{"Title":"DVD technical comment","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The DVD contains both a Wide-Screen and Full-Screen version of the film.  The film was supposedly shot in 1.851 (widescreen) instead of the normal Academy aperture 1.371. However when I compared several identical scenes between the 2 versions, there is clearly more info at the top and bottom of the frame in the Full-Screen version.  The Wide-Screen version on the DVD appears to have been cut down from the Full-Screen version.  I am guessing that the film was probably shot full-frame 1.371, and had the top and bottom cropped off for the 1.851 widescreen release.  I am unfamiliar with this being done in the 1950's, but it is very similar to today's Super-35 process (frequently used by director James Cameron).The point of all this is that you actually see more of the original film watching the DVD Full-Screen version, not less.  The info printed on the back of the DVD case is misleading. "},{"Title":"Standard 50's Sci-Fi","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is of interest for two reasons The work of Ray Harryhausen and the presence of William Hopper as Colonel Calder, the sole survivor of an ill-fated trip to Venus. Older readers will recognize these names; Harryhausen being one of filmdom's special effects pioneers and Hopper as Paul Drake in television's long running series from the fifties and sixties, Perry Mason. Sadly, this is not a very good film. The plotline stretches the imagination of even the most committed science fiction fan. This is really a shame because Harryhausen's Ymir was truly impressive and there was more than the usual amount of location shooting for such a film. 1957's 20 Million Miles to Earth could and should have been much better than it was. Colonel Calder's spaceship crash lands in the waters off the coast of Sicily, returning from a  trip to Venus, killing all aboard but Calder. Unbeknownst to anyone, a capsule with the fetus of a Venusian monster is lost in the violent landing, to be found by a small boy who in turn sells it to a local zoologist (Frank Puglia) for the price of an American cowboy hat. (How did an uneducated village boy know to take the capsule to a zoologist? Hmm.) The fetus quickly grows into a large monster and escapes to run rampant through the countryside. Calder, rather than receive the hero's welcome he deserves and time to recover from such a terrible ordeal, quickly dons a spiffy new uniform and assists in capturing the Ymir, so named by the zoologist. (Ymir is the Norse word for the mythological father of giants). Along the way, Calder falls in love with the zoologist's daughter (Joan Taylor) before finally slaying the creature in the Roman Colosseum. Comments. The Ymir is similar to the Frankenstein monster, a misunderstood giant that everyone is fearful of and expects the worst from. Hopper, handsome in a military uniform and having an impressive screen presence, shows that his acting range was quite limited. We should have seen more of the lovely Joan Taylor and Harryhausen's special effects. The fight between the Ymir and an elephant was very impressive. (Harryhausen had a cameo role as the man feeding elephants at the zoo). The location shots in and around the Colosseum were very good. 20 Million Miles to Earth was interesting in spots, impressive in spots but basically uneven and not very believable even for 1950's science fiction buffs. This is not to say it is unenjoyable or not worth viewing, just do not expect too much from it. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen The poor fellow is just out of his element.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This neat little B Movie from 1957 always held a fascination for me.  It begins with quite a bang.  A rocket crash-lands off the Sicilian coast.  It bobs in the water almost intact, which looks entirely unrealistic.  But, that's the charm of 20 MILLION MILES.... is that it has a pure fantasy look.  Local citizens find a small chunk of gel on the craft and keep it for themselves.  Out of the gel, a small reptillic creature is born.  This is the Ymir, the star of this film.    As the Ymir grows, so does his need for sulphur.  Ray Harryhausen, who created and breathed cinematic life into the Ymir via stop motion did the smart thing, and make a creature that looks for sympathy.  Just the sad situations the beats unwillingly gets into shows he's a stanger on Earth,an unwelcome stranger.  A terrific climax in Rome that will not spoil.  Lots and lots of fun. "},{"Title":"fun sci-fi film","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth is one of the unmissable sci-fi films of the 50s! With special effects wizard Ray Harryhausen bringing the Ymir (monster) to life, it's one of the best in the decade. The story starts when a spaceship lands on Earth. To a town in Sicily, the whole event seems strange, until they find out that the US Government has had a secret expedition to the planet Venus, and have crashed on the way back, into the sea. There is only one survivor, and a jar from the ship that has hurtled to shore, containing a green glob. When a young boy finds the green glob and gives it to the doctor, soon a tiny little green dino-like alien pops out of the mold. It is a peaceful creature, but Earth's air is making it grow twice its size every night. One night it escapes from the doctor and his granddaughter, and heads into the forest, while the US is trying to demolish it. Once inside a farmhouse, the creature (now human-size) is attacked by a dog, and is forced to kill it. Then he is gored by a farmer. Now that it understands it cannot survive on Earth without violence, the Ymir becomes ferocious and giant, running loose in Rome. A very fun sci-fi B-movie from the 50s. Although the characters are a little annoying, the Ymir is certainly interesting, and is created by stop-motion animation by Ray Harryhausen (EARTH VS. THE FLYING SAUCERS, THE BEAST FROM 20, 000 FATHOMS, THE 7th VOYAGE OF SINBAD, MYSTERIOUS ISLAND, CLASH OF THE TITANS). The 20 MILION MILES TO EARTH DVD includes theatrical trailers, a This is Dynamation Featurette, and a documentary on the life and films of Ray Harryhausen. So heat up the popcorn and have a fun afternoon with 20 MILLION MILES TO EARTH.Grade 8/10MPAA Rating not ratedMy Rating Ages 8 and up (violence) "},{"Title":"For the most part a fun example of the genre","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth is generally an enjoyable example of the giant monster craze that came out of the 1950s. If you are looking for giant monster thrills, the movie does deliver, giving the audience its first glimpse of the creature early on and subsequently making it reappear on a regular basis. While some of the special effects are (perhaps inevitably) dated, if you view the movie in a 1950s perspective, they are acceptable. (Actually, there are a few excellent special effect sequences that had me wondering how they did them!) The pacing is very good, with only a few (momentarily) slow spots, and the running time is not too long (less than ninety minutes.)Are there any significant flaws with this movie? Well, I did have a couple of minor quibbles. The portrayal of the Italians in the movie is pretty stereotypical and embarrassing by today's standards. Also, the movie seems surprisingly reluctant to go into depth about the space mission that brought back the monster, which leads to a number of unanswered questions. But if you accept the movie as a product of its time and are in a forgiving mood, most likely you'll be able to overlook those flaws and enjoy your viewing experience. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly An Enjoyable Experience.","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first U.S. spaceship to Venus crash-lands off the coast of Sicily on its return trip. A dangerous, lizard-like creature comes with it and quickly grows gigantic.It was such a pity when special effects wizard Ray Harryhausen died back in 2013, as it meant that one of the great masters of stop motion was gone forever. 20 Million Miles To Earth was one of the movies that he worked on, and to be honest, I was quite surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. Would I call it a masterpiece of cinema? Probably not. But all the same, it is definitely better than some of the other sci-fi pictures that came out during the 1950's, and in this movie, the effects were great for the time, courtesy of the genius Harryhausen. While this movie is far from perfect, it has plenty going for it, particularly the special effects, which were quite good when you consider the time that this movie was made, before there were such things as computers to create such effects.However, the acting isn't much, I will say that. The only person who seemed committed to the movie was the always great William Hopper. And on a side note, movies like this one were all that William Hopper was doing at this time, and he was getting ready to quit acting, but then, he was asked to audition for the role of Paul Drake on Perry Mason, and we all know how fabulous he was on that. So while Hopper didn't have much to work with in this movie, he certainly did good with what he had.And as I mentioned in the first paragraph, the special effects in this movie are groundbreaking for the time, courtesy of Ray Harryhausen, who used his talents to create some outright ingenious stop motion effects. And while Harryhausen's stop motion isn't completely realistic looking, it certainly looks more realistic than most of the CGI used in most of the movies today, particularly the remake of Clash Of The Titans. But anyway, Harryhausen's special effects in this movie are very well done, which adds more to the fact that when it came to special effects, he was an absolute, total, and complete genius.In short, while 20 Million Miles To Earth is far from being a perfect movie, it still has quite a bit to recommend about it, and it is definitely a watchable movie. However, when you do watch this, the main highlight is probably going to be the special effects, but hey, when you have somebody as legendary has Ray Harryhausen doing the special effects, then it's only natural that the effects will be an eye catcher. So all in all, if you want to see a 1950's sci-fi movie that's better than some of the other efforts the came out around the same time, and has some quite dazzling effects, then this movie is probably right up your alley.7/10 "},{"Title":"Harryhausen's Finest Work?","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first United States spaceship to Venus crash-lands off the coast of Sicily on its return trip. A dangerous, lizard-like creature comes with it and quickly grows gigantic.This is a great film. Although judging by the plot and acting it may seem just like any other 1950s science fiction film, it is (20 million) miles ahead of its peers because of Ray Harryhausen. The stop-motion animation used in this film is as good or better than anything being used today (2015). The creature is completely believable when it interacts with its surroundings.An odd thing, though, is the film's abuse of women. The lead actor develops a romance with the female lead, which is pretty normal, but he pursues her after berating her, scolding her, cutting her off and dismissing her as almost a doctor. Why is she even interested in a guy who is so disrespectful? "},{"Title":"One of the more entertaining films of the 50's","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (63%) As far as 1950's monster movies go that deliver plenty of mayhem, carnage, and fun then this is one of the very best of the lot. Absent are long drawn out dry scenes usually found in these movies slowing everything down that aren't really needed, and instead in its place the pacing is quite swift with the monster actually being present on screen for a good degree of screen time. The plot is simple stuff centred around an Italian boy selling off an alien egg found washed up on the beach, and the resulting ever growing lizard monster on the loose causing havoc wraps up the plot. All fans of monster movies need to give this a look for the sheer entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Campy movie about a monster brought back from Venus.","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was billed on the Movies! TV channel as a popcorn movie, and that it is. Nothing at all to take seriously, just a mostly fun B&W sci- fi movie typical of the 1950s.The first thing that struck me was the idea of a space mission to the planet Venus. The atmosphere at the surface of Venus exerts about the same pressure as being under water 3000 feet on Earth, a pressure that would crush most things. Plus the surface is generally in the 800 to 900 degree F range. A very inhospitable place, not likely ever to be visited.But this is a fantasy sci-fi story, I didn't get hung up on that very long and just went with it. To the credit of the writers they explained a few things to make it seem somewhat plausible.The movie starts with two men and a boy in a small fishing boat off Sicily. They look up to see a pointy spaceship in obvious distress that crash-lands into the sea, point down it remains afloat just long enough to let them rescue the commander and to see that there were few survivors.The young boy is a western and Texas fan, he wants a big hat and a horse, and finds things to sell to the local biologist to raise funds. Ashore he finds a USAF cylinder on land and, instead of revealing his discovery, takes the gelatinous contents to the biologist. Inside is the embryo of a creature from Venus which, after exposure to earth's atmosphere grows at a fantastically rapid rate. So much so that it cannot be contained and becomes a threat to all of Italy.As movies like this go the humans eventually figure out a way to prevail, in the meantime the entertainment is to see the monster wreak havoc and the Earthlings avoid death. The final scenes playing out in the ruins of an old Roman coliseum, military shooting big weapons at the now very large alien species. At the end one general says, Why is it so difficult to move from the present to the future? Definitely a B movie but entertaining as a representative of the 1950s sci-fi movies. "},{"Title":"The Ymir.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nathan Juran directed this science fiction story starring William Hopper as a returning astronaut commanding the first spaceship to Venus, which crashes into the sea of Sicily. Onboard was a local creature, called an Ymir, which was freed from its container by a curious child who had found it onshore, then proceeds to grow to giant size, terrorizing the countryside, then heading to Rome. Joan Taylor plays a nurse and potential love interest, who helps treat the creature when it is captured, though of course it escapes... Ray Harryhausen's F/X are excellent, but it is the sympathetic portrayal of the Ymir that makes this film memorable, certainly not the contrived and predictable story! That poor creature is just out of its element, and would never have grown that large in its native atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Great monster action from the reliable Harryhausen","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's a typical late '50s monster-on-the-loose flick which hugely benefits from some excellent Ray Harryhausen stop-motion effects work, turning a run-of-the-mill B-movie with sub-par acting into a watchable and entertaining action-fest in which the monster gets loads of screen time for a change. Aside from some crummy back projection work which depicts the crashing of a spaceship into the sea in Sicily, the effects here are typically excellent for Harryhausen with the back and forward-projected monster mixing seamlessly in with the live action footage of the actors - the fight in the barn in particular is a very convincing sequence. Harryhausen also gets to depict a fight between the monster and an elephant at the film's close amidst the rest of the standard destruction action, which is well portrayed and a delight.When the monster isn't on screen, the movie grinds to a halt with clichéd dialogue, unwanted romance between the dull leads and poor acting. William Hopper is the typically macho leading man who recovers from his crash into the sea and injuries within hours to hunt down the alien creature, a wooden and unappealing hero type who fails to do much to alter the course of action the film takes. Joan Taylor is also nauseating as the almost a doctor nurse, her character shoehorned into the plot to allow for the predictable female sidekick which almost all 50's sci-fi movies have. The rest of the characters are an unconvincing bunch of Italian yokels and hard-nosed army types who do their best to blow the hell out of the monster (dubbed the Ymir) once and for all, and the actors fail to bring much conviction to their roles.The plot closely follows that of KING KONG, with the Ymir being captured and sedated before waking up and going on a final rampage, and it even climbs to the top of a tall building (this time, it's the Colosseum) before being shot down by the might of the Italian army. The one difference is in the locations, so now we have Italian citizens being menaced by the monster and famous Italian buildings being destroyed instead of American ones - otherwise the plot and action is interchangeable. Harryhausen's monster is an appealing and sympathetic one, a misunderstood beast that only attacks after being mauled by a dog and having a pitchfork thrust into it's back! Well, what would you do? Technically, the film is proficient with crisp black and white photography, and the stuffiness is only to be expected from the time in which this was made. Harryhausen's creation holds the film together and makes it all worthwhile. "},{"Title":"'Look! A hole!' Good 50's monster film.","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth starts as an American spaceship crashes into the sea near Sicilly after the first manned flight to Venus, local fishermen rescue two survivors Col. Robert Calder (William Hopper) & Dr. Sharman (Arthur Space) who are both taken to hospital as the spaceship sinks to the bottom of the sea. It's not long before the American military are in Italy overseeing the situation & trying to find the ship's cargo, a young Italian boy named Pepe (Bart Braverman) finds a glass cannister on the beach & inside finds a slimy cocoon which he sells to a biologist named Dr. Leonardo (Frank Puglia) who sees it hatch & a reptilian creature emerge which rapidly grow's. Meanwhile Dr. Sharman has died & Col. Calder is on the search for the creature & manages to capture it alive but while in Rome the creature breaks free & starts to rampage through the streets of Rome...Directed by Nathan Juran this apparently had the working title of The Giant Ymir & is a fine piece of 50's sci-fi that I enjoyed although having said that 20 Million Miles to Earth wouldn't be half as good if not for legendary special effects man Ray Harryhausen's magnificent stop-motion monster effects. At just over 80 minutes 20 Million Miles to Earth moves along at a decent pace with the spaceship crash landing in the sea during the opening few minutes & the young boy finding the alien creature not long after but one has to say that while the script feels like it was going for a King Kong (1933) feel with some misunderstood creature captured by humans that is then chained up before escaping & going on a rampage through a well known city, here Rome instead of New York in King Kong it's hard to feel anything for the human character's as they are all so one dimensional & poorly developed from the strong arm local police to the romance between Calder & a female doctor that feels like an afterthought these people are either walking clichés or very bland & forgettable. Where 20 Million Miles to Earth excels is during it's set-pieces which include the already mentioned rampage through Rome, the alien creature Ymir is far more of a character than any of the humans here & I wasn't quite sure of the message here since Ymir is never actually seen trying to deliberately hurt anyone & it's us humans who are the aggressor's as Ymir is caged up, prodded, attacked by Dog's, stabbed with a pitchfork, shot at, electrocuted, chained up & finally killed without it ever really trying to invade or destroy anything. I did end up feeling a little for the guy actually, I would have preferred Ymir to live rather than any of the soldiers or cop's.The real highlight of 20 Million Miles to Earth is Harryhausen's special effects & how he can bring an inanimate puppet to life with such charming & charismatic results as seen here, it's been said before but Harryhausen isn't just a special effects man he's an artist. The effects work here is excellent for the period & even holds up well today & I'd much rather a stop-motion animated Ymir than most of the rubbish CGI computer effects work in more recent films but I suppose that's down to personal preference. Apparently the original design for Ymir was going to make him a huge Cyclops type monster but Harryhausen changed his mind, the effects scenes really give life to Ymir from his moving tail to the way he walks to it's expressions & mannerisms. The scenes in Rome at the end are terrific with Ymir smashing up through a bridge, fighting an Elephant & climbing the Coliseum. One curious thing I noticed while watching 20 Million Miles to Earth was just how many people wear hats in it, from the police to the army to just about any random character in it almost everyone seems to wearing some sort of hat or cap.Filmed in California & in Rome in Italy, the black and white photography is fine although the direction & acting are bland. 20 Million Miles to Earth was computer colourised for it's 50th anniversary release. Harryhausen & director Juran teamed up straight after this to make the all time classic The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) & a few years later The First Men in the Moon (1964).20 Million Miles to Earth doesn't fair too well when the human character's are on screen but when Ymir is present things pick up immensely & it's Harryhausen's terrific stop-motion effects & wonderful set-pieces that save this from being a total bore. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen doing what he does best","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As stated in many comments before this is truly a 'so bad it's good' classic SiFi B film. However, it has the glorious talents of the remarkable Mr. Harryhausen. Being of the generation before CGI, (although this film actually per-dates me D) I can remember waiting for a Harryhausen film to come to the cinema with bated breath. He is responsible for the beginning of my love affair with special effect, as I suspect is the same with most of my generation.I have just watched the colourised version, and although done very well I feel it has lost 'something' in the translation - atmosphere! (like Scrooge -1951)Without debate, Harryhausen is a deserved legend in cinema. So, If you are into classic SiFi B films, this one is a must - it has it all - right down to the horrendous and constant music scoreD "},{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen's best movie, featuring his most aggressive creation","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I adore stop motion animation, monsters especially, and Ray Harryhausen is the unparalleled master of the armature realm and has a very rich legacy. (O'Brien --his mentor-- and Phil Tippet and the Brothers Quay are other masterful luminaries in this field.) Sadly, none of the movies in which Harryhausen's lovingly crafted effects appear are anywhere near as good as the stop motion creations contained within them...but 20 Million Miles to Earth is a piece that meets the monster more than halfway and is my favorite by far.The story is not overcomplicated, as is the case with the muddled mythologies cut and pasted throughout Jason and the Argonauts, Clash of the Titans and (his second best feature) The 7th Voyage of Sinbad. This is a simple creature on the loose sci-fi-tinged monster movie-- one with a better than average script and superb stop motion beast.Although this contains a little less stop motion than do the sword and sandal epics, the quality control in 20 Million Miles to Earth seems better, and the black and white image also helps blend the armature and living image more convincingly. Several sequences featuring the Ymir are harrowing, especially considering the date of this movie. This beast is aggressive and wonderfully designed.Every time this rolls around in a revival house, I see and enjoy it.(I saw a 35mm print of the movie at Film Forum, N.Y. and a 35mm print at the Museum of Modern Art) "},{"Title":"Good special effects","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie first as a child, and saw it again as an adult. When I see this movie, there are still some scenes that makes you wonder how they did the interaction between the actors and monsters to look so real. Of course it's the masterful work of Ray Harryheusen, and this movie is one of the must see for people who likes his special effects.The story could have been worked out a little more. The monster was actually a victim of circumstance but it was treated like a villain. It's typical of Harryheusen's monsters that they get treated as a menace, and not in a more positive light. The design of the creature is one of the best, and really captures the feel of creature from another world.One of the true classic science fiction movie, and is recommended for viewing. "}{"Title":"One of the great Big Monster films","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't read into those that say this is boring. Sure, the acting is stiff and the script is weak (the fact that Earth has landed on Venus and it isn't that big of a deal) but this is a Ray Harryhausen film, folks. His work is the reason you see this. The Ymir is just a 12 inch model, yet watching this film, you feel for the creature. It is an actor as much as any human in the film. Harryhausen has created a creature with depth and emotion and you'll find yourself pulling for the monster. The real bad guys in the film are the humans, who took the creature from his natural habitat, who tormented him and eventually kill him. In my opinion, this is the best big monster film next to the original King Kong! "},{"Title":"A well-made monster movie.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Ray Harryhausen's earlier films, this is among the best monster-on-the-rampage movies from the fifties and sixties.  An expedition to Venus returns to Earth, bringing with them a strange alien creature which soon begins to grow to giant proportions.  What makes this film is Harryhausen's superb animation.  The alien 'Ymir' is imaginatively-designed and is an interesting and, as with a lot of Harryhausen's monsters, you feel real sympathy for it.  Look quickly for a cameo from Harryhausen as a zoo keeper. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen at his best!","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not only is this a Ray Harryhausen classic, but a truly excellent movie that features some of the best stop-motion animation of the era.Returning from a secret mission, the first astronauts to land on the planet Venus crash into the Atlantic just off the coast of Sicily...on board they carry a gelatinous cargo that turns out to be the egg of a Venutian life-form. It quickly hatches and terrorizes the local citizens and continues its rampage towards Rome.Can it be stopped? You will just have to turn out the lights and plop 20 Million Miles to Earth in the ol' DVD (or VCR) player to find out! The incredible alien life-form, known as the Ymir, may not have a familiar name to many, but it does remain one of the most recognized movie monsters/aliens from the 50's; and is among Ray Harryhausens best creations to date. "},{"Title":"One the best giant monster movies ever.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was completely captivated by this film from start to finish. Not only did it have a good story, but the monster was incredibly life-like. This film has excellent special effects, something other films of the period can't boast. Ray Harryhausen is simply awesome. A+++. "},{"Title":"King Kong?","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this may be viewed by many as an alien king kong, it still was an above average sci-fi movie for its time. Ray Harryhausen's effects and design of the Ymir (the name he gave to the creature but wasn't used in the film,) makes this a very entertaining film from start to finish. I give it a 9!! "},{"Title":"Tokyo has Godzilla, New York has King Kong and Rome has ... Ymir!","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like cinema, you simply must love Sci-Fi movies from the 1950's! Never before or after was there put so much love, charm, dedication and contemporary craftsmanship into the realization of silly movie ideas. The Sci-Fi treasures coming from this golden era usually revolved on either gigantic (whether or not mutated) creatures or malevolent aliens invading the earth. And guess what! The incredibly amusing semi-classic 20 Million Miles to Earth is a combination of both. The first &#x96; and failed &#x96; US spaceship to the planet Venus crashes into the sea near a small Sicilian fishing village and its astonished inhabitants. Seemingly just one person of the 18-headed crew survived the disaster, but young Pépé discovers another living creature inside a sort of cocoon. The annoying brat sells it for 200 Lire (back in the fifties this must have been the equivalent of two pennies or something) to a local zoologist, even though the surviving astronaut and the entire NASA are looking for it. A reptilian type of little monster comes out of the cocoon and rapidly grows to enormous proportions due to the different kind of oxygen it is forced to breathe on planet earth. The creature &#x96; Ymir &#x96; doesn't seem all that violent, but naturally the humans hunt it down and electrocute it for their own scientific pleasure. When experimented upon in the zoo of London, Ymir escapes and goes on a bit of a rampage! 20 Million Miles to Earth is particularly famous and appreciated for Ray Harryhausen's impressive and utterly cool creature design, but it has several other things going for it as well. The pacing, for example, is excellent and contrary to a lot of other Sci-Fi/horror movies from the same period, 20 Millions etc&#x85; never becomes tedious or overlong. I'm also thankful that they moved the action from the Sicilian village to Rome quite quickly, because the stereotypical dim-witted villagers and &#x96; especially &#x96; the irritating little Pépé would have gotten on everybody's nerves eventually. There's a reasonable amount of action and good dialogs during the middle section, so even the obligatory romance (between the astronaut and the stubborn doctor) is tolerable. The final act is, of course, the most memorable and entertaining part of the whole film. There are powerful mass-hysteria sequences during the breakout of the monster, a tense animal battle to the death and a climax that is reminiscent to both Godzilla and King Kong, with the tourist attractions in Rome playing crucial roles. Please, check out this adorable movie, as well as some of the other science fiction titles of the underrated director Nathan Juran (like First Men in the Moon and The Brain from Planet Arous). "},{"Title":"Pure Science Fiction...No Hidden Social Messages...really...","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nathan Juran deftly directs this tidy, purely driven science fiction film about travel to outer space with possible negative consequences. After an Earth rocket-ship exploration team crashes into the Mediterranean Sea upon its return , we find that they had brought back a space specimen,otherwise now known as Ymir, the Venusian creature with a bad habit for the taste of sulfur. Col. Bob Calder(William Hopper) is in charge of the recovery team,to obtain all remnants and life forms that may exist from the sunken spaceship.The rest of the story centers on the travels of 'Ymir and they are wide and varied. Juran establishes the fact that our earthly 'visitor is the victim, and not responsible for the chaos he causes. And mans explorations must be tempered with wisdom when dealing with interplanetary forces, well done Nathan. Look for a cameo at the Zoo for the man throwing peanuts to the elephant, yep it's Ray Harryhausens back,some cameo.A genuine sci-fi classic.. B & W . Some color prints do exist. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles to Earth (1957) *** (out of 4) Classic science-fiction has a pretty standard story but the special effects work by Ray Harryhausen makes this a must see. A U.S. spaceship travels to Venus but on the way back to Earth it crashes into the ocean near a small village in Italy. On board was some slime, which eventually hatches and unleashes a monster that terrorizes Rome. The story of a U.S. crew bringing something back from outer space is nothing new and while this film does fall into several unoriginal moments there's no denying that the movie remains fun throughout its short running time. The highlight is without question the effects from Harryhausen who turns in some of his best work. The look of the monster is very good and the emotion brought to the monster makes the film work all the better. Another thing that works very well is the ending where the monster starts taking the city apart but the greatest action sequence is the wonderful segment where the monster fights an elephant. I think some of the dialogue is very childish but this adds some campy charm. "},{"Title":"If you love cheesy sci-fi, you'll love this one.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" All right. I admit it. I love these movies! The plot is hokey and painfully predictable, right down to the closing scenes, with the monster hanging by his fingernails from the top of the Roman Colosseum. There's lots of tanks and jeeps and sirens in the background, pyrotechnics and cannon fire. The monster gets it in the end. Despite a few sparks in the beginning, the hero and heroine walk off arm in arm.Have I spoiled the movie for you now? Of course not! You knew it all along, didn't you? King Kong, Godzilla, Rodan, Creature from the Black Lagoon. They all die and the hero gets the girl. And you watch them anyway. There is something endearing about these shallow monster movies, good versus evil and all that...fantasy masquerading as drama. Everything turns out all right in the end no matter what...well, except perhaps for a few ruined buildings...and who cares about that anyway? And here even the Colosseum looses only a few bricks! Well, enough on the philosophy of cheesy sci-fi movies. This movie was made for no reason other than for Ray Harryhausen's monster. And what a monster it is! Harryhausen is in top form on this one. Here, due to some metabolic aberration the monster gets larger in each succeeding scene, creating the impression that it is indeed larger than life. In fact, it is safe to say this monster has more character and depth than most of the cast. The fight with the elephant is simply classic, on par with the dancing skeletons in Jason and the Argonauts. If you love cheesy sci-fi, you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"A clunky but watchable b-movie creature feature","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a strange rocket ship crashes into the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of an Italian fishing village, some locals manage to save a few of the crew before it sinks without trace. The ship has returned from being the first manned mission to Venus and the US have tracked it all the way before losing control before re-entry. Of the crew only Col Calder recovers and immediately informs his bosses that their sample of Venus' life has gone. The sample has been taken by a curious boy, not a problem until the boy opens the canister and the sample begins to grow. It is not long before the tiny lizard is man sized and on the loose and the authorities realise they are in a race against time to stop it.Supposedly set in Italy because Harryhausen wanted to get a free holiday out of the production, this is a standard b-movie with just enough going for it to satisfy genre fans who know what they are getting into. The story takes a minute to get going as an absurdly shaped rocket crashes in the sea (with barely a ripple) and the crew are rescued. Too long passes before the special effects come out and the alien creature begins to grow but, once it gets to this point it is enjoyable on a b-movie level. The effects are good and I quite liked Ymir's movement and looks &#150; indeed the film is rather flat when he is not on the screen.The cast are poor but then I was not expecting anything else. Hopper is a sterling, upright military man but he hasn't got any character and he cannot do anything with the dialogue &#150; certainly his chemistry with Taylor is strictly clunky. The support cast have a bit too many people with letsa getta da monsta accents and none of them really do anything special at any point. The effects are the show and when the monster is in action then the film is fun &#150; the cast are just filling the time in with plot.Overall this is a creature feature and nothing more and really everyone should know what you are getting &#150; stop motion effects, basic plotting, basic characters, clunky dialogue and acting to match. However this doesn't mean it isn't fun and indeed when the creature is in action it is easy to enjoy it as a b-movie, even if it is a pretty poor film on any other terms. "}{"Title":"After a good start, start yawning","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It starts off fairly well with the special effects being introduced quite convincingly. What really kills this movie off though is the lack of quality scripting and the stale unrealistic acting from the American actors. The European (and Mexican - the kid?) actors do keep some of the interest there but unfortunately only have limited exposure. It just plays like a selection of set-pieces with some script lines thrown in here and there to break things up a little. For its time I'm sure it was quite an achievement but through modern eyes it's dull and uninspiring. Don't bother with this one. 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1957 this was state of the art technology. The film is about a returning probe from the planet Venus although, only the commander survived. Landing near a small fishing village near Italy a small boy recovers a capsule front the sinking probe.The capsule contained an embryo of a Venusians inhabitant which resembled a lizard sort of creature, the creature was by default adopted by a circus show. In travel it was provoked and escaped. After many reports pf a creature the commander caught up with the creature and captured it. The creature's main staple was super and it was captured at a local sculpture pit. The creature was sedated with electrical current. However, the creature continued to grow during this state of electrical hibernation.When the power was disrupted the creature was abruptly awakened, went on a rampage. As always the military was called in and prevailed.You will feel sorry for the creature as it didn't have a chance or choice.  "},{"Title":"Ymir","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  '20 Million Miles to Earth' is only half as smart as its predecessor THEM!  While THEM! is concerned about the advancement of story with support of the effects, 'Earth wants to try and entertain with the crude methods of those days.The annoying kids, the obligatory scientists and love interests, the gung-ho heroes, nothing is serious.  The only realistic player, of course, it the Ymir.  The level of detail Harryhausen cranks into it makes it the most interesting character in the movie, considering it is synthetic.  One point of interest is that the darn thing never sits still for a moment.  Spielberg only wishes his dinosaurs had as much personality.There you have it, a film of fake acting and actors.  Better than most of the 50s braindead work, still not that great.  The moral at the end is also ripped from THEM!  1.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Good effects for it's time, but dull overall.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The effects are good for a 1957 movie. But the acting is stale and the script was just an avg sci-fi script, okay, but nothing special. The first part grabbed my attention right a way. But it failed to keep it throughout the film. The only way I could recommend this movie, is if you really enjoyed 50's sci-fi. But for me, the first was good, after the first 1/4 of the movie, I just lost any caring about what happened. I give it a 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fun and Worth Watching","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is awesome. Just to be clear, it's old barely follows any kind of internal consistency or even the laws of physics. It's still awesome. The effects are an excellent example of non-digital special effects. The continually growing Ymir looks excellent. The scene when he fights the elephant is wicked cool. Plus the horrible Italian accents are hilarious, especially when the Italian villagers try to describe a trailer. Just watch it, you'll laugh, and they think Oh that's kind of cool. In that order. This is a perfect example of classic Ray Harryhausen design. The serpentine tail, anthropomorphic torso as well as the fish jowls (funny moustache thing) are all standard Harryhausen favourites. "},{"Title":"Dated but lovable time-capsule.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If u don't know who Ray Harryhausen was? you've missed the boat pal!You cannot, should not and MUST not, attempt to view this film through the technologically aware new millennium perception. I actually SAW it when it came out in 1957 and this review is based on what I saw, WHEN I saw it, which is only reasonable. I was 12! It was magic.Astronauts to Venus  bring back a specimen they really shouldn't have..the Ymir. A basically peaceable creation, the thing part human, part lizard, part dinosaur, ALL fanciful, could REALLY handle itself....especially when it fully develops. Its battle with an elephant in Italy remains cinematic nostalgia however today's audience might guffaw into their artificially flavored popcorn!Take away Harryhausen's contribution and admittedly there isn't too much left, so lets not - lets just remember it for the once stunning little piece of stop-frame motion that it once was.  Don't worry, they'll be shrieking with laughter at MINORITY REPORT in 2080!    "},{"Title":"Harryhausen always makes the most of what a film offers","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20 Million Miles To Earth is visual effects wizard Ray Harryhausen's 1957 black and white interplanetary King Kong remake, as well as a tribute to his stop motion photography mentor Willis O'Brien. No, it's not a direct analogy, but there are so many scene for scene knockoffs from Kong that one must believe that only Harryhausen could have gotten away with so much theft (read that as 'homage') from his mentor without facing a lawsuit. Yes, technically, the film was directed by noted B film maven Nathan Juran (The Seventh Voyage Of Sinbad), but it's a very standard film, wholly carried into the memory by Harryhausen's skills.That stated, it's also a very enjoyable film&#133;.The film also features a classic 1950s era opening narrative about 'SCIENCE!' 'Great scientific advances are often times sudden accomplished facts before most of us are dimly aware of them. Breathtakingly unexpected, for example, was the searing flash that announced the atomic age. Equally unexpected was the next gigantic stride, when man moved out of his very orbit to a point more than 20 Million Miles To Earth!' Cue the start of the film! And the end is just as priceless. With the prone body of the beast in front of them, and as the hero and heroine depart, presumably to get to know each other better (even though Calder has yet to sit through a moment's worth of decontamination), the military and scientific men commiserate thusly, by asking, 'Why is it always so costly for man to move from the present, into the future?' Didacticism is always good for a guffaw in sci fi films.But, 20 Million Miles To Earth offers more than a few condescending chuckles; it offers a glimpse into a not too long ago time when wonder was still enough to propel a film. Nowadays, too many people ruin films by asking questions that the films acknowledge as givens, and need far too many special effects, as they are too lazy to imbue, and actively participate in art. Ray Harryhausen and Nathan Juran's film does more with less than many films that came later, and even if that sentiment is trite, it's also true. And 20 Million Miles To Earth is a highly enjoyable film, no matter how cookie cutter it is. After all, what determines the success of a cookie is not its shape, but its taste, and that comes from its ingredients, not its mold. What Harryhausen had in his best films was a good recipe, and a lot of talent, to fit into some very old and familiar molds. Thus why they are still savored to this day, no matter how many times the hand has held such before. "},{"Title":"Undocumented Alien.","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one is part of a cycle of SF films from the 50s and, although fun to watch once in a while, isn't outstanding in any way.Some beast comes from outer space or beneath the sea or is generated somehow by atomic radiation, smashes its way through civilization, climbs to a high point, and is destroyed. I had to keep reminding myself that this is the one where the alien falls from the Colosseum and not from a roller coaster at Coney Island.The characters are cardboard and the relationships perfunctory. There's a pretty young woman who is a scientist and is enlisted in the hero's cause because of her expertise or her bra size or something. The lead in this movie, William Hopper, is, I understand, Hedda Hopper's son. (Boys and girls, Hedda Hopper was an icon of the 1940s, a celebrity gossip columnist who wrote items like, Who was seen with who's ex-flame at the Derby last night? Is divorce in the works for LaLa Divoone? She was also know for her elaborate headgear.) William Hopper would remind me of Steve Martin if Steve Martin were carved of wood. Joan Taylor looks good. I think she was also a scientist's bride in Earth Vs. The Flying Saucers. I don't mean to put this movie down too much. If it's much like other of the genre, well, it was an interesting genre. And it has Ray Harryhausen's special effects, which are always engaging. They're not nearly as realistic as computer-generated images but they're charming in their own right. And it's comforting to see the same scenario roll out in front of us. It has a ritualistic quality.This particular creature looks like a cross between that reptilian thing in Alien and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Man, does it have muscles. And where did it get those tarsii? And what is it doing with a mouth full of shark-like incisors when all it eats is sulfur? And why do the scales of its cheeks hang down like the sideburns of Thomas Carlyle? And how come, if the craft was plummeting towards Earth at a phenomenal 3500 feet per minute or something, why does that work out on my calculator to only 39.473684 miles per hour? Did the hand of the screenwriters shake? Did my calculator err? Do I not know how to multiply and divide? Why does hail always have to be the size of something else? Why is evidence always measured in shreds? If you haven't seen this a dozen times recently, and if you're not familiar with the genre, you'll probably enjoy this. "}]