[{"Title":"Charming story, top-notch performances, sublime music, excellent script, lush visuals, and beautiful women","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you read my title, that's probably all I should have to say about this one. But I'll flesh it out for you a bit. If you couldn't tell, this is one of my favorite musicals, and one of my favorite films, period. In my view, there's not a flaw to be had here--we'd have to invent one, and it would be implausible. I give plenty of 10s, but quite a few are like rating a one-scoop ice cream cone where they forgot the cone, but where there's an extra scoop of ice cream in an attractive dish to make up for it. Pal Joey is like a one-scoop ice cream cone where not only is the cone there, it's the kind of cone you love, and there are two extra scoops of ice cream that happen to be your favorite flavors.Frank Sinatra is Joey Evans, a peripatetic musician who is also quite popular with women, but who has a reputation for not being exactly dependable or trustworthy. As the film opens he's being put on a train with a one-way ticket out of town because he was caught in an almost compromising situation with the Mayor's underaged daughter. He makes his way to San Francisco, where he sees that an old friend--more like an old debtee, Ned Galvin (Bobby Sherwood), is leading the band in a local club, The Barbary Coast. Joey finagles his way into a job, made more enticing to him, aside from the fact that he's broke, by the large number of very attractive women performers. But the club owner, Mike Miggins (Hank Henry), can see through his conniving ways.Joey, who dreams of one day having his own club, begins falling for Linda English (Kim Novak), despite the fact that Ned is head over heels for her and out of all of the women, Linda is the one who wants the least to do with him. He also runs into Vera Simpson (Rita Hayworth) when he does a society gig with Ned. It seems that Vera used to be a showgirl like Linda, but she married up. Pal Joey is largely about a love triangle between Joey, Linda and Vera.This is an unusual romance in that for much of its length, all of the involved parties are reluctant. Linda may be attracted to Joey, but she knows better than getting involved with such a shifty womanizer. Vera is likewise cautious--especially since she has an implied history with Joey, and she now has a lot at stake. Joey is more than content to not approach commitment--he's satisfied with the string of women who continually pass through his life, who are all too happy to go out of their way to accommodate him--including doing his laundry and politely looking on and smiling when Joey puts the moves on another mouse, as he calls them. As for Joey's interest in the two principals, it's not that he's not attracted to either, of course (what woman isn't he attracted to?), but with Vera he's playing her both for her money/social influence and to undermine what he sees as a feigned identity, and with Linda, he's initially attracted because she's playing hard to get. Both Linda and Vera also end up playing Joey to an extent to get back at him for various ethical blunders.In addition to being intriguing for its uniqueness and relative complexity, all of this works as well as it does because the three leads are incredible performers and the script is intelligent, witty and tightly constructed. Sinatra, Novak and Hayworth are mesmerizing to watch on their own, but they all have great chemistry together, too. The characters seem tailor-made for these actors, despite the fact that the script was based on a popular Broadway show that began its run in 1940, and the Broadway show was itself based on short fiction pieces by John O'Hara that appeared in New Yorker Magazine.Dorothy Kingsley's screenplay is loaded with subtle, quick humor in its clever dialogue. The combination of script, exemplary direction by George Sidney, and the great performances enables a number of very sophisticated dramatic moves, such as the deep backstory between Joey and Vera that is almost completely implied, and the overall atmosphere of the film, with its captivating and paradoxical combination of an ideal, romantic (in a more formal sense) world and a more earthy, cynical reality.The atmosphere is also helped by the lush Technicolor cinematography, with some impressive shots of San Francisco, but equally attractive soundstage set-ups. It's interesting to note Kim Novak's look here, especially when she's framed against San Francisco cityscapes--it's remarkably prescient of her appearance in Hitchcock's Vertigo (1958). I suppose Pal Joey may have been why Hitchcock decided to cast Novak, and it may have influenced him a bit visually.Before I run out of space, I should mention the music, by the incomparable duo of Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart, which is one of the best things about the film. Every song in Pal Joey is a gem. As a testament to how good they are, four of them--I Could Write a Book, The Lady is a Tramp, My Funny Valentine, and my personal favorite, Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered (the theme of the film)--have become jazz standards over the years. There have been hundreds of recordings by different artists performing them--for that matter there are hundreds of recordings of My Funny Valentine alone. The arrangements (partially by Nelson Riddle) and performances (especially by Sinatra, but that probably goes without saying) in the film are sublime. If you're a jazz lover, the film would be worth viewing for the music alone, but of course it offers much more than that.Unless you simply hate musicals (in which case it's very unlikely that you've read this far), make sure you see Pal Joey at least once. "},{"Title":"John O'Hara, he could write a book","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" In his career Frank Sinatra did two film adaptions of Rodgers and Hart musicals. The first was Higher and Higher which was his first feature film speaking part. Pal Joey was the second and it is probably the greatest show Rodgers and Hart ever did.When it debuted on Broadway in 1941 it got good, but not great reviews. But everyone loved the Rodgers and Hart score. Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered and I Could Write a Book were the big hits of the show and were retained for the film. Pal Joey may have been ahead of its times. It was revived in 1951 and ran twice as long as it did in its original production. The reviews were far better. To say this is unusual is putting it mildly. On Broadway, Joey Evans who we would now call a lounge lizard was played by Gene Kelly and in the revival by Harold Lang. The part really fit Sinatra perfectly. But the role had to be changed from a dancing part to a singing part. I believe that was the reason for the interpolation of other Rodgers and Hart songs in the film. And Sinatra sings some good ones in Pal Joey. Added in for the filmgoers listening pleasure are There's A Small Hotel, I Didn't Know What Time It Was, and The Lady is a Tramp, the last one becoming a Sinatra standard in his live concerts. Movie singing don't get too much better than this.Frank is an ambitious man of rather low morals who is caught between rich widow Rita Hayworth and ingenue Kim Novak. He loves Kim, but Rita can give him financial security. These are the kind of people that populate the John O'Hara world, very real and not too noble.Although a few years later Frank Sinatra sang a concert version of Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered with a hundred piece orchestra for his Reprise record label, it is in fact a woman's song as is My Funny Valentine. Rita does Bewitched as well as Zip. The latter song is a tribute number to Gypsy Rose Lee as Rita plays an ex-stripper. My Funny Valentine is done by Kim Novak. When I say done, both ladies mouthed the words, but the vocals were dubbed as they always were for Ms. Hayworth. And I guess that had to be because both Hayworth and Novak could never have had the parts done by the best of vocalists. As Pal Joey came to the screen in 1957 along with The Joker is Wild, my favorite Sinatra film, I've always picked that year as the year Old Blue Eyes was at the height of his career. His acting is impeccable and his singing, some of the best he ever did on screen. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Frank, Very Bad Theatre History","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I like Sinatra as much as the next girl and then some.  Probably the best thing about this film is the numbers The Chairman does alone onstage. However, I'm also well acquainted with PAL JOEY in its stage form, and this watered down film doesn't serve it well.  As is so often the case with film musicals, it bears very little resemblance to the show it purports to represent.First of all, like many other movie musicals this one is rife with interpolations.  Viewers should realize that both My Funny Valentine and The Lady is a Tramp come from Rodgers and Hart's BABES IN ARMS (though, ironically, both were cut from the film version of that musical).  There's a Small Hotel is from ON YOUR TOES and TOO MANY GIRLS gave us the haunting I Didn't Know What Time It Was  (probably the interpolation that works best).  Secondly, most of the songs they did keep don't remain intact.  For instance, when they moved the setting from Chicago to San Francisco the song the club girls sing went to pot.  Also, the lyrics to Bewitched had to be sanitized for popular consumption, which is a pity because they're some of Larry Hart's best. Zip was also revised and given to Vera.  The witty Take Him was cut, which is a real pity, and several other numbers are gone entirely or reduced to underscoring.PAL JOEY was one of the first shows to bring cynicism to the musical stage. The second you inject romance into it, you've killed what it's about.  If I was just looking for a lightweight love story, I might enjoy this film. Knowing what I know now, I find it a bit tough to take.  "},{"Title":"One of the real gems of Sinatra's movie career!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Frank Sinatra's movie career was peppered with great pictures; On the Town, Guys and Dolls, From Here To Eternity, Oceans 11 and so on and so forth. Pal Joey is without doubt, up there with the best of them.The movie centers around Joey Evans, a womanizing nightclub singer who finds himself forced to leave Chicago (literally) and start over in San Francisco. His persistence lands him a spot in the Barbary Coast Club, and while trying to lure a wealthy widow (Rita Hayworth) to the club, he plans to land a posh joint of his own.Frank's portrayal of Joey in this movie is wonderfully entertaining; from his Joey-isms (Who's the mouse with the built?), to the marvelous list of Rodgers and Hart songs he performs. Rita Hayworth may have been given top billing by Sinatra, but there is no doubt as to who the star is, it's Sinatra's show all the way.Sinatra's other leading lady in the picture is the young and beautiful Kim Novak, who plays hard-to-get Linda English, a dancer/singer at the Barbary Coast who is one of the few women who seems to be able to resist his charms.The songs, as I mentioned are great, and include the legendary 'The Lady Is A Tramp', which is a treasure in itself. This is not the actual studio recording of the song, but one recorded for the movie (as all the songs are), and is in my opinion, far superior to it's mainstream counterpart. Joey is not the only one to sing either as both Novak and Hayworth's characters have numbers also, albeit dubbed by other vocalists, unlike Sinatra.The DVD version of this film looks fantastic considering the age of the picture, containing both anamorphic widescreen and full screen versions. The sound also, while only in 2 channel mono, is lively and clear.For entertainment value, I cannot recommend this movie enough. Even if you are initially put-off by its labelling as a musical, you will not be disappointed. It's a gasser! "},{"Title":"Hayworth SIZZLES in this lavish musical production!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Based on the naughty Broadway hit and featuring luscious tunes by Rodgers and Hart, Pal Joey was softened from his arrogant heel stage persona for this more sanitized film version. Now-good guy Joey (Sinatra) wants to open a swanky nightclub in San Francisco, enlisting the help of high society dame Vera Simpson (Hayworth), a former chorus girl. But things get sticky when Joey finds his eyes drifting towards the knockout Linda English (Novak). A leggy singer/dancer with aspirations of being a star, Linda also has a soft place in her heart for Joey. Of course, complications abound, along with much singing and dancing, before tying up nicely with a bouncy, breezy, walking into the sunset Hollywood finish.A couple of assets make Pal Joey unbeatable entertainment. The first are the wonderful Rodgers and Hart standards, mostly performed by Sinatra. Sinatra is at his all-time best.This was Hayworth's last big movie musical and she does not disappoint. Although actually younger than Sinatra, she was playing a role originally meant for Marlene Dietrich.  Hayworth is both gorgeous and haunting.  A must see for all Hayworth fans!  "},{"Title":"If you like musicals of this period, don't miss Pal Joey.","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Another marvelous effort from prolific director George Sidney, who once again displays an uncanny ability to make us wish we lived in the and time and place of his films. The classic Rogers and Hart songs selected from the smorgasbord written for the original 1940 play alone make this movie well worth a look.Gene Kelly, a chorus boy a year earlier, was cast in the title role in the original but critically panned Joey of 1940. The story line for Joey was too sleazy and cynical for the 40's, but today comes across better than the average fare in support of many musicals of the period.Frank Sinatra is well suited as the film-version Joey. His musical and acting styles add contemporary flavors that are as appealing in the 1950's film version as they were in the critically acclaimed 1952 revival of the play featuring Harold Lang as Joey. Frank's signature song delivery retains, but also in part redefines in a more contemporary way, the classic appeal of the best show tunes of the 40's and 50's.Although Rita Hayworth's acting talents too often are overlooked, she is the standout actor in Joey. Casting Kim Novak in a 50's film rather defines the genre, and while she is both appealing and likable in her role, you can't help but be aware that she is stretching her limits as an actor, singer, and dancer.Finally, the film is a visual treat, and San Francisco a more than an adequate substitute for Chicago. Don't analyze, just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous Women, Gorgeous Cinematography, and SINATRA!!!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I just purchased the DVD of Pal Joey and the picture and colors are breathtaking.  It is wonderful to see the scope of 1957 Frisco in digital Widescreen.  I will say that those expecting a full, true musical, might be dissappointed.  It is a lighthearted movie that contains songs.  AND WHAT SONGS THEY ARE.  The Rogers and Hart songs never sounded better and it is always a treat to SEE Sinatra perform them, especially here in 1957 when he was at the peak of his artistry.  The look and feel of the movie is quite modern, and although tame in comparison to modern films, the script is coy and sexy.  It is lighthearted fun and entertainment and all do a fine job in their roles. (Sinatra won a Golden Globe for best actor) .  One could only hope that they hurry and remaster the rest of the Sinatra catalog on DVD.  Next should be Hole in the Head.  I welcome any and all comments...email me!! "},{"Title":"Belatedly Hollywood does Rodgers and Hart's Masterpiece","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Lorenz Hart wrote in a different style from his successor as partner to Richard Rodgers (Oscar Hammerstein 2nd). Hart had a more smart alecky type of lyric, less wholesome. But he still was quite a clever and intelligent lyricist. His tragedy was a personal one. Hammerstein had a happy home life. Hart was a troubled bi-sexual (most of the time he was actually a homosexual, but he did love at least one of his Broadway stars, Vivian Siegal, and proposed to her late in his life). He also had a serious drinking problem. Rodgers too had an alcohol problem, but it was in relative control until the 1960s. Hart's growing binges in the 1930s and early 1940s began to fray the partnership. Rodgers would later admit he got tired being a nurse to his partner.Their partnership was remarkably fruitful from the early 1920s to it's completion in 1944, both on Broadway and in Hollywood. But most of their musicals were in the old fashion method of the songs fitted into the book - not worked into the book. Towards the end of the 1930s, with their Shakespeare musical THE BOYS FROM SYRACUSE and their ballet/dance musical ON YOUR TOES they started doing more modern style musicals where the songs were used to push the story along. But it was not until 1940 that they came up with their masterpiece PAL JOEY.PAL JOEY was based on a novel by John O'Hara (author of BUTTERFIELD 8 and APPOINTMENT IN SAMARRA). It is actually a modern epistolary novel, with Joey writing letters describing his adventures to a friend (hence ending the letters with Your pal, Joey). Joey, to put it bluntly, is an opportunistic heel using people all over the place. He hopes to eventually create the classiest nightclub in Chicago (Joey is a professional emcee). He meets two women (Linda who is his age, and Vera who is older and richer). He keeps jumping and reassuring each until he is caught up in a set of cross-purposed lies. A blackmail attempt puts an end to the entire dream, and both women dump Joey. His last song is how his best friend is himself.The original musical flopped - Broadway was yet to be ready for a musical with an anti-hero. But it had a splendid score of clever tunes, many with double-entendre lyrics (such as Happy Little Hunting Horn and Our Little Den of Iniquity). It had Siegal as Vera (she introduced Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered), Elaine Stritch (in a supporting part as a reporter who interviewed Gypsy Rose Lee - she sang Zip), and (as the star) Gene Kelly. It's nice to report that there is surviving color and black and white film from home cameras of Kelly in several scenes dancing. None with the music, however. It was not until a 1951 revival that the musical became a smash hit.If you read the facts on this thread you will see how long the studios tried to get PAL JOEY onto film. It was not until 1957 that it finally got made. Kelly had been originally wanted for repeating the role, but circumstances prevented this. Instead the role ended up with Frank Sinatra, Vera was played by the film's actual star, Rita Hayworth, and Linda by Kim Novak. The main structure of the story was kept, such as the triangle and Joey's dream of being owner/boss of the classiest nightclub (here, though, in San Francisco). Joey's heel personality is still there, but softened towards the end (in the musical he is a heel to the conclusion). The blackmail plot (involving Gladys Bumps and her boy-friend Ludlow Lowell) is dropped, although Gladys remains as a hostile, suspicious chorus girl (she knows Joey's past) played well by Barbara Nicholls. The cast was a Columbia one, with only one face that is a fair regular one among Sinatra cronies (Hank Henry as Mike, the nightclub manager - he also popped up in OCEAN'S ELEVEN and THE JOKER IS WILD). It is a well done song fest of Rodgers and Hart tunes, although two tunes (MY FUNNY VALENTINE and THERE'S A SMALL HOTEL) are not from the show's score, and most of the tunes are dropped. ZIP is rewritten so that it is sung by Vera, formerly a Gypsy Rose Lee type. But the remainder keep the basic idea of the musical in tact - including a number showing Joey's dream of what his Chez Joey would have been like. But it is, on the whole, a wonderfully well made musical and certainly among Sinatra's best. "},{"Title":"Kim Novak is beautiful and that is all  there is to say","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Close ups of the 24 year old Kim Novak left me breathless. Her beauty. Her face. What a face! Her body. She was (and still is) a great beauty. I was numb from her beauty when she sang the Valentine song. I liked this movie very much. The best descriptive word I can think of to describe Pal Joey is delightful. Even the dog was cute. A nice, delightful movie, right out of the 1950's. I thought all the actors did a splendid job--the acting, dialog, the story was fine. All in all, Pal Joey is an enjoyable and fun movie. It is interesting to watch movies made in the 1950's. What a difference from today's films. I highly recommend Pal Joey. "},{"Title":"Watered-down 'Joey', but still thirst-quenching","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It took 17 years for the play PAL JOEY to reach the screen, and even though this 'Joey' is watered-down, the film is still thirst-quenching to first time viewers.  The differences between play and film have been exaggerated.  San Francisco (film) and Chicago (play) are related. What does grate on people who know the score,in both senses, is the loss of half the stage songs to background music.  They are wonderful and I can- not see  why Frank Sinatra wouldn't have begged to sing them.  I think that Rita Hayworth, sadly aging (at 39 she looked 49), is extremely underrated as 'Vera'.  Here again, Rita lost out on a beautiful and witty stage song What Is a Man? cut altogether.  Overall this IS a good film, and George Sidney (as elaborated on in a splendid biography by author Eric Monder) remains an ignored director.  Sidney's films, in truth, contain some amazing technical shots and visually beautiful compositions.  I refer interested viewers to rediscover the superb and near-dirty stage score of PAL JOEY (check out the 1952 'Studio' CD with Jane Froman, which I prefer).  As to a remake, my choice for 'Joey'... Jerry Seinfeld (hope he can sing 'Rodgers'n Hart'). "}{"Title":"When old blue eyes sings, all is forgiven...","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" George Sidney may not be one of Hollywood's best-known or most appreciated directors, but he does turn PAL JOEY into an enjoyable viewing experience by releasing it from stagebound sets and giving it an open air look that is refreshing and watchable, especially since the scene has been transferred to San Francisco rather than Chicago.Some of the songs are borrowed from other Rodgers and Hart musicals, but when FRANK SINATRA sings standards like There's A Small Hotel and The Lady Is A Tramp, he can do no wrong. He plays a no-good piano lounge lizard who has the world on a string as long as he stays one step ahead of the nightclub owner that he keeps making deals with.The mice are played by RITA HAYWORTH and KIM NOVAK, Miss Hayworth making up for the badly-in-need-of-acting-coach Novak, who really stumbles in this one. Apparently George Sidney couldn't give her any guidance on how to play any of her scenes--the way Hitchcock did for Vertigo. Their confrontation scene has no ooomph because Novak is simply not there and thus there are no real fireworks. Even so, Hayworth makes her character strong and possessive.It's really Sinatra's show all the way and he delivers a solidly engaging performance, even though his character is lacking in what we might call integrity.Enjoyable musical--Hayworth's Zip and Bewitched are nicely done even if she doesn't do her own vocals. The dancer magic is still there in the way she moves through any number she does.Summing up worth a look if you like musicals. "},{"Title":"Some additional items missed in other comments.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Simply cannot understand how other commentators could have noted such things as the film's being a showcase for Sinatra's singing and Novak's physical attributes (both of which, alas, now gone) and completely fail to take notice of the wonderful songs by Rodgers & Hart; the great arrangements by Nelson Riddle; and the fine cinematography!  "},{"Title":"This Film is Everyone's Pal Pal Joey ****","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Great Frank Sinatra-Rita Hayworth-Kim Novak effort in this marvelously staged 1957 film.The part of Joey Evans must have been created for Frank Sinatra. He is still that swinging bachelor at his swinging best. As the widowed wealthy woman with an interesting past, Rita Hayworth hits her stride in this one. Kim Novak is the plain Jane just about ready to burst out of her self-imposed shell.The songs, especially If You Asked Me I Could Write A Book, are just fantastic. Who can forget the expression on Mrs. Simpson's (Rita's) face when Joey belts out That's Why the Lady is A Tramp?A great film dealing with the theme that money isn't everything. "},{"Title":"Ring-a-ding Role for Frank","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Talk about a perfect cast. This film brings together all the right folk to realize Rodgers and Hart's swinging musical for the screen.Firstly, here's a role Sinatra's born to play. Made during the period of his greatest album recordings, like Song for Swinging Lovers, his voice, manner and attitude is perfect for George Abbott's A-1 heel.His singing and acting are on the ball here, and Sinatra throws himself into the part with cool abandonment.Secondly, Rita Hayworth (reportedly replacing Marlene Dietrich) turns in a dazzling performance. Wise, worldly, and sophisticated, her former stripper number's a knockout.Thirdly, Kim Novak enjoys one of her best ever roles. Often in other films she acts as though the camera's hurting her. Here, she uses her discomfort to advantage, making for a fascinating persona. (Often one can see the vague, distant and ethereal qualities Alfred Hitchcock must have spotted to cast her in his haunting Vertigo.) Behind the scenes is Sinatra's favorite music director/arranger/conductor Nelson Riddle. Jean Louis designs some fabulous gowns for the ladies, and George Sidney's direction and Hermes Pan's choreography likewise hit the bull's eye.In short, this Pal Joey's a real gasser. "},{"Title":"Stunning, spectacular and plain old sexy!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this video many times and I can't express how much I love it, the music is beautiful and so smooth. Frankie is a babe as usual and his voice is purely divine. Kim Novac has the most beautiful body on a set of legs that I've ever seen, and I don't know what to say about Rita Hayworth except that the apricot dress she wears is spectacular, and her Zip number has some serious class. The best scene is when Frank sings The Lady Is A Tramp to Rita. See it again and again, that is the best advice I can give. "},{"Title":"Goes  up like a rocket, comes down like the stick","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" To me, Sinatra, the Rogers and Hart songs and Nelson Riddle arrangements launches this musical straight up into the stratosphere. The wit and surprises (Kim Novak's smart dinner date, Joey's surprise auction item) further give it edge. And Sinatra perhaps was never in better singing form. Added to which he appears utterly at ease with his cynical smart-ass dialogue - it seems to come naturally. The problem occurs fairly close to the end when the music and smart dialogue both stop and the movie comes plummeting back down to earth and with the closing scene, it plunges nose-first into the mud. But at least it had been a wonderful ride before that. "},{"Title":"Classic Rodgers-Hart Songs Provide Framework for a Swinging Sinatra in a Predictably Drawn Triangle","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" If Frank Sinatra had a signature role in his long movie career, this must be it because he plays one of his coolest cats in this fairly adult 1957 musical drama based on a book by John O'Hara. However, it's better remembered for the fourteen songs by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart, many of which became Sinatra standards. Written by Dorothy Kingsley, the rather slight story has the crooner play womanizing nightclub singer Joey Evans who keeps losing jobs because cad that he is, he likes to fool around with married women. Joey lands in San Francisco and finagles his way into a job as singer and emcee at a dive called the Barbary Coast. There he meets innocent Linda English from Albuquerque, a chorine who refuses to strip and just wants to be a torch singer. In typical Sinatra swinging fashion, Joey flirts with her but plays hard-to-get. One night, both are recruited for a charity show held at a posh Nob Hill mansion. The hostess is Vera Simpson, a former striptease performer who has since become a wealthy society matron. Sparks fly between Joey and Vera but only after mutual acts of humiliation. He breezily moves in with her on her yacht, and she decides to fund his pipe dream, owning a sophisticated nightspot she dubs Chez Joey. Never one to leave his cards on the table, Joey hires Linda to sing, and you can guess the rest as the inevitable romantic triangle takes the expected turns.Directed by George Sidney (Anchors Aweigh, Viva Las Vegas), it plays out rather lugubriously with nary a surprise, but the songs are mostly gems. Sinatra knows how to play heels, though Joey never gets hard-boiled enough to develop a true edge. On the upside, he sings There's a Small Hotel, I Could Write a Book and best of all, The Lady Is a Tramp to a guardedly smitten Rita Hayworth well cast as Vera. Even though at 38, she was actually younger than Sinatra, she cuts a coolish (and shapely) figure as a jealous patroness despite the unflattering camera angles. It's just a shame that the story doesn't respect her character much, especially at the very end. However, when she literally lets her hair down, it's a relief to see her old seductive self in post-coital bliss as she lip-syncs Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered (sung seductively by Jo Ann Greer). As Linda, Kim Novak - a year away from Vertigo - fares less well as she looks tentative and oddly blank-faced during her big number, My Funny Valentine (sung sonorously by Trudy Erwin). But we all know it's really Sinatra we want to see perform, and from that respect, a lot of the movie plays out like one of his 1960's TV specials. The only extras on the 1999 DVD are a couple of trailers and talent files for the principals. An intermittent entertainment, it's definitely a product of a bygone era. "},{"Title":"A much enjoyed movie.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on TV today, It must be more then twenty years since I last saw it but his has lost nothing in this time. I loved the songs and the characterisations were great. Frank sang with all the style and class he is famous for. Kim Novak played the role of Linda in a quiet, competent way and Rita Hayworth was good as the rich, ex showgirl aging widow. I did not see the Broadway version with Gene Kelly so I am in no position to compare but that's probably all to the good as it may have spoiled my enjoyment of the movie. It was nice to see Ned Galvin as the night club owner, he acted in many of Sinatra's and Dean Martin's movies. I would rate this movies as better than The Tender Trap. Eight Stars  "},{"Title":"Just a gigolo","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Joey Evans isn't a very nice person.If you've got a daughter maybe you should lock her up because for some reason the broads go crazy after him. He's a skinny little guy you'd pass by on the sidewalk without looking at but whatever it is the girlies like - he's got it in spades.He ain't above schmoozing the chicks for bread either,if he's a bit short of the folding green.Basically the guy's a putz.OK,so he can sing a bit,but that don't make him Gigli,right,he's still a putz. That,basically,is the book for the George Sidney musical Pal Joey. Fortunately it has some fine Rodgers and Hart songs and two strong if not particularly likable performances from Mr Frank Sinatra and Miss Rita Hayworth.The very beautiful Miss Kim Novak has eyes of the most startling colour,skin as smooth as a baby's and the air of slightly-bruised innocence that men of a certain age prize very highly.She plays Miss Hayworth's rival for the affections of Mr Sinatra.She mimes rather sweetly to My Funny Valentine and there are lots of close-ups of her eyes. Mr Sinatra was the byword for cool in 1957 but to more modern sensibilities some of his attitudes may find less favour than of yore. He certainly seemed to have no trouble suppressing his feminine side. Lines I laughed at when it first came out now seem distinctly unfunny. He seems to be polishing up his Las Vegas act.I loved the way he carries his mac over his shoulder and pushes his hat onto the back of his head, the passing of time has,unhappily,cast that as affectation not cool,and his snappy one-liners offensive,not sharp.Both he and Joey Evans I imagine would be easy men to love but hard men to like. "},{"Title":"Pale Joey","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I really wanted to like this colourful adaptation of one of Rogers and Hart's last and most successful shows and attracted by big names like Sinatra, Hayworth and Novak, thought I couldn't lose. Sheesh, was I wrong.Concerning ne'erdowell Joey (Sinatra's) self-obsessed attempts to get himself up the greasy pole to his own club in San Francisco and no doubt attendant fame and fortune, the film fails ultimately for a number of reasons. First Frank's character just isn't desperate enough, purportedly down on his luck, he always looks perfectly turned out, even before he becomes wealthy widow Hayworth's kept man. And the idea to give this hard-bitten Casanova a cute puppy dog is just wrong on so many levels. His character never seems to stop talking and often re-hashes the same stock phrases, which gets wearing after a while. As for Hayworth and Novak, both look fantastic, filmed in great clothes in great light, as befits two of the sexiest women to ever come out of Tinseltown, but the former lacks that dare I say it, Norma Desmond controlling, self-deluding and even slightly deranged conviction which would have made her character more rounded while Novak gets to play a whimpering simpering child, completely at odds with her overly sensual demeanour.Some of the scenes are ridiculously contrived too, like Novak's strip-tease, her later passing out on Sinatra when they're on Hayworth's yacht and Joey's dream sequence when both his loves sashay around him like bees to honey. Worst of all is Hayworth's Sugar Mommy backing out of the competition for Joey by personally fetching Novak for their hold-hands, run-at-the-camera, big love shot at the conclusion.On the plus side, as indicated, the stars all look great, Sinatra too, being in the middle of his classic Capitol series of recordings, even getting to quote one of his catch-phrases Ring-a-ding-ding at one point. The San Francisco locations are also easy on the eye and the musical numbers excellent, including The Lady Is a Tramp, My Funny Valentine and Bewitched Bothered and Bewildered amongst them. Unfortunately, the movie dialogue too rarely matches the sharpness of Lorenz Hart's lyrics. Damon Runyan, this ain't.A missed opportunity them and I'm not sure I can tell quite why. Some shows may just work well on stage, I'm guessing this is one of them. "}{"Title":"What to do with Joey?","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" 'Pal Joey' is a light, entertaining 50's musical that features strong and appealing performances from it's three stars- Rita Hayworth, Frank Sinatra and Kim Novak.Sinatra is the womanizing heel Joey, who lives on luck and lots of attention from the ladies until he meets Novak's good-hearted Linda English. Novak challenges Sinatra's caddish ways, and he is left to agonize between a potential romance with her and an opportune arrangement with wealthy older-woman Vera Simpson, played by Rita Hayworth.An engaging film that uncannily makes the viewer care for a heel of a male protagonist, it utilizes Sinatra's charming boyish qualities to the hilt. I understand that this film version of a Broadway musical was truncated and heavily cut, yet the musical numbers are appealing and will leave you humming them under the breath for a while. Novak, Harry Cohn's star-creation at Columbia after Hayworth flew the roost and began to rebel against the tyrant, is refreshing in the role and she plays off Sinatra well. Hayworth, three years younger than Sinatra at the time the film was being made, is a strikingly beautiful 'older' woman and shows all the star qualities that made her a legend. And her figure looks terrific for a woman pushing forty! From looking at this film, set in San Francisco, and Hitchock's 'Vertigo', released a year later with Kim Novak as the female lead and also set in San Fran, it is obvious as to where Hitchcock got some of his inspiration for the costuming of Novak's 'Madeleine'. Her long white coats and suits seen here in 'Pal Joey' would be replicated by Hitchcock only a year later.Worth taking a look.7/10. "},{"Title":"Frankie turns in a great performance.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Frank Sinatra is wonderful in this Technicolor treat about a heel of a musician who stumbles onto the bid time, and chorus girl Kim Novak. There is great on screen chemistry between the two.  Sinatra allows his character to go through some wonderful transitions.  "},{"Title":"Rita and Kim are magnificent","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Thank god this film is on DVD!It is now possible to skim right through Frank's obnoxious role and concentrate strictly on the two female stars.Talk about a fantasy-the two most beautiful women in the world are obsessed with this obnoxious little man! Kim and Rita are so stunning it is almost surreal. On second glance, Hayworth is still gorgeous here, even though in declining health(alcoholism, etc.). Her skins looks absolutely translucent. The stunning beauty of Rita and Kim and the wonderful Rodgers and Hart songs are the highlights of this entertaining, beautifully photographed musical drama. Barbara Nichols is memorably funny in a tiny role. (TRIVIA Beautiful dancer/actress Doreen Woodbury committed suicide while in rehearsals for this film).KIm's voice, by Trudi Erwin, on My funny Valentine, sounds exactly how she would sound if she sang! A vocal dead ringer! "},{"Title":"GOOD","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Kim Novak and Frank Sinatra always make a good couple on screen and the film does well,with both of their singing! But the film is one of those good times and cherry things,so you can't expect much acting or action here.Mainly a showcase for Kim's body and Frank's singing. "},{"Title":"Stylish but smarmy concoction...","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Glossy, empty musical adapted from the stage success and turned into a vehicle for star Frank Sinatra, who can't work up a head of steam over role as nightclub singer/ladies' man hoping to open his own club. Rita Hayworth, as Frankie's ex-girlfriend and benefactor, gets the worst of it she still loves Frank (I guess) and wants him on a tight leash, but she's given no sympathetic scenes, and she's put down at every opportunity. The Rodgers and Hart songs are nice, but the inane plot takes them nowhere. Kim Novak is charismatic in a nothing part, and Sinatra is Sinatra, walking through too-snugly as if to say this role too shall pass. Film has colorful costumes, slick settings and lots of smarmy talk; it's all style in a pseudo-jaded key. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Who's your pal?","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'll just start off by saying every time I watch Pal Joey, it hooks me by its interesting beginning, but I get bored around the time Joey starts planning his new night spot on Nob Hill with the help of wealthy older benefactress, Mrs. Simpson (played by not-so- very-old Rita Hayworth, still a treat for the eyes at only 39), which jeopardizes his relationship with much younger mouse, Linda English (Kim Novak).After all, this is supposedly a musical, but we start to get movie-melodrama plotting and we're asked to care about Joey, who up to now has been painted as a charming heel. Liking him in spite of his proclivities is one thing, but suddenly he becomes a romantic lead, of sorts, and I think the whole premise just falls apart.I suppose the elements to cause it to fall apart are all in place from the get-go, but we just happen to finally catch up to them around this point.The biggest one is that the filmmakers have chosen to partially redeem the Joey of John O'Hara's stories and play, who was unredeemable. Redeem him enough so that audiences like him and it makes sense that at the end, he walks away into the sunset with the heroine, presumably to live happily ever after.Anyhow, up to the point where things start to get serious (and we get into an emotionally unsatisfying love triangle), it's been a pretty fun show. I have enjoyed watching Joey pull his shenanigans - wangling his way into a nightclub MC job, chasing the girls at the club, exchanging barbs with one of the dancers (Barbara Nichols). I've enjoyed the San Francisco atmosphere, the cynical friendship with the old friend who's the band leader at the club, the back-and-forth with the club manager. Joey's cute one-on-one with the landlady (Elizabeth Patterson). Etc.It's also been a treat to see Frank take the stage at the club and do one of the best numbers he ever did on screen (even if he's clearly way too talented to be scrounging for jobs as a girlie show MC).If only the breezy, atmospheric tone had continued for another few reels. But it's just amazing how lugubrious the film becomes once Joey gets in with society dame Rita and starts getting his dream- come- true nightclub plans realized. And the delightful relationship with Novak bogs down into slush right around the same time.Up to this point it felt as if we'd been watching an adult-style musical comedy. But it suddenly lurches off the tracks. Never really recovers, and loses much entertainment value and charm.The three central performances are good. Sinatra's is the most three-dimensional and real. The character doesn't seem like a stretch, for him (and probably wasn't). He walks a fine line, being able to make a jerk likable and attractive. (It's when we're being asked to love the jerk that the film gets a little messed up). Hayworth is old enough for her part, but only if Joey is in his mid- 20's (which he should be). As it is, she appears to be the same age as Frank, and therefore can't come across as the 'cougar' she's supposed to be without seeming a bit miscast. Novak is good but somewhat out of her element. I think this may have been her only musical. Her part seems built up, and it's somewhat to the detriment of the film as a whole. Former MGM director George Sidney had specialized in the family type of musical that appealed to teens of all ages, back in the 40's. Usually produced by Joe Pasternak and often featuring a mix of pop and classical music, these confections (Holiday In Mexico, Bathing Beauty, Anchors Aweigh) still have appeal. He went on to direct bigger Metro projects (Show Boat, Kiss Me Kate, and a few non- musicals like Cass Timberlane and The Red Danube). A former MGM- musical screenwriter, Dorothy Kingsley, adapted Pal Joey for this version. "},{"Title":"Fine, bouncy musical","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Everything seems to work in this Columbia Pictures offering. The cast is outstanding one of Sinatra's best roles, with strong work by Hayworth and Novak. As the saying goes, the parts fit them like a glove.The top score by Rodgers and Hart sounds wonderful, the arrangements by Nelson Riddle are sparkling, and the editing and and production values are all expertly crafted. It's the kind of picture that, in spite of its original period locale, doesn't seem to age much. After the era of Richard Rodgers the music scene changed dramatically. And why not? There was no where left to go but in a totally different direction. Richard and colleagues did it to perfection. "},{"Title":"Sinatra is Not Your Pal.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pal Joey (1957) Dir George Sidney / Cast Frank Sinatra, Rita Hayworth, Kim Novak, Barbara Nichols, Bobby Sherwood Witty musical about the person that we can be as oppose to what our reputations display. Frank Sinatra plays a womanizing nightclub singer who is torn between two woman. As the film opens he escorted by police to the train station. From there he attempts to reenter the nightclub business, eventually succeeding. Rita Hayworth plays a high class wealthy widow whom he wants to convince to finance his club. She is withdrawn yet plays his game as seductress leaving him near exhausted in his pursuit. Kim Novak plays a chorus girl whom he meets through a neutral friend. Despite he efforts to charm her, she reacts cold and distant. When he rents an apartment next to her's she is hardly impressed that they have to share a bath. To even the odds she tricks him into purchasing a dog. While beginning and structure are detailed, the ending doesn't quite gel. Director George Sidney is backed by energetic production numbers and festive performances by the three leads. Sinatra plays off the sly nature of Joey whose voice and song are persuasive weapons. Hayworth is the withdrawn mysterious demeanor to Novak's insecure inner being who would prefer to avoid the seductive act. Other roles are as cardboard as a stage prop. Theme regards a genuine nature exposed when the curtain closes the act. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A Sinatra Gem","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Joey Evans (Frank Sinatra) is charming, handsome, funny, talented, and a first class, A-number-one heel. When Joey meets the former chorus girl and now rich widow Vera Simpson (Rita Hayworth), the two lecherous souls seem made for each other.Frank Sinatra's movie career is very hit and miss. I am not, for example, a big fan of his song and dance movies with Gene Kelly. And it is not because I don't like musicals. I love Danny Kaye and such classics as Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. I just don't think Sinatra fits in.Here he plays something of a sleazy night life character. And although it is an act he plays up, he plays it up well. Rita Hayworth also does good, and it is Kim Novak's chance to shine. For those who love Sinatra, this is well worth seeking out and deserves to be better known. "},{"Title":"Cute and funny but not a home-run","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have said before that sometimes stage plays, even great ones, don't translate well to film and sometimes they do. It really does depend on the screenplay and who stars in the film and a few other key details. Pal Joey has its ups and downs and is overall entertaining but mostly thanks to Frank Sinatra and his larger than life persona that is hard to ignore in any capacity. It has elements of romance and music and drama and a few genuinely funny moments. Ideally though this is a vehicle for Sinatra. With anyone else in his role it wouldn't have been even nearly as good. His charisma saves this from being a rather hum drum sort of romantic comedy/musical. I think the biggest problem I personally had with the film was the lack of chemistry between the leads. I think in order for this to be genuinely great you need a guy and two girls that have great energy opposite of each other. At the heart (pun intended) of the film is a romance and yet you don't really feel that. The main character is such an egotistical ladies man and you expect a full turn around but I'm not sure you ever get that. You are sort of left with he is who he is but she's gonna be with him anyways.I have very little experience watching Frank Sinatra on screen but I love the man for his albums, always have since I was a kid, so the highlight of this movie for me was seeing him perform. He is mesmerizing and it is easily the strong point in the film. Singing Lady is A Tramp to Rita Hayworth was definitely worth the price of admission. Sinatra is very good in this role and suits it to a T. He is perfectly believable as a street-wise ladies man with big dreams and his character actually is a complex guy and I'm not sure we get everything out of one movie. Kim Novak is beautiful of course and her role as Karen English is decent. I just didn't feel like she got a lot of depth nor did her and Sinatra have the right chemistry. They had some good scenes and some okay banter but the door is open here for this terrific love-hate rivalry that never really takes off. Rita Hayworth is also very good if not just a touch obvious as the aristocratic Vera Simpson who lures Frank's Joey into a relationship of necessity. Hayworth's character is not very likable though she has a very good turning point in the end. However, like Novak, her chemistry with Sinatra is okay at best and her and Novak don't share enough screen time.Like many directors of the time, George Sidney has done other musical to screen adaptations. I just think Pal Joey isn't necessarily the right stage play to adapt though I'd love to see a modern take on it (think Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan annnnd Julia Roberts in the 90's) but the chemistry was off, the pacing doesn't feel quite right and the music is a little underwhelming. Still, it is a classic for a reason and it was fun. Some of the dialogue (especially from Sinatra) was legendary. He was a fast talking sarcastic lout and he did it well. I would think for its time, Pal Joey was a touch racy and I actually liked that about it. Watching a classic with a little bit of an adult edge for its time made me feel a little naughty like I'm sure it did for them back in 1957. I can assure you that I will now check out some of Frank Sinatra's more well known roles so the movie is not a total loss. Its worth seeing if you love the classics but certainly far from the best out there. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Sinatra charm","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Joey Evans (Frank Sinatra) is a slick, charming ladies man. He gets chased out of town for being with the mayor's daughter. He arrives in San Franscico and is taken with standoffish chorus girl Linda English (Kim Novak). Of course, there is also former fling widow socialite Vera Prentice-Simpson (Rita Hayworth).This is simply fun. There is Kim Novak and Rita Hayworth but this movie is all Sinatra. He has more than enough charm for this character. He is simply Joey. He doesn't have to act. He is that cool. He is catnip for ladies. He's also singing. This is the perfect movie for any Sinatra fans. "},{"Title":"Dated and vulgar","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I never liked Frank Sinatra. Oh, sure, he's great to listen to when he sings. But, IMHO, his singing talent never could make up for the fact that, even in a tux, he was a skinny, unattractive and terribly common-looking little man (half-pint imitation describes him to a T). As a woman I never understood why beautiful women like Ava Gardner, etc., fell over like ninepins around him.OK, that's a bit off my chest.Now to the film. I usually like musicals and vintage Hollywood. But this one I had a hard time getting through. I always say that judging films (or anything else) made over 60 years ago by today's standards is stupid, bigoted and pointless. Things were different then and that's all there is to it. If you can't stand it, well, stick to Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston ... er, comedies? Having said that, this film is ruined by, among other things, some of the corniest, most cringe-worthy, Ugh!-inducing lines I have ever heard. Even for 1950s Hollywood.Apparently, the original Broadway show was duly sanitized when they converted it to the screen, which proves - once again - that censorship is NEVER a good idea, whether it's on moral or politically correct grounds. So we ended up with a film that can't quite make up its mind whether it wants to be a sleazy comedy with a romantic twist, or a romantic comedy with a sleazy twist. Kim Novak is absolutely gorgeous, but she's just not convincing as an ingénue. Someone here said that Rita Hayworth's role should have been more Norma Desmond-like and I really could not agree more. And I already said what I think of Sinatra as Mr. Irresistible.All in all, unless you're a Frank Sinatra die-hard, just skip it. There are much better classics out there. "},{"Title":"Your Pal, Frank Sinatra","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Run out of town after being caught with the mayor's underage daughter, womanizing singer Frank Sinatra (as Joey Evans) lands in sinful San Francisco. On the strip club show circuit, Mr. Sinatra lands a job with access to leggy, top-heavy women. First to receive Sinatra's attention is comely chorus girl Kim Novak (as Linda English). Then, arousing ex-stripper Rita Hayworth (as Vera Prentice Simpson) helps sponsor Sinatra's Chez Joey nightclub. Their singing voices are played, quite nicely, by Jo Ann Greer (for Ms. Hayworth) and Trudi Erwin (for Ms Novak). The question becomes, which of the two women will win Sinatra's heart, if he has one...Hindsight makes the seams in this stitched-together musical more evident...Originally a stage play about a dishonorable, dancing heel played by Gene Kelly, it was tailor made for Frank Sinatra. As far as the singer is concerned, the role is a perfect fit. You will find much of his persona - though certainly not all of the real Sinatra - in the attitude and mannerisms herein. The part helped provide the man with a character to play for the public. The selection of Rogers and Hart tunes is terrific, with Sinatra shining especially well on The Lady Is a Tramp. Surprisingly, he doesn't sing a couple of standards we hear, although Sinatra's versions are the ones that linger on, long after the Pal Joey comes to its unmemorable ending.***** Pal Joey (10/25/57) George Sidney ~ Frank Sinatra, Rita Hayworth, Kim Novak, Barbara Nichols "},{"Title":"Cleaned-up version of a delightfully smutty show, but oh those Lorenz Hart lyrics....","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" O.K., so alterations had to be made to some of them, and with his death over a decade before, much of the wit is gone from them. But what remains is a clever update that will upset theatre purists (like myself) but ultimately satisfy those searching for a fun musical time (like myself). Frank Sinatra's Joey is as far from his former co-star Gene Kelly's Joey (and Harold Lang's in the 1952 smash hit revival), but he is still a cad, using women to get ahead, if not as voraciously as the Broadway version. He's basically been tossed out of every city he's been to, most recently for breaking legal age laws. Now in San Francisco, he sets his sights on two beauties a shy chorus girl (Kim Novak) and a wealthy socialite (Rita Hayworth) whose past Sinatra knows a thing or two about. This gives Hayworth the chance to take on the altered lyrics of Zip!, initially sung by a reporter as a parody of Gypsy Rose Lee, but here made to be the former theme song of Hayworth's stage career.Of course, the older socialite makes demands of Sinatra, funding a nightclub for him to host, but will Frankie boy remain true to purse strings or his heart? If he could write a book, it wouldn't probably be about the lady who's a tramp, most definitely more open to the one with the funny valentine. Interpolated Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart songs from other shows (Babes in Arms, On Your Toes) replace many cut from the show that was fresh to many filmgoers in 1957 because of the recent hit Broadway revival which toured for years afterwards.As film entertainment, this is totally acceptable, but for representing a Broadway musical that was initially ahead of its time, forget about it. Sinatra is a bit of a ham here, trying to steal scenes every chance he gets, and the role of the blackmailing Gladys (here played by sex-pot Barbara Nichols) has been watered down to practically nothing. She had more to do in the same year's The Pajama Game. Hayworth, dubbed by Jo Anne Greer, is still a beauty even if now a 40-something has-been, yet at the end of her Columbia years, is still a sight to behold, especially as she sings Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered in her bedroom and shower. When she joins Novak with long tresses for the fantasy number, What Do I Care For a Dame?, it appears that the hands of time have rolled back the clock. As for Novak, she would go on to better performances, but it is apparent that here, having risen to stardom several years before, she's still a novice compared to the company she keeps. Her shy, butter wouldn't melt in her mouth routine is never fully believable, and when she does a striptease to I Could Write a Book, it is obvious that this is where it's at for this former model who was Harry Cohn's last shot for stardom . Elizabeth Patterson is witty in a small role as Novak's landlady. The direction by George Sidney is as crisp as anything he did over at MGM, but the truth of the matter is that this isn't anywhere near the classic it could have been had it stuck closer to the original intentions of John O'Hara from his scandalous book which later scandalized Broadway and made Gene Kelly a star. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but well worth seeing, especially for Sinatra, Hayworth and the songs","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Anybody who loves Frank Sinatra, Rita Hayworth and Richard Rodgers will be in their element here. Sinatra is the standout of the film, Joey was more cynical in the original stage version but Sinatra still brings a caddish persona and does so with great charm and energy. And of course his singing is divine, of the mellow and rich kind- most lovely to listen to- and with great circular breathing technique. Hayworth is not at her best but she is still breathtakingly beautiful, one of the most beautiful actresses on film, and sassy. And the songs are great, Pal Joey like most Richard Rodgers scores is one of those musicals where every song works but Lady is a Tramp is a real standout here. Sinatra, Hayworth and the songs are not the only things to enjoy. Pal Joey also has opulent production values, Hayworth's figure-hugging dresses are to die for, fluid photography, George Sidney's enigmatic and not heavy-handed direction, a witty script, a charming if watered-down story and smart energetic choreography. For this viewer the only things that came across as flaws were the out-of-kilter happy ending and while beautiful Kim Novak's performance is rather pallid. All in all, a very good underrated film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A fun, classy (K-L-A-S-Y) movie that you will love","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" What started as a series of letters in a newspaper, was then a hit on Broadway starring Gene Kelly, then became a movie classic in 1957's Pal Joey.With a terrific Rodgers and Hart score (including The Lady is a Tramp which is sung in one of the best scenes in the whole movie, My Funny Valentine and I Could Write a Book), Frank Sinatra in the title role and Rita Hayworth and Kim Novak as the gorgeous leading ladies, really a plot was unnecessary. But your Pal Joey gives you one anyway, and a great one, too.Joey Evans (Ole Blue Eyes) is, essentially, a heel. Working as an M.C in a nightclub in San Francisco, Joey meets many women. But two interest him even more than all the others  Vera Simpson (Hayworth) and Linda English (Novak). Vera, a former stripper (She used to be Vera with the Vanishing Veils), is now a wealthy widow who is helping Joey finance his new nightclub, Chez Joey. Linda is the chorus girl (the best built mouse in the joint) who Joey really falls for. Kim or Rita? Which would you choose? Either way, Pal Joey is a fun, classy (K-L-A-S-Y) movie that you will love. "},{"Title":"Wowweewowwow!","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Despite its Broadway success, Pal Joey took his time reaching thescreen. Gene Kelly came to fame in the title role in the original Broadway production of Pal Joey and was the logical first choice for the screen version but when MGM would not lend him out the project sat on the backburner so long that his intended co-star Rita Hayworth swapped female roles to play the older woman who bankrolls Joey's club - on her terms - by the time the film finally reached the screen in 1957.One of the few Columbia musicals that creates some of its own magic rather than trying to copy the RKO and MGM formula, Sinatra is so perfect as John O'Hara's heel that it is now impossible to imagine Kelly in the role. Not all of the Rodgers and Hart's songs are well served - some, such as I Didn't Know What Time It Was, are all but thrown away - but the score is a strong one (The Lady Is A Tramp, Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered, If They Asked Me I Could Write A Book ) and the film is one of the few successful Broadway-to-screen transfers of its day. Great dog too.The only real extra on the DVD is the original five-minute trailer, but it's a gem. Filmed on the film's set, with Sinatra introducing us to Joey's vocabulary with the aid of a blackboard and ruler, it's terrific fun and a genuine collector's item! "},{"Title":"A very fine 1957 movie with three stars, Hayworth, Sinatra, and Novak.","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is part of the Kim Novak 5-movie DVD set issued this month, August 2010. The picture and sound are very nice, and there is an extra which features Kim Novak at work and at home in present time.Rita Hayworth was already a veteran of the screen, and in fact was approaching the latter stages of her career, even though she wasn't yet 40. Frank Sinatra was over 40, but still in his prime. And the newcomer was Kim Novak, still only 23 or so during filming. The three of them end up in a romantic triangle that stays interesting all the way through, with some good songs and production numbers.As the movie opens we see that Frank Sinatra as the title character, Joey Evans, that some call 'Pal Joey', is being put on a train and thrown out of another city. This seems to be his life, he has great ambition and does not hesitate to take advantage of anyone he can. In fact he seems to treat everyone as a way to get something he wants. With a pretty girl all he wants is the hope of a one-night stand.Joey lands in San Francisco and at the nightspot 'Barbary Coast' he insinuates himself when the 'MC' is late, and in spite of his poor reputation is given the job. He will be 'MC' for the acts at the supper club and do songs himself.One of the showgirls is Kim Novak as Linda English. Joey falls for her immediately, and figures out a way to get a room right next to hers in the boarding house. In fact they must share a bathroom, which makes other aspects easy for Joey.But Joey's ambition is to have is own entertainment place, and he needs someone to put up the money. Enter Rita Hayworth as Vera Simpson, recently a widow and rich, but with a past as a stripper that she hoped everyone forgot about. Despite some rough edges between Vera and Joey, she agrees to bankroll the new supper club, 'Chez Joey.' Not all goes smoothly.SPOILERS Vera wants Joey for herself, more as a boy-toy than as a true love. But when it becomes apparent that Joey has his eyes on Linda, Vera insists that Joey fire her, otherwise the 'Chez Joey' venture will be closed down. Which she ends up doing as the opening night arrives. Linda feels bad, goes to Vera and says she will quit, and Vera goes to Joey and tells him she will open is place. But he no longer has any trust in her, doesn't like someone else pulling his strings, and packs up to head for Sacramento. Linda won't take 'no' for an answer and goes with him, even though he tells her that he is sure to disappoint her. The movie ends with a beautiful scene of the two of them on the San Francisco wharf with the Golden Gate Bridge in the background framed by colored clouds at sunset. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but the music is top shelf.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Frank Sinatra is playing Frank Sinatra.  His character doesn't need much development, we know he's a rat from the start.  But forget the plot, enjoy the unbelievable scene where he sings The Lady is a Tramp to soften a tough, cynical Rita Hayworth (what a beauty!)  Plenty of cheesecake and beautiful San Francisco scenery! "},{"Title":"A great entry to Sinatra the singer and the man...and a half-decent musical as well!","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pal Joey (1957)This is a vehicle for Frank Sinatra to sing. And that's all we need, in a way. The movie has a plot, and two stellar actresses who are neither quite at their best (the overrated Kim Novak and the restrained Rita Hayworth). And it has some nice full Technicolor filming in and around San Francisco which is its own attraction. But Sinatra rules nearly every scene. He has his regular guy persona, perfected years ago for lots of musicals and even some dramas, with the slight tweak that he's a bit full of himself. Except we know it's an act just to survive. He meets chorus girl Novak and likes her rather a lot, and he meets high society and ex-showgirl stripper Hayworth and likes her rather less, but they seem to have some hot flashes anyway. And he needs her money to make it big in town.That's the plot, as the two women vie for his attention. Meanwhile a new nightclub featuring, yes, singing and dancing, is opening and so that becomes the center of all the swirling. It's all predictably held back from anything realistic, of course. I mean, Sinatra is this guy who's totally broke and desperate, but he doesn't really show it. (He says it.) When he swoops on stage at the first opportunity it's all in that fantasy world of possibilities that are what make musicals musicals. Those of you who are tempted to say, Oh, come on! you need to let go and just find the flow. Get used to the idea that it's a kind of parallel universe, slightly false and dreamlike on purpose. The improbable is meant to be just that because it's more fun that way!Meanwhile there's Sinatra the singer. He goes through a whole list of numbers, some of them rather famous, and he hums and sings bits of other great songs. These include My Funny Valentine which Novak performs in full on stage, and Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered which Hayworth performs to herself in her spacious bedroom. Both of the women's vocals are dubbed in by other vocalists, however.And yes, there are some really famous songs here. The composers are none other than Rogers and Hart, coming from their 1940 Broadway play of the same name (and originally starring Gene Kelly). Most of the songs originated there, but four, including The Lady is a Tramp and My Funny Valentine came from a 1937 musical Babes in Arms, also by Rogers and Hart. The charts are by the great Nelson Riddle, who arranged Sinatra's most classic albums of the 1950s. Everything is in pitch perfect form here, and if you want a dose of pure Sinatra, the actor and singer, this is the place to start. Don't expect too much of a movie, but don't worry, either, because it's all solid and very enjoyable. And a dream you can really inhabit. "}{"Title":"Stay, little Valentine, stay...","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Joey Evans (Frank Sinatra) is a two-bit night club singer, a womanizer, and cad. He lands in a San Francisco saloon and starts romancing a wealthy older woman (Rita Hayworth) and a sweet chorus girl (Kim Novak).When I saw this movie in 1957 I fell head over heels for Frank and the sophisticated night club scene, but now Frank's Joey seems like a heartless sleaze, the clubs look cheap, and the movie is hopelessly dated. It was made at the height of Frank's ring-a-ding-ding movie popularity but he just seems mean-spirited and selfish and both of his co-stars outweigh him. Rita was made up to look much older than her 39 years, but she's drab and dull, a far cry from her earlier glory days. Kim looks good (without those thick eyebrows from Vertigo), but her singing voice is a disaster and she isn't much of a dancer. A beatnik-style dance featuring both ladies is just embarrassing.On the plus side, the songs are terrific. The show is filled with memorable Rogers and Hart tunes such as The Lady is a Tramp, Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered, I Could Write a Book, There's a Small Hotel, and My Funny Valentine.The movie is glossy and pretty with lavish gowns and furs and picturesque San Francisco as a location, but Joey is an off-putting character and I didn't care about any of the stars. What was once ultra-cool and sophisticated now seems tawdry and pathetic. Good songs, though. "},{"Title":"Great Songs...","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie for decades. But it was remembered (pretty vaguely) with affection. However, I recently purchased the DVD, and whilst even a large-screen television doesn't really do justice to some of the more expansive older movies, I confess to being a tad disappointed even so.The songs were great, pretty much as I remembered them. Frank Sinatra was on top-drawer sparkling form. Hayworth and Novak were all you could expect from the so-called screen-goddesses of the 1950's. Yet something was missing. There were shortfalls in between songs, during story development, that seemed to cause the whole plot to languish briefly. I confess to finding myself bored. It didn't happen very often. But it happened. Maybe the director imagined that the three leads, and the great songs would be enough to carry the production and so it wasn't necessary to try too hard with anything else. I don't really know.'Pal Joey' isn't remembered half so well as some other 1950's musicals. And perhaps there's a reason for that. I suspect it needed a couple more songs - good songs - and maybe a bit more excitement to the story-line. Fans of 'ol blue eyes will still be enchanted, but without him and the songs this would have been a complete non-event. "},{"Title":"this is a good musical","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of frank sinatra's and I like this film very much. I don't think that it is as good as the manchurian candidate, but I like it as much or better than guys and dolls. if you want to see a bad movie with old blue eyes rent suddenly. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT VERY SEXY MUSICAL!!!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  SINATRA IS SUPERB - PERHAPS BECAUSE HE IS PLAYING A FULL-TIME FLIRT, WOMANIZER (NOT A STRETCH FOR HIM!)  HE IS COMPLETELY CHARMING AND PERFECT FOR THE FILM.  THE SONGS ARE ALL BY RODGERS-HART, AND ARE WONDERFUL.  IT'S FILMED ON LOCATION IN BEAUTIFUL MID-1950'S SAN FRANCISCO.  WHAT MAKES THIS MUSICAL DIFFERENT FROM MOST IN THE GENRE IS ITS USE OF MUSIC IS REALISTIC AND NOT OVERBLOWN. RITA HAYWORTH AND KIM NOVAK ARE ALSO EXCELLENT. AGAIN, THE SONGS, AND SINATRA, ARE WONDERFUL.  "},{"Title":"What Columbia does to Pal Joey could only have been equaled by MGM--and it shouldn't happen to a dog.","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The stars could all have performed the musical as written--the most accomplished, acidic, and cynical of Rodgers and Hart's output, thanks to a great book by John O'Hara, but Columbia just couldn't leave well enough alone, although it certainly didn't take away half the score and replace it with half-baked numbers by Roger Edens, like MGM did to On the Town. At least Columbia just subbed a few other R&H numbers that are always worth hearing.Sinatra was close to perfect for Joey Evans--although certainly no better than Gene Kelly would've been; both Rita Hayworth and Kim Novak were equally attractive, although since the only musical number that Rita has to put across is Zip, in an incredibly bowdlerized version (robbed of its intellectual heart) I wonder why her voice had to be dubbed. Would it have mattered if it weren't pretty?The fact that this show, one of the most downbeat of all Broadway productions, was turned into yet another sweetsie-poo Hollywood confection (and of course moved from Chi, of which it reeks, to San Francisco, of which it doesn't) is yet another tragedy in the history of taking Broadway musicals to Hollywood, which, with the notable exception of Oklahoma, just means that the show got butchered. It loses its edge about halfway through, when Joey starts being nice, Vera starts being nice, the puppy is nice, and everyone gets to live happily ever after--what a precious moment!!!Hollywood was better at making its own musicals--The Wizard of Oz and Meet Me In St. Louis--are head and shoulders above any Broadway adaptation from MGM (whose musicals generally stink) and both Warner Bros and RKO, in the 1930's, make shows that put any of the spectaculars in the shade. One Fred and Ginger number is worth about 70 Marge and Gowers.Oddly enough, Columbia showed that it could do a pretty good job with an original musical--one with Rita and Fred Astaire that contains some great original songs by Jerome Kern and at least one terrific dance number with Fred and Rita, You Were Never Lovelier.What Columbia did to Rita shouldn't ever have happened. With the right handling, she would have been a truly immense star, rather than the pinup girl she was fated to be at the studio most famous for the three stooges. "},{"Title":"Quite different from the original play...but I liked it.","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When I read up on the original play for Pal Joey (1940), I was surprised how much it differed from this 1957 film. In fact, instead of a film version, it's more like the play was used for a starting point and that is all. Some of the songs have been retained but many were omitted and some were included from other plays! In addition, in the play, Joey was a heel from start to finish and his girlfriend was STILL married! Nice guy, huh? And, he was a dancer (Gene Kelly) not a singer. Here, Frank Sinatra sings beautifully in the lead but doesn't dance. And, while he is a womanizer and a bit of a jerk, he has buried deep within some decency--but he does a good job of hiding it through most of the film! Joey is a lounge singer and emcee at a San Francisco nightclub. There, he chases the nice girl, Kim Novak, and when he's just about won her heart, he drops her like a hot potato for a rich widow (Rita Hayworth). At first, Joey seems very happy--he gets to run his own club and is on top of the world. But this dream isn't all it's cracked up to be. What's next? See the film! Whether you like this film's plot or not, it's well worth seeing the picture because of its songs. Sinatra is in his prime and belts out some nice songs like The Lady is a Tramp and Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered. And, the lip synced songs by both female leads (Novak and Hayworth) are quite nice as well. As for the story, it's nice but I would wonder what a movie more like the play would have been like. The main character sure would have been a whole lot less likable! As it was, I liked the film and thought it an interesting character study for Sinatra--combining SOME of his real-life persona with Joey's. Well worth seeing and very well made. "},{"Title":"A Real Treat","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Date August.12, 2012 -First Time Watch- Continuing my journey through Frank Sinatra films I watched 'Pal Joey' next. In it Sinatra plays Joey Evans, a lady's man who wants nothing else then to run his own joint. He soon finds himself in the middle of two women, Linda English (Novak) a show girl and Vera Simpson (Hayworth) a wealthy widow. If you ask me, you couldn't go wrong with either women. I'm not a big musical person but I rather enjoyed this one. It didn't have too many musical numbers and the acting was really good. I especially love the scenes between Joey and Linda at the house where they're renting rooms right next to each other. Also a nice touch was the little dog that becomes Joey's after Linda pulls a bad trick on him. I really did like this movie and Frank Sinatra is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors. "},{"Title":"Joey picked wrong P A L","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This has to Frank's best musical and drama.An early Kim Novak vehicle that failed to hit her mark.. She was'A MOUSE'. Very dry, contrite, at times inaudible.Frank played Joey perfectly to the tee..Did not care for his friends only Joey, until Linda (Novak) came along. Even then he knew his closest ally was very interested in Linda.Joey even borrowed money for a room and he knowingly went to same boarding house Linda resided. Joey always took the shortcut, especially if it enhanced his agenda..Now enters Vera with the Vanishing Veils, Incomparable Rita Hayworth.She is Female Joey and at forty Years Rita looks Great, and her acting was superb.. She one upsmanship Joey and he retaliates by stating he is moving to N.Y. A ploy that a con man would salivate.. Later they become a symphonic rhapsody and in reality are exactly the same personalty whom are so much alike they CLASH.In my opinion Rita stole the movie, her role as male Joey belies her private life as she always had men in her life dictating and taking advantageous of her. (Commencing with her Father)..This is a great movie I have seen it several times and much of the supporting cast has their moments as well.Kim Novak in future movies really shined. Especially Vertigo whereby she had a virtual dual role and Bell Book & Candle both with James Stewart. In this picture she was excellent especially when acting the witch role. Even though Jack Lemmon stole the movie, Kim was outstanding..As far as Pal Joey Kim was brought into studio system to be so called 'New Femme Fatale' replacing Rita.. It did not happen until many years later. "},{"Title":"Where ever there are mice, there's a rat !.","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Joey Evans is a fabulous singer, he's also a full blown womaniser. After being escorted out of one town, Joey lands in San Francisco without two cents to rub together but with a devilish glint in his eye. After initially struggling to find work, he meets up with old pal, Ned Galvin, and lands a regular spot as MC at a club run by Mike Miggins, but where there's music and lights there are women, and Joey is going to be caught between a rock and a hard place.Pal Joey has quite a story to go with it, based on John O'Hara's New Yorker stories, it was brought to life on Broadway in 1940 by Richard Rogers and Lorenz Hart. Tho not the roaring success they hoped for, and starring Gene Kelly as Joey, the play had raised many an eyebrow and turned many a cheek in the process. Columbia mogul Harry Cohn wanted to bring it to the silver screen, inking names such as Cary Grant, James Cagney, Irene Dunne, Gloria Swanson and Ethel Merman to the project, but in spite of his tough reputation, Cohn binned the idea due to it being inappropriate for wartime audiences. Into the 50s and Cohn, clearly with the bit between his teeth, was desperate to get this story into the cinema's of America. Marlon Brando was mooted to play Joey this time, but after using, and reigniting his career in From Here To Eternity, Cohn went for Frank Sinatra and shifted the plot from being about a heel dancer, to that of a singer, thus putting Gene Kelly's nose out of joint in the process; something the dapper dancer was rumoured to carry around with him forever more. The two female leads went to Rita Hayworth as the ageing rich widow, Vera Simpson something she was most displeased about and rising hot bod Kim Novak as Linda English.Pal Joey the picture has divided many a critic since its release in 1957, many feeling that the cynical and racy aspects of the source being absent really do devalue the piece. Things were watered down thanks to the intervention of the Production Code and thus the character of Joey Evans is a sort of troubled hero as opposed to the worm heel he was in the original offerings. But what remains is to me still a right entertaining picture, Sinatra is fabulous, crooning out the likes of The Lady Is A Tramp and I Could Write A Book, while the music of Rodgers and Hart firmly warm the old cockles on many a winters night. The sets, costumes, choreography and sound are first rate, while the editing from Viola Lawrence was rightly nominated for an Academy Award. But as a fan I am of both leading ladies, it hurts me a little to say that they annoy me in the picture. Hayworth looks disinterested, the resentment of playing the older woman clearly influencing her efforts, whilst Novak may well be gorgeous and her delightful hips swing as much as the music--she's miscast a touch and feels like sexiness over thought of character.Still the annoyances in the picture are not enough to stop me from being a fan of the picture. I can't help but tap my feet and grin from ear to ear all thru it, and then when the glorious colourful end arrives I feel rewarded for my time and involvement with the movie. Not perfect for sure, but to this particular viewer, Joey most definitely is my pal. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Lightning Strikes Twice with Hayworth & Sinatra","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pal Joey was a noted hit of the decade and fitting parting between Columbia pictures and it's 2-decade-reigning biggest icon Rita Hayworth. It matters very little that her co-star Novak was seen as the 'replacement' here, which does no justice to either, simply because their is too strong a keen commitment from all 3 leads. Taking gentlemanly 2nd billing for the crimson 'love Goddess' Sinatra holds this film together as the central character - not that you'd notice as his female co-stars balance the billing exquisitely, and this - performance-wise - is first-rate in all senses.Repeated viewing is most definitely rewarded - shades of Hayworth's delightful performance reveal what a marvellously subtle actress she truly was. In particular, her 'Zip' number unveils her knack for comedy without resorting to blatantly brazen clichés, instead those awe-struck eyes of the youthful-conqueror are now knowing yet no less alluring. Hiding her disdain for Sinatra's 'louse' (an obvious over-dubbing), her show-stopping number glides between her attention to the audience yet clear distraction of Joey. It also helps that the tune itself is quite catchy.Novak's figure is surpassed only by her full-bodied performance - while satisfying the cosy role of 'just standing there and looking pretty' she evokes admirable strength, sympathy and vulnerability. She had certainly became a big name by this point, a box-office sensation if ever there was one. Novak would make better films, star in titles that would be genuinely revered as 'classics' but this is not her film to be remembered. Instead, 'veterens' Hayworth and Sinatra truly burn too fast for her to keep up and run away with this one - both arguably were not to welcome Novak's catalogue of classics in quite the same somewhat fleeting succession, therefore one can argue these actors knew how to execute tremendous deliveries in order not only to project their star images but turn in accomplished performances in order to maintain the relevance enjoyed by them for the size-able career spans they already had. My point is, where Hayowrth played the 'older woman' and was herself younger than Frank, both actors called upon experience that showcased their work here immeasurably. Novak's supposed doe-eyed role takes the pressure off such earned responsibilities anyways and she should take no criticism for not matching the stamina of her co-stars' conviction, but it is worth noting regardless. Overall, all 3 offer a colourful and enjoyable musical 'romp' that while it has no outrageous innuendo like it should, entertains through sheer force of character resonance and finely-tuned finesse. "}{"Title":"Great Musical Classic","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" People were beginning to get tired of all the films dealing with Musicals, with people dancing on top of tables and plenty of unreality. However, this is a very special Musical with great stars of the silver screen. Frank Sinatra,(Joey Evans) Man with the Golden Arm played a slick operator in show business and simply loved women of all ages and liked to use them for many many things. Rita Hayworth,(Vera Simpson),The Money Trap,'65 played the role of a burned out stripper who married a very wealthy old man and lived in a huge mansion in San Francisco. Kim Novak,(Linda English),Picnic,'55, looked fantastic in 1957 and captured the entire picture along with Rita Hayworth, they had great dance numbers and the both of them even attempted to sing between Sinatra's old time melodies. The location of this film was in San Francisco and large scenes were filmed in the Old Spreckels Mansion, owned by a rich sugar baron. Enjoy this great Classic Musical "},{"Title":"Confidentially....I'm stacked.","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Now that I know the back story on Pal Joey, I can sort of appreciate the film a bit better. I didn't like it for years because of Frank Sinatra. Suppose I'm in the minority on that one, but I just didn't like the character leading so many women astray- young, old, rich, poor, etc. Two things made me reconsider the story (1) The girls allow themselves to be played, and (2) PJ originated from a stage musical almost 20 years earlier, with much of the original story intact. The character *is* a heel- 'nuff said. It was created by, of all people, Gene Kelly-- whose screen characters often included a touch of the larcenous in the first place. And apparently, Columbia tried to film PJ with Kelly waaay back in the 1940's when he was the right age to do it-- but the Hays censors raised too many red flags on the film's decidedly 'adult' content to let it be filmed. By the time it was cleared for film, 17 years had passed and Joey's heel had become a Sinatra crooner rather than a Kelly dancer, and much of the book and lyrics had been watered down. (When you think about it, JOEY needs to be re-filmed today, but with its original stage content. Can you imagine?!)Anyway, now that I look at Sinatra, the-cynical-50's rat-packer playing Joey, the-cynical-50's-womanizer, I have to conclude that he got it exactly right, culminating in one perfect scene in the film his piano-playing, spotlight croon of The Lady Is a Tramp to socialite Rita Hayworth. Just like Astaire seduced women with dance, Sinatra completely breaks down the icy Hayworth through the clever arrangement and performance of the song. At the end of it, THEY are slow-dancing. Wicked!! Other fine moments include Sinatra's treatment of I Didn't Know What Time It Was, the breathtaking ballad My Funny Valentine, and the smoky-voiced Hayworth in two numbers a pretend striptease to the very clever song Zip and waking up in the most luscious state of drunken love to Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered. (No one but Hayworth could make rising out of bed- in a sun-colored nightgown- a thing of sexy beauty.)Unfortunately, this is where the parts do not equal a decent sum. The book has Joey caught between *two* women, and Kim Novak, for all of her traffic-stopping sex appeal, seems out of place as the second girl in the equation, perennially starry-eyed for a man more than twice her age and more of a doormat than a 'mouse,' as she is referred. If that was the original book, then I demand a rewrite. I was under the impression that the virginal ingénue was supposed to resist Joey and his charms, which made him want her all the more. (Once again, the idea of doing JOEY with a modern cast and sensibility seems irresistible today.) Novak does a very funny drunk scene on a boat, and her Victorian striptease is smoldering, to say the least. But an 11th-hour fantasy number called What Do I Care for a Dame is silly looking because it features too many people who can't dance. And I've heard other legends about the story's change from the stage It's supposed to be set in Chicago, not San Francisco; the older woman is married, not widowed; and no one ends up with anyone at the end. For a story with an almost flawless musical score, it is one of the bumpiest films I've ever seen. But I'm glad I saw it. "},{"Title":"It has nice songs and good views of San Francisco in the 50's","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Pal Joey isn't a very special musical, though it has good songs like The Lady is a Tramp, I could write a Book, Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered. It has good views of San Francisco in the 50's. Rita Hayworth, Sinatra and Kim Novak's performances leave much to be desired. "},{"Title":"Heels On Wheels","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The amazing thing here is that a movie that has so much wrong with it could be so good. Consider In 1957 it was still unnacceptable to make a film without a single decent character so non-talented Kim Novak had to play an ingenue role in a story that didn't allow for one; some of Larry Hart's lyrics - especially 'In Our Little Den Of Iniquity' were far too 'adult' for Hollywood so that half the Broadway score was jettisoned in favor of material from other Rodgers and Hart shows - I Didn't Know What Time It Was, There's A Small Hotel, My Funny Valentine, The Lady Is A Tramp - so that the overall effect was that of a sleek ocean liner with four limpets clinging to it. On the other hand there was Frank Sinatra. Let me say that again On the other hand there was Frank Sinatra, who single-handedly cancelled out these flaws even the almost impossible mistake of giving one of the finest ballads ever written (Funny Valentine) to a wooden actress with no discernible singing voice or style. Sinatra was born to play this role and he grabs it with both hands and towers above everyone and everything else on view. The book can't quite match John O'Hara's original 'book' for the Broadway show but then what could, nevertheless we get a reasonable facsimile and, let me say again, Sinatra to bring the whole megillah to life. A must-see musical. "},{"Title":"Should have been Kelly's film","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film should have been given to the real Pal Joey, Gene Kelly, who originated the role on Broadway. If MGM had loaned him to Columbia to do it, and Columbia had kept all of the original music, lyrics, and dialogue, it might have been something special. But most of the songs are interpolated, the story is softened, Sinatra is a cliche, Novak is as flat (performance-wise) as ever, and Hayworth, although only in her late 30s, looks old and out of shape. Beautiful views of 1957 San Francisco, though. "},{"Title":"Zip","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've never liked Sinatra, from the moment I heard a recording in which he ingratiatingly murdered Gershwin's I Got Plenty o' Nuttin'.  Murdering Rodgers and Hart is, admittedly, a lesser crime.  Sinatra makes all his songs sound the same - either that, or all the good songs, the ones with some individual personality, went to the women.  Or both.  He sings as though he's bored, as though the words mean nothing to him, as though the glossy crescendo he imposes on each tune is a contractual obligation that has nothing to do with the song itself.  And he ACTS as though he's bored, too.  Joey is the only character who's deliniated at all, and he's played by the one member of the cast who appears to be unable to handle characterisation, who schmoozes through his part as though he's lazily twirling a microphone, performing the same stage act that ceased to interest him a decade ago.(I say appears because I know Sinatra CAN act - check out The Manchurian Candidate.)The story is pointless even by the standards of routine light musicals.  Joey's new joint is being financed by a rich woman (Rita Hayworth) while Joey himself is falling in love with a chorus girl (Kim Novak); Joey has to choose between the joint and the chorus girl and ends up with the girl.  But this doesn't convey the sheer floppiness of the plot.  The lovers' obstacles manage to be slight and contrived at the same time, and worst of all, nobody seems to WANT anything, so there's insufficient motivational fuel to take the narrative across even the short distance it wants to travel.  Even the few things that do happen feel as though they don't really happen.And Rita Hayworth's Zip song cannot fail to disappoint.  The song (given the way Hayworth has chosen to perform it; maybe she could have got away with simply standing still and doing everything with her eyes) require the singer to actually strip, maybe not all the way; or, at the very least, to APPEAR to be doing something risque.  I resent the way the film asks us to forgive the lack of nudity or even suggestiveness because it was made in 1957 - that's ITS problem, not ours.  (In a way I was disappointed that Novak hardly did much more in HER strip number, either, but there's at least a reason for coyness at this point, as least to the extent there's a reason for anything in this film.)Reasons for watching two or three of the songs, Kim Novak (under-utilised), and a cute dog.  It's not enough. "},{"Title":"They should do a remake","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I understand that there is some history about the journey from stage to screen - but I am not an expert so I'll limit my comments to the movie I have just seen. It starts well, with smooth operator and cynical manipulator Sinatra checking out the San Francisco clubs for a chance to move in and make his mark. His eye contact with the men as he flirts and seduces the womenfolk is telling - and convincing, I feel that this was closer to Sinatra's real personality than the gauche ingénue from 'On The Town' and 'Take Me Out to the Ballgame'. But the film disappoints - Rita Hayworth seems distracted and Kim Novak is just poorly cast, too hefty for the twig-like Frank. And there is absolutely no heat between either of the women and Sinatra. The songs are great - I'm not stupid, these are classics for a reason, but, apart from Frank, they are delivered without conviction. Maybe the genre was running out of steam by then - but it just doesn't stand up as well as older musicals. Not brave enough to be really cynical and realistic, but too knowing to pull off the supposed innocence of earlier Hollywood offerings. "},{"Title":"Pal Joey","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love watching the extraordinarily awful, stupid and ridiculous films of the 50's. They say so much by saying so little. Pal Joey is no exception. What on earth these absolutely fantastically gorgeous and even sensitive women such as Kim Novak would be doing with a Sinatra character is beyond me. What would she see in someone like he? I'll give Sinatra's his unique crooner singing ability and his more than decent acting ability. Why though would that scrawny, unattractive man in looks as well as spirit and absolutely stunningly exquisite women swoon and drop dead over him is way beyond me! Why do I watch those films? Pure escape to an era that was certainly simpler and seemingly secure UNLESS of course one was black, gay, handicapped, a not so great looking woman or poor. For rich, white, males ugly or handsome it was a breeze! I only wish women like Kim Novak could be back in the studio again. She had riveting talent as well as profound beauty and made some great films such as Of Human Bondage and Strangers When We Meet, Picnic, Vertigo and others. She today I think could do even more wonderful films of great depth. She I miss! The music of Pal Joey of course is unforgettable unlike the rest of the content of the film. "},{"Title":"Sinatra more than holds on own!","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The only good thing about this film is the performance of Frank Sinatra and in particular his memorable rendition of 'The Lady is a Tramp'. You can cut this out and throw the rest away! Kim Novak's performance is wooden and Rita Hayworth's is not much better. Moreover the rest of Rodgers and Hart's music is devalued by the fact that neither of the leading ladies are capable of singing, so their voices had to be dubbed by others. What a con' when real singers/actresses could have been recruited to fit the bill. As for the story line, it is of no consequence, and one is left feeling completely indifferent as to it's outcome. Without Sinatra, no stars! "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The point of the film for me is the importation of some good Rogers and Hart music into the script. I liked Novak's Funny Valentine. In fact, it was the only moment when she came alive in the film. Rita's Bewitched (also dubbed) was good, but what was her attraction to Frank? Sheer desperation? For me, Sinatra was not at his peak, as everyone seems to believe. His early records with James (All or Nothing at All)and TD (You and I and Sunshine of Your Smile) contain that combination of confidence and vulnerability that the later, wise-guy vocalist can't touch. His phrasing, of course, is superb. He says he learned it from Dorsey, but listen to his pre-TD records and you'll hear it, along with the quality that gave him the nickname The Voice back then. As long as they were bringing songs in from other Rogers & Hart musicals, I wish they'd included Where or When. Sinatra must have recorded that song at some point -- I know Dick Haymes did -- but I don't have Sinatra singing it in my collection. Like most musicals, this one is full of implausibility, particularly in its contrived ending. Film exposes the plot mechanisms more than does stage, because with film we do not suspend our disbelief. This one is okay, but not up to the musicals that the original Joey, Gene Kelly, turned out for MGM. "}{"Title":"Pretty good musical","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I realize most of the songs are taken from other musicals and they sanitize the lyrics for Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered but I sort of like this musical.  The numbers are all well done and performed and Rita Hayworth is stunning to look at.  But I have two big problems with this movie 1) Sinatra's character is such a heel, I couldn't care less what happened to him; and 2) Kim Novak.  She's breathtakingly beautiful and has a great body but she CAN'T ACT!  I can't remember the last time I saw such a wooden performance in a motion picture.  Both of these things bothered me.  Still, it's worth a look if you like musicals.  Highlights Sinatra doing The Lady Is a Tramp and Novak doing My Funny Valentine. "},{"Title":"second-class musical","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It ain't an MGM biggie, that's for sure.  Rita Hayworth is a bit too old to match Kim Novak as a 'mouse' for Joey's affections, although she goes well with the dubbed voice on Zip and Bewitched ...Joey himself gets all the best songs which is a shame - the fragile duet of I Could Write a Book is sacrificed for a solo, and The Lady is a Tramp becomes a nightclub show-stopper.  Frank's clicks and twitches started here and carried on in his Vegas appearances for 40 years.Yes, he's a class act but this film doesn't add up, looks a bit on the cheap and despite the odd goodie is just a wee bit disappointing.  A seven. "},{"Title":"Far from perfect but Sinatra is in great voice","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Unjustly neglected as a bowdlerization of the original stage show, mainly for the miscasting of the three leads and for an obvious softening of the material, George Sidney's movie still has a lot going for it. Well, there's Sinatra for starters, effortlessly marvellous as ever and in terrific voice. The problem is, like Liza Minelli in Cabaret, he's far too good to play a second-rate singer in a tawdry burlesque show, but that's a minor quibble considering he's singing some of the best songs ever written. And that's another plus; even if it's not intact it does retain the best of Rodgers and Hart's score, even if Sinatra is the only one actually singing. (Hayworth and Novak are dubbed).Between musical numbers it meanders and Novak is terrible. (It would take Hitchcock to bring out the best in her). Hayworth is simply Hayworth; she may be the classiest tramp in the history of the movies and it's just a pity she couldn't actually act. Of course, there is nothing like a dame and, as the song says, these dames are broad where a broad should be broad, which certainly helps. George Sidney directs with a heavy hand but any movie that has Sinatra singing 'The Lady is a Tramp' is OK by me. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This isn't a bad musical. Frank Sinatra, after all, was in his musical prime in 1957, and he belts out The Lady is a Tramp and a couple of other popular music classics with wonderful Nelson Riddle arrangements. And he could act. Rita Hayworth, albeit aging, is a fine actress and does her best with a limited role. (The very brief dream sequence at the close of the picture should have been cut.) The chief problems are a.) the script, and b.) the presence of Kim Novak as the leading lady. The script has every girl in San Francisco panting for skinny Frankie's body, while he cons another nightclub owner into hiring him and falls in love with a virginal chorus girl (and her cute doggie). The ending is saccharine, sappy, and utterly unconvincing. Novak, to be kind, was a wooden actress. She may have sung her own songs (Hayworth was dubbed), but she was as seductive and believable as a milk truck.Better to purchase and enjoy a few of Sinatra's memorable albums on Capitol Records from the mid and late 1950s. And remember Rita Hayworth as she was in the film You Were Never Lovelier. "},{"Title":"Good but not great!!","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Broadway play Pal Joey made a star out of an unknowndancer named Gene Kelly and had a script that had zing andwonderful Rogers and Hart   songs that have become classics.In the story, Joey is really a first class heel, a con artist, womanizerand cad. The characters are very 1930's/40's and it is the world ofnight clubs and show girls. This movie version (and the only one that I know of) is veryscrubbed . The plot is somewhat  close to the story but the lyricsto the R & H tunes are very sanitized. They totally changedBewitched and by doing so lost the impact of the relationshipbetween Vera and Joey. He's a kept man and she doesn't mindpaying for sex as it makes her feel young again. The original storyalso does not have a Hollywood ending. Joey just leaves allalone. They also miscast the Linda part and totally eradicated theduet between Linda and Joey I Could Write A Book probably theonly really soft moment in Joey's character,I do adore Sinatra and think that as a singer no one comes closeto his phrasing and delivery.I just saw a stage revival of this show with Christine Andreas and itwas wonderful . Her Bewitched was sensational.I suppose it was Sinatra's call all the way and the times it wasmade also have an effect on it ....This should have been GeneKelly's part. He would have been so much more credible.  "},{"Title":"Bad acting, bad songs and a predictable plot.","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An aging Rita Hayworth appears in a role beneath her talents.A beautiful Kim Novak (who has little acting skill) looks frighteningly out of place dancing and singing -- not to mention acting.Barbara Nichols (who had great acting skill) was woefully underutilized.Sinatra never was handsome enough to play such a character as Joey Evans. And yes, I am one of the people who is NOT charmed by his singing.A disaster yesterday and hopelessly dated today, Pal Joey is what many people eat on the cob. "},{"Title":"Dull movie.... Great songs.","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Don't know how I managed to go 47 years without seeing Pal Joey, but I did! Maybe something told me to wait until it cropped up on afternoon TV. In the end, it was a disappointing experience, relieved only by some great Rogers and Hart numbers sung by the greatest popular singer of the twentieth century. Whatever you do, read the trivia comments on this site before watching this movie. I will never hear The Lady is a Tramp again without smiling!Many a true word.....At one point, Sinatra says of Kim Novak She acts like all nice girls act....Lousy !! Sorry, Kim, but he's right A lovely lady, but one of the worst actresses in Hollywood history.  "}]