[{"Title":"A landmark horror movie with a remarkable performance from Peter Cushing.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"37 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'The Curse Of Frankenstein' is a landmark horror movie for several reasons. Firstly, though Hammer had already released 'The Quatermass Xperiment', a science fiction movie with some horror elements, it was the studios first real entry into the genre which it is still revered around the world for. Secondly, it was the first movie inspired by Mary Shelley's 'Frankenstein' made in colour. And thirdly, while it wasn't the first movie to feature both Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, it was their first horror movie together, and one which introduced one of THE great screen duos, who eventually made over twenty movies together. Lee doesn't have as much on screen time as one might expect, but his Monster is memorable and visually striking (after Universal threatened to sue if the image of Karloff's monster was copied). As well as Lee, the supporting cast includes good performances from Robert Urquhart and Hazel Court. Urquhart plays Paul Krempe, initially the young Baron's tutor (the Baron being briefly portrayed by Melvyn Hayes before Cushing), and later his often unwilling assistant. Court, best remembered for her roles in some of Roger Corman's Poe series, plays the Baron's cousin/fiancee. The standout performance of the movie is by Peter Cushing. I still think Karloff is the definitive Monster but Cushing is the definitive Baron Frankenstein. There were six sequels to 'The Curse Of Frankenstein' and Cushing played Frankenstein in all but one, the second last in the series 'The Horror Of Frankenstein', which was actually a tongue in cheek remake of 'Curse..' starring Ralph Bates as the Baron. The movie wasn't completely successful and thankfully Cushing returned for the final movie 'Frankenstein And The Monster From Hell'. For me the first and last in the series tie as the best Hammer Frankenstein movies and Cushing is remarkable in them both. I highly recommend 'The Curse Of Frankenstein', one of Hammer's greatest horror movies. No-one can truly call themselves a horror movie fan if they haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Still haunting after more than forty years.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"29 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that almost never was.  Originally planned as a 'quota quickie',  and, as Terence Fisher  stated. As a send-up, it ended up changing the British Film Industry for all time. It had gone international.  Fisher owed Hammer a film,  and somehow he managed to pull a script together in much the same manner as the Baron did body parts.  It has been said that Jack Warner hated the film,  but released it anyway,  opening in the very theatre where 'The House of Wax' had premiered several years before.  It was a success,  much to the delight of Warner,  and to Hammer.  It also marked the beginning of the screen-teaming of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee.  Today, the film seems a bit slow and not quite sure where it's going,  but in 1957 it delivered a wallop in vivid color, to a long-waiting  legion of fans.  This was the true jumping-off point for Hammer, a small company who had been in production for a number of years,  and they filled the void left by the American majors in the production of the 'horror film.'  In a way,  the film's tag-line kept it's promise.... 'The Curse of Frankenstein will haunt you forever.'Quite by accident,  'The Hammer Look'  changed the face of the fantasy film for all time.  "},{"Title":"Cushing is Terrific.","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was Hammer Films opening entry into their Horror re-imagining of classic Universal Studios Monsters and it is still one of the best. Here we get a new take on the familiar Frankenstein myth with the young Frankenstein coming from a fatherless background and embracing only science and reason with any real conviction. Finally when a breakthrough comes, the Young master will stop at nothing to achieve the fame, glory and notoriety he desires--his lack of regard for others is frightening even to his mentor Paul Krempe(played excellently by Robert Urquhart)who warns him against tampering with the forces of nature and that nothing good will come from it. Cushing is outstanding in the role and adds a real sense of tragedy, genius and malice. Hazel Court is certainly lovely as the innocent cousin Elizabeth who naively becomes entangled into Frankenstein's sinking path of unconscious self-destruction. "},{"Title":"The birth of Hammer horror!","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1934, during the boom of British cinema, businessman William Hinds, decided to enter the industry and create his own film company, Hammer Productions Ltd., where he would produce several movies before being forced into bankruptcy due to the end of the industry's bonanza. Along with partner Enrique Carreras, Hinds became a film distributor, but that wasn't really the end of Hammer's history, as many years later, Carreras' son James joined Hinds' son Anthony and together with their parents, resurrected Hammer Film Productions in 1949. The next two important events in Hammer's history were the hiring of director Terence Fisher in 1951, and the enormous success of 1955's horror film, The Quatermass Xperiment, as they would play important roles the company's future. While Hammer was preparing Quatermass 2, they gave Terence Fisher the chance to resurrect Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, and Hammer Horror was born.In The Curse of Frankenstein, Peter Cushing plays Baron Victor Frankenstein, who after losing his family at a young age, hires scientist Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) as a mentor. Along Krempe, the young Baron develops his enormous genius for science, becoming great friends and colleagues as he grows up. During one of their experiments, they discover a way to bring a dead dog back to life, an amazing discovery that excites both scientists as it could be of enormous use for medicine. However, Victor wants to go further, and decides that the next step is the creation of life. Krempe refuses to help Victor in that experiment, but decides to stay in the house to protect Victor's cousin Elizabeth (Hazel Court), who has arrived to marry Victor, unsuspecting of her fianceé's experiments. The Baron's obsession with his experiment will prove to be more dangerous than what Krempe thinks.The screenplay for this new version of Shelley's classic was written by Jimmy Sangster, who had previously written X The Unknown for Hammer the previous year. Unlike what happens in Universal's 1931 classic adaptation, the plot is completely focused on the Baron's figure instead of on the creature, which gives a new and fresh angle to the story, as it explores Frankenstein's obsessions and how they begin to consume his life. To achieve this, Sansgter adds a lot of human drama and character development that at times makes the film more a Gothic tragedy than a typical horror film, but even when limited, Sangster's use of suspense is still pretty effective. It still isn't exactly a straight adaptation of Shelley's novel, but Sangster's screenplay does offer an interesting idea by not making the Creature a misunderstood monster, but the literal symbol of Frankenstein's failure and corruption.Anyways, while Jimmy Sangster's screenplay is indeed worthy of recognition, it was really Terence Fisher's work as a director what ultimately gave Hammer horror it's true face. While already an experienced director by the time he made The Curse of Frankenstein, Fisher found in Hammer's horror films the creative freedom that allowed him to explore new realms in this reinterpretations of old classics. His care for details in set design and costume design give the film a great look that equals the one of movies with bigger production values, and using vibrant colors, he puts a special emphasis on blood for the first time. There are also several sexual overtones in the film that give the movie a different style to previous incarnations of the novel, an element that Fisher would take further in posterior movies, specially in Dracula and The Curse of the Werewolf. The Curse of Frankenstein is also the film that introduced two of the most important actors in the horror genre since the days of Universal's movies Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. As Baron Frankenstein, Cushing delivers an outstanding performance that can be considered among the best in the history of the genre. Making a fascinating character out of the unsympathetic Baron is not easy, but Cushing succeeds remarkably and completely makes the movie his own. Lee has a considerably smaller role as the Creature, but while Dracula would be the movie where he would shine the most, here he delivers a powerful performance as the Monster. As Frankenstein's mentor, Paul Krempe, Robert Urquhart is pretty effective and makes a great counterpart to Cushing's Baron. Hazel Court is less successful as Elizabeth, although it's not really a bad performance at all.It's hard not to think about comparing Fisher's interpretation of Frankenstein to the legendary movie made by James Whale 26 years before for Universal, but really, in the end it's a pointless exercise as both movies are so different from each other (and different from Shelley's novel) that there's no proper way to compare them. While one has a powerful story of a misunderstood monster (played brilliantly by Boris Karloff), the other is a tale of ambition and obsessions where the monster is nothing more than the ultimate result of Frankenstein's evil, so it's impossible to tell which one is the best of the two. What can really be said about The Curse of Frankenstein is that it suffers from an extremely slow pace that may turn off some viewers, although as the story unfolds, this slow pace does pay off in the end and helps to build up a perfect Gothic atmosphere.An enormously successful film, The Curse of Frankenstein began the style of Gothic horror that would later be labeled as Hammer Horror. With Fisher at the helm, Hammer would become a great influence in how the genre was developed through the 60s, giving it new life and pushing the boundaries of the era. While maybe overshadowed by Fisher's posterior masterpieces, The Curse of Frankenstein is still one of the best tales of Gothic horror that have appeared on the silver screen. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Even if we dared to omit its landmark importance; it's still a terrific movie.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse Of Frankenstein is out of Hammer Film Productions and based on the novel Frankenstein, by Mary Shelley. It's directed by Terence Fisher, written by Jimmy Sangster and stars Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, Hazel Court & Robert Urquhart. Jack Asher is the cinematographer and James Bernard scores the music.The first Hammer film in colour, The Curse Of Frankenstein began the second wave of cinematic horror some 25 odd years after the Universal heyday of the 30s. Where Hammer's version differs from the Universal offerings, who were carefully watching what Hammer were doing, is by focusing on the Baron himself rather than the actual iconic creature. This approach threw many critics and observers at the time, with some either calling it too talky, or worse still, depressing and degrading. But the box office tills rang, both in Britain and America, and now the film is revered by film makers and horror historians alike. Rightly so.Plot basically sees Baron Victor Frankenstein in prison for murder, where faced with the guillotine, he tells to a priest an amazing story of how he and his mentor successfully resurrected a dead body. The resulting creation being the one who committed the murder for which the Baron is now charged. The first masterstroke from Hammer was appointing Fisher and Sangster, the former shoots in lurid Eastmancolor; thus setting the marker for the Gothic style of Hammer to come, the latter produced a crackling script that make the scientist of the piece the actual monster. The second masterstroke was in the casting of Cushing as the driven Frankenstein. Then just a classy actor on TV, Cushing plays it in turns as cold blooded and elegantly charming. Lee, only getting the gig after Bernard Bresslaw's agent demanded too much money, actually doesn't have to do much, but his marionette movements coupled with the fleshy patchwork make up of his face make it totally memorable. Both men of course went on to become horror legends from here.It's far from the best Hammer Horror film, in fact it's not the best of the Universal Creature reinventions. But it adds grit and intelligence to the Gothic atmospherics, its visuals striking as the character based narrative propels eerily forward. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror movies of all time.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What more can be said? A milestone in horror movie history with gore, great acting, atmosphere, direction and music. I just can't understand how a monumental film such as this only rates a 6.6. Unbelievable. Undoubtly the ones who voted low on this movie were looking for sex or crappy rap music. Those people should stick to looking for their brains under a moss-covered rock.Truly great performances by Lee and Cushing as well as the other actors and actresses.10 out of 10. Watch this horror movie, it's a must. "},{"Title":"Baron Cushing - Resurrector Of The Dead","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse Of Frankenstein of 1957 truly is essential for every Horror lover to see. While this first entry to Hammer's ingenious Frankenstein series is not one of my personal favorite Hammer Productions, it were this film and the following Horror Of Dracula which basically redefined British Horror, and represent everything the Hammer Studios stand for. Mad Science and the Resurrection of the dead have always been among my favorite Horror topics, and Hammer's Frankenstein films starring the great Peter Cushing are among the most memorable films in the field. My personal favorite film in Hammer's Frankenstein franchise is still the brilliantly insane Frankenstein Created Woman of 1967, but this first film is also brilliant, and furthermore gets the benefit of originality. Sometimes in cinema, actors are predestined to play a certain role - and this is definitely the case with Peter Cushing here. Nobody else could have played the role of the obsessed Baron Victor Frankenstein as Cushing did. When it was Hammer's Dracula that made Christopher Lee the Horror icon he is, it was The Curse Of Frankenstein and its sequel that rose Peter Cushing to immortal fame.Hammer's Baron Frankenstein is more (insanely) dedicated than the character is in the novel or any previous film, and Cushing is brilliant in the role, which he played six times altogether. While he is not necessarily a villain as such (he does what he does with the strong conviction of doing what's necessary for the benefit of mankind), Victor Frankenstein gets more and more dedicated to his obsession of creating artificial life and resurrecting the dead in this first Frankenstein film from Hammer, and, at a certain point, he is willing to do anything in order to achieve his goals. At first he is still supported by his assistant and former teacher Paul Kempe (Robert Urquhart) who gets more and more frightened by his former student's obsessive behavior...I do not want to give too much of the plot away, but I guess everybody knows what the story of Frankenstein is about. As the story of Dracula, the Frankenstein story got its haunting Hammer-style makeover. From today's point of view the graphic depiction of violence and gore in the film may seem tame, but back in the day the early Hammer Classics Curse Of Frankenstein and Horror Of Dracula were some of the first films to actually show red blood, some gore and explicit violence. Both classics were directed by Terence Fisher, easily the most important Hammer director, and, as usual for hammer, the film is greatly photographed in eerie Gothic locations. Gothic castles, foggy grounds and a constantly gloomy mood - this is what makes a lot of the greatness of the world of Hammer. Peter Cushing truly is one of the greatest Horror icons ever, and Hammer's Frankenstein series probably earned him this deserved reputation more than anything else. The monster, by the way, is played by a fellow Horror icon, with whom Cushing formed the most awesome Horror-duo in a whole lot of films, none other than the great Christopher Lee. Hazel Court is a beauty in the female lead, the only tiny negative aspect is the fact that Robert Urquhart's character of Paul sometimes annoys with his moralistic nagging (also, while he is supposed to be Frankenstein's teacher, Urquhart clearly is years younger than Cushing). That does in no way lessen the greatness of this Hammer Classic, however. All said, The Curse Of Frankenstein is a true British Horror Classic, which every Horror fan must see, and no film buff in general should miss! "},{"Title":"Curse viewed through the lens of tens of other Frankenstein films","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's very difficult for me to judge if my opinion on The Curse of Frankenstein would be higher if I were to watch it coming from a different background/history. This latest viewing I believe is only the second time that I've seen Curse, with the first many, many years ago--so long ago that I could barely remember it. In the meantime, I've watched at least a few times, with relatively recent viewings, everything from Universal's 1931 Frankenstein (as well as their 1935 Bride of Frankenstein and other films in that series) to Flesh for Frankenstein (1973), Young Frankenstein (1974), Mary Shelly's Frankenstein (1994), Frankenhooker (1990)--even Der Golem, wie er in die Welt kam (1920)--and many other Frankenstein or related films. A few of those I've seen at least 10 times over the years.So I'm coming back to Curse almost as if I'm seeing it for the first time, while already having those films mentioned above as favorites for different aspects of the Frankenstein story, such as atmosphere, visceralness, humor, grandiosity, campiness, and so on. In fact, a number of those films are favorites of all time, period. For me, then, Curse had tough competition on this viewing, and without doing something significantly different with the story, it might fall short.What Curse probably does better than all of the other Frankenstein films that I've seen is relationship dynamics. At the moment, I'd call Curse the soap opera version of the story, which is not really meant as a knock. Here, Victor Frankenstein has lost his father at a very young age--he became Baron at the age of five. The film begins by showing the power and control this young man has over others. He contracts to have a tutor come teach him about science, and together, they begin exploring the scientific basis of life--the life force more specifically, which leads to the usual Frankenstein plot elements.At the same time, however, the focus remains on relationships. We have a complex tutor/student, master/employee, genius/follower relationship between Victor (Peter Cushing) and Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart), his teacher. Victor is engaged to be married--it's an arranged marriage--to Elizabeth (Hazel Court), his cousin, yet he's in at least a lustful relationship with a housekeeper, Justine (Valerie Gaunt). At the same time, Paul seems to have fallen in love with Elizabeth, and it's ambiguous to what extent she may feel the same towards him. The actual curse here seems to be one of difficult/dysfunctional relationships, where everyone is involved in complex power struggles with almost everyone else, and no one quite comes out victorious (ironically enough). All of this stuff is pretty good, if appropriately staid for the Victorian setting (hmmmm . . . lots of occurrences of victor--). On the down side, some of the cinematography/lighting veers towards a soap opera look, which doesn't do much for me.A lot of the usual Frankenstein themes are here, too, but sometimes they almost feel like an afterthought. Christopher Lee, who plays the Frankenstein monster, is severely underused. He remains more in the background throughout the film.Still, lots of the usual Frankenstein film stuff is done well, if a bit subtly. Keeping the monster's body half immersed in fluid was a good idea--there's a creepiness just to the way it looks and it is also unsettling because you wonder why it's only half-submerged. It seems if it needs to be submerged, the whole body should be, so from the beginning of the experiments, it feels more strongly like something is off about Victor. The more visceral body part scenes (like acquiring the hands and eyes) work very well, especially in context, and Lee's make-up was well done, including the fact that he more strongly suggests both a mummy (because of the bandages) and a zombie--the Frankenstein monster should rightly suggest both. Also, the acting is very good throughout--particularly Cushing's performance.But for me, as good as Curse is, it pales in comparison to its Frankenstein brethren. It's good, but other films do the various aspects better, except maybe for the relationship stuff, but for me, that's not enough to elevate Curse to the same echelon as many of those other films. "},{"Title":"One  of  Hammer's  Little  Classics","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse of Frankenstein is most entertaining version based very freely on Mary Shelley's classic story.Terence Fisher makes another fine job here in the direction for Hammer films with the classical monsters of Universal as he did also with The Mummy and Horror of Dracula. A real well done horror trilogy in my opinion.The atmosphere is perfectly sordid, sinister and adequate as usual in Fisher and his also usually simple but efective and prolix direction turns this film into a most enjoyable one for fans of the genre. The settings are also a highlight in some sort of Gothic type.Hammer's top stars for the genre are here too. Peter Cushing shows his professionalism and acting class as the crazy Baron and Christopher Lee under heavy make up as the creature -more than acceptable for 1957- moves to pity at times but also to menace and horror with similar effectiveness. The rest of the cast is an interesting support, mainly Valerie Gaunt as Cushing's maid that doesn't know when she has pressed too much.Though perhaps a bit aged for today's standards The Curse of Frankenstein has not lost its charm as a little classic in the horror genre, even more if you consider it was made 50 years ago. "},{"Title":"Over-the-top horror film with two awesome actors from Hammer Productions","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Outstanding horror film that began a series starred by two greatest terror icons as Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee ; being one of the best movies from Hammer Productions . It starts in prison when a prisoner is awaiting death row , he is Dr. Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) who retells to a priest what led him to his execution . He inherited his family state with the title 'Baron Victor Von Frankestein' after the death of his parents when he was still only a young man (Hayes) . He contacted Paul Krempe (Robert Uquhart) as his tutor and he immediately developed an interest in medical science . After several years , Victor and Krempe became notorious scientists and they developed a penchant in the human origins and Victor then creates a weird being and brings it to life . After successfully re-animating a dead dog , Victor sets about constructing a man using body parts he acquires for the purpose including the hands of an artist and the brain of a prestigious scholar (Paul Hardmouth). But as Elizabeth (Hazel Court) , Victor's Cousin arrives to marry him, Paul stays in the house to protect her . Victor Frankenstein whose experimentation with creation of life becomes an obsession , but his creature behaves not as he intended .The classic actor of horror movies named Christopher Lee is terrific as the monster and Peter Cushing brings a strong portrayal of the scientific attempting to create a human taking parts here and there . Although they had both previously appeared in Hamlet and Moulin Rouge, Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing met on the set of this film for the first time and quickly developed a fast friendship, which lasted until Cushing's death in 1994 . Atmospheric, slick terror film , creaky at times but it's still impressive . Thought-provoking and broody screenplay has nice atmosphere especially in Eastmancolour by expert cameraman Jack Asher . The idea originated with Milton Subotsky, who went on to co-found Amicus Films, Hammer's main rival during the 1960s and early 1970s , the script was revised several times to avoid repeating any elements from the Universal Frankenstein series , as part of this effort, new monster make-up had to be devised especially for this film . After the successful Universal Pictures as ¨House of Frankestein¨, ¨Bride of Frankestein¨ , ¨Son of Frankestein¨, ¨Frankestein meet the wolf man¨ and ¨ The Zingara and the monsters¨ , Frankestein personage was left until Hammer Productions took him and produced this magnificent movie ; although Universal threatened a lawsuit if Hammer copied any elements from the classic version . Followed by six sequels as ¨Revenge of Frankestein¨ by Fisher , ¨Evil of Frankestein¨ by Freddie Francis , Frankestein created woman¨ by Fisher , ¨Frankestein must be destroyed¨ by Fisher , ¨The horror of Frankestein¨ by Jimmy Sangster and ¨Frankestein and the monster from hell¨ by Fisher ; all of them starred by Peter Cushing and one by Ralph Bates , besides similar artistic and technician team as the cameraman Jack Asher , Production designer Bernad Robinson , musician James Bernard and make-up by Philip Leaky.¨The curse of Frankestein¨ displays excellent set design , ambitious screenplay with too many eerie scenes and adequate interpretation for all casting . Peter Cushing does a top notch performance in the role which made him a terror movie legend , it still stands as one of the great screen acting . Thrilling and chilling musical score by James Bernard . Colorful and imaginative cinematography by Jack Asher , being first Frankenstein movie to be filmed in color . The motion picture was masterfully directed by Terence Fisher who directed classic horror films as ¨Dracula¨, ¨Dracula , prince of darkness¨ , ¨The brides of Dracula¨ , ¨The mummy¨ , ¨Phantom of opera¨, ¨The Gorgon¨ , ¨The devil rides out¨ and many others . Rating  Top-drawer terror film , essential and indispensable watching . "}{"Title":"Victor,  What Have You Done?","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since Mary Shelley wrote her classic novel of the infamous Baron Von Frankenstein in the late 19th century, efforts to bring the creature to the visual screen have been negligible. In the 1930's Universal finally managed it with the incredible and legendary talents of Boris Karloff. After that, efforts to keep the monster up in lights, were sadly, nothing short of comical. It was not until 1957, when the Hammer Studios secured the combined talents of two of Hollywood's greats, that the creature rose again. In this, first ever color version, Dr. Victor Frankenstein is portrayed brilliantly by the incomparable Peter Cushing. Then we have Christopher Lee, as the hand crafted creature who repeatedly terrified audiences with his version of the monster. Not since Karloff, have so many fans run scurrying from the packed theaters into the streets. Nearly matching Shelly's novel, the film re-creates the struggle between scientific genius and stark insanity and enhances it's literary foundation as a classic in both literature and motion pictures. **** "},{"Title":"Hammer Captures Lightning In A Bottle","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the Film that gave Birth to the Horror and Hammer Cycle that lasted for a Good Fifteen Years. It had many Firsts and as a Stand Alone Movie it Presented Audiences with a New Template for the Genre. Color, Gore, and Sex came together and Wrapped itself in a Package, a Neo Niche that was Refined and Imitated for Years.It is a Humorless Film with Dread and Despair, Brutality and Nastiness. It lacks Subtlety and Nuance and is an In Your Face, Full On Feature that Solidified the Stars and Studio and Created a Modern Wave of Gothic Reconsiderations.Its not as Elegant as its Follow Up, Horror of Dracula (1958), but the Story of Frankenstein is more Grizzly and Gut Wrenching with Dead Body Parts and Slimy Surgery. The Doctor is Criminally Insane and is Wholly Without Empathy. The Film is Raw and Resides in the Psychopathy of its Creator Scientist and leaves little Room for His Redemption or Rehabilitation.A Certified Classic and a Must See for Fans of Horror, B-Movies, and Shock Cinema. Film Historians should also take Note. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein Begins(For Hammer)","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Terence Fisher directed this handsome adaptation of the Mary Shelley novel, filmed before by Universal Studios, but now for Hammer. Peter Cushing plays Victor Frankenstein, who has been sentenced to the guillotine for murder, and recounts his life story to a priest. Victor came into his wealth as a young man after his mother died, and hired Paul Krempe(played by Richard Urquhart) to be his tutor, but as the years passed showed a remarkable ability in the medical field, and became obsessed with recreating life, which not only affected his relationship with his fiancée Elizabeth(played by Hazel Court) but with everyone, as his crowning achievement is a creature(played by Christopher Lee) that is brought to life with old body parts... Well acted and directed film takes many liberties with the novel but result is a success, and led to several sequels with Peter Cushing. "},{"Title":"Hammer's first venture into Gothic Horror","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'The Curse of Frankenstein' was Hammer Film's first venture into Gothic horror territory, and followed on from their successful attempt at science fiction/horror with 'The Quatermass Xperiment' in 1955.Peter Cushing is excellent as Baron Victor Frankenstein, a man so devoted to scientific experimentation that he will stop at nothing, not even murder, to achieve his ends. Cushing conveys the character's obsession very vividly. Christopher Lee plays the creature. He has no dialogue and limited screen time, but it is still a stand out performance, combining both menace and pathos.The film starts conventionally with Peter Cushing's baron telling his story in flashback to a visiting priest, but the film itself broke new ground for horror films upon its first showing in 1957. The best scene is the one in which we see the creature take a direct shot in the eye, with the blood gushing out of the wound in streams of vivid red.Behind the scenes, James Bernard's music, Bernard Robinson's production design and Jack Asher's photography considerably enhance the impact of this film, and the whole thing is overseen with great assurance by the director Terence Fisher. All in all, this is a true cinema classic. "},{"Title":"Game  Changer","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You can never go back and recreate a moment in time. Curse of Frankenstein scared the hell out of its 1957 audience the way few movies ever have, plus it gave us Hammer studios with its retelling of the classic horror monsters with the addition of fine English actors, tight scripts and direction, and really bright red blood and gore in vivid color, plus buxom females with low cut blouses.I saw the movie in 1957 as a little boy and it gave me the screaming willies for weeks after. There is a scene in the picture that I think ranks with the best of the genre and is simply brilliant direction (thanks Terence Fisher). I refer, of course, to the thrown open door revealing to Baron Frankenstein his now living creature, bandaged from head to toe. The creature lifts a hand to his face and rips off his bandages while the camera zooms in herky jerky and slightly off kilter to a closeup of Chris Lee's outrageously grotesque disfigured mug (thanks Phil Leakey). Let me tell you, the scream that audience let out was equal to Carrie's hand coming out of the grave, or the head dropping into the boat hole in Jaws! Man, 1950's audiences just weren't ready for that. This of course was built to a crescendo by the preceding scene of the tank containing the creature draining by itself and that first breath taken while Victor and Paul are arguing downstairs. And it is followed by another big scream when the creature reaches for Justine and we see his reborn shotgun blasted visage.May seem tame to today's audience but it packed a wallop back then. Sufficient to say as noted elsewhere here, it was the highest grossing English picture for quite a while and it put Hammer on the map. As I said, you can't recreate a time past, but I have no doubt the audience in 1931 had the same reaction when Boris Karloff first turned around and there is that amazing closeup of Jack Pierce's brilliant makeup for the monster.Other reviewers have covered the rest of the pluses and minuses of the film so I won't bother. I just wanted to point out that there's a couple of brilliant bits here in makeup, lighting and especially direction that gives this film some distinction from the average fare. They made something different from the material, and despite a lot of problems bringing the film together, they got some damn fine scares with no great budget. That's talent. "},{"Title":"Better than the Original, to me!","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Next to the Amimus anthology horror films, Hammer horror films (especially the ones directed by Terrance Fisher) are my favorite British films! The Curse of Frankenstien is one of my favorite of those great Terrance Fisher directed Hammer horror films! Unlike the original Frankenstein of 1931, this film put most of the enthuses on the Doctor instead of the Monster and I think it was a good ideal! Peter Cushing in my opinion, was the greatest Docter Frankenstein ever! He was the main villain in this film! The film was in color and it had a good moral message in it as well! I also like how those British horror films of the late 1950s though early 1970s, while less conservative than earlier horror films, did not go to extremes with blood and gore like later horror films do! They were very much in between the two extremes! "},{"Title":"Hammer Makes its Mark","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the movie that really put Hammer studios, and Peter Cushing, on the map. It was a brilliant move, at a time when horror had shifted over almost completely to sci fi and giant mutant beasts, to start a project of remaking the classics with atmosphere, drama, color, and a bit more graphic content. Folks who know me won't be surprised that I generally prefer the older 30s Universal versions of the movies, but I have to admit that Hammer is always enjoyable. In this case, they really seem to have returned to the source material effectively, and even added a bit to it without overdoing it. As I recall Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, he was a victim of scientific hubris, but not quite such a cad - but this seems to make sense, as his disregard for the laws of man could easily translate to disregard for sexual mores, much as it did for the men in Shelley's own life. It's a bit longer than the Universal version, and it takes quite a while before we see the monster, but it's enjoyable throughout. "},{"Title":"Blown away by this masterpiece","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've just recently gotten back into watching the old Hammer Films and they haven't let me down yet. COF is by far the best version of Frankenstein I've seen yet. Great character development and interaction. Set designs, color, mood, etc. All are first rate. And Christopher Lee's monster is very creepy and much more believable than Karloff's. I love Karloff and I love the Universal film but I'm just blown away by how real the Hammer version is. It's very modern almost. They spend a lot of time showing how Frankenstein is inspired to do what he does, and it goes into depth of him getting all the parts, etc. The rebellion of his friend/tutor is a nice touch that again makes this film a lot more real. Someone said it's like a soap opera and I agree in that it spends a lot of time on the relationships. But on to the gore. this movie is really creepy. When Frankenstein leaves and we're left alone with the monster in his life jacuzzi or whatever you want to call it and we know he's about to spring to life is just amazing. There's a lot of nice touches that Hammer always put in the movie. Like the blind man with his grandson, it's just so macabre. It's almost gallows humor. Just real creepy. Way creepier than the girl with the flower in the Universal film. Although Karloff's reaction in that is great mind you. If I had to give Universal credit it would be on that note. We definitely sympathize with his monster more than Lee's. But I don't think Hammer wanted us to sympathize with their monster much. He is more of an abomination that has to be destroyed more than a pitiful creature who is put into unfavorable circumstances through no fault of his own. One last thing, the ending is interesting on two points. They kind of leave Paul and Elizabeths relationship ambiguous. Did they get married? it seems like they might have. Also, there's a whole other way you can take the movie at the end. That the monster was really just a figment of Frankensteins imagination, an alter-ego if you will, that allowed him to kill people without taking responsibility. Look at Paul's reaction at the end when Frankenstein is trying to get him to corroborate his story. It looks as though Paul is genuinely confused and just thinks that Frankenstein is mad. Don't know if that was the implication, just an interesting way to view the movie. "},{"Title":"Not a bad adaptation","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There have been many adaptations of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein through the years but I think that this is the first one that I've actually seen. I have read the novel and while this film doesn't measure up to it it's still entertaining.The acting is above par for a horror film with Peter Cushing delivering a fine performance as Baron Frankenstein. Jimmy Sangster's script retains some of the elements of the original and also manages to capture some of the philosophical underpinnings of the novel. Personally, I would have liked the film to have better developed the character of the monster. As it is, Christopher Lee isn't used nearly as much as he could have been.I don't have any problems with the direction of Terence Fisher but it didn't impress me either. Similarly, the score was neither good nor bad. Overall, the presentation was solid but lacking personality.This film is probably no match for James Whale's famed earlier films (which I haven't seen) but it's an entertaining little yarn that has more depth than the usual horror film. It's no substitute for the book but it'll keep you interested. "},{"Title":"British Gothic Horror is wonderfully revived with the birth of Hammer House of Horror","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as the Frankenstein films go, 1931's Frankenstein and especially Bride of Frankenstein are at the top. But The Curse of Frankenstein is to me one of the better Frankenstein films, and Hammer's debut film is one of their better ones along with Dracula(1958) and The Mummy(1959). The Monster's make-up is too grotesque for my liking and one does wish that Christopher Lee had more screen time, other than that the film is wonderful.The Curse of Frankenstein does look great, the photography and costumes are handsome and the Gothic set design is outstanding and dripping with atmosphere. The music is chillingly effective and compliments the atmosphere beautifully, while the script is remarkably human, suspensefully and sympathetically written and gives a lot of depth to Frankenstein which I really appreciated actually. The story is always compelling with poignant emotion and Gothic chills once the Monster appears(like with the blind hermit, not as well as Bride of Frankenstein but beautifully done still), it does offer two ideas of focusing more on Frankenstein than on the Monster and not making the Monster misunderstood, both were very interesting takes and while they might not work for some they personally both came over very well.Terrence Fisher's direction is positively unflinching. The characters are well-written, Paul is a love-to-hate sort of character but The Curse of Frankenstein does have to have the most well-developed Frankenstein of any Frankenstein film. The acting is fine, Hazel Court and Robert Urquhart are more than solid support. Christopher Lee's screen time is not large but he is still memorable, even looking at him towering over everyone else Lee does come across as terrifying and his first appearance is chilling. Boris Karloff does bring more tragedy to the character but in all fairness in the 1930s Universal Frankenstein films the Monster was a misunderstood, the Monster here isn't(quite the opposite) and within that idea the film has Lee's more menacing approach worked. The best thing about The Curse of Frankenstein is the performance of Peter Cushing, which is truly remarkable and one of his best. Personally do prefer Cushing's interpretation also to the still excellent interpretation from Colin Clive and it could be to do with that Frankenstein has more development here.All in all, a wonderful film and a wonderful start for Hammer House of Horror. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"A fantastic kick-start to one of the greatest movements in horror","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 26 years after Universal Studios and James Whale hit gold with both critics and audiences alike with their interpretation of Mary Shelley's classic novel Frankenstein, another production studio was about to reinvigorate the horror genre with a vastly different take on the same book. Hammer Studios seemed to know something no-one else did - that audiences had a thirst for blood. The critics may not have appreciated it at the time (though they certainly do now), but the paying audiences lapped up The Curse of Frankenstein's amped-up levels of gore and Gothic atmosphere.The film begins with Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) in a jail cell awaiting his execution for an unknown crime. He calls for a priest who he tells his story to. Victor was only a child where he became a baron and inherited his family's estate, and employed his teacher, Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart), to teach him everything there is to know about the science of anatomy. Years later, Victor and Paul manage to bring a puppy back to life, much to their delight. While Paul is thrilled with their achievement, Victor is unsatisfied and longs to create a human life of his own.Anyone hoping for a faithful re-telling of Mary Shelley's novel will be sorely disappointed. Director Terence Fisher and writer Jimmy Sangster (director of Hammer's Fear in the Night (1972)) makes the film more about Frankenstein than his creation. While the novel focused more on the tragic nature of the Creature's creation and treatment, the film portrays Victor not only as a flawed and arguably misguided visionary, but a stone-cold murderer, pushing a scientific genius to his death in order to have his superior brain for his creation. The brain is damaged in an alteration between Victor and Paul, so the creature is of low intelligence anyway.For all the 're-imaginings' of Frankenstein, this is certainly the best I've seen. The diversions from the source material make it a different experience entirely, and one simply to be enjoyed rather than to ponder it's deeper meanings. Cushing's performance is incredible, adding a gravitas to his character even when the movie dips into camp. Christopher Lee, playing the Creature and in his first of many appearances for Hammer, puts in an impressive physical performance and manages to invite sympathy with no dialogue at all. Hazel Court also appears as Victor's cousin Elizabeth, in what is little more than the obligatory female role. A fantastic kick-start to what would be one of the greatest movements in horror.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Memorable Hammer Horror Version of a Familiar Tale","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the earliest Hammer horror movies, THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN tells a familiar tale, one that closely follows the plot of other adaptations, notably James Whale's groundbreaking film for Universal in 1930.What makes Terence Fisher's version so compelling is the way in which the story has been treated; for the late Fifties it is surprisingly explicit in the way it depicts Baron Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) handling various body-parts - eyes, limbs - and at one point is shown sawing the head off the corpse that forms the basis of the monster (Christopher Lee). The principal female characters Elizabeth (Hazel Court) and the maid Justine (Valerie Gaunt) wear period costumes whose décollété leaves little or nothing to the imagination. The only concession to the more squeamish viewers that Fisher makes is to refrain from showing the Monster killing his various victims, notably Grandpa (Fred Johnson) in gory detail.Cushing turns in a memorable characterization of the Baron - an enthusiastic scientist who has spent much of his life being spoiled. In early sequence, the Baron is shown as a young boy (played by Melvyn Hayes) running the house on his own - ordering the servants around, and engaging a tutor Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) to teach him about life's basics. This independence, acquired at so early an age, has both positive and negative effects the Baron learns to fend for himself, but at the same time proves reluctant to take advice - even when it is well-intentioned. The adult Baron becomes more and more committed to the project of creating the Monster, even if it means contravening the laws of Nature. Krempe tries his best to dissuade him, but the Baron takes no notice; on the contrary, he becomes quite frenzied in his efforts to finish his experiments. Cushing suggests this cleverly through a series of bird-like movements; his body taut, his hands flitting across the instruments and test-tubes that clutter his laboratory.In the end the Baron gets his comeuppance, as he is sent to jail and hanged. But Fisher does not send him to his death without providing a memorable denouement, which does not exist in the source-text but emphasizes the extent to which the Baron's brilliant intelligence has been corrupted by his scientific work.Although only just over eighty minutes long, THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN still has the capacity to startle audiences through its combination of memorable sequences and taut storytelling. Definitely worth repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Life enhancing","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was an enjoyable and engrossing film version of the tale, luridly updated for the 1950's audience &#x96; generally every generation goes one excess further in everything. That observation is partially based on extrapolation as I gave up watching modern horror films for pleasure back in the 1980's, as my pleasure gave way to horror.Baron Frankenstein played by Peter Cushing and his former tutor turned tiresomely unwilling assistant Robert Urquhart bring back to life a composite human being Christopher Lee. Naturally, or maybe not, Lee cuts up rusty and shows ingratitude at such high-handed treatment. With this tale comparisons are inevitable for instance the two versions of the tale written by Mary Shelley are preferable of course, eminently readable if a little dry - the 1818 text for choice; the 1910 film was fascinating and garish; the 1931 and 1935 films were short and entertaining; the 1973 badly dated even on release; while Cushing's Hammer series was excellent, especially if you can leave your brain in a jar by the door. Karloff was the ultimate unforgettable monster - over the decades I've seen too many knuckle dragging yobs looking like Lee haunting (or going by his part in this, simply hanging about outside) my local chipshop to be unsettled by his workmanlike appearance. Colin It's Alive Clive was OK, but not a patch on Cushing who with his performance in this created a bit of a monster for himself too. And who can forget Hazel Court playing Mae Clarke's former role of Elizabeth in a splendid selection of gravity-defying dresses? For saying Hammer ran a tight ship the attention to period detail was very good, as far as I can tell after years of seeing Antiques Roadshow. At the climax with Cushing's histrionics I was bizarrely reminded of such disparate films as A Tale Of Two Cities, Dead Of Night and All Quiet On The Western Front. I've always enjoyed this middlebrow soapy corn and recommend it wholeheartedly to those who already know they like this genre; if you like modern horror you'll probably find you've thrown away your eighty minutes and that you perhaps should've got a life instead. "},{"Title":"The Start of a Series Which Would Rival The Universal Classics","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 1957 Hammer adaption of the Mary Shelley novel starring Peter Cushing as a morally bankrupt Doctor Frankenstein and Christopher Lee as the Monsterhas earned it's place as a classic. A worldwide hit, The Curse of Frankenstein established Hammer as the premiere production house of Gothic horror and re-ignited the genre as a popular entertainment. The Curse of Frankenstein shocked audiences with gore in color for the first time causing outrage among some critics who felt the level of violence went too far. Six sequels followed concluding with Frankenstein and the Monster From Hell in 1974. Unlike the Universal series, Hammer brought Doctor Frankenstein back with each adventure affording them the opportunity to design a fresh take on the monster each time. It was a winning formula that thrilled and horrified viewers for decades and is is many ways superior to the Universal series which inspired it. "},{"Title":"Horror Gets a Hammer","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" According to the opening credits, More than a hundred years ago, in a mountain village in Switzerland, lived a man whose strange experiments with the dead have since become legend. The legend is still told with horror the world over&#x85; It is the legend of&#x85; The Curse of Frankenstein. Presently, shortly before his execution, titular mad scientist Peter Cushing (as Victor Frankenstein) tells his story to a priest&#x85; In flashback, we see the wealthy young baron hire longtime partner Robert Urquhart (as Paul Krempe). The experimenters bring a cute puppy back to life, and Mr. Cushing decides a human should be next. He wants to create a man of extremely high intellect, but things don't always go according to plan...From England's Hammer Movie Productions, this re-make of Mary Shelley's classic Frankenstein has a style quite different than the model popularized by Hollywood's Universal Studios. The film is more than a little ragged; but the setting, color cinematography and a monstrous lead performance by Cushing work remarkably well. Displaying ample cleavage, beautiful fiancée Hazel Court (as Elizabeth) wears clothing that looks ready to slip off in an instant. A lesser figure could never have held up her dresses. Finding a fantastic niche in the genre, The Curse of Frankenstein and follow-ups are nicely directed by Terence Fisher. His fresh approach heralded an era of Hammer horror re-makes and sequels.******* The Curse of Frankenstein (5/2/57) Terence Fisher ~ Peter Cushing, Robert Urquhart, Christopher Lee, Hazel Court "},{"Title":"Hammer Classic","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Condemned to be executed, Baron Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) relates his story to a priest. It's the story of an obsessed scientist who sets out to create a man from dead bodies and bring him to life. He succeeds in this but gets unwanted results as his creature (Christopher Lee) is little more than a mindless killer.Universal's Frankenstein series were some of my favorite films. While this film is not quite on the level of the best of those, it's still an exceptional movie that launched a terrific franchise. Actually, the Frankenstein series at Hammer was the best series they had. Their Dracula series was good but lacking due to Christopher Lee's refusal to return to the part until nearly a decade after the first film. When he finally did, Hammer's most creative period was behind it. There would still be entertaining movies, but nothing on the level of these first ones. One of the most interesting changes in the Hammer series from the Universal movies was the focus on Frankenstein himself as the monster instead of the creature he creates, which changes in almost every movie. Peter Cushing is phenomenal in the part of the unsympathetic, unrepentant villainous Baron Frankenstein. It would prove to be the role of his career and he would play it more than any other part.This is the beginning of Hammer's rejuvenation of the horror genre, which had all but been dead since Universal's last great horror cycle in the '40s. True there had been many movies of the '50s with a horror bent, such as Universal's Creature from the Black Lagoon. But these movies didn't lead to a genre revival like Hammer's films did. The ingredients here would be present in most of Hammer's classics director Terence Fisher, screenwriter Jimmy Sangster, stars Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. Also great sets, nice makeup effects, and Hazel Court's cleavage! It's a classic horror film that everybody who is not prejudiced against older films should try. "},{"Title":"seductive","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" for the science to use the novel, for the science to give a new version of story, for the moral content and transformation of horror rules. not extraordinary for our time, it remains convincing. that is its virtue and key for who is not just another horror. the secret, in part, the Peter Cushing performance who explores the scientist passion in a special manner. a film loyal in spirit to Mary Shelley work but original for the windows who opens it with clear courage, force and wise tools. the images, the story, the details makes the difference. and makes seductive an old film, a very old theme and a cast who creates new dimensions to horror genre. a movie not exactly for delight or fans. but an admirable lesson about making a not common film. "},{"Title":"A claustrophobic and compelling re-invention","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse Of Frankenstein is, of course, the movie that revived the Gothic horror genre after over a decade of decrepitude. The end of World War II saw horror fall out of fashion, and only House Of Wax bucked the trend and made big-time box-office. Even its semi-follow-ups, Phantom Of The Rue Morgue and The Mad Magician died a death.So the little British studio called Hammer Films, which operated in a genteel atmosphere from a country mansion near the banks of the Thames, re-invented the genre to spectacular effect. Milton Subotsky, he of Amicus Films fame and later a rival to Hammer itself, submitted a shortish script and proposed a 60 minute black and white remake of Frankenstein to star Boris Karloff. Hammer junked the script but ran with the idea (they paid Subotsky royalties). Hammer's production personnel had by this time become a gifted and efficient unit, and Director Terence Fisher was perfect for the first of their Gothic revivals.Curse gave horror fans two new horror stars in Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. Cushing dominates the movie with a superb and ironically humorous performance as Baron Frankenstein; indeed most of the film follows Frankenstein's attempts to give life to his creature, squeezing the monster's screen time into approximately the last half-hour.The Hammer Gothic look is wonderfully established here, cinematographer Jack Asher and production designer Bernard Robinson do wonders with a limited budget, producing a garish and utterly convincing sense of period. Blood has never looked more scarlet than in this film.Christopher Lee does well with his much smaller role as the monster, at times appearing to have difficulty in getting his limbs to work, at other times resembling a pathetic and forlorn outsider. The voluptuous Hazel Court lends able support as Frankenstein's fiancé, and Robert Urqhart channels the spirit of Shelly's novel, futilely trying to make Victor see the great evil he's involved in. But it's Cushing who carries the movie and rightly so. Great acting from a truly great actor.With it's gory moments and shock effects this had a tremendous impact on release and it holds up very well today. An absorbing, claustrophobic, little gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"I've harmed nobody, just robbed a few graves!","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A very important film in the history of not just Hammer Horror, but horror itself, as it introduced Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. Cushing's performance in this film as Dr. Frankenstein is magnificent. Based upon Mary Shelly's novel, this adaptation by Writer Jimmy Sangster, the man behind many great Hammer films, focuses not on the monster, but upon the doctor himself. The monster is only a manifestation of the doctor's obsession. This, Lee's role is lessor, but still worthy of praise, and we will later see him shine as Dracula. Sangster, sadly, departed our presence last month, but his legacy of films lives on.The film is a testament to Jimmy Sangster's role in modern horror. "},{"Title":"My creature will be born in a lifetime of knowledge.","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse of Frankenstein was the one that put Hammer Films on the horror map back in 1957. Since Universal's Frankenstein 'look' had been copyrighted, Hammer went back to Mary Shelley's source material to create a new one, probably closer to Shelley's vision as it turns out. Other liberties are taken with the original story - no nasty digging around a graveyard to get a body, but simply cut one down from the gallows. The idea of Baron Victor (Peter Cushing) cutting off the head was probably more gruesome than actually seeing it done since it forces you to picture how that might have gone.The thing I can't get used to with all the Hammer films I've seen so far is the vibrant use of color. Krempe's (Robert Urquhart) red robe, the Baron's bright green coat, all those lab chemicals in an array of improbable hues. It's one of the hallmarks that makes Hammer, Hammer. I guess it depends what era you were born in and when you started watching horror flicks; I must be conditioned to glorious black and white so all that color seems like sensory overload.As for the story, it holds up pretty well, even if it takes almost fifty minutes for the Monster to make his first appearance. Krempe's disgust with this 'criminal lunatic' leads him to shoot the monster in the face!, which was probably the most shocking thing for me in the whole picture. Christopher Lee of course is superb as the Monster, but you don't get a sense of the angst the creature suffered the way he did in the 1931 Universal version. And for me, it's tough to warm up to the Hammer Frankenstein after you've seen Karloff in the original. "}{"Title":"A dark masterpiece of the genre...","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This grim, brilliant film is one of the classics of the horror genre. It launched director Terence Fisher's career; made stars out of actors Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee; and, lets not forget, established Hammer Studios as the leading brand name in horror. Cushing gives his greatest ever performance as the cold-hearted Baron while Lee still makes a notable impact as the hideously deformed monster with no control over his actions. Fisher's direction, meanwhile, is full of verve and innovation and many scenes - most memorably the creature's introduction - still retain their shock value. Shocking for it's time because of it's spilling of vividly red blood (this was the first Frankenstein movie to be shot in Technicolor),The Curse Of Frankenstein has held up remarkably well over the years and remains a must-see for any true fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Put Hammer Films on the Map","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prior to the release of Curse of Frankenstein, Hammer Films had been making movies off and on since the 1930s. During the 1950s it ventured into sci-fi-horror with such notable efforts as the two Quatermass movies. However, it was not until this remake of the 1931 Universal classic that Hammer Films truly came into its own.Curse of Frankenstein has all the characteristics that we have since come to expect in a Hammer film. Lots of full-color blood and violence; a stellar cast (headed in this case by Peter Cushing as Victor Frankenstein and Christopher Lee as The Monster); an atmospheric Gothic setting; a rousing musical score; and first-rate production values that belie the low budget.The one disappointment is The Monster himself. Christopher Lee is fine, but his monster has little to do except lumber around and kill people. And he looks more like a horribly disfigured human than the unearthly creature that Boris Karloff created a generation earlier.Hammer would go on to make numerous Frankenstein sequels, all of them without Lee but most with Peter Cushing as the sometimes evil, sometimes not-so-evil Baron. It would follow up the success of Frankenstein with even more successful remakes of Dracula and The Mummy. Numerous other Gothic horror movies would follow until the the films finally petered out in the late 1970s.Back in my childhood days, I eagerly awaited the release of each new Hammer movie. By today's standards, the blood and gore of Curse of Frankenstein and other Hammer productions of the era seem relatively tame. But the films are still quite entertaining, and this one -- the first of the line -- has earned its rightful place in horror movie history. "},{"Title":"One of Hammer's best horror films of the golden era&#x85;","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is without a doubt, one of my all time favorite movie of this genre. Most people call this a remake, but I call it a re-imagining. The Curse of Frankenstein is different from the early Universal version and in my opinion, much, much better. It explores the relationship between the characters and it develops them more deeply than previous versions. It begins when Victor Frankenstein (Played by the great Peter Cushing) is in prison and is sentenced to the guillotine. He confesses his story to a priest. The young Baron's parents die and he is left with the family fortune. Since a very young age, we see the young Victor (played by Melvyn Hayes) as an intelligent, curious, but controlling and obsessive character. Later he hires Paul Krempe (played by Robert Urquhart) as his teacher and mentor. Throughout the course of the years, they become good friends and work together to discover the mysteries of science. Years later, Victor Frankenstein is an adult is visited by his cousin Elizabeth (played by Hazel Court), who is the Baron's fiancée and are arranged to get married, but Victor is more obsessed with his experiments. Finally Victor and Paul discover a way to animate the dead by reviving a dead dog. Trilled, Victor wants to go further with his experiment, but Paul's moral values contradicts Victor's ambition and decides to abandon the experiment, leaving Victor alone to do his work. But Victor's obsession takes him to a new and dangerous level and even commits murder to get what he wants. Frankenstein successfully creates a creature (Played by the legendary Christopher Lee) but is not what he expected and instead of abandoning his experiments he continues the work, but the creature becomes more and more dangerous.The photography, set design, acting, script, and direction are stunning and the movie, in my opinion, stands the test of time. This film is what made Hammer Films so big. They were so successful that they made hundreds of legendary Gothic horror film and still today, have a following. If you want to do your own classic horror festival, be sure to include The Curse of Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"1 of the greatest horror movies Ever made...","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse of Frankenstein should be viewed by all horror movie fans at least a couple times.The acting/dialogue/cinematography/colours/camera work/etc.are so great,that 1 viewing is not enough to take it all in.For example, 1 important theme that is overlooked is how none of the 3 characters are able to impress/influence each other the way they wish.Victor desperately wants to win Pauls approval/Paul wants to win Elizabeths approval/Elizabeth wants to win Victors approval and none of them EVER achieve this goal.It is a true love triangle of disappointment.The movie also tells the Frankenstein story correctly in conveying that Dr.Frankenstein is the true monster and his creation is just a sad result of his evil I didn't feel the original Universal version did this well at all.The teenager that plays young Victor Frankenstein in the beginning is incredible.He is cold/calculated and cunning and is only concerned with his primary goal of creating a lifeform right from his first meeting with Paul his paid tutorSome of the camerwork is stunning,like when the monster 1st comes to life and Frankenstein opens the door to his lab..the camera literally flys thru the door as its opened to reveal the monster.Or at the end when Victor throws the lantern at his creation setting it on fire the lantern is thrown right into the camera..almost making it look 3 dimensional. I was astounded/shocked when Victor kills the old professor and how real that stunt looked when he fell head first onto the floor.The ending could not be more poetic/irionic in that the only person that can save Victor is Paul since he is the only living person to know about the creature and as hard as it is for Paul to let Victor go to the guillotine,he knows its an absolute necessity because Victor is sick in the head and needs to be executedGet this movie..watch it several times  I've watched it over 30 times and appreciate its greatness.They don't make em like this anymore..and probably never will. "},{"Title":"Cushing creates life&#133;Hammer re-creates the monster-movie!","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although not Hammer's absolute finest production, Curse of Frankenstein it is their one film (or maybe along with Horror of Dracula) that single-handedly regenerated the European horror-boom in the second half of the 1950's. Approximately two decades after the immensely popular Universal monster movies, the British Hammer studio gained their first SF/horror success with The Quatermass Experiment. In all honesty, it was the popularity of this, and only this Nigel Kneale adaptation that all of a sudden indicated that the audience's hunger for morbid tales and horrific effects was insatiable and Hammer cleverly exploited this given one step at the time, by re-telling other famous franchises. They begun with Frankenstein in 1957, but Dracula and The Mummy immediately followed during the next years. Terence Fisher's The Curse of Frankenstein revives the basic classic premise of Mary Shelley's story but adds a whole lot of horrific aspects that would later become the typical trademarks of the great Hammer production company. For example, the morality-lesson that nobody is entitled to play God and create life himself is not exaggeratedly obtruded like in most other Frankenstein adaptations and the creature's make-up is really monstrous for the very first time. Although, admittedly, that's also due to the fact that the original monster make up, worn by the legendary Boris Karloff as we all remember him, was copyright protected and simply not allowed to be imitated. But, most of all, Hammer implemented these and other minor modifications because their interpretation of the horror genre clearly was much more brutal, spectacular and hence more appealing to the new generation of fans. Suffice to say the success was immense and sequels to both the Frankenstein and Dracula franchise were released quickly as well as other, entirely new horror tales. For nearly twenty years, Hammer Studios set the tone of pretty much everything that concerned horror in Europe and their influence is still very noticeable to this day. The Curse of Frankenstein stars the legendary Peter Cushing as the obsessive and dangerously devoted Baron/scientist, a role he will reprise several times and perhaps THE role that made him the horror icon he's still regarded as to this day, more than 10 years past his death. The film opens with images of the degraded Baron sitting in a filthy prison cell and begins to clarify his life-story to a priest. Orphanaged at a young age, the wealthy and intellectually gifted Victor Frankenstein works, together with his mentor Dr. Paul Krempe, in the field of re-animating dead tissue and brain activity. Even though the two quickly reach a medical breakthrough, Frankenstein wants to take his experiments to a higher level and creates entirely new life by composing body parts of deceased persons. Since not every part of his ideal creation is available easy (like, for example, an intelligent brain), Frankenstein turns to murder. When Victor Frankenstein commits his first murder, exclusively to foresee his creation with the intelligent brain of a professor, everything changes. He descends into madness without really realizing it and he's no longer able to see the difference between science and insanity. Driven by blind obsession, Victor ruins the friendship between him and Paul and he totally neglects his loving fiancée Elizabeth. In a desperate attempt to stop his former friend, Paul damages the brain but still Victor is destined to continue his experiments. The man Frankenstein eventually brings to life is an aggressive monster that looks hideous and doesn't even hesitate to attack his creator. One day, the monster escapes and assaults an elderly blind man, forcing Paul and Victor to destroy the ungodly creature forever....or so Paul thinks. When he returns to Frankenstein's castle several weeks later to attend Victor's wedding to Elizabeth, the Baron proudly informs him that the monster got resurrected yet again and now it even obeys simple commands. Nonetheless, the murderous creation escapes again and this time the consequences won't be dismissed so easily... The priest from the intro can't bring Victor any salvation and the movie ends with the once prominent heir of the Frankenstein fortune walking towards the guillotine... I initially stated that this film isn't really Hammer's finest film. Some of their later horrors (notably The Devil Rides Out, Quatermass and the Pit and also some of the sequels to this very film) look more appealing and more properly elaborated. The budget for Curse of Frankenstein, however, was low and this resulted in occasionally tacky special effects and a lack of diversity in settings. The movie is largely filmed on one location &#150; the Baron's laboratory &#150; simply because there was no money for other decors. The limited budget is also clearly noticeable by the absence of a vast Gothic atmosphere and a modest use of color-shades (there were Hammer is specifically knows for their heavy use of colors). Even though not a very spectacular horror film, The Curse of Frankenstein remains a milestone in the genre, with some great suspense and a truly powerful acting performance by Peter Cushing. This film is legendary for yet another entirely different reason, as it also meant the first of many horror collaborations between Cushing and Christopher Lee! Nineteen, to be exact, including masterful genre highlights like The Creeping Flesh, Horror Express and The House that Dripped Blood. Lee's share in this production is very brief (the creature Frankenstein gives life to) but oh-so-memorable, and his make-up effects still look nightmarish nearly half a century later. It's perhaps not the greatest horror movie ever made but real fans of the genre will have to acknowledge that Curse of Frankenstein is a genuine classic that set a lot of later standards. "},{"Title":"A horror movie masterpiece","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie. This is a remake and it is great. Dr. Frankenstein creates a monster out of dead body parts. In this version he robes grave. He killers people to use to make his monster. He uses the monster to kill people when it is to his advantage. Somme young might think because a movie is old it is not scary. And they would be wrong. This is one of the scariest movies ever made. This movie has great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. This movie is based on one of the best horror stories ever told. And it is one of the best horror movies ever made. It is a must see. This is one of the best remakes ever. "},{"Title":"The Birth of Hammer Horror","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get the usual caveats out of the way first, which are almost essential when a horror geek like myself is discussing this movie. There are so many historical reasons that this is an important film. The first, and obvious, being that it was the first color horror film created by Hammer Studios and so launched the studio that would rule Brit horror for more than a decade to follow and change the landscape of the genre. Forgoing its' importance to Hammer, it is also considered by many to have saved horror. By the late 50s ghouls and monsters and the old Gothic horror tradition had passed out of vogue to be replaced by giant creatures and radioactive animals. This movie brought real horror back to the masses in a big way. The last thing I will point out is that the movie had a huge effect on bringing sex into the horror genre. When you think of modern horror, sex and violence seem almost connected. While there were certainly horror movies before this with a sexual tone, Hammer brought it to the forefront and had a big effect.We don't watch movies for historical relevance, though. We watch them for entertainment, so let's get to the nitty gritty. It's hard to review this without the inevitable comparisons to Universal's movie, which I consider to be superior. The biggest change is that this is not a movie about the monster in any way. This is firmly a movie about Cushing as Dr. Frankenstein and he does a phenomenal job. Cushing established his horror rep here in a role playing a man who was not inherently evil, but obsessed with his dream of creating life and never considering the implications. As that dream gets closer to fruition, he is willing to do whatever necessary to fulfill that dream. He is the force that carries this movie, entirely, which is also what makes it less entertaining that Uni's movie, to me. It could have benefited from a little more monster.While we're discussing the monster, he's almost a cardboard caricature here. The makeup is sort of a mess and not as memorable as the Jack Pierce work. It's definitely a scarier look but isn't nearly as iconic. Christopher Lee is given almost nothing to do. The monster has no real personality. He kills because that's what the script needs and there is none of the tragedy of Karloff's role.The look of the movie is fantastic, as with most Hammer. This feels like a Reubens painting come to life, with a vibrant, rich color palette. The sets and costumes are lavish, though the lab is a little more realistic than Colin Clive's lab in the Uni movie and lacks some of the distinction. Hazel Court plays the obligatory beautiful gal and fills that role well.I was trying hard not to compare t the Uni classic, but failed in the end. While it may not be as good as that standard, I still give this a 9 out of 10 because it's still one of greatest horror movies of any era. It's paced well, it's exciting, it features some great acting and it created the Hammer blueprint that would dominate horror. "},{"Title":"One of Hammer's best films","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An absolutely brilliant film which not only established the Hammer Horror brand but helped to revive the horror film genre as a whole. Of the Hammer films that I've seen, this is one of my absolute favourites. Peter Cushing was excellent as the various Van Helsings in the Dracula films but his performance in this film is on another level entirely. I loved the fact that Baron Frankenstein is a far darker character than many other adaptations. He's an utterly contemptible and amoral bastard, which makes him an extremely compelling character.As in the Dracula films, Christopher Lee has relatively little screen time but is never less than brilliant as the Creature, communicating a great deal through facial expressions. Hazel Court, Robert Urquhart and Valerie Gaunt were very strong as well, particularly Urquhart. I loved the fact that the ending left it ambiguous as to whether the events of Frankenstein's story actually happened or were just a figment of an imagination, though the existence of sequels would suggest that it did! The film is also notable for being the beginning of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing's close friendship, which lasted until the latter's death in 1994. "},{"Title":"A Most Welcome Addition to the Frankenstein Legacy","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although there were a few major changes to the original movie Frankenstein this film turns out to be a most welcome addition to the Frankenstein legacy all the same. Essentially, Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) and his capable assistant Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) are conducting experiments on reanimating dead animals in his laboratory. When they finally achieve their goal Victor wants to continue even further by constructing a human from various body parts while Paul is repulsed by the idea and prefers to publish their findings at an upcoming science conference. To further add to this equation, Victor's attractive cousin Elizabeth (Hazel Court) arrives at the mansion in preparation for their arraigned marriage. Not only is she unaware of the nature of the experiments in the laboratory but she also doesn't know that Victor is involved in a romantic relationship with the maid named Justine (Valerie Gaunt). Like I mentioned earlier, there are several major changes in this story versus the movie that came out in 1931. Anyway, there is more to this movie than what I've just mentioned but rather than disclose anything else and risk spoiling the film for those who haven't seen it I will leave it at that. All things considered I liked the performance of Peter Cushing along with the overall ambiance of the movie and the fact that it was filmed in color. Likewise, the presence of Hazel Court certainly added to the scenery as well. Above average. "},{"Title":"Hammer Does Frankenstein","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd first off have to say that this doesn't in any way measure up to the classic version of the Mary Shelley story from 1933 with Boris Karloff as the monster. It's a very different film with a very different feel and a very different story. It's also not a bad story - more of a cult classic than a classic, but not bad. This movie - compared to most versions of the story - focuses far more on Baron Frankenstein himself than on the monster, who we really don't see very much of. In the classic '33 version I found the monster to be compelling; very much an object of sympathy; a fascinating psychological story with a lot of similarities to an abused child. Here, the monster was just the monster. With the focus on Frankenstein himself, I felt no real connection with Christopher Lee's take on the creature.Basically, except for the different perspective, the story is the story, although it's told as a flashback. As the movie begins, Frankenstein is in prison awaiting execution, and he pours out his tale to a priest. Frankenstein had assembled a creature from parts of dead bodies, and managed to bring the creature to life. The creature then caused havoc. The good doctor was played by Peter Cushing, in his first pairing with Lee, and instead of a grotesque, hunchbacked assistant, Frankenstein is first helped in his experiments by his handsome former tutor Paul (Robert Urquhart) - who then turns against him. Because this is really more of a look at the obsession of Frankenstein with creating life than with the monster, it's not really a frightening movie. What did intrigue me was the ending. It seems to leave open the question of whether the story Frankenstein has told his jailers is true, or whether it's a figment of his imagination, and it was really Frankenstein who was responsible for the killings that had happened. That did intrigue me as a unique take on the story. It's not as good as the '33 version, but it has some things going for it. (6/10) "}{"Title":"I've harmed nobody, just robbed a few graves!","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the movie ends, Dr Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing)is headed to the guillotine, while his former friend Paul (Robert Urquhart) is running off with his fiancée (Hazel Court).This is a different Frankenstein movie. The emphasis is not on the creation, but on the monster itself (Christopher Lee). The monster is the source of conflict between Victor and Paul. The moral question.This was the first Frankenstein in color. It was also the first time Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee acted together in a horror film. You don't see much of Lee as the story is all Cushing and Urquhart.It also may be the only Frankenstein movie where Dr. Frankenstein gets his maid pregnant.We know there is more to come as six sequels were made. "},{"Title":"Creepy...","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having very little to do with the original novel, THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN is still a terrific movie. Screenwriter Jimmy Sangster dispenses with Mary Shelley's masterpiece and concocts an altogether different story. Peter Cushing is the good doctor (here he's orphaned and left the Frankenstein fortune) and Robert Urquhart is his tutor/accomplice/nemesis. There's no time wasted trying to explain just how Cushing brings the dead back to life, but no worries, the movie is extremely entertaining and Cushing is excellent, both brilliant and demented. Urquhart is a fine foil and Hazel Court is a very fetching Elizabeth. There's an almost amusing subplot involving Cushing and his saucy French maid (Valerie Gaunt). Terence Fisher's direction is smooth and very atmospheric. The color photography by Jack Asher is great. Best of all is Christopher Lee in a wordless role as a very scary looking monster...he looks like a bleached out ghoul. "},{"Title":"A Toast to the House of Hammer!","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as James Whale's 1931 version of Frankenstein changed the landscape of horror films for generations to the present day, Terence Fisher's The Curse of Frankenstein did so as well - perhaps even more so as Whale's movie came after Dracula that year but TCOF came before The Horror of Dracula. Here we get all those things we associate with Hammer Studios directorial flair and finesse, gobs of Gothic atmosphere, lush cinematography, beautiful sets and costumes, great character acting, and, of course, best of all - Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. This was their first horror film together with Fisher - the start of a beautiful friendship which would last for many, many years. Lee has a rather thankless role here as the monster but shows us why we would see so much more of him later on. Make no mistake though - Hammer would be successful because of this film and its success stood on the shoulders of two men - one in front of the camera the other behind it. Sure the writer Jimmy Sangster did a marvelous job adapting/changing Mary Shelley's classic novel whilst making sure the movie didn't resemble the Universal Frankenstein at all. It had to do that to be anything on its own. Here the monster is the supporting player and the doctor - the real villain of th book - is the protagonist. That transition would not have worked with an actor unable to convince us of his motives, his purely methodical, calculating mind, his endless ambition and desire to discover a new scientific pathway to the secret of life, a God-complex so completely shrouded over him yet ever so subtly revealed. The man that was able to do that was Peter Cushing, an actor who gets lost in the annals of great actors because he chose horror to shine in rather than mainstream films where he undoubtedly could have been more successful. I don't think I have ever seen Cushing give a bad performance. Here he excels and plays Baron Victor Frankenstein with all those aforementioned qualities with workmanlike zeal. Cushing is the epitome of the class act actor. He defined this role and knew that the doctor must be the real catalyst to the action in the film. He reprised this role in six of the seven total Frankenstein films in the Hammer cycle. The other man is Terence Fisher who makes all this discussion possible. Fisher knew how to put a film together, to make it exciting, interesting, fresh, and still Gothic. When you watch a Fisher film it is easy to tell the difference between his work and the other Hammer directors. I cannot always put my finger on it but Fisher's films have something more. The Curse of Frankenstein has stirring music by James Bernard. It has solid character acting - a trademark of almost all Hammer films. The lovely Hazel Court does ably in a thankless role as Elizabeth and Robert Urquhart is very effective as a rather important character friend/foil to the Baron. While Curse may not be the very best Hammer horror film nor my personal favourite, it is easily one of the best, and what it achieved in giving us Cushing, Lee, and Fisher as well as the Hammer horror style makes it tops in my book. "},{"Title":"Hammer's first Gothic horror, a classic","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is easy to underestimate how revolutionary this film was on its 1957 release. It was the first time a Frankenstein film had been seen in colour, and the amount of blood and gore - while extremely tame by today's standards - was unprecedented.Hammer were forbidden, under threat of legal action, from copying any elements from the classic Universal series of films, and so created an entirely original vision of the Frankenstein legend. Baron Frankenstein (played by the brilliant Peter Cushing) became the main villain, where he was a basically good, but misunderstood man in the 1931 film. Christopher Lee plays the Creature as a child-like puppet, to be pitied more than reviled.Excellent production values, setting the high standard for Hammer's other Gothic adaptations, which were later to include Dracula, The Hound of the Baskervilles, The Mummy and The Curse of the Werewolf. "},{"Title":"8/10 mostly for Cushing's good performance","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This gets 8/10 mostly because of Cushing's fine (as usual) performance. Cushing is a very good actor, and many scenes seem from A+ theater productions, not B series horror movies. He does a good job portraying how baron Frankenstein slips into madness & murder starting with a decent and uplifting interest in science. Surprisingly, Urquhart (as Paul Krempe) is the weak link in the acting chain. I think his acting is too overboard, to the point of getting annoying. I don't fully realize why Krempe would stay there AND act that way, considering he had initiated Victor to that kind of things. The rest of the characters are minor, rather stereotypical and not worth mentioning. SFX are decent, but not particularly worth of mention. Atmosphere is good old Victorian and suits Cushing so well. The subplot of Victor eloping with the chambermaid then dumping her is an interesting addition. All, in all, Cushing is the spark igniting some dignity into this movie; without him, it wouldn't go beyond 5/10. "},{"Title":"A milestone movie","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite being called a remake, this is nothing of the sort. Rather than try to reinvent the Universal classic of 1931 and despite toying with the idea of a cheap black and white quicky featuring Boris Karloff, Hinds and Sangster returned to the source material after rejecting Subotsky and Rosenberg's script (although elements of their outline did remain in the final film) and fashioned what initially appeared to be a kind of gory comedy. Some ideas were accepted, others rejected, rewrites and reinventions flourished until finally, under Terence Fisher's skilled direction, the company produced what is, without doubt, their most important film; 'The Curse of Frankenstein'. While it may not be their greatest production, it is unquestionably their most influential in terms of their output over the next decade and a half. Peter Cushing's performance as Baron Victor Frankenstein is flawless, the depth perhaps only becoming truly evident after viewing the entire series of Hammer Frankenstein movies (not including the unfortunate 'Horror of Frankenstein' which mistakenly returned to the comedic notion with hugely dissatisfying results and which featured Ralph Bates in Cushing's role) in which the character's evolution and development become chillingly clear. Christopher Lee actually gives a tremendous performance as the creature, a performance which, like Fisher's work, has not been properly evaluated but one which elevates his creature to a status almost equal to Karloff's and certainly light years ahead of all other competition. He understands that the creature is seriously brain damaged and his mime reveals both danger and pathos as the creature shambles through its short half life, virtually a grotesque projection of the Baron's warped mind. Despite being largely derided by the snobby film critics of the time, the film went on to make a significant impact at the box office and is now regarded as a classic, and justifiably so. A must see for horror fans. "},{"Title":"This is THE landmark film of the modern horror genre","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film changed the horror genre forever, and should therefore be called a landmark film. The maintaining of a dark mood, the increasing freight, the complete lack of any comic relief, the asides of sex and deceit, the steady build in excitement, both with music and action - this is where it first happened. All the arts of film making were crafted to bring to the screen a totally new kind of entertainment, such that, even today in 2007, all successful horror films can be found to contain its basic structure. It is for this reason that the film still holds up for the modern viewer. The gore comes forth if full color, but without being a blood fest, unlike the less tasteful B horror films of the day, and the onslaught of barf-bag blood fests the engorged film goers of the late sixties and seventies (it is sad to say that such gore fests are still produced today). The cold villainy in Cushing's Victor Frankenstein has a edge to it - we stay with him and agree with him, but we also stand clear of him, as he might value our brain, or our limbs. His performance is such that a teenage viewer might not ever see him as all that bad, while an adult will clearly see that he is a dangerous person. That is to say, Cushing shows evil the way it really is in the world, and he was going to do this a good number of times throughout his career. Also - this film retained many important story elements of Mary Shelly's classic novel, but meets the middle ground by not being too literal and boring us to death (a major problem with some of the recent film adaptations). This is a Must-See, as are all of the early Hammer films. Indeed, try to see this and the excellent sequel Revenge of Frankenstein back to back. Together, they tell a well rounded tale of literatures most famous maker of monsters. It should be noted that Hammer retold the Frankenstein story a number of times, so that their series is not always sequential. The Evil of Frankenstein, though still staring Peter Cushing, is a different Victor Frankenstein altogether, with its own telling of the monster's creation, and is more on the formula of the old Universal series (a step backward in my opinion, but still an entertaining film). "},{"Title":"Hammer's first take on the Frankenstein legend, with Christopher Lee as the creature.","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After this Hammer would continue making 6 more Frankenstein movies, almost all with Peter Cushing in the main lead as the baron. This version is more loyal to the Mary Shelley novel than any other Hammer movie.Of course this movie is not nearly as good as the other earlier movie versions of Frankenstein. This movie is mostly lacking emotional depth and the movie is clearly made merely to entertain. And the movie serves its purpose. Although it makes far from a lasting impression. it's a movie with some good and memorable moments nevertheless. It makes The Curse of Frankenstein a pretty interesting take on the Mary Shelley novel, with still some of the key novel elements present but for most part this movie is a very free interpretation of the famous novel, that takes lots of liberties.The movie at point might be perhaps a bit too slow and the movie lacks some true scares or suspenseful moments. This is mainly because the movie underused the creature. The creature gets very little to do and unlike other Frankenstein movies, this movie mostly focuses only on Baron Frankenstein. The baron is not yet a fully developed character in this movie. Throughout the movie he and his motivations change which makes it for the viewer perhaps a bit hard to follow the movie and care about the character. Also Peter Cushing isn't at his best yet in his role as the baron. It seems like he was still searching for the right way to portray the characters. Luckily he got it right in the other Hammer studio's Frankenstein movies.Still this movie is a bit of a historical classic for several reasons. One of them is that I believe(?) that this was Peter Cushing's first appearance in an Hammer film and it's the fist teaming up of Cushing and Lee in an horror film. Much more, some successful, other not so but yet always fun and entertaining to watch, would follow in the years after.Like mentioned earlier. Christopher Lee doesn't really get enough screen time. He enters the movie perhaps a bit too late and he doesn't get lots of interesting to do. Also his strange white make-up is far from convincing. I remember in one scene you could also see his neck as well, where clearly no make-up was attached to. It makes this movie perhaps a bit like a B-monster movie but still the movie is uplifted mainly by Peter Cushing's presence. Even though he isn't at 'full strength' as baron Frankenstein, he still puts down a believable obsessed and brilliant doctor, who goes too far. Also Robert Urquhart is quite good and likable in his role.The movie is at times a bit too simple and features a bit too many ridicules scene's and moments to consider this a classic. It's not halve as good or memorable as the earlier Universal studio's Frankenstein movies but still this movie has plenty of good and entertainment to offer. It's also an original take and attempt and it deserves credit for not trying to be better than the earlier Frankenstein movies but choices to be simple and therefor more entertaining instead. A must-see for the Peter Cushing/Christopher Lee/Hammer studios/Frankenstein fans but also everyone else should be able to enjoy watching this.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"one of the best Hammer horror films ever made WARNING!!!!!! SPOILERS","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  wonderful Hammer Horror and one of the best hammer horror films ever made this has some beautiful photography and scenery and some great looking set pieces it has a little bit of gore and it's really well made it also had some great dialog and it was always engrossing and great effects and the acting was amazing Peter Cushing is AWESOME!!!!  here as Victor Frankenstein he played the mad man perfectly this guy is incredible Hazel Court does okay here but is really nothing special still she is quite pretty to look at Robert Urquchart was great as Paul and he was really likable where is he now Christopher lee is wonderful as the monster and plays it to perfection is extremely well directed that has a great plot awesome haunting finale SPOILERS!! there is a disturbing scene where the Professor falls of the rail.Overall a wonderful addition to the Hammer horror series an absolute must see or or own a true classic of the genre and i believe it's right up there with Bride Of Frankenstein and Frankenstein ***** out of 5 a great ending too great character development "},{"Title":"Hammer's Legacy begins","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As our story opens Victor Frankenstein sits in prison, condemned to execution for the death of his wife Elizabeth. As Victor `confesses' his story to a priest, we are told in flashback the story of a monster's creation. Victor, with the help of his teacher and mentor Paul Krempe assemble a body of rotting flesh and give it the `divine spark' of life.Curse was Hammers first foray using the basis of Mary Shelley's classic work of literature as it's' basis. The overall gothic feel set the standard by which the studio would build its' horror film empire. Director Terence Fisher films every square inch of this fine production. The set design alone is fabulous. The screenplay was redone due to the fact that Universal was threatening to sue if any similarities were to creep up. There was nothing major just a tweak here and there, just enough to keep the lawyers off their back. The dialogue is very well written and the performances are very nicely done with a standout performance by Peter Cushing. Sadly Christopher Lee's Monster didn't get a lot of screen time but does a fine job regardless. The musical score is very good as well and lends itself to the gothic but sometimes stuffy atmosphere. The editing was good but every now and again it would slow a bit, but never for long. 	A very well made gothic piece that created the tradition of excellent design that would continue Hammer's last breath.  	Suspiria10 gives it a B-  "}{"Title":"Great telling of a well known tale","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***possible spoilers***Two things stand out in this movie... Peter Cushing's performance as the doctor, and the overall class of the production.This doesn't exactly play like a horror film, more like a sinister character study. The real monster in this film is The doctor, not the creature, and this version of the doctor is one of the least sympathetic versions i have seen. Suffice to say, that by the end of the film, your opinion of the doctor will change pretty drastically compared to your initial opinion of him. This is where the real heart of this story lies, and it is all pulled off with amazing dexterity by peter Cushing. He never hits a wrong note, every scene he's in is completely believable and it's just fascinating to watch him play this character.The second thing about this film is the overall class. There was a great deal of thought put into every aspect of the movie, it has a rich subtext. Terrence fisher (as usual) brings just the right atmosphere and every scene resounds with the right tone. It's a smart movie, well scripted, intelligently made, well acted... Just about every aspect of the film feels like it has undergone extra polishing.Lee's monster is the most mindless version of the monster I have ever seen. He is more grotesque and freakish than he is sinister, but that's intentional and the script weaves it's way around it very intelligently. It was the right way to play the monster in *this* movie. There are several scenes where the monster comes across as just a mindless moving, twitching, hunk of flesh, dangerous, but also pitiful and ultimately, an abomination... The kind of thing that should not exist.Definitely a must see for horror fans and a must own for collectors. Brilliant.  "},{"Title":"A trend setting classic","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1957 Hammer was able to procure the rights to Frankenstein. Originally Boris Karloff was sought to play the role of Baron Frankenstein. He was actually too old for the part and Peter Cushing stepped in, luckily for us. Christopher Lee played the monster.Hammer gave the horror audience some new thrills. Mainly color, blood, gore (For its time) and sexuality. Cushing portrayed the Baron not as a rolling-eyed lunatic but a man possessed and driven to achieve his goals anyway he could. Theft and murder meant nothing to him if it could speed the process along. The Baron was ruthless and cold. Yet he wasn't above having a long running tryst with a servant girl.Christopher Lee puts a new spin on the creature. He doesn't have the childlike innocence upon awakening as Karloff did. The creature is a vicious killer right from his first appearance. Due to the machinations of others he becomes more brutal as the film goes along. You feel no pity for the monster but he is extremely scary.While the storyline is nothing new the acting, gothic sets and direction put this miles above most of the Frankenstein films that came before and after it. When you care about the characters and what happens to them the film stands apart from the crowd. You even sympathize with the Baron in spite of his flaws (Arrogance, murder, etc).This definitely is a must see. "},{"Title":"A breakthrough movie","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best films to have come from the Hammer studios. Like its more famous counterpart,(Horror of)Dracula, it oozes gothic charm and horror. It made the names of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, and paved the way for all subsequent horror films. It is acted with gusto, is wonderfully atmospheric and still manages to raise a few shudders more than 40 years on. I suggest that anyone who hasn't seen this film become acquainted with it. "},{"Title":"Keep Your Spiritual Comfort For Those Who Think They Need It","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From a prison cell, Baron Victor Frankenstein recounts the tale of his life's work - a mad experiment to create a man from the dead body parts of others, and bring him to life &#x85;I think Mary Shelley's 1818 novel Frankenstein is one of the greatest and most influential books ever written - an amazing story, a colossal achievement and perhaps the touchstone against which all other horror novels should be compared. Filming the book however has always been notoriously difficult, but of the numerous screen adaptations and variations of the tale, this one for me, despite its small budget and minimal approach, is the best. This is sacrilege perhaps, since it's not particularly faithful to the book - it throws tons of stuff out, adds the rather pedestrian linking character of Paul and the unnecessary subplot with Justine the maid, misrepresents the creature, bookends the narrative and changes the ending. Yet despite all this I still feel it's the best distillation of the story; the experiments in the lab, the graverobbing, the birth of the creature and its disastrous aftermath - but most importantly in the persona of Cushing as Frankenstein. Some actors are simply in the right place at the right time, as is the case here. His performance is mesmerisingly brilliant - it's very hard to play this type of material without overdoing it (the principal flaw in James Whale's equally stunning 1931 version) and yet still portray the intensity and single-mindedness so crucial to the plot. Cushing is the Villain of Villains, somehow so attractive in his intelligence and passion but also revoltingly sinister in his callous disregard for anything other than his work. If you learn nothing else about Frankenstein, always remember that both the name and the monster in the story refer to the scientist, not the creature he creates (which is both innocent and nameless), and Cushing simply is Frankenstein. The supporting cast are all good, particularly cult favourite Court as the basque-bursting Elizabeth (don't miss her in Roger Corman's The Raven and The Masque Of The Red Death), and of course Lee in a career-making part as the horrific yet pitiable subject of Frankenstein's endeavours. This film was an enormous hit on its release, both in Europe and the US, and formed the basis for the famous Hammer Films series of horror movies. It also brought together a great production crew - director Fisher, writer Jimmy Sangster, cameraman Jack Asher, editor James Needs, composer James Bernard, designer Bernard Robinson and producer Anthony Hinds amongst others - who went on to make many great little films throughout the sixties. There are lots of straight movie versions of this great story, and a thousand variations; everything from The Rocky Horror Picture Show to Bicentennial Man. Almost all of them are interesting and explore the rich themes in Shelley's extraordinary book, but this one somehow captures the essence of it with the greatest purity. Cushing was one of the best actors the UK has ever produced, and his performance in this role stands head and shoulders above all the others. "},{"Title":"The Original Hammer Horror Film","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is the film that launched Hammer's career of redoing the Universal monster movies of the 1930s, with the addition of color and sex. It is also the first pairing of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, two guys you have a hard time NOT seeing in the same film.The movie deserves kudos for making the true monster not the creature, but Frankenstein himself. (After all, we frequently call the creature Frankenstein, and not the man who invented him.) The horror element is truly focused on Cushing as the mad doctor. The monster is almost an afterthought. (It wouldn't be until the Dracula movies that Lee became a star in his own right.) Victor is truly evil in this film because he believes the ends justify the means. (Life never should work that way. The means should justify the ends.) Even as he kills a noted scholar in his house to harvest his brain, he has no remorse for what he is doing. (Compare to the Colin Clive Frankenstein, who is really nothing more than a glorified grave robber.) He kills the maid Justine and his own unborn child in order to cover his secret, a crime he pays for with a death sentence. (Commuted in the sequel.) "},{"Title":"Ultimately unsympathetic","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" **Major Plot Spoilers**I've always been partial to a good Hammer horror, and this was notoriously the film that began it all, launching Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee and Hammer itself into international fame on the back of two million pounds of box-office receipts from a fifty-thousand-pound outlay. It was certainly interesting to see Cushing playing a man in the prime of life instead of the spry, silver-haired intellectuals of his later career; but unfortunately this was probably the least enjoyable Hammer I've seen so far.I think the main problem -- and this may be an entirely personal reaction -- was that there simply wasn't the necessary tug of sympathy for the characters present in so much of Cushing's later work, even the minor shockers from the Seventies like 'Legend of the Werewolf' or 'The Ghoul'. This Baron von Frankenstein is not merely an obsessive blinded to the potential outcome of his work; he's a cold-blooded seducer who manipulates his low-born mistress to her death, kills a man in order to obtain his his brain for the Creature and blackmails his friend with threats to his own fiancée.On the other hand, the servant girl Justine -- in a confusing and surely unnecessary plot twist -- attempts to get the Baron to marry her by the convoluted method of getting herself pregnant by another man, supposedly his moral superior (but she still wants to marry Frankenstein). Cousin Elizabeth spends all her time trying to get him to give up his research to prove his devotion, and Victor's former best friend washes his hands of all responsibility but can't take his eyes off his friend's fiancée for long enough to bring himself to leave the shelter of his roof. The Creature itself is a homicidal lunatic that murders without apparent reason or intelligence and can evoke no more sympathy than its creator -- how such a limiting and limited role could have proved an asset to Christopher Lee's career seems something of a puzzle.The musical score, which I had heard praised, appeared to have little distinction or subtlety, simply telegraphing every move before it was made, and the off-stage peasants, commended for their ingenious budget-saving non-appearance, were absent beyond even the promised torchlight reflection. Conspicuous by their intrusion, however, were the blind man and his grandson, whose sole purposes in life were to be menaced and murdered by the Creature (apparently without consequence) and who aroused a good deal of unfortunate giggling in the auditorium.There is a good deal of play with body parts, acid baths, and the like, which may have thrown out a challenge to the censor but is not in itself horrific. Indeed, as presented, it becomes rather difficult to sympathies with Paul's violent moral revulsion of feeling and insistence that the work will inevitably lead to evil, and his constant nagging comes across as merely unattractive. As a horror film, it derives its few terrors from stock situations like the underclad woman alone in the dark room with an unseen menace, and these, like the blind man scene, are largely robbed of their effectiveness by being over-milked. Considered as a story in its own right, it fails to elevate its characters beyond the one-dimensional or to capitalise on the ironic potential of the various conflicts e.g. it is Paul's actions that create the disaster he is claiming to prevent, and Elizabeth is bound by gratitude to one man but attracted to the other.The most horrific scene for me was the merely human drama at the end, where Paul deliberately lies in order to condemn his friend to death. (For what, it is never made clear. I'd assumed it was for the accidental shooting of Elizabeth while attempting to hit the Creature on the roof, but she is subsequently revealed as alive and well.) But since I suspect this was supposed to be regarded in the light of righteous justice catching up with the Baron to provide the moral to the tale, I doubt that the revulsion of this scene can be laid to the screenplay's credit. The whole relationship between the two had potential that was largely ignored in favour of simplistic carping.In my experience, the late Hammer horrors like 'Hands of the Ripper' tended to have a humanity and style that compensated for special effects on the cheap. 'Curse of Frankenstein', for all its financial success, suggests to me that they hadn't yet established their winning formula. "},{"Title":"Mild Spoilers ...","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's alive! So gasps Peter Cushing as Baron Frankenstein, as he infuses the spark of life into a creature previously dead. On this occasion, it is a puppy used as an experiment. Cushing, taking over from Melvyn Hayes (as the younger Baron), makes the part instantly his own. Every flicker of the eye, every movement, every sideward glance is meticulously measured &#x96; a trait of Cushing's acting, and one of the reasons he has been admired over the years by fans and fellow cast and crew members. As 'Curse of Frankenstein' starts, its credits intoned over swirling red smoke, Frankenstein is dishevelled and desperate, imprisoned for his foul deeds and a cert for the guillotine &#x96; his story is told in flashback.This was Hammer's first major success, the Mary Shelley novel condensed by writer Jimmy Sangster (but not as much as Dracula was the following year). Robert Urquhart, who played Paul Krempe, Frankenstein's tutor, walked out of the premiere, and in disgust gave an interview slating its horrific nature; needless to say, he never appeared in another cinematic film for Hammer. He was not alone &#x96; 'revolting, degrading, pathetic and depressing' are four words amongst many scathing reviews of 'Curse of Frankenstein' upon its release, usually from the prissy pens of the British critics. Happily, the film made seventy times the money that was needed to make it, which tells its own story.Goat's eyes, severed hands and heads, and Cushing's blood spattered lapels certainly brought 'Curse' a huge level of notoriety upon its release which fuelled its popularity and put Hammer forever on the map &#x96; as well as making stars out of both Cushing, and his 'creature' Christopher Lee (a role for which Bernard Bresslaw was also considered). Lee was chosen mainly for his height and smothered in car-crash make-up and an obvious wig, which provides an effective scare but is hardly memorable in the way that Jack Pierce's make-up had been for the Universal original. It is unfair to compare the two films however &#x96; they were made in a different age for a different audience - and that is the last time I shall do so.The few wisps of humour in this doom-laden story are provided by The Baron's affair with maid Justine, who naively believes his lies and tried to blackmail him, and another scene which involves The Baron politely asking for the marmalade during a genteel breakfast directly after the scene in which he locks Justine into his filthy laboratory with his reborn creature.The Creature has a magnificent introduction. Left in an emptying water tank, with its chest heaving, there is a crash which leads Frankenstein to scurry into his deserted laboratory. There stands his creation, uncoordinated arms and hands reaching to rip away the bandages covering his face. Phil Leakey's make-up is revealed, and the creature (or rather the late Professor Bernstein, whose brain is in the monster's head) immediately recognises the man who originally killed him and reaches out to strangle him. No mild-mannered monster, he still invites a kind of sympathy &#x96; in the way a rabid dog would invite sympathy for its plight, if not for its temperament.At the finale, we return to The Baron's incarceration, with Frankenstein facing the guillotine after his last hope, Paul Krempe, has wilfully failed to save him. Krempe is hardly as virtuous as he seems, I think. For all his gallant protection of Frankenstein's intended Elizabeth (Hazel Court), it is clear he has designs on her &#x96; by the film's end, he happily places an arm around her as he escorts her out of Frankenstein's cell. The cad. "},{"Title":"A Rock Solid Frankenstein Film","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Cushing was good no matter what film he played in... he took his roles seriously and Dr. Frankenstein was no exception. This one of Peter's better horror films. He's brilliant... played this role with passion.Christopher Lee plays the Creature. It's not role with dialogue but it is a role which conveys feeling - much like a silent film star - and Christopher does well as usual.It's great late night horror film with two of the finest actors Hollywood has ever seen. This Hammer film is well worth the hour it takes to watch it.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Classic film but a little overrated","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" About to be executed, a condemned prisoner recounts the story of his incarceration of having brought a friend to help in the conception of a human sewn together from different body parts and how its murderous rampage affected those around him.Overall this one was quite a bland and overrated effort without much to really like. The main thing here is that the film is just really boring for the main part of its running time and doesn't offer up much of anything throughout the entire first hour that gives this any kind of feeling about being a horror film. Though it nicely runs through the begging phase of the novel where he begins his research on human anatomy and the limits of science in that time period, these here don't make the connection that his drive to complete these experiments so they make no sense and instead render him into a state of madness performing these actions without that base. He simply comes off as a raving lunatic doing horrible atrocities simply because he wanted to, making for quite the unappealing supposed hero. This also manages another big flaw here in making the film feel so much like a period drama about a scientist keeping his friends and lover away from his work, and there's so many scenes here that feature this from their conversations about the abomination they've created, the growing threats to notify the authorities of his work or the need to procure the remaining parts here that there's barely any time with the actual creature on-screen who only has so little screen-time the pace is altered dramatically slower than what it should be and appears much longer than it really is. These facets here lower this one so significantly that even the few positives here aren't that appealing. The film's biggest virtue here is that the creature's time here is fun makes it worthwhile, getting the initial early resurrection in the laboratory, a great stalking in the forest where it hunts the travelers lost in the area before the two tracking it catch up to it, and the centerpiece attack at the end which is a nice action scene here with the creature stalking their friend and forcing some decent action to rescue her that ends with some solid Gothic action quite nicely. What really gives these a lot of their big impact is the grisly and genuinely haunting make-up work here which is really shocking with how this one goes about portraying the creation which here looks even more likely as a walking, stitched together corpse with all the sutures and cutting marks across the fact that it creates a shocking look. The last positive here is the decision to streamline the first half, as while it makes the actions here way too problematic being forced through all that would've been torture on the pace with the way it is already in here. Still, the flaws here are way to detrimental to save this one.Today's Rating/PG Violence. "},{"Title":"The essential Frankenstein movie","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The essential Frankenstein movie.Based on Mary Shelley's famous novel. A scientist, Dr Victor Frankenstein (played by Peter Cushing) is researching how life can be given / regiven to dead animals. He hits upon the idea of creating a human life by combining body parts from dead people. His research is ultimately successful, but at what cost...?Surely one of the most well known horror-stories of all time. Modern versions are more about the aftermath of Frankenstein's creation, and turn into empty action movies. This version is probably the purest version in terms of telling the original story.Solid plot, good direction. Peter Cushing is great as Dr Frankenstein. Good support from Robert Urquhart, Hazel Court and Valerie Gaunt. Christopher Lee gives his career-defining and - shaping performance as the creature. "}{"Title":"Monster revived","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse of Frankenstein was a monster smash at the UK box office. A low budget, colourful and Gothic re-telling of the Frankenstein story. Less baroque that the later Kenneth Branagh version of the 1990s this was the film that began the reputation of Hammer horror films.Christopher Lee plays the revived monster a world away from the flat headed and flat footed Boris Karloff whose makeup was trademarked to Universal Pictures.The real monster is Peter Cushing's Baron Frankenstein, an obsessive scientist, unethical and a cold blooded murderer. He performs medical experiments with his friend Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) to reanimate tissue. Whereas Krempe has doubts, Frankenstein has none.In fact the viewer has little sympathy for any of the main characters. Krempe damages the brain that Frankenstein has procured, the result is a homicidal monster. Krempe can never get away from his former pupil and you know he is attracted to his fiancée.The film is more melodramatic than horror but its very flawed. Their are good production values, it is colourful. The scene where the old professor takes a plunge is well photographed but the constant argument between Krempe and Frankenstein gets irritating. "},{"Title":"Possibly One of the Best Frankenstein Movies I've Seen Yet!!!","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wanted to watch the TCM Christopher Lee Hammer horror marathon they were having in honor of Christopher Lee recently passing away. I've always been curious about these films, and figured it would be the best time to watch them. I was very surprised at how much I really liked this adaptation of the Frankenstein story. I've only seen the films with Boris Karloff as the monster, but Christopher Lee was just as good and his makeup was amazing for its time. I really enjoyed the story of how Victor Frankenstein went from smart scientist to crazy madman. In his childhood, his parents passed away and sent for a tutor named Dr. Paul Krempe to teach him everything he knows about science. Years later as an adult, he learns how to bring a dog back to life, so he wants to take it to the next level and create a perfect human being from body parts. At first, Paul is intrigued and onboard, but as the experiment gets deadlier, Paul wants out. Victor keeps grave-robbing and stealing eyes, hands and a brain to create his creature. Once the monster comes alive, Victor realizes he can't control it. If you love classic old school horror, you'll love THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN!!! "},{"Title":"Professionally done but could have used a more frightening monster...","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Comparisons are inevitable when viewing something like THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN for the first time after years of other monster movies, but this Hammer film is handsomely produced and features good, strong performances from its British cast.Particularly effective are PETER CUSHING as the Baron Frankenstein and ROBERT URQUHART as his teacher and reluctant laboratory assistant who agonizes over helping him. HAZEL COURT has the role of the woman the Baron's family has arranged for him to marry, who comes into the household without realizing the danger she's in. The strongest performance comes from Urquhart who acts as the conscience who speaks of the madness behind Cushing's motives.Photographed in Technicolor with some striking use of sets and costumes, it moves at a quick pace even though the story is told in flashback and begins with the Baron's youth just after his father has died. It does take time for CHRISTOPHER LEE to emerge as the monster and he hasn't that much screen time in this first outing. Never is his make-up as hideous as that used by Boris Karloff to create his version of the Frankenstein monster in the old Universal B&W Universal films. That is the chief drawback for modern audiences liable to make the same sort of comparison.James Bernard's background score is appropriate in heightening the mood of the film and all the technical elements are fine.The story ends with the Baron Frankenstein facing his fate after having killed several people in order to justify his experiments. The closing shot of the guillotine is an effective way of ending the disturbing story.Summing up A perfect film for Halloween. "},{"Title":"movies from my childhood, part 2","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (potential spoilers)That gunshot to the eyeball is one of the images that'll be forever planted in my brain, next to the rising guillotine as the credits roll.  The Curse of Frankenstein used to air quite a bit on the Turner networks about a decade ago (when I initially saw it), and freaked me out as a child.  Now, roughly ten years later, I watched it again and must say it has held up remarkably well.  Even though the film starts off slowly, indulging in a bit too much talk, the characters become well-developed and the story is involving.  The Baron (Peter Cushing) and his assistant (Robert Urquhart) succeed in bringing a dead puppy back to life; Baron decides he can do the same for a cadaver, and after much moral debate, lightning strikes one evening and brings the accursed creature (Christopher Lee, in a very effective performance) to life.Despite the creature's limited time on-screen, he is understated enough to linger in your mind for quite a while; the makeup is exaggerated, suitably grotesque, and delivers efficient chills.  The relationship between the baron and his cousin(!)(Hazel Court) is a weak area, but Cushing's descent into madness is 100% convincing, eventually leading to his imprisonment in an asylum.  Terence Fisher's direction keeps the action moving at an adequate pace, and the way he interweaves his characters--emotionally, politically, morally--is admirable.  The first half is a bit slow, but the last half is told with absolute conviction.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fine old chiller","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the one that started the second great wave of Gothic Horror movies. Hammer gambled on a color version of the old Frankenstein story and hit paydirt.  Peter Cushing cuts a young striking image and carries the film effortlessly on his shoulders.  The supporting cast is strong as well, but Pete rises above the rest.  Some scenes could very easily have belonged to a score of B movies being churned out at the time, but with a chilly stare and stage trained grace, Cushing sweeps through the fine sets and vivid color to make the world his own.  Then unknown Christopher Lee cuts a good image as a radically different monster, and fits the bill very well.  This may not be the best Hammer film, or even their best Frankenstein effort, but it is an obvious strong cornerstone on which the empire was built.  A fine, fine film full of atmosphere and a kind of charm that is very very Hammer. "},{"Title":"The Curse of Frankenstein","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original 1931 Boris Karloff/James Whale version of Frankenstein, and its 1935 follow up Bride of Frankenstein are outstanding, but with the invention of colour British Hammer (Horror) Studios cashed in on having red blood in this remake, directed by Terence Fisher ((Horror of) Dracula, The Hound of the Baskervilles). Basically Baron Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) is awaiting execution for his crime of murder, he tells his story to a Priest (Alex Gallier). He starts from when he was a young man, Young Victor (Melvyn Hayes) inherited the Frankenstein estate following the death of his parents, he has had sole control as Baron since the age of five, this surprises Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart), who the boy has hired to become his tutor, particularly in the field of science. Two years pass and Victor has learned all that Krempe can teach him, they collaborate on scientific experiments, and are one night successful in an experiment to bring a dead dog back to life, Victor suggests that they could bring a human to life, creating a human being from scratch. Krempe assists at first, but he withdraws following the scavenging of human remains to put this new body together, the body parts of this creature are assembled from a hanged robber's corpse, with hands and eyes purchased from charnel house workers, but for the brain Victor wants one with a lifetime of knowledge. With difficulty in finding a brain by practical methods Victor invites ageing and distinguished Professor Bernstein (Paul Hardtmuth) to the house, and in a moment of madness he pushes him from a staircase, it appears like an accident to others, after the burial Victor goes to the vault and back to his laboratory, but Krempe finds out what he did, there is a scuffle and the brain is damaged. With all parts assembled, including the damaged brain, Victor proceeds to bring his creature to life, but the monster (Sir Christopher Lee) does not have the professor's intelligence and tries to attack him, Victors locks up the violent and psychotic monster. But the monster manages to escape, and wanders into the woods, where it kills an old blind man, Grandpa (Fred Johnson) to a Little Boy (Claude Kingston), Victor and Krempe hunt it down, Krempe shoots it and they bury the body in the woods. While Krempe leaves town, Victor digs up the body and revives the monster, he uses it to murder his housemaid Justine (Valerie Gaunt), whom he had been having an affair with, she was threatening to tell the authorities about his strange experiments. The monster manages to escape again and threatens Victor's fiancée Elizabeth (Hazel Court), but Victor catches up to it on the roof, burning it with a lantern and causing it to fall into a bath of acid, completely dissolving its body, leaving no proof that it ever existed. Victor is arrested and imprisoned for the murder of Justine, Krempe is at the prison and comes to visit him, Victor begs him to testify, as the only other person that knows the truth, but knowing he is insane Krempe refuses, meaning that Frankenstein is led away to be executed by guillotine, it is uncertain whether his story is true or the ravings of an homicidal lunatic. Also starring Noel Hood as Aunt Sophia, Marjorie Hume as Mother and Sally Walsh as Young Elizabeth. Cushing is great as the demented doctor who believes he is creating a scientific breakthrough, he returned in five sequels, and Lee is menacing as the silent and deadly monster, the design and script are very well done, and being the first colour film from the studio it delivers on the gruesome scenes, it is a great horror film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Gothic goes colour in Hammer's resurrection of the Horror genre.","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the Fifties, the heyday of Horror initiated by Universal Studios with 'Dracula' (1931) and 'Frankenstein' (1931) and which had run throughout the Thirties and Forties was done. Audiences had become accustomed to the various tropes and were ready for something new. Into this void stepped Hammer Studios with their first foray into Gothic Horror with 'The Curse of Frankenstein' (1957) and to keep it fresh offered the viewers unprecedented levels of gore in its unabashed depiction of various body parts and people (well, the creature) getting shot in the face. What's more, the choice to film in vivid colour made everything so much more visceral. On the strength of this, Horror was resurrected and brought over to England where Hammer continued their run of films and the careers of Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, and director Terence Fisher were launched into the stratosphere.However, the film is not perfect. Sure the performances are solid, with Peter Cushing giving a characteristically convincing performance as Dr. Frankenstein, a man whose devotion to his work overrides all else&#x85;including the laws of nature. What's more, the opulent production design (made more impressive by Hammer's famously low budgets) creates a real sense of another era and Hammer Staple James Bernard provides a score by turns atmospheric and dramatic&#x85;as he would also do in 'Horror of Dracula' (1958) and many others. And yet, the film lacks a certain punch. It starts off great by establishing character and place, but then fails to develop any real suspense and relies on a few plot-holes to take the film where it needs to go. Perhaps, this is due to screenwriter Jimmy Sangster having to make sure that there no similarities to the Universal production due to threatened legal action. This said, comparisons are inevitable and a major point of difference between the Universal and Hammer productions is the treatment of the creature in the Universal film (similar to the book, although both films take little from Mary Shelly's novel) the creature is the victim and the audience is made to feel sympathy with him. In contrast, the Hammer portrayal is more of a one-dimensional psycho monster. Moreover, even though it was always going to be difficult (if not impossible) to outdo the iconic import of James Whale's 1931 classic, the film is short on pop-culture clout in offering no discernible money shot in the way, say 'Horror of Dracula' has the famous jumping-off-the-table-tearing-the-curtain-down scene.This being said, maybe it is unfair to compare the film so unfavourably to later Hammer Classics as 'Curse of Frankenstein' is not a bad film by any means. It is entirely watchable throughout and its quintessential Hammer characteristics make it recommended viewing to anyone with a taste for the Gothic world of Hammer Horror or, indeed, anyone who wishes to get acquainted with it. "},{"Title":"Hammers the point home","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hammer, responsible for some entertaining horror films with solid production values, tackles the novel Frankenstein with The Curse of Frankenstein. I knew Christopher Lee was Dracula, but didn't know he was also the Frankenstein monster. Having seen the famed 1931 version, I was interested in seeing Hammer's take on the story.Hammer presents Dr. Frankenstein (played, of course, by Peter Cushing) as more villainous than previous incarnations; not actively setting out to do harm, but completely amoral, driven solely by science. He is blind to the grotesque nature of his new project, and resorts to murder to find his ideal brain. He has, with him (and against him), not Igor but a handsome and intelligent scientist named Paul. After tutoring Frankenstein, Paul breaks with him over his experiment, judging it against nature, and warns no good will come of it. He's meant to be the good guy and voice of reason; he soon becomes something like a broken record, harping on about evil and hanging around longer than needed.I was kind of hoping the monster would tear Paul limb from limb; he doesn't, and in fact we don't see much of the monster killing anyone. His killings are largely implied, but still effective in establishing his sense of menace. It's really Dr. Frankenstein who is the movie's true monster. The Curse of Frankenstein boasts fine production values, colour and a dash of fright, altogether delivering able storytelling. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein in widescreen Eastmancolor--some predictable thrills and chills","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse of Frankenstein (1957)You might wonder what compels a studio (Hammer Film Productions) or a director (Terence Fisher) to take on yet another Frankenstein remake. It must have to do with a certain amount of time passing, and the readiness of the public to see a newer version. It was not, in this case, any attempt to make one better than Whale's 1931 classic.The Curse of Frankenstein is a surprising echo of the original, and that's part of the fun watching it, seeing what was changed, what was enhanced. There some familiar scenes handled differently, like the blind man part, and there are some necessary repetitions made with less flair, like giving life to the monster. And this is the first widescreen color Frankenstein, which might have been enough alone to market the thing. The actor playing the Baron Frankenstein, Peter Cushing, had some face recognition (and would appear in the first Star Wars movie two decades later), and he's the strongest part of the movie. The monster was played by his best friend, Christopher Lee.The movie is creaky, for sure. Its effects are fine, but the seams are showing. The bit parts are unconvincing at times, and the script is a bit stiff. But then, a Hammer Horror film can't be too good or it wouldn't also be awful, and this is one of the classics. Hammer managed six sequels to this one (a testament to its success) and Cushing is in five of those. Most consider this one the best, and it's the place to start, for sure. The ending adds a fabulous twist to the main story, and it'll leave you with a chill. "},{"Title":"Solid adaptation that helped establish Hammer, Cushing and Lee.","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This milestone British horror effort is notable for many reasons. For starters, it was the first Frankenstein adaptation to be filmed in color. Secondly, it was a huge international hit that not only became the most successful British film of its time but also helped establish Hammer Productions as one of the world's premiere studios specializing in fantasy, science fiction and horror - a title it would retain for the next twenty years. Third, it (along with Hammer's follow-up hit HORROR OF DRACUL A) made stars out of leads Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, whose names would become synonymous with the genre. And finally, it helped to usher in a return to Gothic horror after years of atomic age sci-fi films (dealing with alien invasions, giant monsters, etc.) that dominated the early part of the decade. Furthermore, the film also upped the ante in on-screen gruesomeness.In a mountainous village in Switzerland sometime in the 19th Century, Victor Frankenstein (Cushing) is being held in an asylum, and narrates his own story about how he ended up there. After inheriting the Frankenstein fortune upon his parent's death, young Victor decides to hire live-in tutor Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) to school him in science. After years of study, the two men begin experimenting in bringing the dead back to life, starting with successfully reviving a puppy. Not quite satisfied with that, Victor (with assistance from an increasingly reluctant Paul) decides to move on to experimenting with human corpses. They acquire the dead body of a hulking burglar from the gallows, bring his body back to the lab and discover birds have rendered much of the body unusable. Victor then sets out to find replacement parts, starting with getting the hands from a newly-dead sculptor. Meanwhile, Victor's lovely cousin Elizabeth (Hazel Court) shows up to make good on a marriage arranged during her youth. Little does she know, but Victor is already carrying on an affair with household maid Justine (Valerie Gaunt), and plans to continue doing so regardless of his engagement.Realizing things have taken a decidedly wrong turn, Paul chooses to quit assisting in the experiments and tries to encourage Elizabeth (whom he has grown fond of) to leave, but she refuses. Victor keeps acquiring body parts in Charnel houses and such, but when it comes down to getting the right brain for his creation, he's reduced to murdering a brilliant scientist (Paul Hardtmuth) to get it. During a scuffle with Paul, the brain is damaged but Victor decides to use it anyway and finally his creation is complete. Lightning strikes and soon the strong hulking creation (Lee) is brought to life.From top to bottom, this is a professionally done production. It's well directed by British horror king Terence Fisher, has convincing period detail and boasts an excellent central performance from Cushing, as well as very good supporting ones from Urquhart and Court. Lee himself has just minimal screen-time, but still manages to make an impression as the creature. However, the role itself is more one-dimensional than what we'd previously seen in Boris Karloff's portrayal in the original FRANKENSTEIN films. Other notable contributions come from composer James Bernard, cinematographer Jack Asher, production design and art direction from Ted Marshall and Bernard Robinson and costumes by Molly Arbuthnot. The film is quite grisly at times, with a decapitation, severed hands, eyeballs, brains, a shotgun blast to the face and a fiery finale. The pale green make-up design on the creature (conceived by Philip Leakey) gives the creature a more zombie-like appearance than previously seen in other adaptations.Despite being executed at the end of the film, Cushing's mad scientist returned again (albeit under the name Victor Stein) in THE REVENGE OF FRANKENSTEIN the following year, as well as many other sequels for Hammer, lasting until 1974's FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MONSTER FROM HELL. "}{"Title":"The Curse of Frankenstein","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As he awaits his execution, from a prison cell, Baron Victor Frankenstein relates his story to a priest regarding the monster he created from the dead with his own hands and the consequences that derived from such actions. Along with Van Helsing, the diabolical scientist Frankenstein was one of Cushing's iconic characters. Unlike the Universal series which veered somewhat away from the creator towards the creation, Hammer studios remain completely focused on Cushing's scientist and how, time and again, he'd oftentimes succeed in his experiments regarding the reanimating of dead life, only to be thwarted by events out of his control. I have never cared much for make-up artist Ashton's work because often the monsters' faces created from Frankenstein's hands look like putty. Unlike Karloff's monster, Lee's creature is basically an uncontrollable killer, strangling anyone in his path. Lee, as always, cuts an ominous figure on screen, but his performance of the monster makes him pitiful, homicidal, and confused. The true evil creature is Frankenstein himself, and we see the lengths he'll go to see his work go unharmed, and will do whatever it takes to achieve in creating a superior being..whether it's killing an elder genius for his brain, pay a penniless sculptor for his hands, or murder a jilted lover/maid-servant when she threatens to expose him. In this first Frankenstein film, Cushing's scientist doesn't have a demented hunchback assistant..a constant in the Hammer series, unlike the Universal features that inspired it, is that Cushing often works with ideologically minded young men eager to gain knowledge by assisting Frankenstein. But, almost always, despite the breakthroughs Frankenstein achieves, his creations fall apart/are destined for failure due to various problems such as miscalculations, public/law enforcement/scientific & religious community, and fate. He continues on despite the wreckage left in his wake towards others. Robert Urquhart is Paul Krempe, Frankenstein's tutor, who collaborated with him for many years on a series of experiments regarding the reanimation of the dead, only to question his pupil's morals and lack of emotions in regards to his methods to gain success in creating life. The voluptuous, well-endowed, and lovely Hazel Court is Victor's cousin/fiancé Elizabeth who always plays second fiddle to Frankenstein's experiments, wishing to spend time with him as the scientist remains in his laboratory endless hours. Paul considers his pupil mad and believes Liz could be in grave danger due to Frankenstein's willingness to achieve at any cost. Paul is privy to Victor's activities. The Frankenstein series fluctuates in quality from film to film, dividing Hammer fans on which is best. Whether other films in this series are better, The Curse of Frankenstein was the first and we have benefited thanks to it's success. Cushing ably portrays him with different facets of emotion..he's determined(..too determined in fact), strong-willed, confident, stubborn, unapologetic, cruel, cunning, intelligent, and even cocky. Perhaps the major flaw of the overall series is how Cushing's Frankenstein often changes from film to film. He's actually friendly, considerate and sad at times, while purely evil and vindictive as well. Cushing shifts his scientist to fit whatever story his character is plunged into. I'd say the Frankenstein series was far more imaginative and daring than the Hammer Dracula films, which could become familiar and repetitive. Similar to the Universal series, the monster is often used and abused, despite Lee's menace, there's still a degree of sadness we feel for him, particularly when his brain has been tampered with again, barely able to walk upright or understand Frankenstein's instructions clearly. The monster's treatment in the series might be a weakness for major fans of the Universal films with Karloff, since barely, at any time, do those under the make-up and costume, have a chance to express the pathos needed(..except maybe Revenge of Frankenstein where a new creature is developed at the request of a hideous hunchback desiring an Adonis' body only for the experiment to fail, as always). "},{"Title":"Great Re-thinking of the Frankenstein Legend","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING   ***1/2  out of  ****For me, CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN is more satisfying than the good but over-praised HORROR OF DRACULA, which is its Hammer Horror counterpart. While both deviate from the book (as do the Universal classics), it's more tolerable when dealing with Frankenstein.What mostly makes this film a rousing success is the late, great Peter Cushing in the title role. He's the best Dr. Frankenstein for me, a role which he would improve on as this series progressed. The emphasis in this movie is on the DOCTOR, not the creature, and Cushing is so deliciously obsessed and limitless in his experiments that our interest never wanes, monster or no monster.As for the creature, it really takes second seat to Cushing, and as played by Christopher Lee it is not very memorable. Lee is a fine actor, but he fails to do much with a limited character (though the makeup is an interesting diversion from the Karloff look).I love those mounting tensions between Frankenstein and his righteous collaborator, Paul (did you ever notice that most males in the Hammer series are called either Paul or Hans?)This film was a milestone for the horror industry. When it arrived, Hammer was on the map and its liberal use of bright colors and blood would set the stage for things to come. It's one of Hammer's finest, and not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Real good upgrade of the legend of Frankenstein's creature.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very interesting retelling of the Frankenstein story. This done by Hammer Films in England. Pretty graphic for 1957.  Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee is enough said. These two guys have been responsible for many, many screams in the dark. Especially liked the creature this time. You can see that he was put together piece by piece. Nice viewing on a rainy night. One of the best of Hammer Films long list of horror flics. "},{"Title":"Cushing Is The Best Thing About The Film","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Cushing is the main thing this film has going for itself. Cushing plays Victor Frankenstein in this re-make of the famous early 1930s classic. (You wonder how many Frankenstein and Dracula remakes there were?) Christopher Lee, the other classic-era British horror film star of his generation, plays the monster.Hammer Horror films have been highly-regarded over the years, and justifiable so in my opinion. Most of them are very well done. This film has historical value as it was the first of Hammer films. My favorite is Horror Of Dracula, made the following year (1958) with Cushing as Dr. Van Helsing. I don't think this film measures up to that one because it doesn't have the suspense, nor does it have the atmosphere a Frankenstein movie should possess.......but it does have a great performance by Cushing. He is the show here, make no mistake.What was weird was that monster didn't look much like a monster. They didn't do much in the makeup department in this film. Maybe that's more realistic as I never did understand why the monster had to have this huge forehead, etc. Heck, here the monster looked more like Keith Richard of the Rolling Stones, or even Mick Jagger, with big acne problems. He wasn't a bad looking guy and certainly didn't deserve the abuse he took (the monster, not the Stones.) The ending of this movie is very unsatisfying, not that any of the Frankenstein movies have a happy ending, but this was particularly unappealing to me. You see, I am not a believer that two wrongs make a right which is what the answer seems to be to the story's dilemma at the end. "},{"Title":"Boring Characters with their Actors as the Only Redeeming Qualities","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At first, we see a priest visiting Victor Frankenstein in a dungeon. Victor's statements make for a long flashback. In said flashback, Frankenstein and a friend, Krempe, successfully resurrect a dog. Frankenstein decides to see how man is effected by the device behind the resurrection, much to Krempe's unwillingness to continue after the duo recovers the body of a dead criminal. For a brain, Frankenstein murders an old professor and is caught cutting the brain by Krempe. They fight over the brain and break it, resulting in the subject being a monster. Krempe buries it in the forest after it kills a blind old man, only for Frankenstein to revive it and be blackmailed into marrying a maid. His imprisonment is for the murder of the blackmailer. Despite excellent make-up and authentic performances, especially Christopher Lee, this movie fails to make a mark as one of the scariest in horror cinema because of its slow pace and iffy characters. "},{"Title":"While no Frankenstein film comes close to the wonderful book, this one offers some unique insight","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As my summary indicates, no Frankenstein movie really has done justice to Mary Shelley's masterpiece novel. One of the biggest problems is that the movies all tend to spend too much time on how the creature is created (it was barely mentioned in the book). The other is that the fundamental moral question posed in the book is also often absent (the guilt of the doctor for creating and then abandoning his creation). Instead, films focus almost voyeuristically at the creature's actions. This movie isn't quite as bad in this regard, because the monster is not the mass-murdering creature he is in some versions and the doctor is truly a bad man! Peter Cushing plays a strange Dr. Frankenstein in that this time he is very willing to commit murders himself to further his work plus he is a selfish user (having impregnated and then killing his housekeeper). This is no kindly man wanting to help humanity--instead it's all about glory and a desire to play god.The monster is the least traditional monster I've seen in a very long time. Instead of looking like Karloff, Christopher Lee looks like a combination of a person and a festering piece of blue cheese!! This isn't necessarily a bad thing--the monster was supposed to look pretty bad and her certainly does! However, this cheesy guy never really is allowed to do all that much damage to the populace--and spends most of the movie confined to Frankenstein's castle.I think that the best part of the film is actually its conclusion. I don't want to spoil it, but thought it was great that it brought up a lot of questions as to what really occurred. This vagueness I really liked because I am sure that people will be debating this for some time and I love endings that are open to multiple interpretations. It's a very good, but not great version of the classic tale. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Curse of Frankenstein - Terence FisherCoF was the first of the Frankenstein movies made by Hammer Studios. Unlike the Universal films, Hammer's series focused on the character of Dr. Viktor Frankenstein as opposed to the Creature (which many movie-goers mistakenly think is called Frankenstein). He is portrayed here as an obsessed and ruthless scientist who will brook no resistance and stop at nothing in his experiments, even going to the extent of killing an old man with the intent of obtaining his brain. He is not evil but utterly amoral, unconcerned with the theological implications of his work.Given its qualification of being foremost a potboiler, this is quite a good film with some cool ideas in Jimmy Sangster's script and an excellent performance by Peter Cushing as Viktor Frankenstein. Cushing breathes life into the role like few others can, making the doctor a thoroughly believable, if none too likable, character.The film has it's share of flaws Besides fixing some of the more glaring plot holes, getting a slightly more stylish look and better actors for the supporting roles would have helped (though Christopher Lee in a brief role as the creature is good enough). But this is still definitely worth the watch and, in my view, a hell lot more entertaining than the stodgy 1994 Kenneth Branagh - Robert De Niro movie.  "},{"Title":"The first Frankenstein film I ever saw, and still my fave","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Lee is wasted as the mute, one-dimensional monster, of course (except in his birth scene, when he unwraps the bandages on his face and the film is temporarily sped up to unnerving effect), but Peter Cushing shines he's dangerous, unrepentantly nasty, cool as ice. Did Mr. Cushing ever give anything less than a superlative performance? If so, I'm not aware of it. Revenge of Frankenstein and Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed are better films, I know, but Curse will always remain near and dear to my heart. Besides, it's Cushing, Terence Fisher, and Hammer Films...and that should be reason enough for anybody to see it! (The last reviewer was right about the washed-out color. Is there enough interest in The Curse of Frankenstein to do a restored print?) "},{"Title":"A horror classic...but not a film classic","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hammer's first Frankenstein horror film.  It's a bit more faithful to Mary Shelley's novel than Universal's 1931 version.  Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) with the help of an unwilling assistant (Robert Urquhart) creates a human being out of the parts of various dead bodies.  Unfortunately the brain used is damaged and the creature (Christopher Lee) is a homicidal maniac.  He escapes and...you can figure out the rest.I saw this originally on late night TV in the mid 1970s.  Back then, I found it frightening and the scene in which the creature is shot in the face, unbelievably bloody.  Seeing it today, I'm not the least bit scared.  The blood and violence which seemed so extreme back then is now very tame.  But childhood memories don't fade and I still remember being scared way back then.  I think an adult or teenager seeing it today would be bored silly.  Still, it IS a classic horror film for introducing Cushing as Dr. Frankenstein which made him a household name, and giving us one of the first bloody horror films.  Still this is in no way a great film.  It's slow (even at 83 minutes) and the creature doesn't even show up until almost an hour in.  Still, it's not too bad.The acting helps.  Cushing is just perfect as the doctor.  You see his obsession and, in a way, understand it.  Urquhart is also very good playing the moral conscience of the doctor.  Lee doesn't make much of an impression as the creature.  His unmasking still does provide a jolt but he's lost under mounds of makeup.  He was much better in 1958's Horror of Dracula.  Hazel Court (a wonderful actress) is shamefully wasted as Elizabeth--but she DOES look fantastic and has some beautiful costumes.  It's also kind of fun to see Valerie Gaunt attacked by Lee here--a year later he went after her again in the Dracula film!  Supposedly she only made those two film--I guess Lee scared her away )  Also the film looks great with some very lush settings and costumes.  So, it's a must-see for the horror fan and even for those who want to see some great acting by Cushing.My only complaint--every single print of this (since the 1970s!) is in washed-out color.  When is Warner Brothers going to strike a new print?  It's about time!       "},{"Title":"The First of the Hammer Horror Cycle!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   The Curse of Frankenstein was the first in a long series of gothic horror films turned out by the tiny British studio, Hammer. This film and The Horror of Dracula (1958) and The Mummy (1959) formed a trilogy of remakes of the Universal classics. All starred Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, who would go on to become household names on both sides of the ocean. Cushing plays Victor Frankenstein who with his teacher and friend, Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) experiment on restoring life to dead animals. When Frankenstein announces that he is ready to create a living being from dead bodies, Krempe balks. Frankenstein decides to go it alone and in his madness, resorts to murder to obtain the materials that he needs to complete his work. Meanwhile, his fiance Elizabeth (Hazel Court) arrives and is used by Frankenstein to unknowingly aid him in the pursuit of his goals, in spite of warnings to the contrary by Paul. During a malfunction in the laboratory, the assembled creature (Christopher Lee) comes to life and escapes into the forest. He is thought to have been killed, but the ingenious mad man re-creates him and he again runs amok. The film was made in color, a practice that had largely not been followed up to that time for horror films. It worked. The public ate it up and the rest as they say, is history. Both Cushing and Lee injected new life into their careers by playing assorted roles, often together, in the Hammer films over the next 20 years. Followed by several sequels. "}{"Title":"Great Horror Film","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based upon todays technology for special effects this 1957 film did a supurb job. The creature had the best makeup of any Frankenstein creature yet. The movie has good scripting and follows the Frankenstein plot for the most part.This film can leave an impact on young minds due to the makeup of the creature and really shouldn't be viewed if under 13 years of age.If you are a Frankenstein buff, you might want to see this one. "},{"Title":"Dr. Frankenstein Is Worse Than the Monster","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movies starring Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee are a subgenre of horror films, one that I have never cared for. Actually, this is one of those Hammer productions, which I do not care for either, even when they do not star these two actors. Such movies are typically ponderous and dull. In the original story, Dr. Frankenstein is dedicated to science, which he believes will benefit mankind, but ends up creating a monster instead. Though we feel sorry for the monster, he is dangerous and has to be destroyed. In this movie, Dr. Frankenstein is more evil than the monster, committing murder to get the brain he needs, which then makes the monster seem superfluous. Furthermore, whereas the original story was a cautionary tale about the unintended consequences of science, the only moral to this story is that if you commit murder, you will probably be punished. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse of Frankenstein, The (1957) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Baron Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) sets out to create life but instead creates a murdering monster (Christopher Lee) in Hammer's updated version of the classic novel. This was the first of a long running series that took many different looks and directions from the classic story. Having Cushing and Lee working together is always a great thing but the two really do wonders here. Cushing steals the film with what might be considered the greatest performance of Dr. Frankenstein. Colin Clive did a brilliant job in the 1931 Universal film but I think Cushing does even better. The manic pacing he brings his character is truly great to watch as is his final battle with the monster. Lee also turns in a great performance but I wouldn't call it better than Karloff who I consider the best monster. I love the walk Lee brings to the role as well as his various facial expressions. Hazel Court is easy on the eyes and does fine work as well. The added up sexuality and violence makes the film refreshing and memorable. "},{"Title":"The First, but Not the Best","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Much to my girlfriend's chagrin, my quest for an entire month of horror reviews led me to an evening of Hammer Frankenstein pictures (thank you, TCM).Looking back, it's difficult to imagine why The Curse of Frankenstein was considered so controversial at the time of its release. In this age of spurting blood and endless torture sequences, the idea of a man-made monster knocking off a few villagers seems quaint.The gore that is on display, the major reason this caused such a sensation in the fifties, is conservative (to say the least). We get severed rubber arms, etc. There is a gunshot to the face that still packs a punch, but very little that anyone over the age of 7 would consider a shock.I don't mean to sound dismissive of this film. It's well done. Good production value for what was considered a low budget film in its day, although you can occasionally see heavy wooden doors/walls wobble.The thing that drags the film down is the endless dialog. There's very little action compared to a contemporary film and what does arrive comes too little, too late.If The Curse of Frankenstein could be summed up in a few words, it would be the first of its kind, but definitely not the best in the series. Having TCM play them in sequence confirmed this. "},{"Title":"Classic Hammer horror take on Frankenstein.","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse of Frankenstein starts as Baron Victor Frankenstein (Peter Cushing) is imprisoned in a jail cell waiting to go to the guillotine, he confesses his whole story to a priest (Alex Gallier) so that his work won't die with him. Frankenstein starts at the very beginning when as a young man (Melvyn Hayes) he inherited his father's huge castle & fortune after the demise of both his parents. Frankenstein goes on to say how he hired a teacher named Paul Krempe (Robert Urquhart) who taught him medical science, after years of experiments they developed a way to reanimate the dead. Frankenstein says that Paul was excited & says that they could save innumerable lives but that he wanted more, he wanted to create the perfect human being using spare body parts & bring them back to life...This British production was directed by Terence Fisher & is the film which the anglo horror period that flourished during the 60's & early 70's can be traced back to, The Curse of Frankenstein & the following year's Dracula/Horror of Dracula (1958) were the films which put Hammer Studios on the map as it were & features many distinctive traits that Hammer films would become synonymous with. From their famous literary sources to the rich English Gothic & Victorian period settings to the glaring Technicolour (most horror films up to that point were shot in black and white) to several key production team personnel like Peter Cushing & Christopher Lee in front of the camera & director Terence Fisher, writer Jimmy Sangster, musician James Bernard & producers Anthony Nelson-Keys, Anthony Hinds & Michael Carreras. The Curse of Frankenstein was the beginning of an era & set the template countless other films would try to imitate. The script by Jimmy Sangster doesn't hang around with the film clocking in at under 80 minutes, I would expect just about everyone to know the basic Frankenstein story & this is surely one of the finest adaptations of Mary Shelley's novel of which there have been more than a few. It's economic & simple yet still layered with various messages & subtle commentary about when the abilities, power & knowledge medical science & doctors have stop & when they start playing god. Baron Frankenstein here is painted as quite the coldly cynical villain having an affair, murdering people & his friends, lying & showing little or no remorse about anything or anyone. The film seems a little slow at times but it all builds up to a satisfying conclusion, the character's are good if somewhat familiar & the actual story is pretty timeless with this being one of the very best adaptations of it. A great film although while it did tick all the right boxes it didn't manage to work me up that much or really get me going, I sat there a bit too impassively & not being affected by what was happening that much for my liking.Director Fisher does a fine job here considering the budget for this must have been tiny, it certainly looks the part with sumptuous Victorian production design, props, costumes & sets by another Hammer regular Bernard Robinson. My only real gripe is that despite living in a huge castle we only ever see three rooms which is more down to budget I would say than ambition. The Curse of Frankenstein was shot in colour & back in 1957 & was probably quite shocking, these days it's not far off a PG with almost no blood or gore. There's a pair of severed hands, a few frames of a decapitated head, some blood splatter & an eyeball. Apparently more explicit scenes might have been filmed for overseas distribution but these have never surfaced so I will believe it when I see them. Since Universal still held the rights to the traditional Boris Karloff Frankenstein monster make-up Hammer were forced to come up with their own design & in fairness it looks like a bit of a mess at times although strangely this is quite effective since the monsters face is meant to be scarred anyway. At times I actually thought it looked more like a zombie with it's pale skin colour, moans & it's slow shuffling walk with outstretched arms!With a supposed budget of about £65,000 the production team got blood out of stone here with this, all or most of that money ended up on screen with it's impressive period design production values. The one aspect that I personally have never liked about Hammer horror films is the loud orchestral booming music often provided by James Bernard, I just don't like them & would prefer something a bit quieter & more subtle. In fact I have been know to deliberately turn the volume down when a long piece of music starts & turn it back up again when it finishes. The acting is very good from most of the cast, Peter Cushing is excellent as usual while Christopher Lee is unrecognisable under the make-up & doesn't get to say a single word, he would have his time & find fame though as Dracula.The Curse of Frankenstein is a classic & if you like horror films then the chances are you going to like this, if not then your not. Hammer Studios made six more Frankenstein films starting with The Revenge of Frankenstein (1958) & finishing with my personal favourite Hammer Frankenstein film Frankenstein and the Monster From Hell (1974) with The Horror of Frankenstein (1970) being a comedy remake of this. "},{"Title":"It's easier to believe a dead being can be brought to life than the movie about it","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That this claptrap was the success it was is a testament to how low the horror genre had fallen by the late 50's. All Curse really had going for it was a ferocious lurid energy, a smattering of blood, and a monomaniacal desire to shock at any cost (not to mention an amazing ability to take itself seriously). But that was enough to exalt it above all its competition and launch the careers of two of the three horror stalwarts of the next 20 years. This despite the fact the characters are flimsy pasteboard constructs and the damned thing makes no sense ay-tall. Victor Frankenstein is a one (shrill) note samba whose character arc and emotional range are both flat lines. Only Peter Cushing's intensity and absolute conviction allows us to follow him through the movie with nary a giggle. He is the compleat rotter, not only cheating on Hazel Court with the maid (which in and of itself is evidence of madness) but killing the poor girl when she complains. The luscious Court herself is awesomely decorative but that's about it--her Elizabeth is good-hearted but impossibly trusting and dim. Never once does she more than wonder vaguely what in the world Victor could be doing up in that lab of his. And Paul Krempe is a self-righteous hypocrite--he hates Victor's work and murders but aids and abets all the way through, sharing Victor's crimes but escaping punishment. As for the Creature--it's astonishing that Christopher Lee's career sprang from this wooden zombie of a non-performance. Makes Glenn Strange's Frankenstein Monster look like Laurence Olivier. Someone at Hammer must've known Lee could really act given the chance because there's nothing to hint at what he could do with a cape and fangs and a little blood smeared around his mouth. The real villain here is Jimmy Sangster, the screenwriter. The frame story is ludicrous--Victor can't get anyone to believe all these murders he's about to be executed for were actually done by a creature he built and animated. Why he would WANT to convince anyone is unclear, since he did a murder or two himself while building the thing. And what makes him think the authorities would pat him on the back and let him go with a wristy-slap if they knew the true story? At least poor Vic has a clear, consistent and believable motivation, he's the only character in the movie so blessed. Paul, the putative Good Guy and Moral Compass, whines and blusters but does nothing to stop him till the Creature has already killed. Victor, for his part, knows exactly how Paul feels about his work (having killed it once already) yet can't resist showing it to him again and again--then is astonished when Paul all but hurls chunks and heads for the authorities at the run. Elizabeth of course, being alone in the house, chooses this exact moment to FINALLY get curious about what goes on up there. And Victor, who throughout the movie has sweated and connived and murdered for his creature--and shown precious little regard for Elizabeth, even threatening her life--then turns around and SHOOTS his valued creation to save her! Bad as the movie was, worse was yet to come every sequel. At least its success brought about Horror of Dracula and inspired AIP, who'd single-handedly put the horror genre into the toilet with its I Was a Teenage (fill in the blank) series, to revive quality horror on these shores with the help of Vinnie Price, Roger Corman and the protean Dick Matheson. A mea culpa to reckon with. Hammer never bothered. "},{"Title":"Hammer does Frankenstein for the first time!","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like most of the classic tales, Frankenstein has had a twist put on it by the fantastic Hammer studios. It has actually been done by Hammer many times, but this film is the one that sticks closest to the original source material. That's not to say that it sticks to it entirely, not by a long shot; as Terence Fisher has still found than enough room for changes to the classic tale, thus making this film a fresh take on the classic tale. Peter Cushing stars as Baron Frankenstein; a role which may well be his finest of all time. Cushing's Frankenstein is more malevolent than the character usually is, giving this film a different twist on the tale from the start. In the Universal classic, Frankenstein was a mad scientist that realised his mistake, and thus the audience was able to forgive him after he repented his sins. Here, we have no such luck; the Frankenstein in this film is a completely morally bankrupt character that seeks no redemption for his sins.We follow Frankenstein from being a boy and taking control of the Frankenstein estate. It is then that he meets his tutor and later collaborator on his experiments, Paul Krempe. We then follow the two as they conduct experiments in an attempt to bring the living back to life, a la the classic story. This film, like most Hammer offerings, benefits from a lovely camp style. It's also a bonus to see Frankenstein in colour as most, if not all, of the Frankenstein films before this one were in black and white. Naturally, the inclusion of Peter Cushing in the lead role does this film no end of favours and despite his character being so awful, we are still able like him just because it's Peter Cushing. Cushing's co-star is Robert Urquhart, who plays his tutor. Urquhart does well with the role and it's a shame that the actor hasn't made more notable films because he's not bad at all. The cast is topped off by Cushing's long time collaborator and a man that would go on to become one of Hammer's biggest stars - the excellent Christopher Lee, who does a grand job in a campy turn as the monster itself.The Curse of Frankenstein isn't Hammer's best production, and to be honest I preferred the excellent Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed, but this stands tall as a solid entry in their oeuvre and is recommended to horror fans. "},{"Title":"A workman's version of the classic monster story.","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forget the atmospheric scenarios of the 1930's, '40's era films, the dark humor of James Whale as in the Bride of Frankenstein and forget the iconic image first created by Universal's Master make-up man Jack Pierce and brilliant interpretation of Karloff. This English version has none of the above. A shame considering the talents involved in this particular production Peter Cushing as a non-sympathetic Baron (Dr.) Frankenstein as opposed to Colin Clive's and Christopher Lee as the creature as he's billed in this version as opposed to Karloff's billing as The Monster - ? in the 1931 version. The English version of the 50's, 60's and 70's depends more on gruesome visuals of dissections and a certain amount of sexual implications than on creepy castle towers, fog enshrouded graveyards and just that bit of black comedy so often found in the Universal versions, especially in The Bride... of 1935. This is not to say that this is not a worthwhile effort but do not expect too much. By comparison it fails against the much more recognizable Karloff-Chaney-Lugosi-Strange monster characterizations. A good time waster but I wish that Hammer Studios had not been in such a hurry to capitalize on the Frankenstein name and spent a little more time/money on a better screenplay. It's a coin toss as to whether or not to see this one. "},{"Title":"The Most Trash Frankenstein Ever!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the prove of the real trash film. It's so bad that begun to be funny to watch. The mask that Lee use is so bad, that appear Lee's neck. Come on!!! Hammer Films, motion pictures is bad.Only some movies that not, like The Phantom of the Opera (The 1962 version) is good. There is one part on the movie, that is old man blind, and then the Creature attack him. And the effects is so bad, that you can see that in the turf the old man is not blind.Please, this is really bad!!! Peter Cushing, is acting is not good at all. But some times, he has a good acting. I do not like this movie, and the new Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is so better that this one that, transform this movie in the most trash Frankenstein ever!!! BELIEVE!  "},{"Title":"Tat","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'The Curse of Frankenstein' sticks faithfully to Mary Shelley's story for one word of the title, which wouldn't be so bad if the changes were any good at all. The tragedy of the creature destroying Frankenstein's family has been completely excised and replaced with... nothing. The heart and moral centre of the story is gone. It doesn't help that this Frankenstein is a conniving, devious murderer; he deserves everything he gets. The plot is a shallow checklist of Frankenstein clichés. Even taken on its own terms, this is rubbish a bland, rambling film featuring a shite-looking creature with a pudding bowl haircut. As it's the first of Hammer's horror films, directed by Terence Fisher and starring Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, its place in horror history is secure. But it's an awful film. "}]