[{"Title":"Just knock three times and whisper low... that you and I were sent by Joe...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When I purchased The Pajama Game, I felt confident that the same team that brought me my all-time FAVORITE musical, Damn Yankees, would not let me down.  I was right.  The dynamic team of George Abbot & Stanley Donen, Bob Fosse's oustandingly quirky choreography, and the wonderfully superb music and lyrics provided by Adler & Ross bring me more satisfaction than the 7 1/2 cents raise when it was given to the Sleep-Tite employees.  Doris Day is charmingly witty and All-American in the role of Babe Williams... a role that allows her to radiate that eternal sunshine that seems to constantly course through her veins.  Watch her vitality in numbers like 7 1/2 Cents and I'm Not At All In Love, her energy and vivacity in There Once Was a Man, and the romance in her Hey There reprise.  But let's keep in mind that Doris is also the only cast member not imported from the original Broadway show. (Much as I love Doris... what the heck was wrong with Janis Paige?  Rent the film Silk Stockings... I think she would have been perfectly darling!)  The show cast is an ensemble of sheer perfection!  Reta Shaw is terrific as Mabel, Barbara Nichols and Thelma Pelish are riots as Poopsie and Mae, Jack Straw is superb as Prez, and Ralph Dunn is sublime as Mr. Hasler (Now that isn't nice!).  John Raitt is great in reprising his role of Sid Sorokin... the man with stars in his eyes and a company to run.  Whatta voice!  And how about that Eddie Foy, Jr.?  As Vernon Hines (aka Hiiiiinesy), he's an absolute TRIP!  What's better than a drunken knife thrower who is having a hard time trusting his girlfriend?  AND he sings and dances.  Such an ADORABLE guy with a bundle of talent!  However, my PERSONAL favorite is none other than that smashing, electrifying dancer with the absolute LONGEST limbs ever... Carol Haney, as Gladys Hotchkiss..  She is not only BRILLIANT but gives an absolutely FLAWLESS performance, in my opinion.  Her dancing is not to be reckoned with... just look at her go in Steam Heat (breath-taking choreography and dancing!), and even Hernando's Hideaway, as well as Once-A-Year Day.  Her comedic timing is uncanny, and with that grainy voice and pixie hair cut, she absolutely STEALS every scene she's in.  It's most unfortunate that she died so young and was unable to pursue a further career in movies or on Broadway.  All in all, this is a WONDERFUL piece of musical cinema, and I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"Day and Raitt Rate","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" in this breezy version of the 50s stage smash. Fun all the way with many songs that became 50s standards Hey There, Hernando's Hideaway, Steam Heat. Great supporting cast led by Carol Haney, Reta Shaw, Eddie Foy, Jr., Ralph Dunn, Thelma Pelish, and Barbara Nichols. Peter Gennaro is one of the dancers. Raitt is hunky and butch in the musical lead, and Day is at her tomboy best. There Once Was a Man is a super duet for the stars, allowing them to be be funny while they belt out this classic, while Shaw and Foy shine in Picture This. The Hey There number with Raitt playing back the song on his dictaphone and responding to it is a true classic and was also a smash 50s hit for Rosemary Clooney.But Haney just about steals the show as Gladys in the Steam Heat and Once a Year Day numbers. She's also hilarious in the Hernando's Hideaway number and following comic scenes. Haney is a combo of Gwen Verdon, Carol Burnett & Alice Ghostley. Haney was also a featured dancer in Kiss Me Kate. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Fifties magic","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When it was released in 1957, The Pajama Game joined a long procession of song and dance Movies that grabbed us all who watched them with their energy, vitality and infectious romance. Doris Day bounces and radiates her way across the screen as only she can and has done many times previously in musicals, singing, dancing and looking great, teaming up this time with some of the cast from the Broadway Production, Eddie Foy Jnr., Carol Haney, Rita Shaw and John Raitt. As you would expect from this array of talent something special would arrive, and it didn't take long for us to taste it. In the opening minutes we are treated to one of Choreographer Bob Fosse's routines with Eddie Foy Jnr. and Rita Shaw singing and stepping to 'I'll never get jealous again ' and as the show moves on more memorable sequences appear like Carol Haney dancing to ' Steam Heat,' Doris Day singing ' Seven and a Half cents ' and everyone it seems giving a rousing rendition of ' Hernando's Hideaway.' The Pajama Game is alive with Fiftie's colour, vigour and good old fashioned song and dance, put together by ideas and talent that perhaps in those days we had the chance to take it all for granted. Sadly.....these days, with the absence of musicals we don't have that opportunity.  "},{"Title":"High-energy musical that may surprise you.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Who'd have thought that a labor dispute could be such fun?  Just add Doris Day's smile, Bob Fosse's choreography, amazing music and dancers and a bag of popcorn!  This is a highly energetic film, super-charged with charisma.  I can't count the number of times I hit pause and rewind just to get another look at a surprise dance move. Boy, do I dare say that this may have been what Grease was hoping it could aspire to?  I want to see this one again real soon!   "},{"Title":"One word sums it up Ole!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Even with three numbers from the Broadway production missing, and even with some lyrics sanitized for middle-America, The Pajama Game remains one of the most successful stage-to-screen transitions.  Except for Doris Day stepping in for Janis Paige, all the principals of the Broadway production are also aboard.  You can compare for yourself Day's performance to Paige's (if you can get your hands on the original cast recording) but it's not hard to understand the producers' choice to go with at least one movie box office name.  In old man Hasler's words, it's a COMPROMISE!The Pajama Game is (with one unfortunate exception) unapologetically stagy.  And why apologize?  By keeping the feel of a stage production the movie preserves the flavor of the  performances.  Reta Shaw and Eddie Foy Jr. team up for a winning soft shoe routine in I'll Never Be Jealous Again.  Racing With the Clock benefits from dolly shots that open up the number without closing out the visual ironies.The unfortunate exception is Once a Year Day, which takes to the not-so-great outdoors to destroy a once-great production number.  The legendary Bob Fosse choreography is badly served by a multiplicity of camera angles that actually dilute the dancing.  Oh, well.Luckily, there is Steam Heat, completely undiluted, offering Fosse as one of the dancers.I am now about to make myself feel very old by saying (oh, dear)  They don't make 'em like this anymore.  But, you see, they can't because Broadway doesn't make 'em like this anymore except in revival.  Wait, let me sing itThe nostalgia game/ is the game I'm in/ And I'm proud to be/ in the nostalgia game/ I love it...And I love this movie.  Don't miss it if you can. "},{"Title":"Once a Year Night","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Almost 30 years ago I went on my first flight ever (London). I was so excited but I made the fatal flaw of staying up to watch The Pajama Game. I had never seen the film before and knew only 'Hey, There' from the score. Needless to say I became almost as excited about Pajama Game as about England! I am perplexed that some viewers find this film... boring (e.g. 'Pajama Lame'). People really do live on 'different planets'. For me, then as now, I am amazed that this film is so 'up'- with one rousing song after another ('I'm Not at All in Love', 'Once a Year Day', 'There Once Was a Man', 'Hernando's Hideaway', 'Steam Heat'). The quiet songs- 'Hey, There', 'Small Talk', and the video-appended 'The Man Who Invented Love' are charming too. How anyone can sleep-through or flat out dislike this film is beyond me. The film IS dated (male/female roles), very 1950s. But sometimes the '50s are a fun place to go. Doris' greatest Day. HJ  "},{"Title":"Makes you feel you're watching the Broadway show!! Fabulous!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  With all of the original cast members intact (John Raitt, Reta Shaw, Gwen Verdon, Eddie Foy, Jr.) except for the exceptionally talented Doris Day filling in for Janis Paige, 'The Pajama Game' is rollicking good fun and a smash hit once again with all of Bob Fosse's show-stopping choreography given top-rate exposure.Who would think a story about a labor dispute in a pajama factory could be turned into such a joyous musical? Carol Haney is priceless doing 'Steam Heat' and 'Hernando's Hideaway' with great finesse. Day sings her heart out on 'Hey There' and other tunes, while Raitt reprises his Broadway role as the factory foreman who comes up against the stubborn and feisty Babe, head of the grievance committee. Day and Raitt can do no wrong, whether they're singing a ballad or a jump tune, whether singing or dancing, whether sparring or smooching. It's all great fun done up in gaudy technicolor and undoubtedly one of the great film musicals of the '50s, the kind that we sorely miss today. One great song-and-dance routine follows another with no shortage of imagination as to staging and concept. A treasure!See it and enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Workers in a pajama factory fight to get a 7 1/2 cent raise!","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the truly unsung musicals of the 1950s, with a remarkably convincing performance from Doris Day, an impressive movie debut by John Raitt and wonderful choreography by Bob Fosse.Pajama Game is probably one of the two most successful musical movies that Warner Bros produced, the other, of course, also starring Doris Day Calamity Jane, which reversed the order of Adler and Ross's wonderful creation by moving to the theatrical stage after the movie was made. Stanley Donen and George Abbot have produced and directed a total joy of a movie, creating a believable factory environment and giving the union demands for a pay rise the full strength. Carol Haney (from the record breaking Broadway production) makes a wonderful front office employee and with her number Steam Heat gives Fosse's choreographic skills full rein! Truly a joy of a movie, wonderfully photographed in magical colours and in excellently framed CinemaScope. How hard to think this film has been overlooked for so long. Definitely a must for any fan of musical movies and it warrants repeated viewing on a regular basis.A gem just waiting to be rediscovered. "},{"Title":"A wonderful almost forgotten musical","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The 1957 film version of the Broadway musical THE PAJAMA GAME is one of the best translations of a stage musical to the screen ever. The screen version is extremely loyal to its origins, utilizing almost all of the original Broadway cast (except for Janis Paige, who lost the role of Babe to 50's box office powerhouse Doris Day)and keeping most of the original score intact (only one song Hers Is was not used in the film and a song written especially for Doris for the film, ended up being cut). This delightfully original musical centers around the Sleep-Tite Pajama Factory where the head of the grievance committee (Doris) is trying to negotiate a 7 and a 1/2 cent raise for the factory workers by butting heads with the new factory supervisor (John Raitt, reprising his Broadway role)but eventually falling for him. Musicals were past their prime by the time this one made it to the screen, but it is still beautifully mounted and has some of the greatest songs in musical comedy (Hey, There, I'm not at all in love, There Once was a Man). Day and Raitt make an engaging screen couple (Day has rarely been so adult or sexy on screen) and the imaginative choreography by the legendary Bob Fosse is a big plus. Carol Haney's Steam Heat is classic Fosse and one of the highlights of this wonderful stage musical that inexplicably died at the box office upon release. A great musical that is a must for Day and Fosse fans. "},{"Title":"The quintessential 1950s musical comedy","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I believe The Pajama Game is the quintessential 1950s musical comedy. Although the film cut a few of the songs from the Broadway version, there were none added, so what is seen is a very faithful version of the source material.  Another bonus with the film is that much of the Broadway cast is featured in the movie version.Doris Day, is as usual, wonderful, as is a young Bob Fosse's choreography. The Steam Heat and Once A Year Day numbers are highlights.The DVD features a cut number written for the movie.  It is quite good, but it is also understandable why they didn't use it, in that it would have slowed the momentum of the film had it been used.All in all a very entertaining film. "}{"Title":"Doris Day's Glorious Voice and Total Professionalism","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've heard and seen other actresses attempt to sing and play the part of 'Babe Williams,' but none can compare to Doris Day. Her natural instincts of living the lyric brought natural body movements, facial expressions, expressive gestures and her film EXPERIENCE and vision of what will look good on the screen, made her performance exceptional.Her mere interpretation of the lyric and her lilting voice elevates the material, which sounds bland in the hands of even the wonderful Janis Paige, who, when compared to Doris, loses in all departments.I wonder who's idea it was for Doris to have an apple as her major prop during I'm Not At All In Love? It worked beautifully.When she makes her first appearance on the screen, she takes complete command, just like a MAJOR MOVIE STAR should. Every time she appeared on the screen, the mood changed for the better. I'm so sorry that The Man Who Invented Love was cut from the film. Have you ever seen a Doris Day musical where she didn't have a couple of ballads of her own? On Broadway, John Raitt had top billing but equal marquee status with Miss Paige and Eddit Foy, Jr.; but this was Hollywood and Miss Day got sole star billing with Raitt, Carol Haney and Eddie Foy, Jr. relegated to lesser stature.I love the look of this film, the pajama factory, the old offices, Day's homey home, etc. Why this musical doesn't get more recognition, is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Very good translation","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While not the best musical ever, it is certainly entertaining. Lots and lots of songs (more than dialog it seems) with a frail story line to keep the songs going. Too bad they had to sanitize some of the songs, but because of severe censorship in the 50's it had to be done. Even in the 7 1/2 CENTS number, the had to change hell-of-a lot_ to heck-of-a lot. Seems silly. I'LL NEVER BE JEALOUS AGAIN was changed even more...to bad. Other lyrics as well were changed, but at least they made it into the final cut, unlike other musicals that take out almost everything and add new numbers. Only three numbers were cut from the stage version and it's too bad A NEW TOWN IS A BLUE TOWN wasn't included.The performances are all top notch. A perfect vehicle for DORIS DAY, although JANIS PAIGE who did the stage version would have worked as well but she wasn't a big NAME. Ironic that JANIS had first billing and the lead in DORIS' first movie ROMANCE ON THE HIGHT SEAS, and about 8 years later DORIS takes over from JANIS. Oh well, that's show biz.For a fun way to spend and hour and 41 minutes, do see PAJAMA GAME. A bit stagy but after all it was a stage play. "},{"Title":"Remember the time, the context","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm giving this movie 7 stars for Steam Heat with Carol Haney and the performances of almost everyone in the movie. The sexist angle that would now be called harassment in the workplace seriously dates the film but it is still entertaining. John Raitt comes on very strong but Doris Day more than holds her own. Carol Haney is the best thing in the film! Note Eddie Foy, Jr. in the role of Hinesy. Reta Shaw later gained fame as the housekeeper on The Ghost and Mrs. Muir television show. One of the most fun things about watching old movies is discovering the character actors we've become familiar with from television. Bob Fosse's choreography is splendid and Barbara Nichols is a riot. "},{"Title":"I really am in LOVE with this movie !!!!!!!","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love this movie it has singing and dancing and the best of Doris Day. I love a whole bunch of her movies and this is one fav but I really Love Chalamity Jane that movie is so cool that I would marry it if I could LOL. But I like this movie because it is an oldy and I am 13 and love old movies. Like I love Lucy and Pillow talk, etc... Even though I am in love with this movie does not mean I don't like other movies because I love watching movies it is funny but it is roting my brain LOL. I am in middle school and so I have nobody to talk to about these kind of movies because we are in the age were old movies at my school are just know cool.LOL. If there is anyone who likes old movie and would like to talk some time with me just go to my biography and leave a comment on something on mine and I will comment you back. But if you have never seen this movie I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Real, warm, and lovable","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Do you dislike musicals because you feel they are about nonsense and fantasy? Well, here is a musical about, okay, a man and a woman falling in love, but also capital and labour, exploitation of the workers, crooked financiers, and a heroine who is a strong woman whose work is important to her and who gets angry when her boyfriend doesn't take her seriously. Call that a fantasy? I don't dislike musicals, but I have always disliked Doris Day, who always seemed to me to be a phoney, a woman who was always pretending to be arch and super-feminine. Here, for once, she is the tough girl she really was, a blue-collar heroine who is robust and forthright, and she is terrific.More important, of course, than the subject is the way it's handled, and the team of Adler and Ross (who also wrote Damn Yankees!) provide lots of charming, unpretentious, but also clever and peppy songs and two very slinky dance numbers, which last are a fine memorial to Carol Haney, the beautiful, talented, but sadly disturbed and short-lived dancer who originated the role on Broadway. Even the throwaway lines in the songs are enormously funny--for instance, when one song wants to make a point about a posh restaurant, the lyric is not In a posh restaurant but, referring to a generic fictitious posh restaurant, At The Golden Finger Bowl...Those who love musicals, of course, will appreciate one that is so well crafted and directed. But nostalgia freaks in general are richly served here. Typewriters? Time clocks? And UNIONS? Organisations that protect the rights of the workers? Gee, daddy, what are those? "},{"Title":"good music, good acting, controversial plot","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I like John Raitt, Eddie Foy, Jr., and especially Doris Day in this movie, and I liked the songs, but the plot was somewhat controversial in this George Abbott/Stanley Donan production from Warner Brothers from 1957. The plot centers around the workers in a pajama factory putting forth endless efforts for their seven-and-a-half-cents-an-hour raise. Thus, to some extent this is a serious musical,though, granted, it is humorous in places, but again is a story about a sensitive issue. Too often anymore too many places go on strike for a raise, and it ends up affecting the whole economy in this country.Does this movie seem to say that fighting for raises is cute? I wonder. But again, the songs and occasional comedy are very entertaining, john Raitt and Doris Day click, and it does end up on a positive note. Yet, if this is supposed to be a comedy, then deal with something less controversial. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Music, Dance and Interesting Class Conflict Settting","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was the reactionary 50's, so showing a conflict between management and labor, however comically presented, was quite daring. While not exactly a Marxist textbook case, it does show exploitation of workers and their attempts at fighting back. One can also view it as trivializing the harsh and terrible struggles of workers and unions against capitalist exploitation, but that seems a bit mean-spirited. While no Cradle Will Rock it does make the point that even a small issue (a pay raise of seven and a half cents) can be important in the context of a worker's life. I liked most of the songs and dances. There may be two or three too many as they do tend to slow down the plot a bit. I loved Doris Day, but I didn't feel that John Raitt was a good leading man for her. I didn't feel any chemistry between them. Someone suggested that Dean Martin was up for the lead. I would have preferred him. Carol Haney was good, but I was kind of sorry that the part didn't go to her Broadway understudy Shirley Maclaine. It now seems to me that Maclaine imitated Haney for the first eight years of her movie career. Still, Haney was 32 when she did the part and not in good health. She appears to be an older version of early Shirley. A 22 year old Maclaine would have been terrific. The song There Once Was a Man reminded me of the great duet between Betty Hutton and Howard Keel in Annie Get Your Gun - Anything You Can Do. I would put this in the second tier of great movie musicals. It isn't Cabaret or Singing in the Rain, or Dames, as it does drag in a few spots, but for 75 out of its 95 minutes, its delightful. "},{"Title":"All Right Until the Whistle Blows","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Can Stanley Donan end a movie? Two classic movies he directed, Charade' and The Pajama Game end so abruptly it's almost like he has them on a stopwatch and simply decides to cut them off with a cleaver.Otherwise, The Pajama Game is a dandy diversion. The Broadway hit hosts a handful of great songs (Hey There, I'm Not at all in Love, There was a Man, Steam Heat and Hernando's Hideaway have all become standards). The movie might be a little too stagy. About half way through it opens up about at a picnic with the less famous, but energetic number Once a Year Day where choreographer Bob Fosse has his dancers in a park performing all sorts of tricks on what appears to be uneven ground. Otherwise, the movie is a little too aware of the proscenium. The pajama factory is far larger than it could have been on stage, but it looks like a set.The Hernando's Hideaway number has STAGE is stamped all over it, but it's the most effective number in the movie.Many actors are recreating their Broadway characters. The big replacement is Doris Day, a proved movie performer who does well in a new role. The male lead, John Raitt, reprises his Broadway role. Male lead Raitt has a good voice and sings well in a duet with himself in Hey There; but he's so stiff he might have played the Commendatore in Mozart's Don Giovanni before he came to life. He desperately needs Day's inestimable charm to pull him through as well.The second leads, Eddie Foy Jr. as Vernon Hines and Carol Haney as Gladys Hotchkiss, are both pros able to translate their practiced Broadway performances to the screen with new energy. Their parts are truncated from Broadway, and this is a good thing with their energy they'd have swamped Day and Raitt and it would have become the Gladys and Hinesy show. Although, from what I understand, the excisions mean that Hines comes off as unreasonably (maniacally, even) jealous of Gladys, if these two were allowed any more to do in this picture Day and Raitt might as well have stayed home and phoned in their lines.The plot &#150; based on Richard Bissel's slight novel 7 ½ cents, about a labor dispute at a pajama factory, is of no interest. The workers themselves don't even seem to care about the story until it raises its head again as a convenience. The story is simply a clothesline to string up a collection of great songs.There's nothing here for anyone with a low threshold for musicals. This is no treatise on arbitration. It's a fun romp through romances in a pajama factory with lots of singin' and dancin' and knife throwin'. "},{"Title":"SleepTite Pajamas Make A Righteous Musical","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing The Pajama Game when it first came out back in 1957 at the old Nostrand theater in Brooklyn. It played on a double bill with The Joker Is Wild. It was the first Doris Day film I ever saw and it became and remains my favorite. By the way that was some double bill because The Joker Is Wild became my first and favorite Frank Sinatra film.The Pajama Game was the successful product of a lot of creative talent, starting with director/writer George Abbott and also including composers Richard Adler and Jerry Ross. All the principal parts of the show that ran from 1954 to 1956 for 1063 performances on Broadway made it to the screen with the exception of Janis Paige who was Babe Williams.In fact Jack Warner in keeping with his policy of making sure at least one movie name for box office was included, something we all commented about when he brought My Fair Lady to the screen seven years later with Audrey Hepburn instead of Julie Andrews, was going to do the film with either Janis Paige or John Raitt from the Broadway cast. How the decision was made who knows it could have been a coin flip. But what happened was that Doris Day got her best musical film role in my humble opinion. It's so incredibly right for her.Now if it had gone the other way, rumor has it that Dean Martin would have co-starred with Janis Paige. Dino would have been great as Sid Sarokin, but at least we got an opportunity to see John Raitt do at least one of his Broadway roles for the screen.Raitt had the big hit out of The Pajama Game, Hey There. The Pajama Game Broadway Original Cast and Film record both sold well with Hey There being featured. However Rosemary Clooney and Sammy Davis, Jr. had the big hit records on the charts for this song. In Sam's case it was the first big recording hit of his career. As for Rosemary's version, it's done the way John Raitt does it on screen, into a Dictaphone with him commenting on the playback.George Abbott and Stanley Donen co-directed The Pajama Game and their collaborative effort did a wonderful job in translating the musical from stage to screen. The Pajama Game has as much dancing as singing in it and I find it hard to believe the entire thing was done on the Warner Brothers sound-stage, looking at that Once A Year Day number that Bob Fosse choreographed. I refuse to believe that wasn't done outdoors. In fact The Pajama Game showed influences of the film version of Picnic released the year before in that particular number.Doris Day's big number is I'm Not At All In Love which is perfectly suited to her sunny optimistic style of singing. Done with a touch of irony because union organizer Doris is definitely falling for plant superintendent Raitt.We can also thank the Deity that Carol Haney got to repeat her part as kookie Gladys the secretary and get to Hernando's Hideaway. Would you believe that Shirley MacLaine was understudy to Haney on Broadway? It's a fact and again she would have made a great Gladys. But I'm happy Haney got to do her part. She was also a great choreographer in her own right and you can bet she had her input with Bob Fosse in doing her numbers.It's sad, but The Pajama Game is quite dated now. The labor situation in Eisenhower America is a whole lot different than in Bush II America. The whole plot of The Pajama Game revolves around a small town in middle America where the main employer is the SleepTite Pajama company and a labor dispute involving a 7 1/2 cent per hour raise for the workers. More than likely today, SleepTite Pajamas are being made by some third world workers for subsistence wages and there's another depressed former company town in America.Dated though it is, this is one great musical, one of the best ever done on Broadway and transferred for posterity to the cinema. "},{"Title":"MUSICAL COMEDY AT ITS BEST!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Pajama Game is the best translation of a Broadway musical  brought to the screen. The film is lively, and the music is  fabulous. Choreographed by the great Bob Fosse, the dance  numbers are sprightly and will keep you on your toes.  The cast is top notch from the original play cast members to the only new addition&#133;the great Doris Day as Babe. "}{"Title":"Terrific choreography and loads of fun!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's amazing this one isn't better know. It's non-stop song & dance, keeping up a quick pace without getting bogged down by too much plot. The Bob Fosse choreography is so distinctive; you can't miss those shoulder shrugs, knock knees and waist grabs! The dance is joyous and playful. In a Fosse musical, his touch is apparent not just in the dance, but in the casting (Carol Haney is a typical Fosse hoofer) and costume (those cute bowler hats).Although it isn't among the greatest musically, it does have Steam Heat and Hernando's Hideaway going for it. Hey There is not a great love theme, and most of the other songs aren't the kind you'll be humming a week later.Steam Heat is a standout dance number. In staging and presentation it's very similar to Who's Got the Pain from Damn Yankees. Damn Yankees is the more famous Fosse musical, and the songs in it are better, but the stage-to-film translation is much, much smoother in Pajama Game. Both movies suffer, though, from stars who don't dance. Doris Day is her usual strong, sweet self, and John Raitt is a piece of wood with a very good voice.Overall, a fun family movie, with thrilling choreography and lots of laughs. 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Very infectious and a Doris Day treasure","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" John Raitt's really bland acting is the only drawback to a film that was just a pleasure to watch after an emotional roller-coaster of a week. The fashions and hair are very 50s but are beautiful-looking and the settings colourful and showing signs of life. The photography and editing shows signs of creativity(Racing Around the Clock was true to this), as does the energetic and quite unique choreography from Bob Fosse. You have to love its robustness and wit in Once a Year Day, but the gem is the classic and very catchy Steam Heat. The songs are similarly terrific, especially those two(Steam Heat being the highlight of the film) and There Was Once a Man. The dialogue is warm-hearted and sharp-witted, and while the story is unlikely it has a lot of charm and energy which wins you over at least. The Pajama Game is one of musical comedies that benefits from being a fine example of something being faithful to its original source done well-after seeing those being too faithful and lacking energy as a result, the remake of Bye Bye Birdie being a prime example. Faithfulness has never been essential with me, though the spirit of the original source makes do, anything deserves to stand on its own merits. Doris Day sings beautifully as always and has a winning and charming charisma about her, one of her better performances from a personal perspective. Carol Haney almost steals the show from under her, what great comic timing- so funny without trying too hard- and equally great dancing. In conclusion, a Doris Day treasure and any fans should have no problem enjoying it and how infectious in spirit it is. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Extremely faithful adaption of smash Broadway show you'll watch over and over again.","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" With practically the entire original Broadway cast present, this movie version of the smash hit 1954 Broadway musical is a fun-filled, dance heavy extravaganza that goes to the heart of America and covers topics still dealt with today. Factory workers are demanding a 7 and half cent hour raise and union representatives fight management in order to get it. They are lead by the tough Babe (Doris Day, taking over the role created by her former/future co-star Janis Paige) who falls head over heels for the handsome Sid (John Raitt) who is the new superintendent and doesn't want to waste time on Small Talk. Jealous floor manager Hinsey (Eddie Foy Jr.) fights his urge to distrust his lady love (Carol Haney), but like all other musical comedy's, love conquers all and issues are wrapped up in a neat manner.From the moment Day cracks, Love, are you nuts?, you know she's hooked on the masculine Raitt who finally gets to repeat a stage role after being overlooked for Carousel. More plucky than normal, Day was the obvious choice for star name for the female lead, but don't feel sorry for the talented Ms. Paige; The very same year, she got to sing and dance with Fred Astaire in Silk Stockings, praising the benefits of glorious Technicolor, breathtaking Cinemascope, and stereophonic sound. To show there were no hurt feelings, Paige (who had earlier worked with Day in Romance on the High Seas) took on a major part a few years later as the flirtatious Broadway star who comes between Day and husband David Niven in Please Don't Eat the Daisies.This is a fantastic score by Adler and Ross (Damn Yankees), and a glorious slew of production numbers will thrill you, from the company picnic (Once a Year Day) to the very Fosse-esque Hernando's Hideaway (Hey Buddy, this ain't Poopsie!) and finally Steam Heat where elements of Fosse's later hit Chicago are seen with the dance involving Fosse's trademark hat. A glorious supporting cast shines, particularly Foy and the lovable Reta Shaw in a soft-shoe duet, I'll Never Be Jealous Again. The wonderful Barbara Nichols also appears to good advantage, as does the portly Thelma Pelish. Haney, in her only major movie role, steals every scene she's in.Most musicals transfer to the screen with the best elements taken out, but with most of the original creative team involved (including legendary Broadway director George Abbott), a love letter to what makes Broadway great was written for audiences to enjoy. While some of the elements are definitely more suited for the 1950's, this is the perfect time capsule piece to show what American culture was best at portraying, and the combination of toughness and innocence in every aspect makes this an absolute pleasure. "},{"Title":"You won't Sleep-tite thru this movie!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Considering that Doris Day was the only 'star' of the movie, it was a sheer delight from title to credits. Great songs, good dancing and most unusual for a musical, a good plot.  When it comes to musicals, I take my hat off to Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Exciting musical sequences in an otherwise just average film.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Pajama Game (1957) is a tired little warhorse of a musical. The plot concerns itself with the whopping seven-and-a-half cent raise demand put forth by the feisty grievance committee chair person, Babe Williams (Doris Day) on behalf of the general laborers working for Sleep-Tite apparel manufacturers. Shop superintendent and company man, Sid Sorokin (John Raitt) has other plans. He's interested in the heated discussions he shares with Babe, but more from a purely romantic angle that would have most of today's HR departments screaming sexual harassment. Ah, me, consider it foreplay. For very soon in the game Babe finds herself happily getting the hint and melting to the demands of her boss/lover. However, when Sleep Tite's president, Vernon Hines (Eddie Foy Jr.) decides to put his foot down, you can bet that the whole business of hearts and flowers goes the way of the domestic dust bin in a hurry.Based on the modest Broadway sensation choreographed by Bob Fosse, the film is co-directed by George Abbott and Stanley Donen &#150; the latter staging some brilliant set piece musical numbers - particularly 'Hernando's Hideaway', sung and danced by a candle-lit processional that turns into a jazzy riff at a local hot spot, and, the brilliantly executed dance in the park during a company picnic, set to the tune of 'Once A Year-Day'. Yet for all its energy the film today seems to lack that essential spark required to make it an instant classic. Doris Day is in fine voice with 'There Was A Man' but John Raitt is a singer and romantic lead unequal to the task. He has no presence on the screen and is quite easily dominated by the rambunctious Ms. Day.Warner's DVD is a re-release, previously made available over a year ago with different packaging. The transfer is the same on both discs absolutely stunning. Colors are very bold and rich. Shadow and contrast levels are marvelous. Blacks are deep and solid. Whites are clean truly, nothing to complain about. The audio has been remixed to 5.1 and delivers an admirable kick during the musical sequences, but sounds rather unnatural and strident during the rest of the audio presentation. Dialogue is decidedly forward sounding with no spread across the channels. The only extra is a deleted song; 'The Man Who Invented Love.' "},{"Title":"Name of the Game","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pajama factory workers debate striking for a wage increase while the head of their grievance committee romances the new superintendent in this bright and colourful musical starring Doris Day. The imaginative dance sequences are choreographed by Bob Fosse and with memorable tunes throughout (there is a song number at least once every five minutes), there is hardly a boring moment to be had. The plot, however, leaves more than a little to be desired. Some have described the movie as musical version of 'Norma Rae' - a description that is pretty much on the mark - however, the need for the workers to strike here never seems anywhere near as strong. Their working conditions are actually very decent, their desired wage increase is quite minimal, and the frequency of bright song/dance numbers detracts from any sense of urgency in terms of their demands being met. Appealing a couple as Day and lead actor John Raitt are, the two of them also fall in love far too quickly for credibility with barely a mention of the unethical nature of their relationship. There is, however, a lot to like in the way the tension at work conflicts with their romance, culminating in Raitt having to make a very hard quick decision at one point. Raitt is also surprisingly decent for a first time lead actor, though the film's best moments go to trained dancer Carol Haney in (apparently) the only talking role of her movie career. Her creatively choreographed Steamed Heat number is a particular highlight, though Hernando's Hideaway deserves top marks for her best song. "},{"Title":"Short and Sweet","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Cast My favorite--Gladys Hotchkiss played by Carol Haney. A fine actress with an interesting voice...and she's an excellent dancer. Otherwise, a little overacting by some of the other characters (Vernon Hines and Sid Sorokin, come to mind).Songs Catchy tunes including There Once Was A Man (I Love You More). Famous songs such as Hernando's Hideaway. Doris Day has an excellent voice; she hits high, loud parts perfectly. The rest of the songs are standard for musicals of that era.Dance Numbers A couple of standouts--Once-A-Year Day! and Steam Heat. The latter has an eerie resemblance to Michael Jackson signature moves and clothing.Dialog Quite unremarkable...as evidenced by the fact that 2,311 people have rated this film on IMDb but the Quotes page contains only two entries.Scenery Again, a couple of excellent sets at the factory and the park. Otherwise, standard for musicals of this era.Problems I thought that Babe Williams and Sid Sorokin fell in love way, way too quickly. "},{"Title":"Dated Doris Day Vehicle Contrived and Predictable Mainly for Day Fans","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Most of the film-goers of the early 21st century don't realize probably the biggest film and music star of the 1950's was Doris Day. Doris Day's music albums sold more copies than any other artist's music during the period (even Elvis Presley), and her films were some of the most popular, beating out Marilyn Monroe by leaps and bounds. (It wasn't until after her death that Monroe became the most iconic female movie star of the era, overshadowing Day.) Doris Day was the perpetual Hollywood virgin, the direct antithesis of Marilyn Monroe.The Pajama Game is typical Doris Day musical fair, a film version of the Broadway hit musical. Workers at a clothing factory which produce, you guessed it, sleepwear, are tired of the bad working conditions and low pay. Katherine Babe Williams (Doris Day) is one of the factory workers but she's also involved with the union leadership which threatens to strike if working conditions aren't improved and they don't receive a raise to bring them in line with industry standards. Enter Sid Sorokin (John Raitt), the new floor manager. Day and Raitt begin to fall in love (no surprise there), but they're on opposite sides of the dispute Day on the worker's side and Raitt on the management side.The typical Hollywood W, a shape representing the up's and down's of a story, forms how the storyline progresses. At first things begin to get better for everyone involved with the arrival of Raitt as a good floor manager. However, when their requests are still not met, Day and her fellow workers begin to pull stunts of sorts to compel the management to agree to their demands. However, Raitt asserts his authority on the worker's floor and Day is forced to take the other side. All the while, the head honcho of the factory, Myron Hasler, has no intention of bending to the will of the factory workers in stereotypical fashion.Overall, the Pajama Game is really designed for the hardcore and fiercely loyal Doris Day fan. The music is a bit corny and the dance sequences go on way too long. Sure, there's nothing offensive about the Pajama Game, as the point it makes about workers and management is not terribly deep. The ending is as you would expect it, although there's a kind of fashion show at the end which is certainly cute. Even by Doris Day standards, this isn't one of her better offerings. "},{"Title":"Dated but still very good","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Employees at the Sleeptite Pajama Factory are ready to go on strike if they don't get a raise of (get this) 7 1/2 cents an hour! A new manager (played by John Raitt--Bonnie's dad) is hired to cool things down and falls in love with one of the employees (Doris Day). But will the salary dispute tear them apart?The plot is OK and some of the dated aspects are amusing--the 7 1/2 cent raise and a company picnic that offers free beer! The songs are great (I love Hernando's Hideaway and Hey There), Raitt and Day can sing beautifully and the production numbers are full of energy and color. The only negatives here are that Raitt and Day have zero sexual chemistry together and Raitt isn't the best actor...but when he sings all is forgiven. For some reason this is pretty unknown but it's a very good 50s musical. "},{"Title":"THE PAJAMA GAME (George Abbott and Stanley Donen, 1957) ***","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm not a big fan of vintage Hollywood musicals any more and can only return, even if with trepidation, to just a handful of classic titles. For that reason, I haven't watched one in ages&#133;but this film had always been a highly-touted example of the genre &#150; being also more adult than usual, with a social theme involving an impending factory strike &#150; so, I decided to give it a go. That said, my adjustment to the schmaltzy style which so characterizes musicals of this era wasn't immediate...However, there's no denying that the songs by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross are splendid &#150; even if I preferred the more intimate numbers; likewise, Bob Fosse's choreography felt impersonal for the most part (though I was, admittedly, conditioned by the fact that I'd seen the musicals he later directed &#150; which exhibited a definite, and unique, stylization to the dance steps &#150; prior to this one!). Anyway, the best musical sequences are Doris Day's I'm Not At All In Love, John Raitt's melancholy Hey There (later reprised by Day), Steam Heat (a recognizably Fosse number highlighting Carol Haney) and the stylish Hernando's Hideaway (though, in retrospect, it seemed silly to me that the latter is ostensibly a secluded place and yet all the factory-workers seem to hang out there!).The cast, of course, is headed by Day (ideally cast here as the head of the factory's Grievance Committee, with the film itself generally considered as her best); many of her fellow performers had originated their characters during the show's Broadway run &#150; including leading man John Raitt (rather stolid in his only major film role), Eddie Foy Jr. (as the burly manager at the factory whose fits of jealousy and penchant for throwing knives could turn dangerous when he's had one drink too many!) and Carol Haney (as the latter's fiancé and the factory-boss' secretary in what proved to be her last film, as she died quite young).Ultimately, the film isn't up to Donen's best (and better-known) musicals &#150; such as ON THE TOWN (1949), SINGIN' IN THE RAIN (1952) and SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS (1954) &#150; nor do I see myself watching it as frequently as his two delightful imitation-Hitchcock comedy-thrillers, namely CHARADE (1963) and ARABAESQUE (1966). Still, even if I wasn't quite as enthused with the film as I'd hoped, I'd still like to catch the same team's follow-up musical &#150; DAMN YANKEES (1958), if anything for its Faustian overtones. "}{"Title":"Pretty sexy for a 50's musical","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This a delightful, charming musical. The leads are pretty sexy together and both have outstanding singing voices. Doris Day is magnetic and endearing, as usual. Too bad we didn't see John Raitt (father of Bonnie)in more films! He holds his own with Doris and is quite a hunk. And what a voice! When you hear him sing the romantic ballad, Hey There, if you are a woman, you may go weak in the knees! The supporting cast is also wonderful, with fun, melodic songs to sing. The wonderful dancer Carol Haney gets her chance to be in a film here. This is an uplifting musical without being too sugary. There is bite here. Go get into your pajamas and view this one when you want to be cheered up or just smile more than usual. "},{"Title":"What a gem!","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have never seen the pajama game before this week when I managed to get a copy of the DVD. I was too young in the 50's and it hasn't been around much since then. I was a bit apprehensive, another movie I caught up with late was Flower Drum Song and I've yet to take to that. However, this was a joy from go to whoa. Yes, it was stagey and some of the numbers, although well done and entertaining were not what you would get nowadays, so that took some mental adjustment, but once the brain was in gear - WOW! Doris we know and love, Calamity Jane is a standard in this house, (I can't wait until my kids see this!) but the stage ensemble who transferred seamlessly - according to the previous writers, who have the advantage of me in that they knew the stage show - make the whole thing go with a bang. Let's face it you could have Doris sing the phone book, and it would be entertaining, so you can't judge a show by her. But Carol Haney, John Raitt (swoon, swoon) et al are fantastic and I wish I'd been born 20 years earlier and lived in New York if this is what I've missed. I loved that there were real people in this, an older lady - Reta Shaw? - and Barbara Nichols? and others. My only gripe with the whole thing is that I am sick of having women dancers groins thrust into my face during dance sequences, and just when I thought we'd managed without it, the Once a Year Day sequence let me down. However, I thoroughly enjoyed the rest of the movie, There Was A Man, Hey There, etc. I've been raving about this all week, and the songs wont go away. Now that's a sign of a good musical. "},{"Title":"Ground-breaking and appealing musical of ideas with great songs","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Pajama Game began as a book by Richard Bissell called 7 1/2 cents. It was the turned into an innovative and hugely successful Broadway musical as The Pajama Game by George Abbot and author Bissell, with choreography by Jerome Robbins and Bob Fosse, and words and music by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross. Most of the cast utilized in this film of the famous musical, for once, are talents from the Broadway play, with Doris Day as Babe Williams joining John Raitt as Sid Sorokin the ill-matched labor and management couple about whom the story centers. The storyline I find to be a very straightforward and appealing narrative. An Iowa pajama factory's chief is having a dispute with his workforce over a demand for a badly-needed 7 1/2 cents-an- hour pay increase that all his competitors have granted already. The new superintendent falls in love with one of the Grievance Committee's members, despite her hesitation because he is management and she labor. When, after the liberating annual company picnic, the demands are again refused, Day stops the machinery after a slowdown is stopped by Raitt, and he has to fire her. The aftermath is that sabotage by the workers is slowly wrecking sales. When the boss still stubbornly refuses to give in, Raitt invites his secretary (Carol Haney) our for a drink and she all-but-gives him the key she wears around her neck that unlocks the Boss's books; after her insanely jealous boyfriend (Eddie Foy Jr.) has been dealt with, Raitt appears at the workers' meeting after forcing the boss (Ralph Dunn) to compromise--he will grant the raise immediately if the retroactive pay the workers should have had all along is ignored--the pay he'd been pretending could not be paid. As the lead, John Raitt is energetic, sings in a fine Irish tenor and handles every aspect of his assignment very well. Doris Day is quite believable as Babe Williams but lacks a Broadway caliber voice. Carol Haney makes a fine comedy debut as the secretary. Eddie Foy plays Hinesie Heinz, her boy friend, a caricature of a role, with vaudevillian grace and intelligence. His number with Reta Shaw as Raitt's assistant I Would Trust Her is a highlight for many, charming and unusually stylish. Others in the cast include powerful Ralph Dunn as the tough boss, Thelma Pelish as Mae, accomplished Jack Straw as Prez and Ralph Chambers as Charlie. Memorable musical numbers include, Hurry Up, Hey There, I'm Not at All in Love, Steam Heat, The Pajama Game, Once A Year Day, There Once Was a Man and Hernando's Hideaway. Among production artists, Harry Stradling's difficult cinematography achievement, seamless art direction by Malcom C. Bert, set decoration by William Kuehl and costume design by Jean Eckart and William Eckart and Frak Thomas all deserve mention. Pros such as Buddy Bregman, Nelson Riddle, Charles Henderson and Ray Heidorf contributed to the vocal and musical success the film achieves. The characters may be presented a bit surrealistically, but this is actually a ground-breaking Warner Brothers attempt, like the Fountainhead, whose target is the totalitarian bossism that was even then destroying American values and requiring real leaders to stand up for individuals' rights against unrealistic gatekeeper 'tsars'. This is a very-well -realized musical about people fighting against a most corrupt system; and musically one of the best offerings ever to come out of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Even with 3 of its Broadway tunes (and a couple of reprises) cut, The Pajama Game is one of those musicals that offers you so many songs, that it never gets a chance to get bogged down in its script.  Doris Day is perfectly cast as the head of the Grievance Committe, and she is supported by a fine cast.  The tunes are tuneful and fun, and the bright colors and witty dialog just add to this film's enormous appeal.  My only problem with the film is its choreography, by Bob Fosse.  Most of it is fine, but the Once A Year Day number is poorly conceived.  There is so much great dance music in this number, and Fosse just completely wastes it, with his silly, trademark minimalist movements.  Otherwise, the film's a delight. "},{"Title":"Stage to Screener Sees The Light of Day","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Except for it's dazzling leading lady, the great Day herself, Hollywood imported this high-profile tuner direct from the Great White Way with most all stars in the roles they created.  John Raitt, Eddie Foy Jr., Reta Shaw, and Carol Haney all reprise their stage roles for this glorious color lensing of the musical based on Richard Bissel's Book-of-the-Month run-away 7 1/2 cents.  Haney's broken leg during the New York run of the play gave the world a new star in her understudy - Miss Shirley Maclaine.  But it is Haney, not Maclaine who gets to play Gladys for posterity, and it's a good thing, too.  Haney's mousy countenance didn't suit the wide screen and her career on the left coast went nowhere.  Alas, a few years later she died at the age of 40 of a throat infection.PJ GAME is at it's best on location as in the athletic Once A Year Day company picnic number.  Unfortunately, there are few other exteriors and some of the film seems confined by duplicating stage dialogue and interiors. Worst is the extra clunky Pajama Parade tag ending, which feels like a curtain call! Wouldn't a Day/Raitt wedding day scene be better?  All but two or three of the stage tunes make the cut here.  If you view on DVD, you'll get a bonus of seeing an extra song (The Man Who Invented Love) written for Day, that was cut before release in favor of a reprise of the mega-hit Hey  There.  Years later in a rare revival of the musical, Barbara McNair was given yet another song in place of the Hey There reprise. This time, it made the cut.If you enjoyed DAMN YANKEES (from the same team) onstage and screen, you'll find the PAJAMA GAME a stylish fit! "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a look, but a little disappointing","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you love the score of this show, as I do, you should definitely take a look at this movie (although you should know in advance, one of John Raitt's songs from the original B'way version, A New Town is a Blue Town, did not make it into the film). Raitt has a fantastic voice, and it's a shame he didn't make any other movie musicals in which he was the lead. Doris Day sounds very good as usual, Carol Haney is funny and a terrific dancer, and an added treat is the soft-shoe number from Eddie Foy Jr. and Reta Shaw (you will recognize her as the older character actress from numerous 1960's TV shows---this woman could really dance!). I personally found the visual aspects of this film a little disappointing. A heavy reliance on mid-range and long shots almost gives the feeling of watching the film from a great distance; there are very few close-ups and you therefore get the sense of not really knowing the characters as well, making even the usually perky Doris Day seem a little disengaged at times. The great dance numbers (choreographed by Bob Fosse) occasionally suffer from too much extraneous busy-ness in the scene (Once-A-Year Day dancers are sometimes relegated to the background in favor of seated picnic attendees, Seven-and-a-Half Cents just looks crowded, and why are the dancers in Steam Heat photographed in a long-shot that gives preference to a set of loudspeakers and miscellaneous draped flags?), and although the sets are frequent smoke-filled union meeting halls or dimly-lit office and factory scenes, the lighting could have been more creative (think MGM scene-composition and lighting techniques, and you realize how great this film could have been). Still, I'd definitely recommend it to musical fans. "},{"Title":"Maybe Worked on Stage, But It's a Dud of a Movie","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Musicals as a genre can afford to be about nothing, since the point of a musical is its song and dance. But even at that, The Pajama Game is pushing it.This ditzy, schizophrenic musical about labor relations in a pajama factory doesn't make a lick of sense. Doris Day plays the head of HR while John Raitt is the new hard-line manager. There's knife throwing, firings, a scene of attempted murder set in a creepy basement full of mannequins (yet played for laughs), and there's nary a dramatic conflict to be found. Or more precisely, there are conflicts, but they disappear without getting resolved, or they're resolved within minutes after being introduced, leaving you to wonder what the rest of the film will possibly be about.Many of the stage actors were transplanted directly to the screen, and maybe that's one of this film's biggest problems. These aren't screen actors who know how to make material work in context of a film. This musical is probably a hoot on stage, but it doesn't work as a movie at all.Bob Fosse provided the minimal choreography the film's few dance routines contain, but fans watching the movie for his touch will likely be disappointed. Still, even at that it's still his signature number, Steam Heat, that stands as the most memorable moment, even if it has nothing to do with anything else going on.Grade C- "},{"Title":"What's up with that bizarre subplot?!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" When I watched this film, I was VERY surprised to see the subplot involving the jealous boyfriend (Eddie Foy Jr.) Such extreme jealousy is NOT funny--though it was sure meant to be. And late in the film when he chased his girl with a knife--tossing them right and left at her...funny?! It's pretty amazing that insane pathological violence was seen as a laugh-getter back in the day! As for the plot of The Pajama Game, it plays a LOT like a musical-comedy version of Norma Rae! Seriously....it really is very similar. Doris Day plays a spunky union rep who is pushing her company for a 7 1/2 cent an hour raise--and the pig-headed boss is willing to let the business go to pot for 7 1/2 cents. Stuck in the middle is John Raitt--who represents the company BUT who is also infatuated with Day. What's to happen? See the film.This is a decent musical overall but not much more. Some of the songs are very familiar and quite good, while some seem inexplicable, as they seem to have nothing to do with the plot and just seemed crammed in regardless (such as Steam Heat and Hernando's Hideaway). Also, when it comes to Day's singing, you might find (like I did) that it came off as brash--as she belted out tune after tune with little grace--just LOTS of power. In fact, though he never went on to star in another film, Raitt came off pretty well in this one and you wonder why he didn't get more opportunities in films--though apparently his career on stage was quite long and successful. "},{"Title":"This one's not for me.","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm currently working my way through a Doris Day box set and having now watched 10 of them this is by far the least entertaining one I've seen.I agree with those that think there are too many songs for the amount of time the films lasts but that wouldn't really matter if the songs were more memorable than they are.The biggest problem though for me is the lack of a decent story and the very unappealing leading man. It also manages to be bland and at the same time rather sinister which makes you feel a bit unsettled. The whole knife throwing at the picnic scene being the main example of that. It's possible that the songs might grow on me if I heard them a few times but I don't think I would want to watch the film again. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Ho-hum... There are better musicals you could spend your time with","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While I did not hate or greatly dislike The Pajama Game, watching the movie did feel to me like a tedious chore. Quite simply, I was not entertained (a simple and primary criteria of mine for any musical I watch... I don't have to be entertained by an art-house movie, but I better be by a musical), nor did I feel as though it was a particularly well-made film. I have heard several people (who are fans of musicals) praise The Pajama Game, which is why I was somewhat surprised by the mediocre nature of it. Maybe that is just the problem, as you might very well have to be an enthusiastic and die-hard fan of musicals to be able to overlook the unremarkable quality of The Pajama Game.I am indifferent when it comes to the genera of musicals, I don't have a bias in their favor (like I do for say film-noir) or against their favor (like I do for say fantasy films). But if I am to enjoy a musical, I notice that more often than not I desire (among a dozen other things) that the film have a solid script. A solid script that contains an interesting story, is told in an entertaining way, includes well-written dialogue, and contains legitimate substance (as opposed to being just a depthless vehicle for song and dance)--and while this is not dogma, it sure helps me feel like I'm still watching a film, and just not people singing and dancing for the sake of singing and dancing.The Pajama Game's dialogue is unmemorable, the story is uninteresting (that goes for the plight of the pajama factory workers for their potential raise, and the budding romance between the films main characters), and what shallow story there is is told in a way completely devoid of entertainment. But, to me, the biggest crime of all is that the script for The Pajama Game really is a shallow vehicle of a script of scenes strung together merely for song and dance (and in my opinion, mostly mediocre song and dance that can not begin to compare to some other classic musicals).The cinematography certainly could have been better in The Pajama Game. Primary colors are the main choices in the color palette for the movie (after all, it is a movie that mainly takes place in a factory that makes brightly colored pajamas), but they are never used as richly as they are in other musicals such as Singin' In The Rain, Une Femme Est Une Femme, Parapluies De Cherbourg, or even The Wizard of Oz (which some people define as a musical, myself included as its songs progress the plot, but others merely consider Oz as a classic family film). In those movies the constantly present primary colors enthrall the viewer, and are photographed and lit in a manner that creates a bright and vibrant world that seems richer than the actual real world in some ways. In The Pajama Game the cinematographer failed to elicit any such enthrallment from the viewer. They are just colors&#151;-nothing more, nothing less. And while it may seem like I am being nit-picky, if you are making a lighthearted and silly musical with primary colors as the main choices in your color palette, you should make those colors pop.In The Pajama Game it would be very easy to accuse the actors of not acting as people, but of acting as imitations of humans. Sure, it's not realistic for characters to break out into song and dance at the drop of a dime&#151;-but the characters in a musical should at least feel realistic to the viewer at least in some manner. The majority of the characters in the movie have as much realistic believability as the characters that might populate a vintage Hannah-Barbera cartoon. Even Babe feels like an imitation of a spunky factory worker, and Sid the imitation of a stern by-the-books factory superintendent.As for the positive the one thing I took interest in with The Pajama Game was the duet that Sid has with himself (by means of a tape recorder used for dictation in his office). To my memory I had not seen a musical where a character performs a duet with themselves until I saw this film.While a lot of people I know who have seen this film enjoy it, I would exert that I feel there are better musicals (such as the ones I referred to while discussing the cinematography of the film several paragraphs above) that you could better spend your film-watching time with. "}{"Title":"Bedtime Story","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have to agree with most of the other posters that despite a wonderful score this movie is a disappointment. Okay, they lost three of the numbers during the transition from Broadway to Hollywood - one of them, alas, A New Town Is A Blue Town - but at least they didn't hire another songwriting team to supplement Richard Adler and Jerry Ross. This is a movie in which one gorgeous number follows another - I'm Not At All In Love, Hey There, I'll Never Be Jealous Again, Steam Heat, Hernando's Hideaway, Once A Year Day, etc, but leading man Raitt in particular seems to just 'walk through' them and as for any chemistry between him and Doris Day forget it. On the other hand this is a rare opportunity to see Carol Haney strut her stuff; one of the great ironies of show business is that Haney got sick during the Broadway run and her understudy, Shirley MacLaine, went on for her and built a career based on mugging and playing allegedly 'lovable' kooks whilst Haney was forgotten. Those of a cynical nature might find it singular that a pajama factory is staffed almost entirely with Broadway-standard singers and dancers or that a young and attractive girl (Haney) would be seriously involved with a ham three times her age (Foy) but if you put your logical questions on Hold and just wallow in one of the last REALLY melodic, witty and literate Broadway scores chances are you'll enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for the amazing Carol Haney","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched The Pajama Game I really disliked it. But, with few exceptions, I'm willing to give a movie a second chance, and this one grew on me.What did I dislike that first time? Everything. I thought the music was lame, the choreography either unexpressive or frenetic (I was shocked to learn that it was Bob Fosse!), the storyline unbelievable (in the literal sense), and, though I'm a fan of hers, Doris Day was completely lackluster.But I'm glad I gave this movie a second chance because otherwise I would have missed appreciating one of the most remarkable, entertaining performances I've ever seen. Carol Haney, with her willowy body and rusty voice, steals every scene she's in she's an incredible dancer (I get chills even now just thinking about how perfect her execution is!) and, in her own way, a comic genius. The movie is worth watching just for her.And I eventually warmed up to Bob Fosse's choreography, and the movie grew on me, and now I enjoy it quite a lot.Except for Doris Day -- she just seems to be going through the motions. The other performers have a great chemistry together, and their Broadway roots clearly show. Doris Day feels like the Hollywood name they had to inject into the movie to get it to sell, and she just doesn't seem to belong, most obviously demonstrated in the painfully forced chemistry between her and John Raitt (especially in the There was a Woman number). I can't help but wonder if Doris's favorite dog died during filming she seems that distracted.However, except for the awful 7.5cents number at the end, it is an enjoyable movie in its mildly subversive (yes, there are hints of it), okee-dokee 50s Broadway way; but it is absolutely essential viewing for seeing some great Broadway stars, especially one at the peak of her powers. I'm saddened that the awesome, remarkable Carol Haney did so few movies.  "},{"Title":"that dark secluded place","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Best known for its big numbers, 'Hernando's Hideaway' (done in very stagey style here with lots of lights and shadows and chorus people popping up all over the place) and 'Hey There' (sung well by John Raitt - for folk-rock fans, he's Bonnie's dad), this is a very theatre-bound musical which has little cinematic soul.All the people from the Broadway production bar the lead appear here.  Carol Haney is good, and Eddie Foy jnr. is the company president!  In the female lead is none other than Doris Day, replacing Janis Paige - much as I like Doris, I would have liked to see that snappy duet between her and Raitt done by Janis instead.  'The Pajama Game' suffers from not being particularly interesting, plot-wise.  The workers want a pay rise and Raitt won't play ball.  There is some interesting dance numbers put together by the incomparable Bob Fosse, but it is what surrounds them that dates this film badly and could alienate potential audiences. "},{"Title":"It unravels...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Raise negotiations at a pajama factory (cute...) get balled-up when the hunky new superintendent falls for the pretty head of the Grievance Committee. Anachronistic 1957 musical plays like 1937, with balky introductions into awkward musical numbers (the exception is Steam Heat, which is really the only number to show off choreographer Bob Fosse's marked style); the rest of the dancing is surprisingly mediocre (lots of stomping around and gesturing wildly), and the singing is brash. It took TWO directors to stage this, but it still looks like a filmed play (aside from the picnic sequence). Freckly Doris Day is bright and fun in her ducktail bob, John Raitt less so, however the film's biggest problem is the plot, which unravels faster than an old pair of PJs. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Why Do We Value Damage?","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The container that this movie gives us is completely mundane. More, it would be a waste of your life, a sin, to watch it except for one person, Carol Haney.Her story is that she was a dancer, a good one. A very good one who became Gene Kelly's assistant, and who taught several of his partners to dance. When we watch those old dance movies and marvel at these woman, what we see is an imperfect copy of Carol.She was able to go to Broadway as a performer and was a success, which led her to a secondary role in this movie. After beginning, a role was rewritten to accommodate her.During the filming of this, she suffered bodily damage and additionally was diagnosed as diabetic. She died shortly afterward, her body used up. So this &#151; three musical numbers &#151; is all we have. Two are absolutely amazing, the result of her collaboration with choreographer Bob Fosse. These would make his career.So, I am recommending you watch this piece of trash, this horrible thing, for those two numbers so you can be exposed to someone special. She deserves it and you do too.But there's a bittersweet pleasure in watching, a sort of noir cloak we put on as the cost of admission. Because this woman is making something for herself and us that is destroying her.Why? Why do we value damage? Billie, Judy, Janis as singers, valued because they risked everything. Not every time, but when they do and they touch outside their safe boundaries, they touch outside ours as well in some way. But dance is ever so much more explosive because each time with someone like this, each time the body risks damage that can be permanent &#151; a life of pain for one instant of shared performance.Look at this and see. Its so far beyond the usual that you feel honored, blessed, adventurous.It does matter, You do connect. It is something beyond amusing us, even though we both pretend it is mere entertainment. The blessing of film is that we didn't have to physically be there, that we can experience this after this woman has died. For us.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Pajama Game-This Norma Rae Musical Just Doesn't Work **1/2","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While the music and dancing are wonderful, the story is really off the wall. Who could believe that workers want just 7 1/2 cents more? Anyone ever hear about an hourly wage increase? Ludicrous.This is not one Doris Day's best performances. She needed to more than challenged here. That challenge does not come about from the performance of John Raitt. Yes, their voices are great but the writing does them in.Then there is Reta Shaw. She probably never made it big in Hollywood as there was a Marjorie Main to take the type of parts that Shaw could have done well in. She does an unbelievably good song and dance routine with Eddie Foy Jr.Must Barbara Nichols play the typical factory worker in her usual stupid voice? Ms. Nichols was far better gifted than what is able to do here.Yes, Carol Haney shines but alas, she is given not that much to do here.Naturally, we're all happy to see that the threatened strike was averted by film's end, but the writing is so amateurish, we might have needed a walkout to make things more interesting. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Raitt and Haney","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the most popular musicals of the early 1950s received a reasonable film adaptation here courtesy of Stanley Donen and Broadway legend George Abbott. For me, the main object of interest here is the presence of original cast members John Raitt and Carol Haney in the film. They are two performers who were popular on Broadway but were often replaced for film versions of their hits. John Raitt was said to be un-photogenic but he had an incredible singing voice and personally I found him suitably attractive and at the same time very down to earth. Carol Haney was a big discovery for me here because previously I've only heard about her dancing, but here in Steam Heat we get to see just how really special she was. She and Bob Fosse collaborated here obviously, and the result is truly fresh and inventive. I also like how she plays her character, a very good drunk scene included.Doris Day, what can you say? Sometimes I like her, as in Calamity Jane, but for some reason I just couldn't enjoy her in this role. Part of the problem, for her and Raitt both, was how quickly they're supposed to be professing love for each other. After the great build-up with all the workplace tension, it's hard to accept. I was dreading through the whole film hearing her sing Hernando's Hideaway and I was so pleased to find out that it was one of Haney's numbers. Very well staged by the way, a very good version of that song.This has never been one of my favorite shows to listen to, but I always wanted to at least see the film version so I could know the story. Other than Hey There and Hernando's Hideaway none of the songs have really appealed to me, and some like Once a Year Day and Not at all in Love are kind of awful in their cloying way. I suppose you could say that style matches Day very well, but it's the mode I don't like seeing Day in. However Raitt, Haney, and Eddie Foy Jr. do come together and give the movie quite a bit of class. "},{"Title":"No plot","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was on vacation and my sister and I were deathly bored so we rented a movie. We have always like Doris Day and her movies and most of them are pretty down right hilarious. This one..bleh. It had no plot. First, she says she is not in love with her boss, then she falls in love with him, then she sings a song along the lines There once was a man, who loved a woman and the tune was unbearable. Then, she gets mad at her boyfriend. But I didn't see the end because I felt that cleaning the toilets was more productive. The movie was terrible and I only saw half of it. It's much like The Hardy Girls starring Judy Garland, not a good movie and with NO plot. But, if you are looking for a good Doris Day movie, I recommend Send Me No Flowers or Move Over Darling. They are HILARIOUS... "},{"Title":"Pajama Lame","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love cheesy old musicals, but this just didn't do it for me.  It's like the show was written to string together a bunch of clever song and dance sequences-- and not too well, if you ask me.  There were definitely some nice moments that make you feel as though you are not wasting your time, but I couldn't get past the whole romance with her boss-- we call that sexual harrassment, today.  Good stuff Fosse choreography, most evident in the Steam Heat number.Summary there's fun to be had, but don't expect much overall. "},{"Title":"I wasn't expecting Michael Moore,","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" But the moral of the film (couldn't speak for the stage play) is 'steal from your employees by cooking the books to pocket their pay rise for six months! you won't be arrested! you won't be fired! you can keep six months of your ill-gotten gains! and then you can sing an up-beat number about great job you're doing! As long as your second in command gets the girl with your connivance, he's not going to make a fuss! I can see why people were ready for the sixties. 'Steal from the poor to line your own pockets', 'steal from people who implicitly trust you', 'make deals behind closed doors to stiff the female workforce' - well, they're not really tag-lines I can get behind, myself.Bring on North Country. "}{"Title":"Mediocre all around","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I don't see how this dog of a film could be averaging 7.1. It's mediocre at best. Acting is terrible (for the most part). Story is hardly there in between the songs, most of which are god-awful! Choreography is abysmal.The few high-points are Doris Day and Carol Haney. They both are good even though they give brassy songs to Day that don't show the real value of her voice.If this had been the first musical I had ever seen I think I would have sworn off of them for life! Users beware. This one does NOT rate a vote of 7 or anything close to it. "},{"Title":"A real sleeper","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  There is a reason this was called the Pajama Game--you should be dressed for bed before you fall asleep while watching it.  I guess if they had called it Romeo and Juliet fight over a 7-1/2 cent raise, no one would bother to go see it (and rightly so).After seeing Doris Day in her pajama tops and the title, you would probably expect to see more people in pajamas!  But, except for the ending number (probably the shortest routine in the movie), all they do is sew them.Fast forward the the distinctly (except, non sexy) Bob Fosse dance number and to the ending number and you will have wasted only 75 cents of your 99 cent rental. "}]