[{"Title":"Just Some Historical Perspective....","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"139 out of 161 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A timeless story,as evidenced by all the allegories to recent personalities here ( Howard Stern, Clinton, etc...)...HOWEVER..the film is based (loosely) on a personality of the mid-50s one Arthur Godfrey..yes, the IL' Redhead himself. Skillfully wrapped in the cliché of 'country boy makes good' story, the Godfrey story was hot news in 1957,and there weren't too many people back then who missed its allusions For those who do not know Arthur Godfrey was one of THE hottest things in the country in the early to mid 1950's he literally had about two or three different TV shows on the schedule, plus a radio show that was among the most popular in the day. Godfrey was JUST like this movie in this respect on the air, he was America's home-spun hero..telling folksy stories....crooning in an off tone baritone, and presenting pure, CLEAN entertainment. OFF the air,however the legend that is Arthur Godfrey to this day is one of THE biggest control freaks in show biz history..to the point of controlling the lives of all of his 'family'..unfortunately that turned out to be downfall...One Julius LaRosa had been a singer that Godfrey had 'discovered' in the US Navy Band...after he was discharged LaRosa became a singer on Godfrey's nighttime TV show Arthur Godfrey and Friends,where he became an instant star among the bobby sox set. In time, LaRosa started a recording career,and started to have VERY successful records..then suddenly, in 1953, Godfrey suddenly fired LaRosa from his show for the mysterious reason of him having 'no humilty' ...it has been assumed since then that Godfrey was extremely jealous of Larosa's success...Anyways, this exposed the 'real' Godfrey to the public.,and while it didn't happen as quickly or as totally as Lonesome Rhodes' career,Godfrey's career as a superstar was effectively over after that..he eventually was reduced to hosting game shows and such. Writer Schulberg obviously also puts in his 2 cents on fame...politics..the show business...and early television here, but as I said,there wasn't NO ONE in those days who didn't know it was about Godfrey.... "},{"Title":"Demagogue in Denim","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"99 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Andy Griffith made this film when he was still an actor and not the aw-shucks sheriff of Mayberry.  Lonesome Rhodes (Griffith) is more than a TV personality he is a media demagogue who understands the manipulative power of language and images.  You might think a film made in 1957 would be hopeless dated but not this one. It is almost prophetic in its portrayal of modern media.  When Marshall McLuhan-I know, who?-wrote The Medium is the Message, he must have had this film partially in mind.Griffith is perfect he is a mixture of cornpone and Satan.  Patricia Neal is the woman-frequently abandoned and abused--who discovered the man and loves him for what she thought he was. Walter Matthau is the Princeton man who becomes one of the many faceless writers behind the façade of the county wit-Rhodes the man admired for his `extempore and natural' humor. Watch early on in the film for a scene taking place in the local jail.  In one quick and brief flash of expression, Griffith reveals the true face of Lonesome Rhodes the rest of the film tries to mask.  What brilliant acting by Griffith; what brilliant screen writing by Budd Schulberg; what brilliant directing by Kazan.   "},{"Title":"A real hidden masterpiece.","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"85 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie very late the other night, and I must say WOW! Like the rest of you, I saw A Face In the Crowd on a regular VHS edition, but it wouldn't matter which edition I saw it in because this was one of the few movies recently that made the jaw of this movie snob literally DROP with amazement over how daring, how edgy, and how much mastery this movie had over the film-making craft. I'm beginning to realize that in the 1950's there was a short period of time (1955-1960, say) where the world of Broadway and the theater, Television, and Hollywood came together, and the careers of people like Rod Serling, Sidney Lumet, and A Face In the Crowd's own Budd Schulberg were started. The best screenwriters in the movie business became innately aware of the increasing importance and influence of the new media form Television, while the best directors (like Elia Kazan), many of whom had directed numerous plays, knew how to cull the talents of Broadways hottest and most gifted performers, and at least for a couple of years, managed to get some awesome performances out of them. That's why I view this movie in the same sort of category as The Sweet Smell of Success, that ever so sour and bitingly satiric parable on the corruption of American glamour and fame, and how publicity is just as much of a curse as a blessing. The performances in that film are like few others in the same era, and I think its no coincidence that A Face In the Crowd came out the same year as the other film. The main scribes of both those films, Clifford Odets and Budd Schulberg, were experienced with TV work by the time they penned their masterpieces (though Schulberg could also claim as his masterpiece 'On the Waterfront'). So anyway, I suggest to all who can hear me and have a love enough for this film to want to see it given the presentation it deserves, that we all write to the Criterion Collection and other DVD distributing companies and ask, no DEMAND that a restored, cleaned up version of A Face In the Crowd, with as many special features as can be rustled up, be released as soon as possible. It's like writing your congressman, except instead of asking for a new factory of national park, we're asking for the wider availability of a piece of art that has gone with far too little acclaim for far too long. Who's with me?!?  "},{"Title":"Underrated Masterpiece!","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"84 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you think that the extend of Andy Griffith's acting ability is playing a good old boy sheriff or aging lawyer.  Do yourself a favor and watch this movie.  In it he shows the many shades of the character Lonesome Rhodes, pulling you in with his charm amd homespun philosophy until you realize that there is a snake hiding in that Downhome sheeps clothing.I have watch this film many times and am always fascinated by the subtle hints early in the film to what he eventually reveals to the world.a five star movie that was way ahead of it's time. "},{"Title":"Entertain the ignorant masses and they'll follow you anywhere.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"72 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The fictional story of a vagabond who is discovered and becomes a mega entertainment star who not only aquires fame and fortune but also political power. I came away from this film with the thinking that in 1957 when the picture came out in a strange way it must have terrified viewers. The film was clearly ahead of its time. By todays standards the egotistical, cynical and power hungry Lonesome Rhodes actually is quite tame but in 57 he must have been viewed as a cross between Hitler and Arthur Godfrey. Andy Griffith is nothing less than brilliant as Rhodes. Superb support from Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, Anthony Franciosa and Lee Remick in her first motion picture. The movie never lags as it grips the viewer from the opening right to the final scene.  "},{"Title":"An outstanding performance by Andy Griffith!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"54 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just find it hard to believe that Andy Griffith received no kudos or award nominations for his role as Lonesome Rhodes in this movie.  His performance is quite amazing.  I think that because he played such an obnoxious person, one that we really come to dislike, that people confused the role with the actor. I just saw it on TV (Dec, 2002), and maybe the world of 1957 just was not ready for this kind of realism. "},{"Title":"Hilariously dramatic","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"57 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best pictures I've seen to date. Griffith had the part of the womanizing, opinionated, lazy, loud mouthed bum down pat. In fact, the entire cast was superb in this dynamic, gripping, and in the first half, uproariously funny drama which clearly shows how ego can not only destroy the egotist but those close to him. This film is an equal to  Griffith's fine performances as Horton Maddock in Savages and Howard Pike in Hearts of the West. 4 stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not only is this film great but the performance that our loveable ole boy Andy Griffith gave was one to remember! His portrayal of Lonesome Rhodes was non-pareil in that he was the essence of evil. Griffith was even frightening in this role. Kazan did a superb job of directing. Casting real including Patricia Neal and Walter Matthau, et al. Just one dynamite film! "},{"Title":"A guitar beats a woman every time!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film shows what a fine actor Andy Griffith truly is, and what roles he could have mastered had he not chosen the Mayberry path instead. Directed by Elia Kazan, the political drama and satire of commercialism A Face in the Crowd is the story of Lonesome Rhodes (Griffith), a charismatic guitar-playing drifter who is discovered by radio executive Marcia Jeffries (the husky-voiced Patricia Neal) while in jail on a public drunk charge. He catapults to radio and TV stardom under the guise of being an aw-shucks homeboy who loves his fans. In fact, Lonesome Rhodes is a slimy, greedy, egotistical, manipulative womanizer with underhanded political aspirations and nothing but contempt for his gullible audience. The film was far ahead of its time in its theme and telling, and Andy Griffith gives a blazing performance that rivals Burt Lancaster's in Elmer Gantry (for which Lancaster won an Oscar). That this film wasn't even nominated for any awards is very surprising.I also am saddened that it's never been released on DVD; it's one of the best of its kind I have ever seen, and was certainly Griffith's plum role and best performance. With a stellar supporting cast, including Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, Tony Franciosa and a beautiful Lee Remick in her first film role, A Face in the Crowd is a must-see film, and should eradicate any opinion you may have that Griffith was only capable of his wholesome TV roles of Sheriff Taylor and Ben Matlock. "},{"Title":"Country corruption and TV production","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"32 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Their collaboration cemented in infamy with On the Waterfront, Elia Kazan and Budd Schulberg create this thang. And what a thang it is! Andy Griffith gives the performance of his career, and nobody knows it. Much like Lonesome Rhodes'elusively corrupt character, this film has become one revered by some, andunseen by those that should see it most.Schulberg shows a charismatic vagrant and his hayseed charm revolutionizetelevision. Along with the increased income, fame greedily kills the bumpkinwithin, and turns him into something much worse, if you can believe it a TV star. Schulberg wrote another provocative work, his book about Hollywood and itsdirty denizens, What Makes Sammy Run?. Study him and this fantastic andawe inspiring Kazan film, and you will see why great films that followed winked and tipped their hat; films that include Paddy Chayefsky's Network, JimmyBrooks' Broadcast News, Spike Lee's Bamboozled and P.T. Anderson'sMagnolia.This film truly is a masterwork and an incredible, incredible performance byAndy Griffith. 10 outta 10! "}{"Title":"Stunning departure for Andy Griffith proves he is an actor of merit.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If ever there was a film that spoke to the ill advised road toward fame and fortune &#150; paved with its good, but unfortunately corrupting intentions &#150; Elia Kazan's A Face In The Crowd (1957) is that film. It's a sort of perverse Picture of Dorian Gray brought up to, then, contemporary standards, and ramped with all the slick, split and polish of the emerging media age. The film stars the usually wholesome and congenial Andy Griffith as Larry 'Lonesome' Rhodes &#150; an impoverished hobo whose saving grace is that he's got something to say and is certain people are willing to listen. One such interested party is promoter Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal). With her connections and Larry's mouth, the two embark upon a media blitz that transforms Larry from a good time guy into a perverse and power mad media sensation. With the swell of his ego, comes the bitter and reclusive understanding that Larry has been forever changed &#150; and not for the better. It is Larry's own realization and self discovery, that he's become the man he was always destined to be &#150; an unflattering, uncaring and dangerous individual &#150; that tops out this highly strung, gruesome portrait of life without soul or redemption.Screenwriter Budd Schulberg, on whose story The Arkansas Traveler this film is based, keeps the pace of this manic and often oppressive tale up in a way that derives empathy and pity for the character of Larry, while sitting in paralyzed and frightful awe of both Griffith's performance and the prospect that what we are seeing might be true for a good many more Hollywood celebs &#150; both then and now &#150; than we'd care to imagine. Kazan, always the purveyor of 'message pictures', on this occasion is recanting what Shakespeare might have coined 'a tale told by an idiot. Full of sound and fury &#150; signifying nothing' &#150; nothing that is except one of the most exceptional entertainments you are likely to see in your lifetime.Warner's DVD is very nicely put together. The B&W anamorphically enhanced picture exhibits solid blacks, very clean whites, and an impeccably balanced gray scale. Contrast levels are bang on. Fine details are nicely rendered throughout. The audio has been nicely cleaned up. A documentary, Facing The Past takes the place on an audio commentary on this disc. It's short &#150; at 30 min. &#150; but nevertheless provides for a slew of succinct sound bytes from members of the principle cast. "},{"Title":"Skewering Indictment of Television Comes Blazing Thanks to Peak Work from Kazan, Schulberg, Neal and Griffith","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are two major things that I find quite fascinating as I watch this 1957 classic. The first is the prophetic, hyper-realistic portrayal of television as a pervasive medium encroaching upon people's lives in ways unheard of back in the 1950's. The second is Andy Griffith's pull-all-the-stops performance as drunken hobo-turned-media sensation Lonesome Rhodes. For those who know Griffith only for his homespun TV portrayals, you will be surprised how remarkably he shows the venal underbelly and high-octane charisma of a character miles away from kindly, soft-spoken Sheriff Andy Taylor.Master filmmaker Elia Kazan and writer Budd Schulberg, collaborating for the second and last time after their brilliant On the Waterfront three years earlier, tell the story of Rhodes, a burgeoning pop-culture phenomenon thanks primarily to the efforts of Marcia Jeffries, a young radio program host who discovers him sprawled in a hangover on the floor of a rural Arkansas jail. He mesmerizes the local radio audience with an improvised country song about his predicament, Free Man in the Morning, and this marks the beginning of his meteoric rise all the way to his own weekly national TV program. As he capitalizes on his folksy charm and empathetic manner, he becomes a power-crazed tyrant behind the scenes. A corporate tycoon wants to use Rhodes' influence to sway a Presidential campaign in his favor, and Rhodes' megalomania moves him lockstep into a Citizen Kane-like form of paranoia.It all seems exaggerated but it's brilliantly observed much like a film that covered the same themes twenty years later, Sidney Lumet and Paddy Chayefsky's Network. However, even with strong doses of black comedy sprinkled throughout, Kazan and Schulberg use more melodramatic elements in their skewering until the near-Shakespearian climax when Rhodes' comeuppance takes on a grandly theatrical fervor. In a way, it seems a shame that Griffith never got another chance to bring out his dark side on the big screen. While sometimes wildly undisciplined in his film debut, he dexterously shows the cunning and charisma of his character to a level that makes his national celebrity utterly credible.Showing his amazing facility to elicit stellar work from a wide variety of actors, Kazan assembled a strong cast to back him up starting with Patricia Neal, who is just as devastating as Marcia, a woman torn between ambition, decency and her fateful attraction to Rhodes. An impossibly young Walter Matthau shows the beginnings of his cynical screen persona as Mel, a crafty television writer who de facto becomes Marcia's conscience. In their film debuts and making indelible impressions, Anthony Franciosa and Lee Remick play Joey, an office lackey who turns into Rhodes' immoral agent, and Betty Lou, a teenaged baton twirler seduced easily by Rhodes' power, respectively.If the film has one flaw, it's that it runs on a bit long for the parable it tells especially since Rhodes' moral ambiguity is pretty much settled in the first half of the story. Nevertheless, this movie is essential viewing as it not only shows a powerful early indictment of television (and supports Marshall McLuhan's mantra, The medium is the message) but provides another example of the under-appreciated artistry of Kazan and Schulberg. The 2005 DVD has unfortunately no commentary track but one strong extra, a half-hour 2005 featurette, Facing the Past, which spotlights Kazan's polarizing testimony in front of the House Committee on Un-American Activities and the threatening role of television in the 1950's, both major factors in making the film. Griffith, Neal, Schulberg are interviewed. There is also a widescreen version of the original film trailer. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest of ALL films -- now on DVD (and about GD time)!!!","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having read others' comments here and having just watched its new DVD, I'll add my two cents. This has been one of my faves since first seeing it (too) long ago. Well, it is more relevant than ever and should be seen be everyone (literally)!! I notice some (likely younger) folks mentioned comparisons to some contemporary politicians, but indeed Lonesome Rhodes was based on the phenomenally successful (and notoriously haughty) radio & early TV host Arthur Godfrey. Yes, Godfrey discovered Julius La Rosa, but La Rosa probably got fired for asking for a raise (after becoming very popular, both on the show and solo records). Apparently Arthur, like Lawrence Welk, was a cheap prick skinflint who only paid scale -- no matter what their tenure or how successful were his performers. A Face In the Crowd was most definitely social commentary, NOT satire; although, as one from that era, I can understand why it seemed so to many at the time. And also why it inspired so many talents! That this film was not nominated on its own merits due to political differences/grudges is a GD crime! Can't say why Andy wasn't, but he sure deserved it... Awesome!! So awesome,it actually effected his personal life. Anyway, re politicians, A face In the Crowd was a prescient warning of the dangers of that new media, thus akin to those who subsequently capitalized on its propaganda value and the *science* of people's weakness of mistaking image for truth!But Kazan was not simply a great director; he was perhaps the most socially conscious of all Hollywood directors!! And he was one of the great actors' directors; hence, why you never saw an Andy Griffith act like in this film again! (The DVD also has an excellent up-to-date documentary about the making of AFITC and its genesis, with many pertinent historical tidbits re Kazan.) In just 21 films, Kazan directed at least 10 GREAT films America, America (1963), Wild River (1960), Baby Doll (1956), East of Eden (1955), On the Waterfront (1954), Viva Zapata! (1952), A Streetcar Named Desire (1951), Panic in the Streets (1950), Gentleman's Agreement (1947), and A Tree Grows in Brooklyn (1945). In his films, 21 different actors had Oscar-nominated performances James Dunn, Celeste Holm, Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire, Anne Revere, Jeanne Crain, Ethel Barrymore, Ethel Waters, Karl Malden, Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter, Marlon Brando, Anthony Quinn, Eva Marie Saint, Lee J. Cobb, Rod Steiger, Jo Van Fleet, James Dean, Carroll Baker, Mildred Dunnock, and Natalie Wood -- of which Dunn, Holm, Malden, Leigh, Hunter, Quinn, Brando, Saint and Van Fleet ALL won Oscars for their performances in one of Kazan's movies.Not too shabby, eh!? "},{"Title":"Who it lampoons today depends on who you ask","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like a lot of people who've commented on this film, I didn't get around to seeing it until late in life, and it seems as relevant today as ever, maybe even more so. I find it interesting that different people, depending on their own viewpoint, project different contemporary personalities into the mold of the film's detestable hero, Lonesome Rhodes. The list of various people Rhodes is compared to includes Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan, Howard Stern, Rush Limbaugh, Michael Moore, or George W. Bush, suggesting that there's enough BS from all sides to go around. I did a double-take on watching this film when the reactionary right-wing presidential candidate that Rhodes promotes begins to pontificate about how un-American the notion of social security is, and how it's high time it was dismantled. That was 1957, and that cause is being worked harder than ever today. I was not aware, until reading some of the other comments here, how central a target Arthur Godfrey was in this story. In fact, I believe Godfrey is actually mentioned by name in the film when Rhodes says something like Have Arthur Godfrey fill in for me, and tell him I'll return the favor some time.Anyway, while this film hardly needs yet another accolade, I'll add mine to the list and say that it's one of the great under-appreciated films of its time, and only grows with stature as the years go on. And hallelujah &#150; there's now a well-made DVD of this film that includes an interesting documentary in which we hear from Schulberg, Griffeth, Neal, Franciosa, and some film scholars. About time, too. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece about the Power of the Television","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Pickett, Arkansas, Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal) goes to the local jail to interview the prisoners for her radio program called A Face in the Crowd. She finds the boisterous drunken drifter Larry Lonesome Rhodes (Andy Griffith) that plays guitar and tells jokes becoming the show a great success. Soon Lonesome becomes popular in the small northeast town and is invited to move to Memphis to have his own television show and receiving a high salary. Lonesome brings his mentor and lover Marcia with him and together with the writer Mel Miller (Walter Matthau), the show is also successful. When he is invited to move to New York, Lonesome realizes how powerful and manipulative he is attracting the attention of politicians. But he changes his personality with arrogant attitude toward his collaborators and disrespecting his audience in the beginning of his fall.A Face in the Crowd is a masterpiece directed by Elia Kazan with a great story about the power of the television. It is impressive the rise and fall of Lonesome and how he manipulates his audience. Larry Lonesome Rhodes is inspired in Arthur Godfrey, who worked in CBS radio and television, and in the blacklisted comedian John Henry Faulk. This movie is also the debut of the lovely and gorgeous Lee Remick in the role of Betty Lou Fleckum. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Um Rosto na Multidão (A Face in the Crowd) "},{"Title":"Extremely Realistic!! Especially The Downfall!!","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a motion picture with a very powerful storyline which has the coveted accolade of being directed by world renowned director, Elia Kazan! In this film A Face In The Crowd Kazan works very closely with Bud Schulberg, (he was the writer of this movie). This procedure is indicative of Elia Kazan's modus operandi with previous pictures he has directed. As was the case with Streetcar Named Desire, On The Waterfront, as well as A Face In The Crowd, Kazan works in tandem with the writers of his movies as a measure of purporting an authentic impact of the actual screenplay. Such a necessary commiseration between writers and directors is a cunningly successful technique which I wholeheartedly concur with! Elia Kazan was a director who was very controversial. Kazan became a political scapegoat who was scrutinized by the American Ethics Subcommittee for subversive behavior back sometime in the late 1940's. As a result of being an artifact for McCarthyist phobia, professional complications began to surface, ultimately, Elia Kazan eschewed this notion altogether, and, from that point on, he began to incorporate an intrepid and non-committal ambiguity to every film in which he subsequently directed since Gentleman's Agreement in 1947. The film, A Face In The Crowd is an acrimonious depiction of the television industry being every bit as much of an ethically defunct corporate nightmare as any existing Fortune 500 company in the United States. Andy Griffith starts out as an unassuming and innocuous boll weevil bumpkin who has garnered a quaint charisma with the Arkansas media. Once he is elevated into the limelight of prime time television, he thus became a neon accented spawn of Madison Avenue flow charts. He and his agent (Tony Franciosa) became infected with megalomania and avariciousness to the point where they perceived the American television market to be mere chattel for their slightest caprice. The paradox between ego-maniacal obsession, and homespun entertainment, became ruthlessly dichotomized by all of the powerful New York television executives involved with making programming decisions! Patricia Neal (always typecast as the character of hard bitten reality) played Andy Griffith's succor for perpetual amelioration. Ultimately, she became crestfallen by his egregious human pitfalls! She was instrumental for giving Lonesome Rhodes (Andy Griffith) his start in show business. Realizing that, he now wanted to establish with her an edict to justify his vehement disdain for the general public! His excessive drinking lead to his overall liquor laden line of logic being one which was tantamount to petty pontification from the bottle! Lonesome Rhodes became a cult figure who used his clout to cultivate a state of virulent insanity for the television industry! The entire film illustrates some very genuine human reactions, and becomes sarcastically sanguine about the cause and effect traumas which afflict the unsuspecting television audience. The film A Face In The Crowd is likened to the movie Network. While I thought that Network was far more compelling, especially with regards to it's dialog, I felt both films accomplished a stellar feat that was pertinent to the portrayal of some very visceral and individualistic interactions! Both of these movies effectuate a very somber reality about how television programming is reduced to the sorry element of a marketable commodity. Network and A Face In The Crowd were very avant garde films which had the auspicious recognition for purveying the concept that the informative value to television shows was nothing more than a sensationalistic by product that took second fiddle importance to more pressing factors such as Ratings share, and, dollar demand per commercial minute potential!! Other films that were compared to A Face In The Crowd were Giant and Thank You For Smoking. I can most assuredly envision such an analogy, all of these movies possess a very intense behavioral rancor! Every one of these three films spreads out the welcome mat for an incongruous volatility to habitually surface! The film, A Face In The Crowd evokes a very definite subornation of an abhorrently despicable deception with the small screen viewers! These precarious ideologies are relegated to nothing more than a corrupt candor which harbors a distasteful set of priorities that many people would perceive to be overtly destructive! Andy Griffin's dipsomania and boorishness severely distorts his ability to think rationally, and that becomes the insidious culprit for everything that relates to his ultimate calamities! The film A Face In The Crowd is a spectacular movie, the acting is superb, the performers include; Andy Griffith, Patricia Neal, Tony Franciosa, Lee Remick,and Walter Mathiau (Mathiau's diatribe about the ratings gambit at the end of the film was philosophically gripping). The writing in this movie is absolutely compelling! Finally, the director, Elia Kazan, is a master at articulating pejorative human emotions. The film A Face In The Crowd is one of the best films ever to be produced in the American cinema world. A Face In The Crowd did not win the Academy Award for best picture in 1957, this is probably due to the fact that it had the heinous misfortune of being produced during the same year as Bridge On The River Kwai. (Bridge On The River Kwai won for best picture in 1957, and, also, Bridge on the River Kwai has been rated the 12th best American film ever made, by the critics of A.F.I.) Nevertheless, A Face In The Crowd was a fabulous picture, and, I strongly recommend to anyone that this movie should be put in the category of a must see!! FIVE STARS!! NO QUESTION ABOUT IT!! "},{"Title":"Prophetic","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Supposedly critizized for being too unrealistic when first released, A Face in the Crowd shows the results of when demagogues and image makers take control of the media.  With television ads relying on image and labels over issues, this movie is more relevant today than when it was made.  Lonesome Rhodes could very well be working for the RNC today.  "},{"Title":"highly recommended","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe that I missed this movie for all these years!  I just saw this 1957 movie in July 2001 on AMC.  I had never even heard of it.  It is a great movie, on the theme of mass manipulation by a TV personality who becomes interested in political power and nearly fools the public, but is finally exposed.  It is much better -- and much earlier -- than other films on this theme.Andy Griffith stars (his film debut!), and is excellent.  Also in the cast are Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, and Lee Remick, all of whom are very good.  The story is by Budd Schulberg (who also wrote On the Waterfront), and it is directed by Elia Kazan.  It is sort of in a film noir style, and has many great shadowy shots as it explores the depths of exploitation and betrayal.The AG character, Lonesome Rhodes, has many similarities to Bill Clinton -- from Arkansas, a guy with a huge personality and a way with the public, who is discovered and promoted by a woman who directs his career all the way to the top.  But he has a huge ego and is a philanderer, and is finally revealed for what he really is, though the public was fooled for a long time.  He also betrays the woman who made him great, and who loves him, by taking up with a much younger woman.  The woman, played by Patricia Neal, takes revenge by exposing his megalomania and actual disrespect for the common people.If you have not seen this, put it high on your to do list.  "},{"Title":"A cynical masterpiece and testament to Andy Griffith's talent.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Larry Lonesome Rhodes of A Face in the Crowd starts out as a loud, brashly charming ex-convict, to small-time radio celebrity, to beloved TV star, to a powerful media conglomerate. As time goes on, we see Rhodes for what he really is a soulless shell of a human being desperate for power and God-like status. He's an obnoxious, drunken, selfish, opportunistic, womanizing lout who's on the bottom of the totem pole of human decency and morals. Most shocking of all? Lonesome Rhodes, one of cinema's most realistic, repugnant villains, is played by Andy Griffith.That's right, Andy Griffith. The beloved TV icon best known as wholesome, laid back country boy Andy Taylor on The Andy Griffith Show, screams, yells, leers, laughs maniacally, throws tantrums, and shows a frightening array of ugly emotions in a performance that actually rivals Humphrey Bogart's as Fred C. Dobbs in Treasure of the Sierra Madre. It's a shame that Griffith has been pigeonholed by his classic TV show. A Face in the Crowd could prove to any skeptic that Andy Griffith is really, truly, an honest-to-God ACTOR. He initially plays Rhodes as a slovenly, deceptively innocent hick from the sticks. When he is given a shot at fame by ambitious talent scout Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal), Rhodes milks it for all it's worth. It starts out all in good fun, but as his star rises, his morals plummet dramatically, and poor Marcia is forced to bear the burden of knowing she's helped create this monster.I also must take my hat off to Ms. Neal, an underrated actress and master of slow-burning intensity. She eschews common acting choices for ones that really feel painfully real. For instance, in one scene where Rhodes has hurt her yet again, she slowly approaches her bed. Instead of the predictable falling down on the bed and crying, Neal lets out one tortured, anguished sob and walks away, a crushed woman. It's acting at its most devastatingly honest.Elia Kazan creates a scorching, brutal indictment of the media age and the corrupting power of celebrity. Many critics believe it was the harbinger of similar, contemporary classics such as Network and To Die For. As Mel, the pragmatic writer played by Walter Matthau tells Marcia, we the people are responsible for a celebrity's power. It when we see through them, that's our strength, he says. In today's celebrity worshiping times, when R. Kelly continues to release hit singles when he should be rotting in jail for child molestation, when untalented kids make idiots of themselves on American Idol just for their 15 minutes, when Paris Hilton is famous just for, well, existing, truer words were never spoken. "},{"Title":"Arkansas Traveler","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Budd Schulberg wrote this and the story it was based on. He doesn't get the kind of credit he deserves. He did some hard research for On the Waterfront in order to dig up lines like, You take away dem pistoleros you got in there and you're nothing'. You hear me? You're NUTHIN'. Compared to On the Waterfront, though, this politically tinged drama is overwritten and its dialog lacks the same ineluctable force. It's still pretty good, no mistake about that, but it seems to depict a time when we were an awful lot more naive about TV and politics than we are now.Or does it? The first major political advertisement back in the early 50s was so monumentally harmless. A cute, smiling, little cartoon figure, on the order of Elmer Fudd, marches across the screen holding a sign which a lilting chorus reads out for the audience, in case they can't read. I like Ike. I like Ike. Everybody likes Ike. Those were the good old days.This story involves Andy Griffith who begins as an absolutely guileless ex-jailbird whose only talent is his appeal to the common man by playing it as the dumb flaneur he actually is. Recruited for a TV commercial by a reporter, Patricia Neal, he makes fun of the product and the audience loves it. By leaps and bounds he climbs the ladder to TV stardom as a seller of products like Vitajex and the bald Senator Curly Fuller. And then Schulberg the writer has him go apparently maniacal overnight. Shouting, bullying, pompous, and ultimately destroyed by Pat Neal, the woman he's used and abused from the beginning.One of the reasons the film is so important is that it tagged the period when politics was switching from innocent cartoons to the kind of suppurating, mindless smears we're witnessing today. A character points out that nobody wants to listen to long-winded debates anymore. They want slogans (now called sound bites) like The Family That Prays Together Stays Together, More Bang for the Buck, The Mess in Washington, Mission Accomplished. Oops. Maybe a misquote in there, but it illustrates the point. The talking points and sound bites are still hard at work and we're still swallowing without chewing, not that much more sophisticated than we were in 1957.If the film seems a little dated today it's only because the future it shows us has now arrived. And worse, because now we have the internet where a whisper can become a roar overnight. The issues are amazingly resilient. Griffith promotes a presidential candidate and they sit around the Old Cracker Barrel on his TV show dissing Social Security because everybody wants coddling. Did Daniel Boone have Social Security? No. All he needed was a gun and his freedom. Andy Griffith is a nice guy. He was my supporting player in an episode of Matlock. Good sense of humor, as unpretentious as his screen persona, but no dummy, a show-biz pro. He didn't make that many films but this one is quite good and No Time for Sergeants was a generally successful comedy. He's way over the top in some scenes but is able to modulate his performance to accommodate moments in which his character is more thoughtful.This was his film debut, also Anthony Franciosa (edgy as always, a bottle of ambitious champagne about to pop its cork), and Lee Remick who was 22 when this was shot but looks a convincing 17 years old. Man, can she swing a baton. Patricia Neal turns in her usual quietly effective performance. She was never a glamor puss and she's perfect for the part of the loyal friend and sometime-lover of the hero, Lonesome Rhodes. It's believable that he should throw her over for Lee Remick's airhead because Rhodes himself sees nothing in anyone except the extent of their value to him, kind of like the way humans look at the Earth. What a splendid place the Grand Canyon is. Let's build a row of motels and Burger Queens along the rims! It isn't that Neal's steadfastness and genuine love for him doesn't mean anything to Rhodes. It's just that he doesn't see it. Walter Matthau is a college graduate whom Rhodes sneers at as an elitist, calling him Vanderbilt '44 and Frontal Lobe.Okay, the movie's overwrought at times but it really ought to be seen for its aesthetic as well as its didactic value. I ought to add that it stands up well on re-viewings, despite the occasional overstatement and clumsiness. The performances are nearly flawless and the direction is more than competent. Keep an eye on Griffith's sidekick, Beanie, to see what I mean. "}{"Title":"The Underside of John Doe","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just imagine if instead of rebelling against the new order of things that Edward Arnold planned for the country, Gary Cooper had collaborated and eventually took it over in Meet John Doe. Then you have some idea of what Elia Kazan was trying to say in A Face In The Crowd. A few years later there's no way on the planet that Andy Griffith could have been cast as Larry 'Lonesome' Rhoads the John Doe of American nightmares. Griffith had starred on Broadway in No Time for Sergeants, cut some comedy albums, did some television appearances, but he was not a big or a small screen name. So with no image to counteract, Elia Kazan could cast him and he gives one powerful performance. But it never would have happened had he been Sheriff Andy Taylor first.Local radio station manager Patricia Neal discovers this country boy philosopher in the local jail in her Arkansas home town. Seeing he's got charisma, she puts him on the air. She figures she has another Will Rogers on her hands, but Griffith proves to be a far more malevolent person than Will Rogers ever was. Rogers was the guy who said he never met anyone he didn't like. Griffith feels there isn't anyone he ever met he couldn't clip. The frightening thing is he comes real close to proving it.Some future stars make some early appearances in A Face In The Crowd besides Griffith. Anthony Franciosa is the smooth talking ad man who rides a good thing when he sees it and that comment can be taken a lot of ways. Lee Remick is the wide-eyed cheerleader seduced by Griffith, and the good life. Walter Matthau who in his early years played a lot of hoodlums in this case is the writer who catches on early what Griffith is all about. My favorite is Kay Medford however. She has only one scene in the film with Patricia Neal. But she really scores with it as Griffith's forgotten wife who even when tipsy knows exactly how much of a piece she can get on his celebrity.A Face In The Crowd is written by Budd Schulberg who along with Elia Kazan were friendly witnesses at the House Un American Activities Committee. The ironic thing is that both these guys considered themselves as men of the left and certainly A Face In The Crowd wasn't written by any Republican. The unkindest cut of all to Elia Kazan was the fact he got booed at the Oscars when he received a deserved Lifetime Achievement Award and was eulogized eloquently by Pat Buchanan when he died. What a world.Eleven years after A Face In The Crowd came out, Kazan and Schulberg proved to be prophets of sorts when George C. Wallace ran for president. If his campaign wasn't a 'Lonesome Rhoads' special I don't know what was.Of course Griffith falls, but how he falls is something else. I won't reveal it, but think back to that much imitated ending from another Elia Kazan masterpiece, A Streetcar Named Desire.A Face In The Crowd is a very relevant film today considering the influence some of these pious country types have in the religious right of today. "},{"Title":"A Closer Look at Several of the Themes","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's a maddening movie. On one hand, the story deals with a substantive topic&#x97;TV's capacity for exploitation by demagogues of ordinary folks; on the other, the movie's too long, too loud, and dominated by a tiresome one-note performance.Back in '57, Kazan's cynical production was much discussed by pundits and media types. Dealing with the new medium of television was also of general interest, as audiences became aware of its impact. The fact that huge numbers tuned in weekly to shows like Ed Sullivan or I Love Lucy bespoke TV's power to influence national audiences. Now, of course, that mass audience has splintered with the advent of cable and computers. Nonetheless, topics dealt with in the movie, such as the role of advertising and personality promotion, remain relevant even in today's more diversified media.To me, the movie's main message would have been more effective had Rhodes been made more likable or at least more subtle. Then I could see why his TV persona was so seductive to so many. The trouble is that Rhodes is obnoxious from jailhouse beginning to penthouse close. His alligator grin is anything but friendly. The claim in '57 was that the expose was aimed at TV impresario Arthur Godfrey, host of a number of popular programs of the day. But Rhodes' blustery on-screen demeanor is totally unlike the laid-back Godfrey, whose ukulele- strumming, easy-going manner could easily be seen as attracting a mass audience.Likability or subtlety aside, one way of taking Rhodes' early appeal is suggested by two things&#x97; he's both authentic and unpredictable. He's a proud hayseed, unashamed of the corn pone he projects to his like-minded rural audience. Plus he's really unpredictable on camera. You never know what he's going to do or say, as his mattress company sponsor finds out. It's refreshing to hear him level with the audience on the sponsor's unexceptional product. And it's no particular stretch to see people responding by buying the product. In that sense, Rhodes stands as a marketing innovator, one who would naturally attract wider industry interest, as he does.But his corn pone manner becomes a stretch once he hits the big time. To that point, his appeal comes from shared Southern folkways. But once he goes national, we have to assume those regionalisms apply nationally, even into coveted big city markets. Couple that stretch with his loud buffoonish manner, and the believability factor snaps apart. Whatever else, Lonesome Rhodes is certainly no Arthur Godfrey.I expect other reviewers are right. Rhodes' obnoxious character is the creation of big city boys Schulberg and Kazan who take a dim, stereotypical view of the rural South. In fact, Rhodes amounts to what a city sophisticate's view of a cunning hayseed might be like. Then too, it's city boy Miller's (Matthau) voice of reason that's counterposed to the power-hungry media star. Of course, some regional balance is achieved when the slippery talent agent (Franciosa) joins the money train. But, the impression of a bias nonetheless remains.A less noticed aspect of the screenplay is the potential for political exploitation of the medium. In 1957, the political potential of TV had yet to be broadly felt. It wasn't until 1960 that the new medium's impact was experienced presidentially as Nixon learned in his debates with the more telegenic Kennedy. Still, the film brought a timely matter before the public, even though it's treated as secondary to Rhodes' public meltdown. In the movie, the general (Waram) is a rather sinister power broker looking to use Rhodes' populist appeal to promote his handpicked candidate for president (Neilan). Thus Rhodes is ultimately connected to the highest levels of political power, and his dreams run rampant. It also proves enough to push him over the edge into raving megalomania. In the end, then, the power of TV has helped turn an unassuming country boy into a raving monster (the shot of him in distorted silhouette). All in all, the movie was an important one for its time and still resonates on a human level. The trouble lies with Griffith's unsubtle, one-note performance. In that regard, I'm not sure whether the fault lies with the actor, the director, the screenwriter, or some combination thereof. But, one thing for sure (at least in my little book)&#x97; too many well-meaning folks confuse bluster with good acting. Plus, the over-acting is deadly for the movie's underlying plausibility. Nonetheless, the lessons of power and corruption in the media world remain as relevant now as it was then. "},{"Title":"A man without cable, I stumbled upon this . . .","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  in a borrowed condominium in Florida. I was most impressed with FACE IN THE CROWD in a way different than most of the other commentators, however thoughtful. Not a cinemaphile, I had never heard of this film.To one of my background, this film was not a character study of a flawed, even wicked man, but social commentary. Yes, even satire. It also was not just about that favourite topic of the latter quarter of the 20th Century, a la NETWORK -- the power of the media -- but was about American political culture. There were hints of an incipient rise of an American fascism with Lonesome as Goebbels, at least. Did anyone catch the new cabinet-level post he was eagerly working anticipating?The U.S.A. is the only industrialised country in which one can seek its highest office by pretending to be uneducated. (Bush '88) This country values the Old Shoe (quess) over intellect, diligence, even honesty. Pierre Elliott Trudeau could never make it through a presidential primary. Margaret Thatcher? Ha!FACE IN THE CROWD was about a cunning, albeit self-hating hick, who saw a real grab for power, the force behind the throne. He was a man of the people who looked down upon them, and would have made an excellent stalinist. This motion picture was ahead of its time and in the spirit of ALL THE KING'S MEN. It was only slightly spoiled by what I call an American ending, when there was opportunity for a tragic, and frankly more realistic denouement. Nonetheless, well done. "},{"Title":"media on trial","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" hymn Most people will think this movie is about Andy Griffith as Lonsome Rhodes, hick entertainer storyteller megalomaniac. What this film REALLY is is a condemnation of mass media and how the media builds up people to images they can't possibly fulfill. Take Griffith, small town drunk, in jail, with a story to tell and a woman to record it. His story goes over with the public and the woman decides to make Rhodes a media darling. On the other side of the screen is the smoke filled room political machine out to publicize a washed up yokel as politician that they put up for election. Sound familiar? See the film NETWORK and compare Rhodes to the Peter Finch character, Howard Beale.This film is a scathing indictment of misuse of media, pseudo stardom and all that goes with it. It is allegory to be sure, but then everything old is new again. Take a look at the so called celebrities of today and how they got that way and what makes them tick... then watch A Face In The Crowd!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Classics","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Much has been made of how Andy Griffith supposedly played against character here, but if one analyzes his later TV role as Matlack, the seemingly cuddly but razor sharp southern lawyer, one can easily see the similarities.In any event, his performance in this stellar movie was Oscar-worthy. That this film got no major nominations (while ordinary soap opera tripe like 'Payton Place' did) in 1957 was criminal. Similar to 'The Sweet Smell of Success', somehow this marvelous and still potent movie got lost in the woodwork. The danger of a TV (and now internet/satellite radio) created celebrity power-monster looms with us today more then ever (just think about these self-obsessed talk show hosts...).I've heard that Jim Carrey interested in a remake. I think he'd be perfect in the starring role. "},{"Title":"Griffith's first and last great performance","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith is electrifying. His performance in A Face in the Crowd is one of the greatest dramatic performances in the history of film. The complexity and depth of the character Lonesome Rhodes as portrayed by Griffith reaches the cellular biochemical level. It is a perfect match. So perfect that one wonders after seeing this picture what could have possibly happened to Griffith's film career? It was Griffith's first film. Two others followed in close secession No time for Sergeants, and Onionhead. Griffith then moved on to Mayberry and never looked back. In retrospect, it is hard to comprehend Griffith's career or what I think ultimately is a malfunction of that career. I would submit that while Mayberry may have endeared Andy to millions, carrying around Aunt Bee's apple pie became a pathological self destroyer of a potentially truly great career as a dramatic actor. I define success not by popularity but by great performance. Griffith's Lonesome Rhodes was his first and last great performance. Thus the tragedy of Lonesome Rhodes is really the tragedy of a career that sparkled briefly. It is akin to a spectacular impressionist artist that demonstrates genius with one stellar effort but avoids all risk and moves on to house painting because the money is steady. In the later years of the Andy Griffith show, the anguish and self-loathing of this bungled career decision showed physically in the face of Sheriff Taylor.Some individuals with great talent will always find a way to fail. This was essentially the same sentiment that Lucille Ball held of her former husband, Desi Arnes. For many years Griffith complained that he did not feel that he was treated as well as others. He pinned this on his Southern heritage, explaining that he felt that Southerners at large always had a feeling that they did not quite measure up to others. I doubt sincerely that Elvis shared such sentiments. Taken to the extreme this inferiority complex raged in Lonesome Rhodes until the bully inside was detonated like a nuclear bomb. Griffith too, used his TV popularity to leverage Matlock to be shot in Wilmington, NC on a take it or leave it basis, forcing the mountain at last, to come to Mohammed. Ultimately one would have to ask Griffith if this kind of smug penny ante self-impaling leveraging finally gave him the kind of self-respect that he was seeking. Clearly Griffith lives in the skin of Lonesome Rhodes more than he would care to admit.Never doubting the terminal stupidity of Hollywood, this truly great motion picture has never been released on DVD. The film is a must see if only to demonstrate how truly great Griffith could have been had he had the spine to be something other than paint houses. He had the talent; he simply lacked the courage to take the tougher road. "},{"Title":"Pass the Popcorn review","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan will always be remembered as one of the most important directors of his era. With great movies like A Streetcar Named Desire and On The Waterfront, he forever established his position in cinema history. A Face in the Crowd is one of his lesser known movies that flopped at the box office when it was initially released, and was completely ignored by the Academy. It only got some following much later, when it was released on DVD, which is a shame since A Face in the Crowd doesn't greatly differ from Kazan's more popular movies. To correct this historical injustice, I decided to review this movie and spread the word about it as much as I can.The movie opens with a young woman, named Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal), visiting the prison in her small town. She is doing a radio show called 'A Face in the Crowd' during which she talks with everyday people, transmitting their stories. In the prison she meets a man who calls himself 'Lonesome' Rhodes (Andy Griffith) &#x96; a hobo arrested for drunk and disorderly behavior. She tapes him for her show and the episode becomes a huge hit. Marcia and her uncle, who is the owner of the local radio station on which 'A Face in the Crowd' airs, offer 'Lonesome' a job on the radio station. He accepts and soon becomes a sensation with the local populace &#x96; and eventually, with the whole country.A Face in the crowd is what you may call a movie ahead of its time, and that's maybe why it wasn't recognized when it was initially released. It deals with topics like the media, celebrities, propaganda and politics. And in this day and age, when we are surrounded by the internet and the mass media, A Face in the Crowd may seem more actual than ever. A Face in the Crowd is essentially about a corrupted man who has a gift for public relations, and uses this gift as means to an end &#x96; the end being his own benefit. I think every last one of us knows at least one politician, public personality or celebrity who is just like that. A Face in the Crowd is a dark, frighteningly realistic movie which is brilliantly directed and masterfully paced. It runs for over 2 hours but never feels dull or boring.In a character study movie like this one, the actor portraying the character plays a very important part in the quality of the movie. 'Lonesome' Rhodes is portrayed by Andy Griffith in his first movie performance ever. He did an astonishingly great job and, like I said before, it's a shame that the Academy overlooked this movie, especially his performance. Andy Griffith later went to start in the very popular sitcom 'The Andy Griffith Show', and since his character in the sitcom was much different from his 'Lonesome' Rhodes character, he managed to show his amazing acting range &#x96; which makes makes his performance in A Face in the Crowd even more astonishing. Patricia Neal also did a very good job in portraying the character of Marcia Jeffries. Overall, A Face in the Crowd is an amazing movie, made by talented people, which doesn't deserve to be just another face in the crowd &#x96; it deserves to be more popular.Rating 8/10 Read more at http//passpopcorn.com/ "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith's first movie role might be his best performance as Lonesome Rhodes.","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith comes across, even in real life, as somewhat a country bumpkin, but he has a degree in music and was already experienced as a singer, musician, and stage actor when this 1957 movie was made.The movie begins with local radio station reporter Patricia Neal as Marcia Jeffries doing some on-location spots called a face in the crowd, recording the interview and editing it for playback on the radio program.This day she visits the local small town jail and is pointed to a bum sleeping in the corner. The sheriff uses his boot to prod the man, Andy Griffith as Rhodes. He doesn't seem too eager to tell his full name, so Marcia nicknames him 'Lonesome' ... Lonesome Rhodes. Later we all learn that his name is Larry, but 'Lonesome' sticks.When his session is broadcast he is an instant hit. Listeners call in, advertisers buy more advertising time. And as Rhodes heads out of town on the dusty road, guitar case on his back, and penniless, Marcia tracks him down. He doesn't want a job, that is not his ambition, he just wants to get to Florida. But she tells him, she will put a plane ticket in his pocket, and any time he decides he wants to leave he can, just give it a try.Lonesome gives it a try, and finds that he enjoys the attention. He enjoys that people like his impromptu songs and his folksy humor. But he seems to have no boundaries, like making fun of an advertiser's product if he feels like it. But listeners like him, he increases sales, so all is forgiven.In fact, his fame snowballs, soon he is hired for TV show in Menphis, where he makes an on-air plea for a poor black family that lost their home, asking everyone to send in 50 cents, 4 bits, to help this family. And people do, thousands. Then he is asked to go to New York.But as Rhodes' popularity grows, so does his opinion of himself. He gets to the point where even a presidential candidate is asking him whether his campaign and his image need changing. But while Lonesome Rhodes on the outside appears to be a nice, gentle, caring man, in reality he was just the opposite. This eventually leads to his downfall.The story is a parody of sorts, a commentary on how radio and TV can be used to make the general public honor and embrace someone even if in reality they don't deserve it. Good movie, Andy Griffith is superb.Other fine actors still early in their careers are Anthony Franciosa as Joey DePalma, slick like Louie DePalma of the TV series Taxi, and who became Lonesome Rhodes' manager. Walter Matthau as Mel Miller, one of the men working at the radio station. And a young Lee Remick as Betty Lou Fleckum, a baton twirler that Lonesome manages to fly off to Mexico for a quickie wedding that was all wrong. "},{"Title":"we get wise to em","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A visionary fusion of social-commentary pic and farce, styled for the new age of television. I admit I did not imagine Andy Griffith capable of such a charismatic, impassioned performance as down-home Arkansas demagogue Lonesome Rhodes, whose jailhouse radio interview sets him on his archetypal rags-to-riches way. But while he starts by broadcasting home truths to housewives and ends by asking where that uncomplicated unliberated woman has gone, he's no more of a swindler at the beginning than at the end - he's just playing for bigger stakes. What has changed is that his main audience is now the sponsor instead of the listener; so where he once used his perch to get even at the sheriff he's now using it to suck up to the senator, and where he once required an audience, now he's got sycophants and canned applause. Everyone else is playing an angle as well - even Walter Matthau's truth-teller gets a piece with his tell-all book deal. At first the satire is so broad, with listeners playing Pavlovian dog to Rhodes' every suggestion, that it seems like the truth value will be undermined by the cynicism. But that's before the indescribably bravura Vitajex promo sequence takes broad to a whole new level after that the film becomes an all-over-the-map fusion of classical drama, self-reflexive burlesque, and fearless carnal showmanship. From the down-home baton twirl, to the expiry of the sweaty account executive, to the single desperate gasp Patricia Neal makes when Griffith leaves her apartment, to Griffith's hopeless assault on the pointedly black servants who will no longer do his bidding, every moment is intensely complex and fully realized. And as Lonesome Rhodes yowls into the night and Matthau delivers his closing remarks, you can't help but feel that the whole cacophonous ordeal can also be read as the flipside of director Elia Kazan and writer Budd Schulberg's On The Waterfront - a final and unanswerable repudiation of the ultimate hick demagogue turned media darling, Mr. Joseph McCarthy himself. "},{"Title":"Not a 10, a 12","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is so important to America in so many ways, it is easy to see why it is hidden away. Watch this film and see what has happened to America. I was but a boy when it came out, but love how it show all I remember; casual racism, advertiser rules, pop culture and more and how it has grown in our lives and whom exactly grew it and why.Prophetic is not a strong enough word. I know Schulberg will always be remembered for On The Waterfront's line...  I coulda been a contender, but Lonesome Rhodes lines are all so much more universal.This film has all the things that great films have... story, plot, direction, acting and cinematography... but has the element of social consciousness that makes it exceptional like Bulworth, All the King's Men, Mr Smith Goes to Washington... etc, so refreshingly sad in these days that Face In The Crowd correctly predicted over 50 years ago. See it. Tell friends and family.Budd Schulberg I am a fan "}{"Title":"The Face Behind The Mask","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There were a few films preceding the savage brilliance of NETWORK that just about equaled its caustic worldview as filtered through the manipulation and mendacity of the media, and a very few that damn near exceeded it. A FACE IN THE CROWD can proudly count itself as one of those few.Featuring the one-two punch of a dazzling script by Budd (What Makes Sammy Run?) Schulberg, based on his own short story, and directed by the controversial and monumentally talented Elia Kazan (On The Waterfront, A Streetcar Named Desire), the K-O blow is landed with a shocking jab to the solar plexus, from someone the audience may have considered a very unlikely source Andy Griffith. This was made when Griffith was still in dramatic actor mode, well before Fate would pin a badge on him as the seemingly lifetime sheriff of Mayberry.Griffith fans, be warned if you have never seen him out of cop uniform, or the crisp, white linen suits favored by the beloved Matlock, you are best advised not to eat or drink anything you might choke on while watching this movie. It will be, at the very least, a revelation, and at its spellbinding apex, a validation of what die-hard fans knew about him all along...that Griffith had deeply ingrained reserves of acting talent that were rarely ever mined properly.But Kazan knew it, and struck gold by casting him as the country-bumpkin sage, 'Lonesome' Rhodes. With an aw-shucks grin and an backwoods homily to fit every anecdote, Rhodes is a master opportunist and manipulator; a barefoot, banjo-pickin', power-hungry wolf in sheep's overalls, not even remotely as naive or pure as he fools people into believing he is. He gets incredible support from a cast that includes acting greats Walter Matthau, Patricia Neal, Tony Franciosa and Lee Remick, but even with all that firepower, it's hard to take your eyes off of him in any scene he's in. He is quite simply THAT good.It's a great, grueling tale about how much America values celebrity, and how we will accept and excuse damn near anything from someone whom we love like family, simply because we welcome them into our homes by way of the sacred Idiot Box every evening. And how much our all-too willing complacency in slavishly worshiping these media demi-gods is costing us in the long run.This may seem like it would be severely outdated, having been shot back in 1957, but if it were re-released in theaters in 2007, it will still be just as relevant as anything made that very same year, if not more so.If anything cries out for a well-produced remake, this is it. But I suspect it will do just as well in its original form.If you only allow yourself one black-and-white classic, one movie from the Fifties or one Andy Griffith movie each year, make it this one. I promise you that Lonesome Rhodes is one character you will not soon forget. And the fact that Griffith was never again afforded the opportunity to sink his teeth into a role of this caliber, is something that moviegoers everywhere SHOULD regret. "},{"Title":"Making of  A face in the crowd","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was partially filmed in Piggott, Arkansas - (Clay County) I was in High School at the time and remember several of the cast being in this small town and of Lee Remmick in our High School Class and actually staying with the English Instructor. She portrayed a HS Band Twirler. Most of our HS class was in the movie at some time and once in particular on top of a school bus. Most everyone in the county came to Piggott when they asked for a large crowd to be present for specific scenes. Eli Kazan and the film company donated a new City Swimming pool to the community.We still enjoy seeing the movie - not only for the story in the movie but for the story it left in our City. "},{"Title":"Oscar's Forgotten Child!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having just re-watched the marvelous DVD release of A Face in the Crowd (one of seven fine films included in Warner's Controversial Collection set), it is evident that the film's themes must have rubbed many of the Hollywood Oscar voters in the wrong way, for it was not even nominated for one award! 1957 offered some fine nominated films -- for Best Picture there was The Bridge on the River Kwai (which won), Peyton Place, Sayonara, 12 Angry Men and Witness for the Prosecution. A Face in the Crowd could have easily replaced three of the five nominated films. Alec Guiness won Best Actor for his marvelous role in River Kwai -- but Andy Griffith certainly gave an equally power performance in Crowd, and did not even receive a nomination. And what about Patricia Neal's performance; Elia Kazan's direction or Budd Schulberg's screenplay?Well at least the Academy got it mostly right in 1954 when Kazan's On the Waterfront was nominated for 9 Oscars and won 8 of them! Both Kazan and Schulberg were winners. The one Oscar that it lost was for music, that one going to Dimitri Tiomkin for The High and the Mighty over Leonard Bernstein's great score for Waterfront.Now that A Face in the Crowd is available to see again, Oscar's forgotten child proves that time is the true test of greatness -- NOT Oscars (or any other awards)! "},{"Title":"The best role ever carried by Andy Griffith","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As excellent The Andy Griffith Show is, as comical as No Time For Sergeants -- A Face In The Crowd is a masterpiece of Griffith's ability as an actor. With Patricia Neal, Walter Matahau, released in 1957, it took till 1990 for VHS release, This is a sleeper in which DVD quality will only enhance the story. Probably one of the most relevant films for today as Seven Days in May was during the Cuban missile crisis for John Kennedy. Face in the crowd, is a political science, civics class all at once. With Watergate, contragate, arms for hostages and the Clinton impeachment, A Face In the Crowd becomes even more important when examining media influence, i.e. CBS Bush Memo fiasco, and government dispersal of information to favor a position or stance against something; i.e. paid journalist to promote given causes for instance. It is a movie that needs to be brought out of the can again, but this time on DVD, "},{"Title":"Very good but it certainly ain't subtle!","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a bit overboard at times--Mt. Rhodes, USS Rhodes, etc.Griffith's performance is a bit florid--subtle it ain't! The film begins with Andy Griffith in a jail cell with a whole bunch of other n'er do wells and drunks. Into this unlikely spot comes Patricia Neal--a lady with a radio show who is looking to find some singers for her program. While this idea makes no sense, it is how the film starts--suspend your disbelief and just watch. When Griffith gets on tape, however, he immediately changes--exploding into a dynamic personality. he clearly does not mind being on tape or on TV and soon he's parlayed this one event into a gig as a TV personality. And, as if by magic, his show becomes more and more and more popular--and he becomes much more powerful. It's also clear that this 'Lonesome' Rhodes (Griffith) is sociopath--a guy who knows how to play people and will say and do anything to get ahead. Now, it looks like they've created a monster--especially when those around him see the real man behind this image--a man who is potentially very dangerous and self-serving.It is ironic Griffith became famous for this role AND his Will Stockdale from the TV, Broadway and movie versions of No Time for Sergeants as they are almost complete opposites. Stockdale was sweet and innocent--Rhodes was anything but! Yet together, both roles made him a star--leading, of course, to The Andy Griffith Show and much more.Now as far as his character in A Face in the Crowd goes, I realize it's considered a brilliant characterization, but I was a bit less impressed than some critics. He's good but also awfully florid--and far from subtle. In fact, that is my biggest complaint about the film. A somewhat more subtle characterization would make this a more timeless movie--today it seems a tad over-wrought. In other words, have the rottenness of his true character be a little less apparent early on--but it's painfully obvious he's a jerk from almost the beginning. Now this is NOT saying it's a bad film--it's very good. I just might have liked it more if it had given us a tiny bit less. Interestingly, the rest of the folks in the film (such as Neal, Walter Mathau and others) were all very believable and well-directed. I am sure this was done to show the contrast between them and Rhodes--but it also made the film seem more like a parody or burlesque than it should have been. Of course, the film is considered by many to be a classic--so what do I know! By the way, if you like this film, two lesser-known but wonderful films with similar themes are well worth seeing. The far more subtle The Great Man with José Ferrer is a terrific movie as is George Sanders' Death of a Scoundrel. While less famous, I actually preferred these two films--especially The Great Man. All three films appear to have been influenced by the real-life disintegration of the folksy Arthur Godfrey, as TV audiences across America witnessed just how sweet and homespun this host really was--as bits and pieces of an underlying jerk came seeping out during this very popular show. "},{"Title":"The Bigger They Are&#x85;","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith made his stunning movie debut as 'Lonesome Rhodes', a big ol' teddy bear whose meteoric rise to TV fame is paralleled by his plunge into booze, sex and political corruption. From director Elia Kazan and screenwriter Budd Schulberg, 'A Face In The Crowd' carries the white-hot edge of filmmakers who know the media world from the inside out. Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, Anthony Franciosa and film-debuting Lee Remick are other faces you'll remember in this captivating 'Crowd'. As usual, Kazan elicits memorable performances from his cast. An important last appearance is made by Marshall Neilan (as Senator Worthington Fuller). A respected and successful director (and actor) who hadn't appeared in twenty years, Mr. Neilan passed away in 1958. Neilan was best known for his collaborations with Mary Pickford - like Stella Maris (1918) and Daddy-Long-Legs (1919) - his presence as A Face in the Crowd is an unexpected, but welcome, anomaly.This film must have seemed overblown in the relatively quaint 1950s, but time has increased its worth - along with a starring performance elevated in hindsight (when you compare Mr. Griffith's scummy Larry Rhodes to his lovable Andy Taylor). Although Oscar and others were then giving director Kazan the back of their hand, it should be noted that, even before moving to TV's Mayberry, Griffith was awarded Best Actor of 1957 by Film Daily (also, Kazan and the film were listed respectfully, at #3 and #7, for the year).A Face in the Crowd is spottily brilliant; and, mainly, it falls apart during Act III. Even earlier, there are some problems - these could have been dismissed with a tidier coalescence of themes (which didn't happen). Lonesome Rhodes is, for example, never really endearing; he approaches neither Will Rogers nor Arthur Godfrey in appeal. If the attraction Ms. Neal's Marcia has for him, early on, can be explained as purely sexual, what in the world did she fall in love with? Unfortunately, the megalomaniacs this film portended are no longer stopped by inappropriate behavior.******** A Face in the Crowd (5/28/57) Elia Kazan, Budd Schulberg ~ Andy Griffith, Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, Lee Remick "},{"Title":"Quite horrifying","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the story of an unprincipled huckster, a creepy piece of low-life with an element of charisma, the common touch, who is picked up and pushed forward by a manipulative female self-publicist. Yes, this is the story of a philandering Arkansas hillbilly who makes it big by exploiting his talent for charm, dissimulation demagoguery and deceit. This whole country's just like my flock of sheep... Rednecks crackers, hillbillies, houseprouds, shut-ins, pea-pickers, everybody that's got to jump when somebody else blows the whistle... They're mine. I own 'em. They think like I do. Only they're even more stupid than I am so I gotta think for 'em.... This is a great film which was a shocking warning to us all. What a shame that it had been forgotten by the time of the 1992 Presidential election. "},{"Title":"Honey, nothing's illegal if they don't catch you","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Released in 1957, Elia Kazan's A Face in the Crowd stars Andy Griffith as Larry Rhodes, a fast-talking drifter who's hired by the producer of a small-town radio show. As the plain-speaking Rhodes appeals to listeners, he quickly becomes famous, and thus a powerful marketing tool.Pre-dating Network (1976) by almost two decades, Crowd reveals a world in which newspaper, radio and television have become powerful tools of manipulation. Rhodes is not only used as a pawn to push products, but political candidates as well, Kazan anticipating the rise of a new breed of political pundits, folksy everymen used by those in power to sell lies to the masses. Kazan's films have often been about the pitfalls of success. If films like On the Waterfront, America, America and Viva Zapata! observe the struggles of social climbers, fare like The Arrangement, The Last Tycoon and A Face in the Crowd are explicitly about success stories who become painfully disillusioned. Rhodes himself shifts from a man who wanted little to do with money, power or politics, to a man who embodies everything he once detested. Selling products and political candidates on television, Rhodes then begins to despise his many fans and viewers; he deems them simple-minded dupes. Earlier in the film, others condescendingly viewed Rhodes the same way.You gotta be a saint to stand all the power that little box gives you, a character played by Walter Matthau states. It's a lesson Rhodes soon learns. By the film's second half, media, advertising, capitalism and politics have become a messy entanglement from which Rhodes is unable escape. Everything has become a game of surfaces, sales and deceit, and when audience faith in Rhodes collapses, he's ejected from the game.A Face in the Crowd was ignored upon release, but has since come to be regarded as one of Kazan's masterpieces. Though very heavy-handed, it remains a prophetic, funny and fast little film. Expertly acted by Andy Griffith and Patricia Neal.8.9/10 - See Wilder's Ace in the Hole. "},{"Title":"This Movie Applies Even Today","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film may never go out of style, as long as there are hypocritical politicians. This month Turner Classic Movies is airing this movie, and in the trailer they describe this movie the following way his father deserted the family early in his life, his mother was a bit of a tramp, and he tried to make his followers believe he was religious when he was not. Remind you of anyone sitting in the Oval Office beginning in 2009? Andy Griffith gives a perfect performance as Lonesome Rhodes. It would take a really good actor to make you believe Andy Griffith is a sleazy person. The message of the movie is as old as time. Man is imperfect, man is a sinner, some men cover it up better than others. "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith's big screen debut.","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The famed Elia Kazan directs Budd Schulberg's story of a down-home guitar picking drifter named Larry 'Lonesome' Rhodes(Andy Griffith). Journalist Marcia Jeffries(Patrica Neal)discovers Rhodes in singing in jail and convinces him to go on the radio. His aw-shucks quips and friendly to the point attitude garners enough interest to put the hayseed on TV, where he actually builds a large audience to follow his quickly gained influence. It doesn't take Rhodes too long to become big-headed, vengeful, insulting and power-hungry. This is not the Griffith we all would come to know; but nevertheless a powerful performance albeit despicable in character. Also making a silver screen debut is Lee Remick as a pretty young baton twirling cheerleader. Rounding out the cast in this drama Walter Matthau, Anthony Franciosa, Percy Waram, Marshall Neilan, Howard Smith and Rip Torn. "}{"Title":"Wow! It's got a message but what acting, what a story, what great filming!","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Face in the Crowd (1957)Andy Griffith bellows and sings and rants with such charming persuasion, I'm ready to do whatever he says. And Patricia Neal is such an astonishing facilitator, lover, doubter, and face of reason I'm ready to do whatever she says.These two huge personalities form the duo that is most of what makes it tick and explode all at once. A Face in the Crowd, the name taken after a radio show about regular folk, ends up being about fame and megalomania, but also about how the crowds (that's us) go along carelessly with these kinds of rise to stardom. I'm not talking radio show stars, or television personalities, but rock stars and politicians and religious tele-evangelists. Director Elia Kazan makes the movie fast, dramatic, relentless to the point of breathless, and yet, within all this crazy theatrics, we feel it's all real, and possible, and more than possible, historical. Even Mike Wallace of CBS shows up to convince us so.Remember if you see this, if you can think at all during the bedlam, that the movie is not a look back at early television (as we saw with Good Night and Good Luck) but coming from within the maelstrom itself. And the fact it gets it so right, so far earlier than we realize, makes the truths in it all the more scary and our ignorance all the more embarrassing. One example is their description about how politicians are now (in 1957) being reduced to sound bytes, though they use different words.But back to Griffith and Neal. They are a perfectly matched mismatch. The acting is perfect Hollywood dramatics, loud and commanding on the one hand and subtle and deeply felt on the other. Alone or together, they account for almost every minute of screen time, and that's a great thing. In a great film. "},{"Title":"Andy Taylor Gone Mad","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith was outstanding in this film. You would swear it was Sheriff Andy Taylor gone crazy. Same lingo, same mannerisms ,except this was an evil fellow. Basically this is the story of a petty criminal that is articulate with some musical talent , that gets caught up in the entertainment game. This is a timeless film to be sure, that exposes our media , whether it is the year 1957 or 2010 or 1976. In the spirit of the film Network, that came 2 decades after. This film explores the fallout of a man that is so hypnotized by the media blitz that he feels he is the most important man in the world. Sound familiar? Listen to any of the folks today on AM Radio and you have your answer. The followers of Lonesome Rhodes, may have well been tea party folks of today. It is simply amazing. Yesteryear looks more and more like our present time. This film is a masterpiece by Elia Kazan. It is a shame this film has been somewhat buried because its fate is deserving of kudos. "},{"Title":"Amazing piece of work.","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this gem and came across it by accident on TCM. I never knew that Andy G. was that good of an actor. His performance is up there with Marlon Brando's. It is a shame that he went to the middle of the road through most of his career. If this movie is a true show of his talent then, he could have been known as one of the greatest on his generation and turned in some really timeless work. I guess we need mild, mannered law men in the world too. It is not at all dated, in fact I think this movie is even more relevant now than it was when it first was made.Definitely, a must see. "},{"Title":"Dr. Phil A Century Ahead of Schedule","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan's A Face In The Crowd tells the rise of a Texan sounding TV Personality who Tells It Like It Is, and the American public, mostly women, swoon for him. We find out that this Texan charmer has some chilling tricks up his sleeves. Sound familiar? Is it a remake of Frankenstein, a monster created by the media that gets out of control? No? Elmer Gantry? Nope. How about Dr. Phil? Both are mid-westerners who have some advice, some of it hard to swallow, and the public follows him like blind lemmings. Dr. Phil teaches school-yard bully tactics to women so they can dominate over their husbands, boyfriends, etc. Andy Griffith's Lonesome Rhodes does the same thing, uses old world snake-oil sales styles to hypnotise women. A must see classic. "},{"Title":"Paints an unflattering portrait of the business.","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this day and age we have seen plenty of behind-the-scenes stories about the movie industry, television industry as well as any industry that appeals to a mass audience. However it is easy to forget one of the films that started it all and still holds up as one of the very best of its kind. That would be Elia Kazan's A Face in the Crowd, a pitch-perfect story about a small-town, guitar-playing wanderer who is discovered by a little radio station and soon is hitting the big time. Andy Griffith perfectly captures the rowdy spirit of Larry Lonesome Rhodes, a simple-minded traveler who really is an opportunist without any real goal or purpose. That is until Patricia Neal comes along and makes him into the biggest form of entertainment in the first half century. Walter Matthau also makes good use of his screen time as a level-headed TV writer, and Anthony Franciosa slicks up the screen as an even more ambitious manager who is taking Larry to the top.Once again, Elia Kazan shows his enormous talent of working with actors as well as condoning their actions and feelings onto the screen. Griffith, most well known for his laid-back personality on his famed television show, is lost here, completely submerged in a womanizing, loudmouth manner that is so unlike what is thought to be him it makes the performance that much better. Neal holds her own as well and is the central figure in the story. Of course, with Budd Schulberg writing and Kazan directing, there was little doubt of talent involved. All in all, this paints a rather unflattering portrait of the media business as well as showing the shear power and influence it can have over people. Just like Citizen Kane or Ace in the Hole, A Face in the Crowd is more than realistic, its frightfully prophetic. "},{"Title":"From Country Boy to Corrupt Bastard The Life of Larry Lonesome Rhodes","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nowadays, fame is quick and lazy, courtesy of YouTube videos and (ugh) reality television. Any Joe and Jane Average can get in front of a microphone and camera and entertain the masses. However, what if that lucky person gets drunk with the spotlight over their head and abuses it to become a political force. It's been done before, but not as masterfully as in A Face in the Crowd.Before his immortal TV sitcom role, Andy Griffith gives a volatile performance as Larry Rhodes, a guitar-playing hobo who has an undefeatable taste for women and booze. He gets jailed after a bender, but gets plucked by Marcia Jefferies (a passionate Patricia Neal of the original The Day The Earth Stood Still), a local radio station reporter and host of a show that focuses on average folk and shares its title with the film's. Before you know it, Lonesome (dubbed by Jefferies) is a radio star in Arkansas, a new Will Rogers (or a pre-Howard Stern, if you're not that old) for the plain folks.Offers from television and ad sponsors come pouring in. So do high ratings and screaming fans. So does a politician with presidential aspirations. Rhodes loves it, including the influence, wealth and women. He can't say no to the good life, while poor Jefferies, who takes a more than professional interest in him, is treated by him either as convenient comfort or yesterday's news. How can a man of the people be such a bastard? Though despised (rightfully) by his fellow filmsmiths for naming names during the McCarthy era, director Elia Kazan takes the literate script by his On The Waterfront compeer, Budd Schulberg (co-wrote Rhodes's songs), and knits a stark examination of how fame can be a narcotic; television can reduce politics into sound bites and human decency and dignity can be forgotten in the hunt for money, power and sex. I wonder, in lieu of the last part, if the members of the Production Code, the decency enforcers of cinema (before the MPAA's rating system), were asleep during the screening of this film, whose sexual anecdotes are rising at the surface.Commendable are the two main players. Griffith (should have been an Oscar contender) is a volcano with two feet, bursting with pride and, sometimes, fear while Neal's smart and sexy in her fragility, echoing Eva Marie Saint's role in Waterfront. The others are impressive Anthony Franciosa (Fathom, Across 110th St.) as a slimy junior exec at a mattress company who worms his way into Rhodes's camp; Walt Matthau (Grumpy Old Men) as a copy scribe who knows Rhodes better than the man himself and Lee Remick (the original Omen) as a corn-fed tart, who catches Rhodes's lecherous eyes during a sexually suggestive (!) baton-twirling contest, which she participates and wins. Guess who's the judge? Legendary newsmen Walter Winchell and Mike Wallace make cameos.Like Network, A Face in The Crowd is an unintentional prophecy of the evils of mass media. It flopped at the box office, when it first premiered, but it's now a classic lesson of how absolute power corrupts absolutely. "},{"Title":"Certainly, before its time...","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an incredible film. Yes it is about the media, its subliminal messages and advertising. It is about manipulation, greed and fame. American politics, patriotism, corporate culture and public relations. And finally, egotism, and Andy Griffith turns in an indelible performance as Lonesome Rhodes.A drunken bum from Arkansas who gets a shot at being a radio commentator. Tony Franciosa (slick PR man) sees the value Rhodes can have for the simple American, the disenfranchised. Sounds familiar. He gets Rhodes to NYC, where an ad campaign for Vitajex (similar to Geritol) is underway. He picks up the pills, popping a few in his mouth, hollering and laughing that the pills ...oughta be yellow- ENERGYYYYY... A new sales slogan is born. The advertising visuals and jingles are quite amusing. Anyone remember ...plop, plop, fizz, fizz what a relief it is... (Alka Seltzer). Brainwash your audience enough and they will come running.(At least that is the standard theory in advertising).Patricia Neal is believable and sympathetic as Rhodes' sometime girlfriend, who helped get him to the top. Rhdoes tells her he will divorce in Mexico, then marry her. He returns to much fanfare, more publicity with a new bimbo wife, accurately portrayed by a young Lee Remick.Eventually, Lonesome Rhodes becomes a political adviser and PR man, power behind the scenes. He is after all, an American powerhouse, he can manipulate the sheep. He yells ...they'll all eat dog food if I tell 'em!... His power destroys him to the core. Sounds like the familiar story, but well told and in an incredible performance. This film has a story to tell. Don't miss it. Anyone who has enjoyed this will also enjoy The Candidate. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Andy's great; Lonesome's pure evil; both are captivating","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith obviously presents an on-screen persona which people like and enjoy. The Andy Griffith Show, and Matlock began almost 50 years ago, and 20 years ago, respectively - and both are among the most prevalent re-runs on cable and local television. Sometime the curmudgeon, Matlock was always the good guy, capable, thoughtful, and charitable when required (for those unfairly accused, but unable to afford his substantial retainer). Sheriff Andy Taylor was the ideal of the good man, good friend and good citizen - nice and honest to a fault, yet (fairly) firm and tough if need be. In other roles, Griffith has sometimes played nasty types, as effectively as those with his usual nice guy, aw shucks persona. In watching A Face in the Crowd, one should note that the next picture he made was No Time for Sergeants, with a character as good, friendly, selfless and innocent as this movie's Lonesome Rhodes presents the total opposite. (Of course, he had a few years prior performed the ...Sergeants role on-stage and in a t.v. production.) As a start, it is difficult to imagine an offering directed by Elia Kazan with writing by Budd Schulberg to be anything but great. Lonesome Rhodes is the country-boy equivalent of the equally ego-maniacal, selfish, malevolent and cruel Sammy Glick, the young Jewish, urbane lead character from Schulberg's What Makes Sammy Run? Although opposites in terms of heritage, Lonesome and Sammy are eerily unfeeling, almost sociopath kinsmen underneath. This film's other lead characters, portrayed by Patricia Neal, Anthony Franciosa, Walter Matthau and Lee Remick, are excellent - and both their performances and these characters ring true. A fascinating sidelight aspect while watching the film, is noting the namby-pamby, milk toast character played by Matthau, so different from his lovable wise guy persona which was his trademark; however, this is what the characterization called for, and he does it well. A young Rip Torn is interesting to see in a scene at the film's end. Of particular note in the supporting roles are Rod Brasfield as Lonesome's clueless friend, Beanie; and Senator Fuller, as portrayed by Marshall Neilan. Griffith is absolutely engrossing to watch as his character grows in fame and power, and he relishes every moment of it, expanding his web of cruelty beyond what one would expect of even such a totally self-serving individual. Any film with this type of media superstar, beloved on air and on camera, but wickedly different in reality, is inevitably compared with Arthur Godfrey, the radio and t.v. icon of the 1940's and '50's. It has also been reported that, additionally, Schulberg may also have based some aspects of Lonesome on Will Rogers. His country-boy persona certainly was more like Rogers' than Godfrey's, albeit the latter being thoroughly folksy. Will Rogers is much-beloved everywhere - but no more than in the northeastern part of Oklahoma, his home area. This reverence is even greater due to his early, untimely death in the plane crash, at a point where his continued presence was anticipated for many more years. But while Rogers is still the epitome of the aw shucks yet erudite personality, we must remember that he starred in several movies, and was the best polo player in Hollywood, when the sport was perhaps more popular there and in comparable circles than today. The urbane lifestyle of Hollywood presented no obstacles for him, and he was apparently completely at-home in this locale, very different from his roots. But however much Schulberg took Lonesome Rhodes from actual personalities - and however much from his own talented, fertile imagination - this character and Andy Griffith's marvelous performance are classic. This presentation is memorable for these, per se; and also for the effective way it depicts the feel and character of the 1950's era. "},{"Title":"Elia Kazan's masterpiece","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Elia Kazan directed many great movies including On The Waterfront.  In my opinion, not one combines the complexity and power of A Face In The Crowd. Andy Griffith gives a chilling performance as a small-time con man who uses Patricia Neal to get his shot at the big time.  The film has shrewd insight into human character and frailties.  Anthony Franciosa is magnificent in a supporting role.  Lee Remick is delectable in her screen debut.  I consider this one of the most powerful essays ever produced in the American cinema. "},{"Title":"An excellent film about the morals and the media","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a must-see about a country boy plucked from a city jail for a radio interview show. It is hoped that, as a real person, he might amuse her listeners, and also be a welcome change from entertainment personalities, who are supposedly aloof, jaded, or cynical. Lonseome Rhodes (played by Andy Griffith) is immediately released from detention and starts on a meteoric rise in the world of radio and, soon, television. His homespun wisdom hits a real chord with the American people, and soon his popularity is second to no one's. There is just one catch he is, in fact, a rather awful person, and just as cynical and conniving as those he is supposed to debunk, if not more so. How he deals with people, and how they ultimately deal with him, is the subject of this fascinating film.An added bonus is the series of commercials we see for Vita-Jex, the vitamin supplement that is the sponsor for Lonesome's TV show. They are done completely in the style of the period, and, instead of seeming quaint or silly, are somehow just right for the effect they are seeking.A Face in the Crowd is the 50's counterpart to Network, showing the sometimes frightening power of the media on the public. Like the later film, it pushes the bounds of our imaginations, but at the same time keeps both feet in reality.Both films are tremendously effective. A highly recommended double feature. "}{"Title":"A dark look at ourselves and the forces that dictate our lives...","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Possibly the most powerful sleeper ever.  To those raised on television, Andy Griffith is a sweet, kindly man, an honest man full of good sense, faith and grass roots wisdom.  This is not the same Andy Griffith--not the simple  bullheaded hick from No Time For Sergeants, and definitely not Sheriff  Andy Taylor.    Simply put, Griffith delivers the performance of a lifetime as Larry Lonesome Rhodes, an Arkansas drifter with a less than innocent past.  Yet up until the time he meets Marsha (portrayed stunningly by Patricia Neal) the small town radio hostess, his transgressions have been minor--petty theft, vagrancy, public drunkeness.  As he now hosts his own radio program, Larry gets his first taste of power.  His mild, smooth talking country ways disguise the cunning, intelligent, self-serving man within him.  His power increases, the opportunities grow, the relationships change, and Larry's grasp of reality departs.  Somehow, Griffith dredges up within him a sort of manic depravity that is completely unexpected.  On the surface, it appears to be a tale of a simple man corrupted by his own absolute power.  But in reality, this is the story of man who at the core was always ready to be corrupted...he simply had never met with the opportunity.  He had learned to lie and scheme and misdirect all his life...a sort of psychological magician.  A very dangerous, manipulative man.Patricia Neal brings a great deal of honesty to this role...not many new garde actresses can touch her depth (perhaps Frances McDormand).   Matthau makes the transition from the tolerant straight man to the unexpected hero of the film beautifully.  Lee Remick and Tony Franciosa are the standouts in a talented supporting cast.This film is as dark as it needs to be, avoiding the pitfall of becoming a self-parody.  It has all the elements of a great classic story.  In short, it is a well balanced tale of an unbalanced life.   "},{"Title":"I took you in","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Only knowing Griffith as a comedian I was surprised at the depth he brought this role- of the yokel who goes on to fool a country of people through his radio rantings. Lee Remick also does a good job-- this is a real sleeper classic.  "},{"Title":"Power corrupts","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Already a fan of AG and early Mayberry crowd, I came across this on tv. What a riveting performance- the sexuality, the bravura and the character of Lonesome Rhodes reminds me of Elmer Gantry. I doubt if anyone who sees Patricia Neal and Griffith can forget the power of this Elia Kazan film. "},{"Title":"A thinker...","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film perfectly illustrates the influence emerging media has on politics. Images over substance. Sound bites over content. Personality. Wow. It seems Kazan's prophecy of media may have been a bit unrealistic to audiences and critics in 1957, but today it has a sobering resonance. You have to wonder if maybe people had paid a bit more attention to the intent of this film when it was released, our society might now be less reliant on the information we're fed, and moreso on our own ability to think for ourselves?  "},{"Title":"Took me by surprise","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie and happened to catch it on TV. Almost everything about this movie took me by surprise. Andy Griffith, whom I identified first with Sheriff Andy Taylor, and second with his No Time for Sargeants character gave a powerful performance as the charismatic con man masquerading as the Everyman who rises to TV stardom. The theme of the media/politics relationship is even in shaping the public opinion is even more meaningful these days and seemed ahead of its time in this movie.A fascinating movie that I highly recommend.  "},{"Title":"Another gem from Elia Kazan","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith is Lonesome Rhodes, just A Face in the Crowd in this biting 1957 film brilliantly directed by Elia Kazan and written by Budd Schulberg. Andy Griffith plays a character rumored to be based on Arthur Godfrey, a young man discovered when a radio show broadcasts live from an Arkansas jail, where he's a guest. His down home, backwoods humor, and his singing and guitar playing appeal to the public, and they identify with him and make him a star. From Arkansas, he gets a job in Memphis and finally makes it in New York. Along the way, he takes terrible advantage of the woman who discovered him and loves him (Patricia Neal), burns bridges, and becomes drunk with power. The darling of advertisers, he is soon approached to use his influence politically.This is a drama that has more resonance today than it probably did in 1957, when people were possibly less aware of public personas versus the real person. Today there is so much more awareness of manipulation behind the scenes and marketing techniques.People have commented that they are surprised that Andy Griffith wasn't even nominated for an Oscar for his performance. Nowadays, we know Andy Griffith's vast range - No Time for Sergeants, The Andy Griffith Show, Murder in Texas - but back then, he only had two television credits. Had this film been made circa 1960, he would have been truly lauded for his edgy, sometimes ingratiating, sometimes angry performance. The film also provides an early role for pretty Lee Remick, as a drum majorette who catches Lonesome's eye in Texas.As the put-upon, codependent Marcia Jeffries, Patricia Neal gives a beautiful, anguished performance as a woman who loves a bad man in spite of herself.The most interesting scenes have to do with a product Lonesome is hawking - Viajex, which for all the world sounds like an early form of Viagra. Originally, the advertisers were marketing it as an energy pill, but when Lonesome gets a hold of it, he fills the copy with sexual innuendo and makes Viajex a hit. How's that for A Face in the Crowd being ahead of its time? "},{"Title":"A couple of esoteric music observations","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Lee Remick makes her initial appearance, she leads the majorettes in a school cheer (and boy does she look great doing it) that includes the shout Bum get a rat trap bigger than a cat trap; bum get a rat trap bigger than a cat trap. Rodgers and Hart fans will recall that in the 1939 musical, 'Too Many Girls' the Coeds at Pottawatomie College in New Mexico sing this same identical phrase cheering on the school's football team in the song 'Look Out!'. The song was later performed on film when RKO did the movie version of Too Many Girls, casting Lucille Ball in the lead. Fascinating.Later in the film Lonesome Rhodes hosts Senator Fuller on his TV show. Rhodes can be heard in background conversation on the TV saying In my hometown of (Riddle?), we thought you got a headache from guzzling too much raw whiskey. We didn't know that swallowing too much raw politics can put a crease in your head a whole lot deeper than that 'kickapoo joy juice' we use to concoct back in Arkansas. Students of Duke Ellington's music know that Kickapoo Joy Juice is the title of one of Duke's 1940's compositions and can be heard on the CD Duke Ellington Orchestra Carnegie Hall Concert December 1947. I always wondered what the Duke was referring to with that title. "},{"Title":"A Favorite of King Bob","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just read in the Bob Dylan biography, No Direction Home that this movie impacted him greatly as a youth.  Dylan indicated that he absolutely resonated with Andy Griffith's character, and felt that the two of them were almost identical with respect to character.It's a great movie, and a secondary benefit it that it is actually a great window into the psyche of Bob Dylan. "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently picked this up for $5 on DVD, and let me tell you folks It was five bucks very well spent. I'm very surprised that this movie isn't very well known today, as it certainly deserves much more recognition.First off, the story somehow manages to seem current even in our modern times. It truly is a timeless story about corruption, greed and how we really are just sheep to the media.Really though, this film is character driven. Lonesome Rhodes is the whole movie; it's his life, his rise and his fall. Andy Griffith, who until now I knew only as Matlock, give an absolutely amazing performance as the simple country boy as he slowly becomes corrupted with power. He creates one of the most interesting characters that I think I've ever seen, on so many levels. The cast of the cast are incredible as well, especially Patricia Neal and Walter Matthau. His speech at the end of the film was spectacular.Last but not least, the directing. Elia Kazan really does a great job here, using some great metaphors and creating a great noir-esquire atmosphere. A slight flaw was the very fast pacing near the first, but it was really nothing major. We didn't get to see as much of Pickett as I would have liked but as I said, it's no biggie.Overall, this film is really incredible. Amazing acted, written and directed, I think it's a must see for anyone.9/10 "},{"Title":"Cutting at Everything","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie takes a cut at everything. Even Adolf Hitler. And it's a tour de force for Andy Griffith otherwise known for being Matlock and a hick sheriff. It shows how powerful an actor Andy Griffith really was.It also showcases the magnificent Patricia Neal who would win an Oscar a few years later and countless other awards.Written by Budd Schulberg and directed by Elia Kazan, it's an extremely well crafted motion picture. The only thing negative about it (and it's a big thing) is how the writer and director became turncoats in the HUAC scandal in the US, ruining many lives in the process. (Kazan received a special AMPAS award in 1999; not all were enthused or approved of it.)The story starts in a city gaol in backwoods Arkansas and moves very quickly to the big time, detailing how demagogues work with the help of the television medium. It's a diatribe of public manipulation with a lot of clout. There are a lot of parallels with a later work by Tim Robbins, and it's not impossible Robbins got his inspiration from this movie.It's in black and white; it's long; but it's been adequately restored and the editing and direction are spot on, as is the writing. As stated, the only drawback is what the principals did to their friends in Hollywood - and that's a big drawback.Andy Griffith is - in a word - powerful. They're all good. With more conscionable people holding the reigns on this one, it could have become more of a classic. "}{"Title":"The Darker Side of Andy Griffith","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A FACE IN THE CROWD (1958) *** 1/2 Andy Griffith gives the performance of his career as a homespun country bum/bumpkin whose unique gift of gab captures the eyes and ears of producer Patricia Neal who makes him a national treasure and after his meteoric rise on television realizes all the possibilities of creating a monster run amok.  It's hard to fathom Griffith (so recognized for eterntiy as folksy sheriff Andy Taylor on tv) as a vainglorious huckster protagonist hellbent on fame, fortune and finally power.  A searing indictment on the evils of television's influence on the gullible American and excellently realized by director Elia Kazan's adaptation of the pitch black satirical maniphesto by Budd Schulberg. ***Note of interest for nearly a decade Hollywood has toyed with a remake with Whoopi Goldberg and recently sparked the interest of Jim Carrey. "},{"Title":"Face in the Crowd, A (1957)","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this first time round & thought it was brilliant. I'm glad it's still being shown on TV in the US. One thing, the theories of whom it was based upon? I defer to my American friends in their opinion, but I always thought it was based on Will Rogers transposed to the then new TV age?Maybe it will be shown on the late night schedules in the UK one day... "},{"Title":"You'll see Andy Griffith in a whole new light after seeing his spellbinding performance as Lonesome Rhodes.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you only think of good ol' Sheriff Andy Taylor when you see Andy Griffith, then you are in for a shock when you see A Face In The Crowd.  In his film debut, Andy Griffith gives a spellbinding performance as Lonesome Rhodes, neer'-do-well country bumpkin who rockets to television stardom with help from Patricia Neal.  Lonesome is smarmy, manipulative, scheming, and totally without morals, yet he becomes a huge TV personality by dispensing down-home country philosophy to his adoring fans.  Although this movie was made 45 years ago, its message is as relevant today (maybe more so!) as it was in 1957.  Patricia Neal is heartbreaking as the woman who discovers Lonesome and is ultimately betrayed by him.  Walter Matthau gives a great performance as a television writer who loves Neal and sees through Lonesome's facade, and Lee Remick is lovely in her film debut as the baton twirler who catches Lonesome's roaming eye.  I cannot recommend this film highly enough...it is sheer brilliance from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Surprised this isn't viewed as a classic in the same league with East of Eden, On the Waterfront, etc.Great story, acting, direction and ending.  You won't believe how good Andy Griffith is in this.  Too bad he didn't choose his projects better.  If you love great movies, be sure not to miss this one.  Right up there  with Wise Blood by John Huston as the under-appreciated movie of all time. "},{"Title":"A politician in the crowd.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The character played by Andy Griffith, could have run for governor of Georgia and won if the plot had headed in that direction. The fact that this country elected a very popular, charismatic but personally flawed Arkansas governor for President twice, in real life, and was exposed to a sordid public trial makes this movie seem as though Nostramdus wrote the script. This film is a gem, almost documentary-like in the warning of the power of television, which at the time this movie was made, was still not available in all parts of the country, or was limited to one station. Great performances by newcomers Griffith, Remick, Franciosa, and Matthau make this film a landmark. "},{"Title":"Sometimes it's OK to watch a film on TV.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a strong advocator of seeing films in the theater, thereby not watching them as they are broadcasted on TV. The reasons being that a film should not be interrupted with commercials, edited for time constraints or censored for mass audiences. Similarly, I have strong objections to watching films on airplanes for the poor sound and image quality, and again for censoring, to say nothing of the frequent interruptions from the pilot and in-flight food and beverage service. With that said, I caught a bit of a gem on TV quite by accident, and it was A Face In The Crowd.I'll admit, I missed the first five or so minutes of the film. When I started watching, I didn't have a clue of what it was, but I was drawn in immediately by the wonderful black and white images that had appeared before me, and the absolutely engaging Andy Griffith, who I didn't even recognize at first. It wasn't long before a very young Walter Matthau surfaced, and by then I was hooked. Thankfully the station broadcasting the film, Bravo, didn't have more than one commercial break, and I know their policy is to not censor their programming, an attribute worth commending. In this particular case though, no censor was required, and I almost wished for a commercial, so I could run and find a tape to record it with and not miss anything.The story is that of a wayward country boy who suddenly finds himself thrust into a world of fame and influence via broadcasting. We watch as a kind-hearted, yet flawed individual becomes sullied by the trappings of power and ultimately turns into a corrupt, shell of a man who has lost all that had made him endearing and beloved to those who knew him. A self professed man of the people who had utter disdain for them. He had a meteoric rise to the top and an even faster fall back to the bottom, as brought on by himself and illustrated in a clever metaphor of an elevator descending from the top floor. The film was very well written and acted and at times, mesmerizing as Griffith spun his words of country wisdom.I can't help but think that a film like this now only has a life on TV, being far too old to be sitting on the rack of the video store, at least the ones in my area. So I find myself having to revise my policy of  watching films on TV, as long as I can find networks which are willing to run them with little or no commercials, such as TVO(ntario), or Bravo.I've yet to encounter a made for TV movie that will revise my policies on that subject though.  "},{"Title":"John Doe's evil twin","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What do you get when you cross the two most famous entertainers of the 1950s, Arthur Godfrey with Elvis Presley? TNT! To say that Lonesome Rhodes was a fictionalization of Arthur Godfrey is to do Mr. Ukelele an injustice. Rhodes became far more loathsome. Yet the connection is obvious when Rhodes throws away the script and talks right into the camera or radio microphone, as though he were speaking to individuals, the person scrubbing the oven, etc. That was Godfrey's trademark. But Godfrey was super laid back. So they added the passionate energy and bobby-soxer appeal of Presley.Andy Griffith delivers the performance of his life! It's not just about the fiery passion. It's about character development, how Rhodes transforms into different people at different stages, yet is more or less the person he always was.To say A Face in the Crowd was ahead of its time is to do an injustice to the 1950s. There have always been American demagogues, quick to exploit a new media, such as TV.It is late film noir turned into social commentary. The Sweet Smell of Success was of this genre, as was Ace in the Hole. None of them were box office hits. These films were ahead of the mass audience, but were hardly alone. There were the hits, All the King's Men and On the Waterfront. And they were preceded by such biting commentaries as The State of the Union and Meet John Doe. The parallels to Doe are particularly striking, especially in the endings, which, as I watched A Face's, gave me a good chuckle (Go ahead and jump!) I was struck by the scene where Rhodes brings a black woman whose house burned down onto his show and raises money for her, from blacks and whites. This was, indeed, ahead of its time. In hindsight, the Andy Griffith Show of the 1960s had almost no blacks in speaking roles, though there were blacks walking by in the background. If only his TV show had had blacks as part of the plot, part of the morality play about how to be a better member of the community. Griffith was quoted in one of the recent obit stories as having tried very hard to do just that, have blacks in the story, but the producers refused.Griffith stole the show, but all the leads were great; this was Patricia Neal's best role that I've seen. Walter Matthau tends to be a scene stealer, but instead kept his role low keyed; he was the quiet observer, the conscience. I don't think the movie was too long, but it was dense. Rhodes went through several layers of transformation, and the director had to set up the context to make it believable. I don't agree that there is so much foreshadowing of modern demagogues, many of whom are such nincompoops they make Rhodes look like a Harvard Ph.D. They are much more obvious phonies, yet half the gullible public buys their BS. So the lessons are as fitting today as they were a half-century ago.Most of all, this is a great film that has been largely forgotten. It's nice to run across such an unseen gem. "},{"Title":"Prophetic about the next five decades","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whether or not you agree with the politically correct left view of Kazan, a director who actually was politically correct in that he sold out his buddies during the McCarthy Era, you can't help but think that this is an honest reflection of the true views and values of the politically correct Left. That being said, Andy Griffith displayed (in one of his first big roles) all the great talent that made him what he is. He could have been a great white bluesman, or a successful preacher. What a great talent Griffith is indeed.The beginning of the movie was very stark indeed - showing that the white South was no picnic. The prison was as miserable as one can imagine, and the future television demagogue (Griffith) was a drifter, who had no past that he could even talk about without lying. I also liked the opportunism of the Tony Franciosa character. He was an errand boy for the furniture store king, but grabbed unto the opportunity of being the promoter of the greatest radio/TV personality ever created.I also like how advertising was shown as already heralding a new era. In 1957, the movie showed that the sixties were just around the corner. Griffith's character was Elvis, but you could already see that the Beatles were just around the corner. Women were paraded around to sell products. Pep pills were being peddled to the new, fast generation.What I didn't like was how the politically correct liberal came into fold in the face of Walter Matthau's character. In the end, a southern white could never truly be a liberator. So, when Griffith's character breaks ground by inviting a black woman on the stage, it had to be shown that he really was a fraud in the end. Left out is that LBJ and Huey Long, both southern whites, did more than the liberals ever did for black America.That is the part that I don't like much about this movie. It is a great movie with a great story. However, I don't like the fact that poor whites are just dismissed as opportunists and moral failures in the end. I wish that Kazan had developed the main character more. There was a lot of rage and confusion in the main character that needed further exploration. The movie needed to explain better how poverty bred mixed up, confused people like this TV demagogue. Instead, we are led to not feel much pity for him. I disagree. "},{"Title":"Prescient much?","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think I might call this a masterpiece on a second viewing, mostly because I was very tired when I watched it. It's a great film, anyway. Patricia Neal works at a radio station, and she often travels around Arkansas looking for local talent for her program A Face in the Crowd. One day, in a jail cell, she comes upon a man with a guitar, Larry Rhodes, whom she nicknames Lonesome (just to give him an air of mystery). Andy Griffith, who, like Lonesome Rhodes, was pretty much a nobody beforehand (he had only appeared on the Steve Allen show before this, and was best known as a stand-up comedian and a stage actor), and wouldn't go on to do his own show, for which he is, obviously, best known for, until 1960. Rhodes seems like a great guy. He has a talent for spouting homespun wisdom. He seems refreshingly honest, and he can get people to listen to him. His popularity explodes in Arkansas and he is invited to Memphis. There he becomes even more popular, especially when he spouts off against an oppressive advertiser who demands that he behave and sell his product without any fuss. Then he's invited to New York, and there's a major shift in his attitude. Rhodes began as a rebel, but what he really learned in Memphis was that he had an innate ability to manipulate his audience to think and do whatever he wants. He uses this to gain as much power as possible, and eventually gets involved with a sleazy politician. All the while Neal follows him around, quietly loving him even when he's pushed her aside to marry a 17 year-old (Lee Remick, in her first role). Walter Matthau also plays a writer who was at first Rhodes' friend and then a man who hopes to bring the guy down. The film is a deft satire on fame as well as demagoguery. I guess it's a little comforting that this sort of thing happened back then, too (although maybe not as much - after all, the film was a flop at the time; it's almost unbelievable that Griffith didn't at least get nominated for an Oscar), but, damn, does this film seem prescient. Lonesome Rhodes definitely feels like a prototype for Glenn Beck and his ilk. Most great movies shouldn't be remade, but the message of this movie is so important, it probably should be, at least once a generation. "},{"Title":"An overlooked classic","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One test of a movie's quality is how relevant it is years later. By that measure, A Face in the Crowd could be the best movie ever. It's a movie about the cult of personality made possible through television, and how ugly it can be when the cameras aren't running. Although the specific sort of show in this movie is long obsolete, you could just as easily substitute in reality television, talk shows or the format of the day. This movie has so much to say about the overnight media sensation, but also about the supposed value of folksy main street USA sort of appeals and the mass-marketing of politicians that 52 years later this movie is still quite relevant.It has an excellent screenplay, parts of it are very quotable and truly excellent. As a film it has problems, and although I liked it, this would have had to be the sleekest movie ever made to have been a popular success in spite of the harsh anti-populist message. The direction wasn't really all that sleek. It was good, but not nearly good enough.A great deal could be written about Andy Griffith's role in this movie. Performance of his lifetime? Perhaps. It's very interesting that within three years of making this movie Griffith became startlingly like the protagonist of this film in terms of the loyal, broad popular appeal he fell into. "}{"Title":"Very appropriately viewed on inauguration day 2009","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although this Andy Griffith and Patricia Neal film initially appeared in 1957, it is still totally pertinent. Walter Matthau and Anthony Franciosa have capably performed secondary roles but the film belongs to Andy Griffith. The film's depiction of the response of the masses to a charismatic fraud is unfortunately an ever-present potentiality - especially in the political field. The sycophantic response to Griffith's character Lonely Rhodes is epitomized by Lee Remick in her role as a starry-eyed cheerleader. Andy Griffith is absolutely superb in his role as a despicable low-life who rises from the nadir, ascends to the zenith, and then crashes back to the nadir. It was hard to believe that such a biting critique applicable to recent politics would be offered while post-inauguration ceremonies were going on. "},{"Title":"I love this movie it is a must see!","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one the greatest movies most have never seen.Andy is a gem in this movie. For people who only know him in Mayberry make sure you are sitting down because we're not in Mayberry any more. I was so happy to see it is now on DVD with a few bonus features I'm off to buy it right now. I am glad I have the VCR tape because the artwork is different.I do love this movie but I would like to see a remake with Adrien Brody in the Lonesome role. I would like the remake to stay in 1957 not present day.This is a must see for people who like Andy and for people who love movies ! "},{"Title":"I will assert that I prefer Andy Griffith's movie roles to his TV show.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everyone probably knows about the dangers of fame and/or fortune. A Face in the Crowd does a really good job with it. Lonesome Rhodes (Andy Griffith) is a nobody in a backwards town who gets turned into a superstar almost overnight. But as time goes by, his burgeoning greed and egotism begin to take over, possibly irrevocably.Griffith turned in a top-notch performance here, as did supporting players Patricia Neal, Anthony Franciosa, Lee Remick and Walter Matthau. Elia Kazan's direction and Budd Schulberg's script are beyond superb (it almost makes one forget what a creepy thing Kazan did to get into movies). This is a movie that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Waaayyy ahead of its time","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stunning, dark satire of television, celebrity, politics, Madison Avenue, mob mentality, and all things American. Not a big hit in 1957; maybe Americans didn't want to be told what gullible nimrods they could be, or that television was slowly taking over their souls. It came to pass, of course. Lonesome Rhodes' (Griffith's) jes'-plain-folks persona is reminiscent of Newt Gingrich; his melding of politics and show biz a commentary on every Presidential TV campaign since 1960; his ranting alone at the top, at the end, Nixonesque. And what a cast! In addition to Neal and Matthau, check out a (quite sexy) Lee Remick in her debut, and Kay Medford in a priceless bit.The themes, as cited in other posts, are similar to those in Network, but this is a much less pushy, less shrill, more persuasive, more chilling work. And coming in 1957, it's astonishingly prescient. "},{"Title":"andy's first and possibly best movie","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Andy Griffith's first and in my opinion best big screen role,he plays a house devil/ public saint who uses and loses everything and everybody on his way up,Paterica Neal as the plain jane who makes him and breaks him. Walter Matthau as the brains behind the mouth of Lonesome Rhodes. some have compared him to Bill Clinton, I see him more of a Rush Limbaugh type a power broker good old boy who behind the grin is as mean as a snake  shows the power of the media with excellent twist at the end. does not seem to be on tv too often but well worth staying up late to watch You'll never look at Griffith the same after seeing it  "},{"Title":"Both prophetic and influential .....","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dear Elia Kazan, Your over the top depiction of the sinister and abnormal marriage between the entertainment industry and the common man is not just prophetic, but influential due to its use of over the top dialogs and imagery. You conjured up a beautiful and loud warning about American culture filled with close ups of Andy Griffith's reptilian smile, hysterical noisy crowds, the sweaty bimbos who flock towards him and the creepy tasteless capitalists who use his celebrity. The noirish imagery is used rather discreetly. There were extremely beautiful women in many of the frames - usually in submissive roles of a secretary or assistants holding banners in a TV show or as objects for entertaining men.Three scenes in the film stood out for me. The first scene was a pretty sober one in a corridor where Patricia Neal seduces Griffith when he is about to leave the business and hit the road. The corridor is beautifully lit and the the background score is melancholic. The only times in the film when Griffith is true to himself is when he interacts with Neal's character whose sober and cold self is like a perfect foil for the film's over the top tone. The second one is the advertisement for the Vitajex tablets with Griffith selling his soul to the advertisement industry. Not only is it vulgar and tasteless, but the scene marks a transformation in Griffith's character from a spirited country singer to a power hungry TV host. The third scene is a beauty contest. In an amazing show of depravity, the female contestants literally launch themselves onto Griffith, almost like an orgy out in the open. It is an extremely entertaining scene with Lee Remick's sweet, beautiful and idiotic sweaty country face ogling at the lecherous Griffith while dull and hypnotized crowds look on at performing women in skimpy clothing. Griffith's must be one of the greatest over-the-top performances of all time. He lights up the screen with that smile and body language. But the goodness and dignity in Patricia Neal is also spellbinding. She holds her own even though Griffith has all the best scenes. The excess, greed and debauchery in A Face in the Crowd almost certainly inspired filmmakers like Scorsese (Wolf of Wall Street) and Brian De Palma (Scarface). Best Regards, Pimpin. (9/10) "},{"Title":"A Scarface for the media world","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1957, A Face in the Crowd was conceived as a social satire, but in a modern context, it's a horror movie--horrifying for the simple fact that so much of it has become true. When parody melts off the screen and takes the shape of reality, reality should hop off a cliff and reassemble itself.Patricia Neal is Marcia short for marshmallow Jefferies, a radio journalist with a program called A Face in the Crowd, in which she goes to ordinary places, turns on the microphone and lets ordinary people speak, sing or do whatever--think Alan Lomax. She comes across Larry Rhodes--whom she dubs Lonesome--(Andy Griffth), ramblin' man in both the oratory and traveling sense--think Woody Guthrie with personality.Lonesome is an instant media sensation, due to his fiery nature, brazen vernacular and woodsy charm. He spouts spittoon wisdom and pounds out half-baked folk songs; despite not doing anything perfect or proper, people sense his authenticity and eat it up. As happens when a bolt of lightening appears, businessmen everywhere hold up a jar in hopes of catching it. Before long, Lonesome is headlining television, having boats and mountains named after him and even becomes campaign advisory to the likely future president--thanks to Lonesome's help, of course. The film is a scathing indictment of celebrity culture, the media and the growing reliance of politics not on policy, but reliability. The film is more relevant today than it ever was--reality T.V., the invasion of media out of our living room and into our pockets, candidates going on SNL--and will probably grow in relevance as time goes on. Also on display is the entertainment industry's tendency to take something real and raw and cook it to a charred, black shell of its formal self--milking every last cent before moving on to the next thing.In a performance that could have been overplayed, Griffith takes the character to the furthest extreme without quite going over the edge. Like the audience inside the film, the audience outside the film's relationship with Lonesome is the same he starts out charming and honest, but after power in introduced and his backwoods charm is perverted, he turns into a plastic version of himself, and both audiences turn against him. It's up to Griffith to pull off the subtle transformation without really changing the character; that he does. As Griffith gets the showier performance, it's easy to lose sight of the supporting characters, or even the co-lead, Patricia Neal, who's great as the bookish, regretful inventor of Lonesome--she's almost Oppenheimer-like--who gets suckered in just like everyone else. One of my all-time favorite cinematic pinch-hitters, Walter Matthau plays a writer commissioned to Lonesome. He's not so much the conscience of the film, but rather its brain (All mild men are vicious. They hate themselves for being mild, and they hate the windy extroverts whose violence seems to have a strange attraction for nice girls who should know better).Among the upper-echelon of media mocking, Ace in the Hole, Network,--both of which have become fact in one way or another-- sits comfortably A Face in the Crowd. It shines a spotlight onto the dark side of entertainment, creating a Scarface for the media world, only more terrifying. "},{"Title":"Captivating performances headline a timeless sharp study of hero worship and the media.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Following up director Elia Kazan and writer Budd Schulberg sensational Best Picture winning On The Waterfront, the Academy really missed the mark by snubbing the equally worthy A Face In The Crowd. That said, they missed it again in a similar case with Sidney Lumet's Network, albeit a film that won its fair share of awards. Satires about media storms and how popularity is power regardless of virtues feel like valuable relics to look back on and go 'huh, nothing's really changed.' We're in a cycle of rise and falls. A Face In The Crowd is one of the most dynamic examples, pulling Andy Griffith from the streets and letting his charisma hypnotize the world. Indeed, life imitates art as this is Griffith's debut and he would later star in his own popular TV show. The screenplay is quite procedural detailing Lonesome's rise and fall, but every scene knocks it up a notch to the point where he has influence over the next presidential election. It's a film that rivals Waterfront in how captivating it is. Half the credit goes to the astonishing performances from Griffith and co- star Patricia Neal. This film remains a sharp potent eye on the bleak state of the media and society's tendency for hero worship.9/10 "},{"Title":"Most Under Rated Film Ever","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This gem is proof the late Andy Griffith had the range to play drama as well as the nice guy hew would be remembered as later. Andy is so good he proves here is is uncommonly comfortable as a Darth Vader type of character.While the Elia Kazan film gets a little heavy handed late in the film, this one is a must see for any fan of Andy Griffith. Once you see this one, you will miss him even more than we do already. A lot of people have forgotten this movie. Andy proves here CBS missed an opportunity to have Andy play JR Ewing and even without Hagman the series would not have missed a beat. Griffith shows off his corrupt side and Patricia Neal is Brilliant too. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"I'm so lonesome I could  cry","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Years ahead of its time movie in how the American public can be manipulated, like it is today, by a smooth talking demigod who uses the electronic media of radio & televising to fool it into thinking that he or she, with women now so prominent in US politics,is the greatest kindest and most of all righteous person that ever walked the face of the universe. That's until feeling invincible as well as all powerful he slips up and is exposed like the main character of the movie Larry Lonesome Rhodes, Andy Griffith, and forced against his will to face the hard reality, or Karma, of his sleazy and immoral actions.Discovered at a jail house drunk tank by local radio personality Marcia Jeffries, Patricia Neal,in rural Arkansas the home of the former Prsident of the United States William Jefferson Slick Willie Clinton Larry right away with his boyish good looks so impressed her in his folksy delivery and skill of playing the guitar the Marcia quickly saw in him a combination of a Will Rogers and Hank Williams and puts him on the radio as soon as he dried himself out. Not at first interested in his new found fame Larry or Lonesome soon discovered that he can get people to buy products as well as later elect politicians by just putting in a good word for them on his talk & country & western music hillbilly radio/TV show. The people including Marcia that are behind Lonesome's incredible rise in the TV ratings and popularity never once notice that he was anything but the lovable country bumpkin that he made himself out to be but a Frankenstein monster!***SPOILERS*** IT was in fact Marcia who had fallen in love with the big jerk who was hurt in the most personal way by Lonesome dropping her for this young teenage chickadee the baton twirling Betty Lou Fleckum, Lee Remick, whom he also dropped after he got, as in with so many other women in his life, tired of her. Seething with both hatred and revenge as well as feeling hurt & deserted Marcia planned to show the real Lonesome Rhodes to the public, who are just crazy about him, for what he really is. And this came on rating week or sweeps for TV & radio with tens of millions of his fans and admirers tuning in to see and hear their hero.Like the saying goes It's a dirty job but someone's got to do it and Marcia's exposer of Lonesome, when he thought no one was listening in, was anything but pretty. Within minutes of the big show going off the air thousands of outraged listeners as well as it's sponsors, by canceling their sponsorship of his show, showed Lonesome just what they think about him! Not quit getting the picture in how badly he screwed himself up Lonesome in his rage to get the person who left the mike on when the shows credits were rolling down the TV screen was shocked to find out that the person that he trusted the most, even though he treated her like dirt, who was responsible for his sudden downfall was non other then Marcia Jeffries! What I got from the ending is that Lonesome Rhodes was so popular that the millions who tuned into his show didn't at the time bother to turn it off in being so impressed by it! Even in the last minute or so when it was going off the air which in the end made the greatest impact, in seeing or hearing what a low life creep he really was, on them! "}{"Title":"Not Just A Good Ole Boy","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An early warning about the power and peril of mass media, A Face In The Crowd introduces us to Lonesome Larry Rhodes (Andy Griffith), a drifter who becomes a demagogue. It's a fine, funny movie with powerhouse performances, if undercut by a moralizing tone.Rhodes, you see, is beloved by millions for his folksy ways, but we know better right away when we are introduced to him in an Arkansas jailhouse where Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal) is trying to round up participants for her Face In The Crowd radio feature. Better watch him, he's mean, someone tells her, an ironic comment since watching him will turn out to be a big part of the problem.To say Griffith plays his role big is an understatement, yet he's doing what Budd Schulberg's script requires of him. He's a man who recognizes no limits in life. I put my whole self into everything I do, he tells Marcia, which is the truth. The big laugh, the sudden bursts of anger and just-as-sudden swings into apparent (if, we suspect, insincere) regret all find in Griffith a magnificent vessel for our attention for two engaging hours.As the snowball rolls on, A Face In The Crowd becomes a fascinating satire on big media in earlier days, Rhodes hawking a lame vitamin bill (It won't kill you, is the best a doctor can say about it) which he transforms into proto-Viagra. Vitajex gives a fellow that get-up that sets him up solid with the ladies, Rhodes purrs. We are soon treated to a montage of clever, corny TV ads of pigs transformed into wolves and sexy ladies singing the wonders of Vitajex while Rhodes smiles at the extent of his hoodwinking.Less engaging, though still involving and brilliantly acted, especially by Neal (whose luminosity leaves a deep impression) is the relationship between Rhodes and Marcia. She knows he's a con but loves him anyway, in part because she made him what he is. But when Rhodes starts craving a different kind of power as enabler for an arch-conservative senator, Marcia wonders what she has unleashed.A Face In The Crowd is often described as a political movie, which it is to a point. It's almost entirely non-ideological, though. We get that Marcia, and her pipe-smoking mild-mannered would-be beau Mel Miller (Walter Matthau), disapprove of this right-wing thing Rhodes gets into, but it's not the point of the film. Director Elia Kazan keeps the focus on Rhodes as crass opportunist, plotting to use his talents to hurt those who get in his way.I'm not just an entertainer, I'm an influence, a wielder of opinion, Rhodes exclaims at the height of his power.There are moments where A Face In The Crowd seems ready to become even more interesting than it is, when we see glimpses of Rhodes as confused by what he is become, and reaching for Marcia with feral determination that doesn't seem put on. Mighty tall grass, he mutters, fondling dying flowers in his Manhattan penthouse. We're getting in deep, Marcia.But the film falls back into disliking Rhodes for what he has become, and turning Miller into the voice of cool Eastern reason telling Marcia (and eventually Rhodes) just what's right. I love Matthau more than any other actor in this film, but he's the film's weak link because, like Griffith, he's playing the part as written and this time it's not much of a part.The more the film tells me how awful Rhodes really is, the more I find myself wanting to know more about him, like why a guy who exudes such warmth can be so selfish and vituperative at heart. The ending is rather conventional, using the legend of Uncle Don's famous on-air faux-pas (which Simpsons fans will recognize as happening to the Great Gabbo) as an excuse to end things on a tidy and smug note. Having Mel give the final what-it-all-means speech is a sign Kazan, for all his command of cinema, didn't always trust his audience to get the message the first time.Still, the great moments in the film are great indeed, and make for lasting commentary on the dumbed-down state of media then and now. The technology has changed, but the laughs endure. Griffith gives a performance for the ages, and assisted by Neal as well brilliant editing and cinematography, offers a milestone moment for reckoning with the power of big media. "},{"Title":"Cassandra, cursed with prophecy that was ignored, would emphasize with this masterpiece!","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm no longer a young man, yet this is the very first time I've seen or even heard about this movie that was made a few years before I was even born. My interest was kindled by the story of the Director himself, Elia Kazah. The air-heads who infest Hollywood generally know little about economics or history but know enough in their ignorant Utopian filled heads to try to tell the rest of us how things should be run. It is because so many people in Hollywierd despised Elia Kazah I figured I'd probably like him.I was not disappointed. This movie is prophetic. Imagine a slick talking crook from Arkansas. A womanizing liar pushed forward by a manipulative female self-publicist who masters the TV-Government- Business iron triangle. This charismatic country-boy woes millions with his smooth down-home delivery. He makes love to the TV camera and convinces you he loves you more than that rotten spouse you are stuck with at home . Sounds familiar don't it? You don't need to imagine that because you already know a certain disbarred impeached ex-president ! Now you know why this movie stuck pay dirt with me  this movie nailed the truth even before it came true by 50 years!Kazah was brutal and mean, but that was part of the technique he perfected. By getting an actor to feel the way a scene called for he got the camera to record it. He brought out the very best performance an Actor had in him. You've never seen how good Andy Griffith could be until you've seen this movie . Kazah was a true master of his craft and this movie easily is in my top 10 of all time favorites now.Just a few words about the Kazah-Commie controversy. My version of the DVD had a feature on this history. Historic Soviet records now prove Hollywood was infiltrated with Soviet agents. Agents who attacked Kazah and whom he owed nothing but payback. Agents who were working for the most evil country on Earth. Agents who Kazah knew Congress knew. He loved America and he defended it by naming those agents.What angered the Hollywierd crowd most was Kazan's defiance. He was right and he knew he was right. That shined the light back on them and there is nothing that gets a self righteous know-nothing-at-all more angry than to have their cherished beliefs deflated by someone they once liked. Rather than admit THEY were the problem they will blame the person who points it out . Kazah become the scapegoat of choice . That is why I think Kazah is an American hero. It takes a tough man to confront his enemies, it takes a stronger one to confront his friends. Oh, and by the way, did I mention Kazah made GREAT movies? This one is my favorite Kazah flick. So far. I'm still have a few more to see! "},{"Title":"A Monster For Prime Time","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like the film Network, this 1957 release grows more relevant with each day. It packs a real punch, with Oscar-worthy performances from a pre-Mayberry Andy Griffith as the conniving, morally bankrupt Lonesome Roads, and what is arguably the best role/performance ever by Patricia Neal.Can-do-no-wrong Walter Mathau is equally excellent in a restrained and subtly comic dramatic turn; Anthony Franciosa is perfect as the wheel-greaser who's always in position to receive the first slice. Perhaps the film may seem a bit over-the-top in spots, but the handling is first-rate, with a story that hasn't aged a day. A must-see film. "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith in a classic","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is said that Elia Kazan and Budd Schulberg did months of research for this film, investigating political organizations and television stations. They were ahead of the curve, understanding the power of images and the horror that could result from abuse of that power.Andy Griffith makes his film debut here, giving us an iconic portrayal. He plays Lonesome Rhodes, starting out as a no-good drifter, then morphing into a personification of evil, fueled by public opinion.This is also Lee Remick's debut, and a fine one.Patricia Neal plays the woman who makes Lonesome Rhodes and loves Lonesome Rhodes. I can't say she is one of my favorite actresses, but she really owns this role.Filmed in B&W, A Face in the Crowd is a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"A Biting Satire","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer Bud Schulberg wrote an incisive script for this film, which Elia Kazan directed with great energy and flair. The cast was top notch, headed by Patricia Neal and Anthony Franciosa.Yet it was the casting of then relative newcomer Andy Griffith in the lead role of Lonesome Rhodes that was the pivotal character in this film. The first two parts of the drama are more successful than the final third, which becomes rather pedantic and heavy-handed.Still, Griffith carries the film, infusing his character (undoubtedly the result of Kazan's forceful coaching) with great pathos, as our hero becomes increasingly power hungry and callous in his motivations.Like other actors who became too identified with their roles (Anthony Perkins and Hurd Hatfield come to mind) the conniving, insincere persona Griffith portrayed here may have unintentionally harmed him professionally.Throughout his film and television career, Griffith lost out to major awards, while his co-stars received them--and this was reinforced when he was omitted from the In Memoriam segment of the 2012 Academy Awards. Could it be his double-faced role in A Face in the Crowd made people mistrust him? (Also the parallel with TV giant Arthur Godfrey's late career downfall is also apparent.) Whatever the case, this is quite a tour de force part as written, which Griffith brings off well. We will miss Griffith, and continue to enjoy the many TV reruns and films to which he contributed so much. "},{"Title":"Prescient Television Satire.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan directed this prescient satire of television and politics that stars Andy Griffith(his film debut) as guitar playing hobo 'Lonesome' Rhodes, who is in and out of jail when he meets Marcia Jeffries(played by Patricia Neal) a network executive who is amused by his easy charm and extroverted nature, and puts him first on the radio, then television, where he becomes an overnight sensation, and uses his growing influence with the public to gather more power and riches, which alarms Marcia's colleague Mel Miller(played by Walter Matthau). Marcia has sadly fallen for Rhodes, who leaves her when he marries young admirer Betty Lou(played by Lee Remick). Marcia will eventually listen to Mel and make a fateful decision to expose Rhodes for the monster he truly is... Way ahead of its time in terms of how an entertainer(or politician!) can manipulate and fool a gullible public to do and believe what they want, though the more astute viewer will see right through Rhodes' obvious act and superficial charm, and Andy Griffith lays on the act a bit too much after awhile, to the picture's detriment. It is a shame that the general public still haven't wised up as much as they should, enabling and empowering the modern-day versions of Lonesome Rhodes currently among us... "},{"Title":"This is not the Andy Griffith we all know and love which makes this movie even more intriguing!","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We all know Andy Griffith as the upstanding and affable Andy Taylor from the Andy Griffith show or the similarly upstanding, folksy attorney Ben Matlock on Matlock. Well, before he was type cast into roles like these, he played the morally corrupt character Larry Lonesome Rhodes.The film begins with talent scout Marcia Jefferies (Patricia Neal) visiting the Tomahawk County jail in Arkansas. She is looking for talent to feature on her roving reporter radio program called A Face in the Crowd. While there, she discovers boisterous drifter, Larry Rhodes, who she immediately renames Lonesome Rhodes. Larry is in jail for drunk and disorderly conduct but negotiates getting out of jail early if he sings and agrees to be recorded for the radio show. Once the agreement is reached, Larry breaks out his guitar and mesmerizes the small crowd with witty stories and a bluesy style ad lib country song about his upcoming freedom. Marcia plays the recording back to her uncle who owns the radio station and they immediately know they have a hit on their hands. They track Larry down and offer him a chance for his own radio show. The show is an instant success with housewives and advertisers. Larry quickly realizes that he has a gift to persuade people when he tanks the popular Tomahawk sheriff's bid for mayor by deriding him on his radio program. This incident garners national attention and Larry gets offered a chance to appear on television in the big city of Memphis. He agrees to the offer and takes Marcia along with him and they begin a relationship. Together with program writer, Mel Miller (Walter Matthau), they create a television hit and the sponsor of the show, a mattress company, sees its sales increase by 55%. From this point forward, we see the familiar but wonderfully handled themes related to the evils of fast fame and fortune and how there is nothing like a woman scorned.This movie is a real gem. Anyone who enjoys films like Citizen Kane, All About Eve or The Bad and The Beautiful will enjoy this film. The only flaw I really see is that Andy Griffith's portrayal of Lonesome Rhodes is so strong that he overshadows the other formidable actors, Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, and Lee Remick. Overall, this film is a classic because Griffith provides you with a unique glimpse into what he was capable of as a character actor. "},{"Title":"You need to watch this movie","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the most cynical movies I have ever seen. It is also one of the best. It tells the story of a not-stupid country boy who uses his feel for what the common man wants to see and hear to manipulate them to his own and others' ends with bone-chilling cynicism. And the American public never sees through him, until one of the people in his entourage finally exposes him.Everything in this movie is good. Andy Griffith gives a great performance, one that makes his subsequent performances as a decent small-town sheriff in Andy of Mayberry look completely different. Patricia Neal gives an equally fine performance as the woman who loves him but is disgusted by what she sees him do.This is about as far as you can get from a feel good movie. It's not unlike Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, and equally as good. Yes, it's about how television can manipulate the public, but it's also about the gullibility of a public that allows that to happen. "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith at his best","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I could bore you with a long drawn out review which will mean nothing to you because everyone comes to their own conclusions after watching a movie. I wont, all I will say is this; Amazing. This movie goes thru every emotion and back again. It shows how fame can take an easy, laid back regular guy and mutate him in to his own worst enemy. It also shows how such fame and fortune will tear those few people in your life the care for away and leave them rethinking their affection. This movie is far underrated and is deserving to be on the AFI 100 if there ever was one. "},{"Title":"Very, Very Good... Albeit Too Long","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An Arkansas hobo (Andy Griffith) becomes an overnight media sensation. But as he becomes drunk with fame and power, will he ever be exposed as the fraud he has become? What strikes me about this film? Two things Andy Griffith, whom I know best from The Andy Griffith Show (as I am sure most people do), is incredible. He not only can act, but really lets loose and shows a dynamic musical ability. He was not lovable, he was not quaint. And I wonder why he did not get big in films...But also, the social commentary is brilliant. The fact that you can take a man, make him popular, and then use him for your own political ends is just a great observation. Was Lonesome Rhoades influential? Yes. But only so long as his handlers allowed him to be.The biggest -- and practically only -- negative thing about this film is the length. You could easily cut twenty minutes out of it. Long after the point is made, the story just keeps going... and even the end does not know when to end! "}{"Title":"That  Face in the Crowd is you watching with delight...this movie","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the finest movies to come along that feeds the whole human being experience. The viewer is not disappointed from the story line, the acting, the directing, screenplay or editing...What we have here is genuine old fashioned entertainment designed to do just that...entertain you. The actors never forget this either. Everyone relishes their role making it real and your life false. But you are not sorry. To be part of something this good for the running time is worth every bit of your viewing pleasure. Snack up here...too. I have seen this movie so many times and it is just one big memorable scene after scene. It has to be viewed a minimum of 20 times to satisfy your craving for excellency Kudos to this movie team..... "},{"Title":"Do Sarah Palin types channel Lonesome Rhodes...?","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andy Griffith's performance in this film is an absolute revelation to anyone who thinks he was born to always play the good-natured small town sheriff in his TV show. His performance in A Face In The Crowd is a true tour de force, a spot-on characterization of a man who starts out with 'aw gosh' charm and originality, but becomes a power-mad, jaded, user/abuser of everyone around him. Griffith's charisma and acting power in this film are truly remarkable!Budd Schulberg's script is absolute genius! This is more than just the journey of one man and the woman who has the misfortune to love him; he insinuates that Lonesome Rhodes (or any charming/disarming character) has the potential to become dangerous if he starts believing in the hero worship that an adoring public provides.(Or is it that the public itself is dangerous, since they can be so easily fooled and misled?)Watching the makeover of the Presidential candidate in the movie - giving him the superficial appearance of someone who is folksy, simple, and a man of the people (in stark contrast to his actual stuffed-shirt personality) was truly chilling, since the candidate actually had only contempt for the public, saying that they needed to be told what to think, and couldn't possibly know on their own what is good for them. The candidate's handlers also used religion as a political tool (still a very familiar ploy in 2010, unfortunately!)This area of the movie seemed truly prescient to me. It reminded me a lot of the down-home folksiness of someone like Sarah Palin, as just one example of a politician whose simple talk belies raging ambition and power lust; someone who makes a living by mocking educated and sophisticated people in power, and pledging that they, themselves, could never be so uncaring about The People. Lonesome Rhodes' idea for 'jes' plain folk' sittin' 'round the cracker barrel talking' 'bout whatever they feel like, even politics - couldn't help but remind me not only of Palin, but also of some of the shows on Fox News, which claim to represent the voice of 'The People,' but which are known to do their darnedest to manipulate what 'The People' think. I'm not saying much about Elia Kazan's direction simply because he has always been my favorite director. I can't possibly write anything that does justice to his directing genius. (And I wonder if any other director could have helped Andy Griffith reach into his guts and soul to come up with that mind-blowing performance!) It's also noteworthy to see Lee Remick's screen debut as a nubile teenager whose eyes seduce Lonesome Rhodes even before her baton-twirling performance does (complete with total head-to-ground back-bend.) I think the ultimate message in this movie is that not only does power corrupt, but it is for sale to the person who can best manipulate the public. THAT is as dangerous today, in 2010, as it was when Schulberg wrote the script for this great film.As someone else pointed out on these boards, it is really shocking that Andy Griffith didn't receive a Best Actor nomination, or Kazan a nomination for Best Director, the film for Best Movie, etc. I think it's because of strictly political reasons, this movie having been made towards the end of the Blacklist era, and both Schulberg and Kazan had testified before the HUAC. I don't know. It's simply a great film - one which I enjoy re-watching every few years, and which always gives me fresh insights and enjoyment. "},{"Title":"ahead of its time, and we're still trying to catch up","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A penniless Arkansas vagrant with a cheap guitar and a gift for gab is discovered by roving human-interest reporter Patricia Neal, and with little else but his talent for persuasion becomes first a TV celebrity, and then an influential right-wing power broker with delusions of grandeur. The big screen's first defensive assault on television was also the first to recognize the fledgling medium as an instrument of propaganda, anticipating by several decades the political marriage of advertising and entertainment, and the subsequent erosion of campaign issues into sound bites and empty slogans. As the charismatic prime-time con man 'Lonesome Roads', Andy Griffith (in his astonishing film debut) radiates a malevolent backwoods charm, even while being destroyed by his own megalomania (notice how, without really changing, his signature laugh slowly alters from robust to contemptuous). But like other anti-TV cautionary fables it can't resist making one speech too many, and man of conscience Walter Matthau's necessarily optimistic response to Lonesome Roads' downfall (We get wise to 'em. That's our strength&#x85;) rings a false note when heard today. Current events prove that we haven't yet gotten wise to 'em, and it's getting late. "},{"Title":"A Gem of a Film","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie shows the true power of a well written and well acted movie. It stands the test of time and makes you look at the similarities with which we live in today. This Movie was made in 1957 and 53 years later it still has resonance with modern events. You could just as easily make this movie with updated content and it would make just as much sense. Sadly, I doubt that there would be anyone to play the lead role with as much Gusto as the original.The Movie makes a drunken Arkansas inmate into a leader of the masses. It is played so well I started to think I was going to have to add Lonesome to my face-book friends. The supporting cast is great, the writing is great but this movie does one thing better than any of the modern movies do. This movie shows the codependent relationship between power and suggestibility.Great little thing to have turning in your head long after the movie is over. Too bad all these movies now are about vampires and 7 foot blue Indians. They could learn a thing or two from a great film like this one. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, in many ways","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't really know why I've taken so long to watch this film. I'm glad I did buy the DVD though, as this is a brilliant classic and ranks up with the very finest of director Kazan's work. This is one of the seminal films of the 1950's, truly original (although the concept has been borrowed time and time again over the years), bitingly honest and still very powerful and relevant in it's major themes. Low-life drifter Larry Lonesome Rhodes (Andy Griffoth) is transformed into a folksy, everyman hero of middle-America first through radio, and ultimately, the power of the little box known as television. Patricia Neal rescues him from drying out in jail, helps make him a star and falls in love with him. For her troubles, she is dumped for a sexy, very young small-town drum majorette (a debuting Lee Remick). This film anticipates so much--the all-powerful tool that effective advertising and image production would become in every part of life, from political elections to buying cough medicine. Lonesome becomes a monster, but who maketh the monster? Andy Griffith's performance is excellent, as is Patricia Neal's. This is a very fresh film, very clever and I think it will continue to be relevant for many years to come. "},{"Title":"A demagogue in 1957","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan directed this 1957 movie that was written by Bud Schulberg, who also wrote What Makes Sammy Run? and The Harder They Fall, among others. Stories that dealt with dealing with the public and the fronts one puts up.I saw this from a high recommendation. I couldn't help but think of the year 1957 and there was a singer who just about everyone remembers and that's Elvis Presley. Griffith does not match his charisma in my opinion and whose own self destruction more complete than Andy Griffith's Lonesome Roads ever was.Still, Patricia Neal's A FACE IN THE CROWD's on the spot reporter gave a good set for Griffith, who's been sleeping off a drunk in a Memphis jail. He sings a Schulberg original Free Man At Last and becomes a big hit with the locals.His singing is mainly shouting but it's his folksy humor that wins him over. Neal takes him where Memphis has a big talent show.where he's introduced to cynical writer Walter Matthau and opportunist Francis Graciosa. Griffith knows how to work the crowd with his own interests involved.He shows the marketing department how to sell sugar pills and even helps a senator win more votes. He beds Neal and promises to marry her. But he's already married and the first wife shows up and actually blackmails Patricia.He promises to go to Juarez, Mexico to get a divorce after judging a cheerleader contest. He picks one, Lee Remick who's been making eyes on him. He comes back with Remick as the new bride who was spectacularly pretty back then.Neal gets her revenge when she reopens the mikes after a broadcast, in which Griffith spouts off how stupid he really thinks his public is.Last scene has Neal going to Griffith who's being abandoned by everybody but Matthau rescues her and takes her away. Ironically, Walter predicts Andy will be on some TV show as a has been. They leave with Griffith shouting Don't Leave Me.Though somewhat dated, this is one of Kazan's best films. That good old country boy appeal helped get Bill Clinton and George W. Bush elected and is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"This Ain't Your Grandmother's Andy Griffith","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whoa! This steam roller of a movie may just leave you wondering why no one ever seems to talk about it or remember it all these years later....Elia Kazan made one of those films that feels like it could have been made today with few changes. It's so relevant today that the movie was either ahead of its time or it proves that things haven't changed much in the succeeding years. Andy Griffith plays a folk hero who becomes a radio and then television sensation, sees his fame reach its highest point, and then collapse when his ego gets too big to control. The movie is shockingly honest about the simplicity of middle America and its willingness to believe what it wants to hear. The film is part cautionary tale and part fulfilled prophecy.I had trouble with Griffith at first. His performance reeks of over acting, and I just couldn't take him seriously as this charismatic, sexy character who women fall in lust with. But I warmed up to him over the course of the film, and his final scene is devastating. Patricia Neal is the one to watch here. She is a wonderful actress, and she had a natural style of acting that immediately made anyone else on screen with her seem a little less authentic by default. Walter Matthau appears in a rare dramatic role, Anthony Franciosa plays a slime ball and Lee Remick appears as a trampy cheerleader.Kazan did not take the most subtle of approaches to this movie, but it's not a story calling out for subtlety.Grade A "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith was Outstanding","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a very interesting story about a man who was an Arkansas drifter who always was in trouble and wound up in jail. Marcia Jeffries, (Patricia Neal) meets this drifter in jail named Lonesome Rhodes, (Andy Griffith) because she is a radio personality who wants to visit the jail and find some local talent and a human interest story to put on the air. Lonesome Rhodes becomes a great success with his singing, jokes and simple down to earth humor and the radio audience falls in love with him as a down to earth person who likes ordinary folk. Lonesome moves on to greater heights in television and even meets up with a young teenager. This teenager is Betty Lou Fleckum, (Lee Remick) who he judges in a cheer leaders contest and marries her. This upsets Marcia Jeffries who gave Lonesome Rhodes his start and she is also in love with him and he breaks her heart. Walter Matthau, (Mel Miller) gave a great supporting role along with Walter Winchell and many other super stars appearing briefly in this great film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith is an incredible dramatic actor!","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's interesting to think that if this film had been a hit Andy Griffith's career would probably have taken a much different path. He is riveting in the role of Larry Lonesome Rhodes as he grows from meek hobo to smooth talker and manipulator to raving madman. He IS Lonesome Rhodes! It is an amazing piece of work. The rest of the cast, particularly Patricia Neal and Walter Matthau are superb as well. But when Andy is on the screen you can't take your eyes off him...which is what the story requires. It's not too often that you see someone so new to the screen keep up with and even overshadow such a strong performers. I guess the one good thing for us is that because it wasn't appreciated at the time we did end up with Andy Taylor and life in Mayberry. "},{"Title":"Comic Genius of Andy Griffith meets the Film Making  Genius of Director Elia Kazan in bringing unique and thoughtful Film to those Innocent 1950's IT'S SURE NO MAYBERRY!","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Following his success as a Comedian/Story Teller (Stand-up, before the term had been coined), Andy Griffith auditioned for the part of a naïve young Hill Billy kid who has his sincere, honest but somewhat backward personality put to the test as a recruit in the United States Air Force. The play, an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Mack Hyman, would see life first in a somewhat shortened and sanitized version for Television via a weekly hour-long installment of THE UNITED STATES STEEL HOUR. (ABC 1953-55 CBS 1955-63).Mr. Griffith said in an interview that we saw that his audition consisted of his doing some of his comedy material from his Night Club Act. Many of these routines are preserved on CD's for posterity. After listening to his performance of the likes of What it was was Football or his oral renditions of some Shakespearian Works, once again, as related by a kid from the Hills.His appearance was a hit and soon other offers came pouring in for this plain speaking but very funny man from North Carolina. He was a regular on Sunday evening's THE STEVE ALLEN SHOW (1956-60). He was also noticed by Warner Brothers and signed to a contract to bring his success as Will Stockdale to the movie screen in a NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS feature film; that is after he did this one dramatic role. He would be doing a dramatic role for the first time. Would this prove to be too much for his sort of Latter-Day Will Rogers persona?* Well he took that part and once again his easy going country drawl and plain old common sense served both the actor and the character very well, indeed! The movie was an adaptation of Budd Schulberg's story, The Arkansas Traveler. Andy had the part of the lead character, Larry Lonesome Rhodes. It was about as far a cry from 'Will Stockdale' as he could have gotten.The story concerned the meteoric rise to fame and fortune of a real, true old fashioned tramp to national fame and influence as a TV/Radio Personality. (Remember now, not just the Politically Correct homeless, but a true Bum in every sense.) We are there in the Police Department's Drunk Tank of a Small Southern Town, when Radio Reporter, Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal) brings the microphone to the jail facility in order to get some different sort of angle for her local Radio Show, A Face in the Crowd. Choosing Larry Rhodes after literally picking him up off the Jail Cell's floor, she puts him on the air, singing and strumming some on his guitar. It was at this first meeting that she dubs him with the moniker of Lonesome Rhodes.He is brought along as a local Radio and Daytime TV Chat fest Host. By using unscripted and unorthodox methods and off-beat publicity grabbing stunts, he is soon well known to the insiders in the Broadcasting Industry and takes advantage of the opportunity to move up another rung on the ladder.And it is always Marcia at his side as a sort of show's Producer, as she falls in Love with this uncouthed vulgarian. Although his methods are rough on the station owners, especially those he would step on and over on the way up; he continues to climb in ranking and importance. He arrives on the Summit of Radio/TV Land when he gets the call from the Network, through newly acquired 'Agent', Joey DePalma (Tony Franciosa). Others are brought along, such as writer Mel Miller (Walter Matthau). Rhodes can now name his own ticket and doesn't hesitate to inject his own brand of street-smart charlatanism into the promoting Sponsor's Product. He is responsible for transforming the Sponsor's Vita-Jex from an also ran into a big player in the market place.After arbitrarily and capriciously ruining many close to his operation at the Network into joblessness and ill health, he forms an alliance with certain Politicos to promote their candidates on the air, as guests on his show. He goes so far as to forsake Marcia, who with him has been an item for sometime. Instead, he marries a young, barely legal Baton Twirling Champion, Betty Lou Fleckham (Lee Remmick).Though Marcia loves the guy, deep down she knows that like Dr. Frankenstein, she has unleashed a monster on the World. When she sees the opportunity to expose him for what he truly is, she does it. (No particulars are given here.) There has been a lot of talk that Arthur Godfrey was the target of the story. He certainly was unorthodox and free-wheeling. And he did get a lot of bad press over some hotel that he was part owner of was Restricted. (If you are under 60 you may not know about the designation of Restricted which meant that Jews were not welcome.) Our guess that Lonesome Rhodes took bits and pieces of his being from several different real people's lives.As for the over-all theme, we see one re-occurring that had been given some thought by people like Director Frank Capra for some years before this film. That subject is the dangerous marriage between Political Demigods to mass communications media, and what the resulting harm could come to a free people like ours from such manipulations. One only needs to look at Capra films AN American Madness, MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON and MEET JOHN DOE to see what we mean.A FACE IN THE CROWD was much more than just another release from the Studios' yearly output; but rather a dramatization of potential trouble then as well as now.Note * Jackie Gleason once told Johnny Carson in an Interview on the TONIGHT SHOW that most comedians can and have become excellent dramatic actors, but no drama steeped tragedian ever did the opposite. Andy's work here only helped to prove The Great One's assertion. "}{"Title":"Good Ol' boy con man goes to town","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of my all time favorite movies. I love to watch Andy Griffith work the Lonesome Rhodes character along with everybody else in the movie. One of the marks of a great actor is how well he plays a bad guy and Griffith plays a great bad guy. It's not hard to dislike Rhodes but everybody around him is as bad as he is trying to get a piece of the Lonesome Rhodes pie. Anthony Franciosa plays a great part as the greasy creepy hanger on. You can see Franciosa working Rhodes. One scene he's snapping his fingers to something Rhodes is singing and he's just plain creepy. Rod Brasfield plays Beanie, Rhodes' traveling buddy. I remember Brasfield from a 50's TV show that showcased up and coming country stars of the time and old favorites as well. He was a pretty fair comedian and does a pretty fair job in this movie. All in all, great movie. "},{"Title":"What a Powerful, Under-rated Gem!!!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the laconic and gentle opening credits, A Face In The Crowd is like a drawn pot of water; carefully put upon the stove, gracefully ignited by the turn of a burner and generated by the subtle and stellar performances of one and all, spearheaded by the great Andy Griffith and sublime Patricia Neal.And yet, this is not a 'potboiler' in the Hollywood tradition, no! The situation of a small-town radio gal (Neal) finding gold in a tiny Southern jail (Griffith) breathes with Kazan's fine direction.Chilling it is to watch it today, the situation commentary then about the power of television over the masses in the hands of advertisers, networks and politicians does take one aback. This is as fresh and raw now as it was when released in 1957.If you fancy yourself a devotee of film, you should possess this amongst your collection of DVDs and VHS; and if you don't, then what the hell is the matter with you?From my theater seat, this IS the masterpiece from Elia Kazan.I contemplate this piece of celluloid far long and much more than the revered Citizen Kane.Shame on the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for not recognizing Andy Griffith, Patricia Neal, Elia Kazan, Walter Matthau, Anthony Franciosa, and Budd Shulberg with Oscar nominations for their contributions to this classic! "},{"Title":"Andy Griffith Should Have Been Nominated For An Oscar!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Without going too much into the premise for the story, that's already been covered by everyone else, I'll just say that Andy Griffith should have been at least nominated for an Oscar, and won, for his work in this extreme film! I say extreme because this is not a story with a happy and trite ending. It IS a gritty, hard hitting expose' of television and the advertising rackets and how they attempt to to appeal to the rest of us and use people's ignorance against themselves. In steps the main character, Lonesome Rhodes. A combination of Will Rogers, Huey Long with a touch of Hitler. He is a ambivalent, malevolent megalomaniac who has nothing but delusions of grandeur and self importance. However, he does receive initial help from Patricia Neal. She's sort of a female version of a Dr. Frankenstein in that she first discovers him and then encourages him to develop his knack for telling people what to think and what to do. You will see Andy Griffith as a character who is a million light years from his humble, nice guy sheriff persona from TV. DON'T MISS THIS ONE!!! "},{"Title":"So Prophetic!","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A great film about the dangers of exploitive media made during the infancy of television. Andy Griffith is surprisingly superb, and the supporting cast of Patricia Neal, Anthony Franciosa, and Walter Matthau is right on the money. A wonderfully written satirical piece that had to be overlooked in 1957 due to its over-the-top message. Like Network (1976), its a movie that gains over the years, after the proliferation of reality television that makes Lonesome Rhodeses out of whoever is willing to be exploited. Top notch direction, cinematography and editing.9/10 "},{"Title":"Kazan...mad as hell!","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Elia Kazan caps off a decade of highly cynical films by making his most cynical...A FACE IN THE CROWD tells the story of Lonesome Rhodes, a rabble rouser hick who shoots to stardom on his folksy charm and of the people persona. He turns out to be a real creep, duly exposed by the very medium that made him a star television! Kazan and scriptwriter Budd Schulberg indict TV as a fame making machine that builds people up and spits them out while shaping public opinion for a public incapable of making up its own mind. It's clearly a head of its time, predating NETWORK by nearly twenty years. As Rhodes, Andy Griffith is terrific, and a real revelation to those who only know him from his TV roles as Andy Taylor and Matlock. Patricia Neal, playing the woman who discovers Rhodes, is, as always, excellent. Walter Matthau plays the voice of cynicism and, on the other end, there's Lee Remick as the embodiment of naiveté. "},{"Title":"This ain't Sheriff Taylor","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unbelievable performance by Andy Griffith. This is by far his best acting performance ever. This is a movie that ranks as one of the best film's most everyone has never heard of.If you have a film nut in your home...get them this film.You start out routing for Andy's character and wind up hating him. Kazan gives excellent direction and the supporting cast is great. Patricia Neal's character is kind of seedy at first and you don't know whether or not to trust her, but tables turn and you find yourself feeling sorry for her and routing for her.Kazan really does a great job in flipping the viewers emotions on this film.Highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Lonesome Rhodes - Andy Taylor's Evil Twin","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film for the first time about 7 years ago and was blown away by the amazing performance by Andy Griffith. Thank goodness he did this before he became a household name. I can now see how typecasting can limit an actor, as I just never gave him any credit after Andy Of Mayberry and Matlock. I had no idea of the immense range this man possessed.It has been written elsewhere that the show was based on the phenomenon of Arthur Godfrey and that is possible. I think what happened in this Elia Kazan masterpiece was a demonstration of the power of mass media to lead people to believe what you want them to believe and blind them to what you deem convenient for them to be ignorant of. As Hitler put it, the bigger the lie, the more likely the people will believe.This show raises a number of issues we need to be aware of today. As a medium, television has great potential. However, it has never been close to what it should have become since 1957. The medium made Lonesome Rhodes an icon in the eyes of the people, but in reality, he was a megalomaniacal monster. One hearkens back to when Hitler used the television in Nazi Germany for mass-hypnotism and public desensitization so he could take the world into his fiendish grip. Are the powers controlling TV manipulating us like puppets, until the day they hold our very lives in their hands? "},{"Title":"Where Andy Griffith could've gone with his career","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on AMC and taped it. The first time I saw it I was quite impressed but having just seen it again I felt in many respects the movie was pretty corny and certainly dated, from today's perspective.It is certainly hard to imagine Mayberry's Sheriff Taylor playing a television demagogue but Andy Griffith was extremely good in this movie and probably deserved Oscar consideration, particularly since it was his first movie. Griffith had begun as a serious actor at the Univ of North Carolina but had gotten national attention with his corn-pone account of a hillbilly going to a football game which won him national forensics titles. He translated that into doing stand-up comedy in New York City. AFINC showed he had very serious chops as an actor though and the contrast between that and his next movie, No Time For Sergeants in which he reprises his Broadway role as hillbilly soldier Will Stockdale is remarkable. Why Griffith didn't become a significant movie star after those two movies, I don't know. He had tremendous success with his TV show of course but when you watch AFITC you can feel a regret that wasn't able to have a big-screen career. AFITC showed he had the potential to be numbered amongst the finest actors of his generation. "},{"Title":"re intense","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a really intense, seldom-seen film. Andy Griffith is very powerful in this film. If you've only seen him in Mayberry, you don't know what a really strong and underrated dramatic actor he is. He has a lot to work with here, courtesy of a writer whose work is always powerful. I do think this is a pretty heavy film and has to be viewed that way. It's not light entertainment. It makes you concentrate. I recently heard Merrill Reese, the longtime play-by-play announcer for the Philadelphia Eagles, say that this is his favorite film, and that he has interns at the radio station where he works watch it. It probably does them a lot of good if they watch it seriously. "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem; among Griffith's best work","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had recently discovered this film and mentioned it to my mom. She attested that she remembered it very well and did not like it. It was not because it was a bad film, but that she knew little about the film but knew Andy Griffith as a comedian, so was a little put off by Griffith's extremely unlikeable persona. Perhaps too, America was not quite ready for a satire of this nature delivered by such a well known director.Given, this is before Griffith had his much successful show. However, one can not deny that this type of indictment on the media may not have gone over well at the time. It was ahead of its time and holds up incredibly well, both in its purpose and its performance.Face in the Crowd is quite simply about how a drunkard by the name of Lonesome Roads is discovered by a radio personality and receives heavy media attention, learns how to manipulate it and becomes something of a media spin doctor for a politician. It's part Network and part Wag the Dog. These are obvious connections that have been made before.It's the little intricacies that really show how well thought out this movie is, however. An example is a scene where Griffith's character is asked to put a spin on a fad drug, where he suggest to advertise the drug's ability to help one's love life. Relevant today? You betcha! Besides looking at this film as an excellent piece of social criticism, it's just purely an excellent film. Andy Griffith was a new face on the scene and if audiences had seen him as the lovable Mayberry sheriff before this, people would be more in tune to what a wonderful performance this is. Griffith comes alive as he plays a down on his luck drunkard that embraces the media until we slowly see him self destruct. There is no denying Griffith's ability as an actor in this and had it not been for the politics behind this film and its maker, Griffith's career might have panned out differently.This is a movie about the media, the egos behind it, and how it shapes politics. The performances are top notch and direction superb. I can't recommend this movie highly enough. It serves as both an interesting social commentary and an excellent piece of film making. "}{"Title":"absolute power corrupts absolutely","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An Arkansas hobo gets a second chance on the outside via a you are there radio show called a face in the crowd. Andy Griffith gives an Oscar caliber performance as Lonesome Rhoads, a hillbilly spending time in Jail for being drunk. He gets superstardom on radio first, then TV due to his supposed connection with the common folk. Lnoesome Rhode's cracker barrel is the name of the TV show. The woman he has ditched for fame leaves the mike on in the sound booth one night after taping... and you can figure the rest. In a sub plot, old time director Marshal Neilan gives a masterful last performance as a senatorial candidate place in that position by the smoke filled back room cronies of a political machine. This movie would portend future films such as Network with Peter Finch as the crazed Howard Beale, and Broadcast News with William Hurt as a powerful newsman reduced by throat cancer who learns his lesson.A face in the Crowd was written by bud schulberg, and directed by Elila Kazan. Both were very much message oriented film makers. This film is a must see for any film school student. Stark editing, crisp direction and great performances make this a stand out film of the 1950s. My own impression is that this is the best film Rod Serling Never wrote. "},{"Title":"Good performance but nothing revolutionary","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal) is the host of the radio show A Face in the Crowd for a regional Arkansas station KGRK. She goes to the local jail of Tomahawk County to talk to the incarcerated. Among others, she finds the charming drunk Larry Rhodes (Andy Griffith). She puts him on the air and he gathers a following as Lonesome Rhodes. Together they go and hit it big in Memphis, not just in music but as an advertising pitch man.This is sold as Elia Kazan's next great discovery after Marlon Brando and James Dean. Andy Griffith's does great in his film debut, but it's nothing quite so revolutionary. The story has quite a bit of bite but this is more about Griffith. He plays it really big. If there is any minor problem, there is something theatrical to it all that isn't quite real. He's definitely playing a role whether he's singing, or talking big, or laughing, or drunk acting. Part of that is the fact that the Lonesome character is actually play acting himself. He's a horrible drunk at his heart. If Griffith could put more vulnerability into his character, I think Lonesome would be a much more compelling character. "},{"Title":"I finally saw A Face in the Crowd and while I found some flaws, it's still a most compelling work","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After years of only reading about this movie, I finally got to see A Face in the Crowd on Netflix disc. Andy Griffith plays Larry Lonesome Rhodes, a drunk in jail who gets a break when radio producer Patricia Neal records him singing and telling jokes for her show. He goes over well locally so the next step is nationally on television. Walter Matthau eventually joins as a continuity writer. I'll stop there and just say that while this is primarily a drama, there were some funny scenes at the beginning especially concerning a sequence of a vitamin pill ad campaign that gets more absurdly elaborate as it goes on. Anyone who knows Griffith mainly for his gentle roles as Sheriff Andy Taylor or lawyer Ben Matlock will be possibly shocked by his behavior here as he not only seduces Ms. Neal but also was previously married and eventually then weds a late-teen baton twirler played here in her film debut by Lee Remick. I have to admit that I couldn't completely believe that the women in the audience would attack him on stage as if he were Frank Sinatra, Elvis Presley, or-to use a much later analogy-one of the Beatles. Still, this was a most compelling drama concerning the perils of fame and power involving that then-new phenomenon, television. So on that note, I highly recommend A Face in the Crowd as directed by Elia Kazan and written by Budd Schulberg. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film flopped, financially, although it got mostly positive reviews. It then became one of those films that was 'lost.' That means its reputation grew the more people spoke in remembrance of it, mainly because of its then ahead of the curve take, not only on politics, but on sex, drugs, alcohol consumption (see the wild faux television commercials Rhodes makes), and its own skewering of then popular television programs, with its own versions of same. Thus, the reissue of the film had to sate its admirers, even if, it may not wholly win over as many new fans as its champions wish for. Still, A Face In The Crowd is worth seeing, less for any technical or artistic achievement, and more for its prescient place as a predictor of the power of television's role in the decline of intelligent discourse in American society. It may have been too preachy and smug a film to be great, and it certainly has not dated well in many aspects outside of its predictive power, but, no one can deny that, in the main, it was absolutely right about where this nation was headed. And now that we've arrived, one wishes for a similar film that might elucidate a way out. God wot! "},{"Title":"Don't Accept the Advertisement! See What's in the Bag!","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen so much of Andry Griffith sidelong throughout my life having been brought up by parents devoted to his TV work, comic and dramatic, but never was I close to as aware of his powerful talents as now upon seeing this endlessly perceptive film. What's more, you're too busy enjoying the presence of Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, Tony Franciosa and the sumptuous Lee Remick to realize the bald lack of transatlantic affectation or studio-era artifice in their performances. But at any rate, it's been half a century since A Face in the Crowd released, however there's a significant way in which this 1957 Elia Kazan prophecy stays the dawning picture of the emphasis on the function of language, power relations, and motives. Election years make it just too obvious that our popular culture and electoral politics are reciprocal A Face in the Crowd was the earliest to interpret it on film. This extraordinarily prophetic masterwork has its crucial scene in a luxurious private screening room. An assembly of financiers have congregated to watch a prospective president's newest routine. It sucks. The political podium has become televisual, one commercial futurist asserts. Instead of long-winded public debates, the people want capsule slogans 'Time for a change!' 'The mess in Washington!' 'More bang for a buck!' Punch lines and glamour! Or government via sound bite and photo op. Shortly, a chillingly enthusiastic TV star named Lonesome Rhodes is enlisted to coach this timid politico how to earn a moniker, and kiss the babies, so to speak.Lonesome Rhodes himself is found in an Arkansas county jail by a regional radio reporter. He adorns her show with a spur-of-the-moment performance of Free Man in the Morning, and she succeeds in making him a regular. Therefore facilitated, Rhodes reveals the influence of the medium on the gullible, attentive listeners candidly and superseding in the life of the township. Soon, he's ranked from community radio to TV variety shows, first in Memphis and then New York.Entertainer, platform, and---hence the title---part of the audience, Rhodes is a market survey of one, in addition to the characterization of TV and, before the movie ends, a big-time menace to American democracy. This pre-Network foretelling is, fundamentally, a political horror film. It's not droll enough to function as satire, quite persistently literal for metaphor, yet too overstated to work as drama. Nor was it a sensation, a lack many of our most important films share. As political oratory, nevertheless, magnum opus of psychological realism has never stopped being significant. Warningly suggested during the 1960 campaign (determined, so people believed, by a televised debate), quasi-remade, re-released in 1972, cited to clarify Watergate in 1974, and reconfigured as Network in 1976.Decades later, Kazan started saying that he and Schulberg had made a movie about Reagan back when Reagan was still shilling for GE. (Makes sense it was seldom run on TV until the 1990s.) No vast out-of-the-box thinking is needed to view Lee Atwater as Bush 41's Lonesome Rhodes or Ross Perot as a Rhodes knockoff, and merely a slight implication of sensationalist theatrics is required to see Hillary playing Patricia Neal to Bill's Andy Griffith, and contrariwise. Of late, A Face in the Crowd can appear to foreshadow the media-contrived candidacy and TV-groomed character of unsuccessful contender Senator Fred Thompson. Huckabee even more so. Both Bush Jr. and Sarah Palin's fastidiously counterfeit populist axioms evoke the Rhodes spirit, cheap, deceitful double-dealers who rose to power with a predetermined mass talking in a folksy down-home tongue. And of course, Glenn Beck wants us to think he's Howard Beale, but he is the contrary, he is more Lonesome Rhodes than any other shock-doctrine party-line pundit out there right now.The reality is that this enormously entertaining work of booming vitality by an authority on a fresh breed of psychosomatic and personal conviction in acting is not about any single person so much as a specific coordination that organizes all, politics, news, entertainment in the democracy of the marketplace. The movie is even now dead on. With the right personality and implication, it could still happen. And it does. Pay attention to what they say! Don't be taken in by their charisma or faith-rousing celebrity! Don't accept the advertisement, see what's in the bag! "},{"Title":"Vitajex, WATCHER DOING TO ME??","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are people who hear a melody or a jingle and can't help having it engraved indelibly into their memory. I'm one of them, and the aggressive Vitajex TV commercial has been haunting me ever since I first saw this brilliant movie. So you've been warned.A Face in the Crowd is a pungent, acid criticism of the media circus. In my opinion it is in that aspect even better than Network. The rise of a streetwise provincial hobo from the county jail up to adviser of a presidential candidate appears to be the logical consequence of a system of information that has to rely on simplifying everything.The acting performances are brilliant. Patricia Neal is very good in the excellent part of the woman who discovered the boy wonder from the sticks (a convincingly nasty Andy Griffith) and whose career becomes entangled with his. That wonderful actress was never more beautiful, and it is certainly the best part I have ever seen her in. Anthony Franciosa and lively Lee Remick are also excellent. The only sour note provides poor Walter Matthau in a pipe-smoking-intellectual part and with a &#132;told you so-attitude which is annoying, unnecessary and the only thing that seems dated in this great movie which has not lost any of its actuality.A Face in the Crowd is a movie that should be much better known. "},{"Title":"A story even more relevant today","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It had been years since I'd seen this film, and then AMC showed it at 4 a.m. one morning--thank goodness for VCRs! I was much too young to enjoy it the first time around. The story of a rural smart-aleck who gains fame through an enthusiastic journalist and his own crafty understanding of the common people, this film was supposedly based on radio & TV personality Arthur Godfrey, but went much further than that to make a comment on the power of celebrity--a situation even more relevant today than it was in the fifties. Andy Griffith and Patricia Neal were outstanding; unfortunately Griffith never played another role as serious as this one, since his public wouldn't accept him as a villain. "},{"Title":"Elia Kazan's thoughtful look at the dangers of charisma.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a big Elia Kazan fan I am pleased to say A Face in the Crowd is my favorite film of his. And considering he made Streetcar Named Desire, On the Waterfront, and A Tree Grows in Brooklyn I think this is high praise indeed. The film is about charisma and power and the evil and corruption they can bring. The film stars Andy Griffith as Lonesome Rhodes. Thats right Andy Griffith in a brilliant performance I might add. Excellent performances by Patricia Neal, Walter Matthau, and Lee Remick in her film debut. A great script and of course Elia Kazan bringing it all together. If you think charisma is a good thing I suggest you might reconsider that thought after watching this film. You might find amazing similarities between Lonesome Rhodes and another famous southern charmer as well. If you like Elia Kazan, love great acting and writing, and find films about charisma and power interesting. A Face in the Crowd is a must see. "},{"Title":"A Face in the Crowd; or, Andy Griffith's Missed Oscar","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like the roar of a lion or the maniacal laugh of thousands, Andy Griffith burst on the screen with a performance unmatched in the past 53 years. Using the direction of the infamous Elia Kazan, and words by Budd Schulberg, A Face in the Crowd transformed from a personal struggle with fame into a political statement of power. Since the birth of radio and television, or even before, the concept of celebrity followed side by side. This select 1% of the population was used to sell ads, promote products, and lastly, entertain the populous. Not much has changed as Hollywood has evolved; the wealthy still control and the audience still depend on their favorite voice to tell them what to get at the grocery store. The interesting point about this, explored deeply in Schulberg's script, is how quickly the mass audiences can casual drop one figure and follow anew. As one reads this review, the teens may have forgotten the Jonas Brothers and found a new follower, our Late Night hosts may all have new faces, and our Avatar may not be barreling through the theaters. Even as I write this, it feels stale. Surprisingly, watching A Face in the Crowd for the first time, there was a lack of preparedness for these points. One doesn't expect such a modern film found in 1957 (much less lead by the sheriff of Mayberry), but within the first twenty minutes, the average viewer will be surprised by what the screen allows. With bold direction, amazing acting, and valid, detailed points about our entertainment industry, A Face in the Crowd makes its mark in 1957 and remains valuable today in 2010 &#x96; one could even argue MORE valuable today.While watching this film, there is one person that steals the screen in the opening minutes and never releases for a solid two hours. His name is Andy Griffith, and while he will always be known as the quintessential small town hero, his film debut proved his range went further. With a diabolical laugh, a country-boy appeal, and a voice that could swoon anyone within an earshot, he takes what should have been a role for a seasoned veteran, and creates this iconic role that, after watching the film, could only be done by Mayberry himself. From his introduction in a cell recovering from a drunken disorderly charge, he finds his escape in the form of Patricial Neal, who in turn, introduces Griffith to the world of radio; aka mass audiences. Using a form of trickery, Neal demonstrates Griffith's power and the world welcomes him (unsuspectingly) with open arms. The small town of Arkansas does anything he wants, but he doesn't stop there. By becoming our very first Howard Stern, he does what he wants and says anything at all &#x96; and becomes the infamous Demigod in Denim. The shift in Griffith's character is subtle, yet somewhat planned. He portrays Lonesome Rhodes as a man inheriting luck, but the calculated look on his face indicates otherwise. That is the perplexity of Griffith, one believes that it is just him being himself, but he peppers within his lines these moments of unknown &#x96; where perhaps this was Rhodes' plan all along. Bridled next to both Neal, who adds a strong level of support, sexuality, and madness, and a youthful Walter Matthau who brings the final worded-axe down at the finale; it doesn't surprised the ability and range that Griffith had to accomplish. The acting in this film will not only surprise, but also impress. This is the type of quality that Hollywood could produce, yet rarely do we see.Having just finished Cabin in the Cotton, a film that used politics as a miscalculation to cinema, it was impressive to see Elia Kazan handle this issue with artistic talent as well as solid direction. Despite his dismay in Hollywood, his talent behind the camera glimmered in this feature as colors (blacks and whites) were bold, the symbolism was apparent, and the emotions were captured perfectly. He guided Neal through her tragic turn, while keeping Matthau solid as a rock throughout. He controlled Griffith, while allowing him to run throughout the scenes with ease. Face in the Crowd is a difficult film to direct, as there is both emotion and intent running rampant, but Kazan proves the he can handle Schulberg's words. There are scenes that just feel, and look, more modern than 1957. The one that immediately pops into mind is the montage surrounding Rhodes' introduction into Vitajex. The blend of animation, perverse snippets, and that disturbing laugh didn't feel old &#x96; it felt like a moment taken from 2010 (just in black and white). There are others like that scene throughout. The baton competition was one of the most intensely awkward scenes, as we knew what was happening, but didn't want to believe it. Again, modern ideas strewn throughout 1957, where the average '57 film felt didn't push the envelope &#x96; Kazan didn't care about the envelope.Finally, Schulberg's script has to be one of the best Hollywood stories to come out of that town. The images of Griffith laughing stapled behind several TV antennae, just barely scares the average viewer. Schulberg, like Kazan, isn't afraid of his idea. He pushes from radio to television, an audience of one to millions upon millions, and finally guiding politicians into office. Does this feel like an old idea? The modern implications are outstanding. The language as well, coming from Griffith (who had to ad-lib some) is wildly entertaining, but subtly symbolic, and those final thoughts by Matthau require another viewing just to hear again. Everyone, from writing to direction to acting, gave Face in the Crowd more than 100% of their talent, and this critic believes that Griffith may have fallen into the Mayberry sinkhole too soon. If this was his ability, he was surely wasted in Hollywood.Bravo across the board, BRAVO! Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Face this Crowd in Absorbing Drama ****","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whoever knew that country boy Andy Griffith could really act? Insofar as acting, he did quite well in A Face in the Crowd.He embodies a hard-driven maniac Lonesome Rhodes in the film. He is the very definition of anti-establishment. Discovered by a photographer, Patricia Neal, in a southern prison, he rises to stardom quickly as someone who has comments of just about everything in society. He literally has the public eating out of his hands.People come to him seeking advice. There is a politician that he nicknames Curley, who wants to be president. The latter's staff seeks out Lonesome for some quality tips to make the stiff politician a likable figure.Lonesome can be ruthless. He turns around and marries a high school twirler played by newcomer Lee Remick.Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. When he talks about how ridiculous people are off camera, an embittered Neal is on the set, and she really turns things on when she turns up the volume so people can hear what Lonesome is saying.That ride down the elevator is perfect since as he goes down in it, so goes his popularity. Realizing what has happened, he screams Marsha! Marsha! (Neal) as the film ends.A terrific piece on the dangers of entrusting someone with too much power. It's sort of a Willie Stark reborn again. "}{"Title":"The Glennda Beck story for all to see....","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film about a little man named Glenn/Lonesome Rhodes/Beck who once was a Zoo morning DJ and then went on to fool a whole bunch of people into thinking he is something sent from God to make the world a better place.An audience follows. And before you can say Glenn Beck, he's got a national TV show and big time sponsors.Just one little problem This is not the wife beating coke addict Glenn Beck of the past, he's not a drifter because he's had bad luck but because he's a blowhard, an egomaniac and a racist fraud. And the train he's riding always has the same destination a crude populism that's really a front for a right- wing agenda.Lonesome Rhodes This whole country's just like my flock of sheep!Marcia Jeffries Sheep? Lonesome Rhodes Crackers, hillbillies, hausfraus, shut-ins, pea-pickers -- everybody that's got to jump when somebody else blows the whistle. They don't know it yet, but they're all gonna be 'Fighters for Fuller'. They're mine! I own 'em! They think like I do. Only they're even more stupid than I am, so I gotta think for 'em. Marcia, you just wait and see. I'm gonna be the power behind the president -- and you'll be the power behind me!Sounds just like the Beck fan club.Glennda fell hard as did Rhodes from his high perch when even his sponsors and employer realized he was dangerous, self absorbed and probably crazy.Now he's just some fringe lunatic trying to remake himself out to be a humble changed man....don't believe a word of it "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not perfect","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is indeed a good movie, but two things about it are off.First, the transition between the Lonesome who crafts the brilliant campaign for Vitajex comes right on the heels of the Lonesome who is too homespun to stick to the copy about the mattress. Where did all that skill suddenly come from? The transition is too jarring.Second, Marcia seems to have disappeared through the middle of the movie. What was she doing? Then, suddenly, when she's needed, whoops, turns out she's indispensable after all. It seems she was holding the whole Lonesome Rhodes empire together without us noticing.Both of these flaws lead to the same question was Lonesome a native genius of marketing, or was he someone's puppet? Was this genius wandering in and out of Arkansas jails all this time, just waiting for the right manager to come along? That doesn't make sense. Someone with that much manipulative skill wouldn't be spending nights in the county jug, he'd be playing much bigger hustles.It seems like the director didn't know himself. So it gets a 7 (pretty good movie). Close to something better, but with significant flaws. "},{"Title":"Historical perspective?","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Arthur Godfrey analogy is quite correct and valid, especially in regards to the on-air firing of Julius LaRosa. But the Clinton/Stern reference is way, WAY off base as regards to this film. This movie is a brilliant indictment of the seedy underpinnings and the rot of conservatism. The one of us regular guys as played brilliantly by Andy Griffith was, at heart, only in it for himself, only in it for the money and laughed at those who believed in him, all the way to the bank. A better description of a political conservative could never be found. The Senator, who falls under Lonesome's guidance, is an arch conservative who whines about big government while complaining that nobody who's worth a damn ever needed an unemployment check. He even mentions that old bug-a-boo, big government, of which he is the biggest beneficary. Obviously this isn't an indictment of somebody with liberal leanings like Clinton, and most certainly not of someone like Stern who is probably the most honest, if repellent, media figures of the last 20 years. Not a phony bone in Stern's body. Elia Kazan's direction is nothing short of wonderful. He has such a mastery of the material that even a child could see the evil behind the facade of the down-home Lonesome Rhodes. Of course, Griffith is terrific in the role, and his singing with such wild abandon adds a nice touch. You know it's Andy doing the vocalizing and he's in fine form. But I think Patricia Neal and Walter Matthau get the short shrift whenever this film is mentioned. Neal is her typically wonderful and understated self. Matthau is fine as the writer who can see though the lies, and is cynically dejected when nobody else can.The only thing that doesn't work is the rapid demise of Rhodes when Neal flips on the cameras during Rhodes' rant. It's awfully simplistic, but of course, was a necessary plot device.The inclusion of real-life news people like Walter Winchell, Mike Wallace and John Cameron Swayze is a nice touch and shows just how seriously Kazan was taken as a director. It pays homage to Patricia Neal's 1951 classic The Day The Earth Stood Still and its use of newsfolk like Drew Pearson.A great film and a great indictment of conservatism and it's inherent lie of the moral high ground and love for the common man. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, biting commentary","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Budd Schulberg's entire movie is black humor at its best and sharp as a tack. Admittedly parts of the Citizen Kane-like ending are melodramatic. But Lonesome Rhodes' rise and fall is brilliant commentary on the perils of a democracy built on television culture.And timely as hell- picture this the American public falls for a semi-political figure shilling down home, apple-pie wisdom, while the intellectuals are shunned for being out of touch with the people. Sound familiar? To me, this is a parable of the rise of George W. Bush. It's about the perils of picking a leader through manly charisma, and about the failure of intellectuals who keep themselves on the outside (Walter Matthau's character). This is one of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"This film is timeless - it could have easily been made today","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film blew my mind. A decade before the Kennedy-Nixon debate, Kazan foresaw the trend towards packaging political candidates, reliance upon media consultants, how the media can make an instant celebrity of someone - and just as quickly discard its creation and move on to the next. I was also reminded of Lonesome Rhodes - especially the end of the movie - when I read about how Michael Moore has called Americans the stupidest and most ignorant people on the planet in French and German media interviews. Talk about life imitating art! If Moore has the guts to make these same comments to American journalists I wonder whether his followers will desert him and his celebrity will evaporate, just like 'ol Lonesome, when the inevitable backlash from the public occurs.  "},{"Title":"Some eerie Clinton Parallels make this always-gripping masterpiece even more relevant.","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great performances; eerily predicted Clinton's persona more than 30 years before the fact.  Excellently directed and intelligently scripted. Andy Griffith (yes, Andy Griffith) brings a devastatingly sexual quality to Arkansas-bred Lonesome Rhodes.   "},{"Title":"Not an enjoyable film, but one very much worth seeing","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some films (particularly those from truly great filmmakers like Kazan) are not meant to be enjoyed. A Face in the Crowd is definitely one of those movies. As a longtime North Carolina native and huge Andy Griffith fan, I had always wanted to see this film and was overjoyed when it finally came out on DVD. I was not disappointed. Every aspect of this film is very well thought out by its fabulous writer/director team. Their story had to be told the way it was, not the way that would make people like it. The acting is, in my view, the film's only weak point. Walter Matthau's character (especially in his monologue to Rhodes at the end of the film) has the most acuity to today's audience because he sees through the fraud to reality. His sharpness was (and is) a warning to those viewers who listen blindly to the voices of the entertainment industry.This film is, ultimately, a classic study in the effects of mass mediated culture. Marshall McLuhan was probably very proud of Kazan for using the very system he was calling into question to prove the need to use it cautiously. The film rings true, now more than ever. In an age where politics is only one step above (sometimes not even that much) pop culture, actors are considered knowledgeable and trustworthy sources on issues they know nothing about, and reporters and news anchors (Dan Rather, anyone) stoop to overt lying to make the news interesting or fit their agenda, A Face in the Crowd is a slap in the face to American society.Kazan was, in his lifetime, hated by the Hollywood establishment - supposedly because of his treason of ratting out communists in the film industry. Perhaps it was his understanding of life (and willingness to place that understanding in full public view) and not his political beliefs that made him an outcast in his prime and gave his films (most notably Face and On the Waterfront) their lasting impact. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've been thinking that this would be a great vehicle for Jim Carey to make a comeback in for quite some time. But, the original is hard to beat.Basically, it is the Howard Stern story is Howard had spent time in the local hooskow. The great Patricia Neal plays a local radio producer who finds Lonesome Rhodes - the Andy Griffith character in the local drunk tank. This face in the crowd turns out to be a natural performer and rises from obscurity to become a powerful Walter Winchell type icon, able to sell not only product, but politics and politicians as well. Much like Stern was able to deliver votes for Gulliani and others in the tri-state area. (I always forget the name of the female Governor from New Jersey, that Howard also helped elect. She's busy dismantling the EPA for little Georgie as we speak so I should know, but I don't - is it Christie Todd Whitman?)Just like Stern, Rhodes becomes and insufferable blowhard and a lousy husband and lover. Lonesome Rhodes is truly one of the most despicable and riveting characters in the history of film -  played pitch perfect by the underrated Griffith in his first film role ever. (He was already a star on Broadway from No Time For Sergeants which he reprised in his second film.)This movie was little seen for years as it bombed at the box office and was an accidental casuality of the horrible Hollywood blacklist years. Elia Kazan was in the process of being run out of town because of his unconsciousable behavior during the McCarthy hearings and this film and others that he completed after the mid-fifties were never championed by the film critics the way lesser works by blacklisted writers were in later years. But I guess what goes around comes around. I was actually turned on to the film by a friend after seeing Jay Leno get all goofy when he had Andy Griffith on and asked him to autograph a copy of his favorite film of all time -  A Face In The Crowd.   "},{"Title":"It's one big CON - Lonesome Roads changed his clothes ONLY!","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Am... rewatching this good movie...Andy Griffith plays a grifter who charms the local, then the national 1950s radio and then TV media...with his song and folksy talk. Roads (who never truly changes for the better...except for his shirt) is charming even political leaders. Will Roads end up in high office? Then...Mr. Roads' media con will all blow up in his face when - finally - his true unchanged selfish con is exposed to the world.Patricia Neal is the reporter who tracked Lonesome Roads down and gave him a job. Walter Matthau is the writer who (early on) recognizes the ROADS con...Neal takes many hits from the selfish (yet clinging) Roads...enduring other women, an ex wife, and then...Road's elopement with yet another woman.Only the Ex Wife who is not really an ex wife...sees Roads for the fake he is... ...Oh, Mr. Roads don't do no courtesy to no one. I could write a book about him... says the Ex Wife...wanting to be paid off!...It's a fun visual lesson in how to get duped by judging someone on CHARM and not CHARACTER!!! "},{"Title":"A Prophetic Masterpiece","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many great works of art are prophetic. Face in the Crowd foretold the emergence of Howard Stern and Rush Limbaugh, the 1990's populist opinion makers--or demagogues, as some critics derisively call them--back in 1957. Although the movie is at times too dramatic and unnatural (e.g. 1) Walter Matthau character is so unnatural and inhuman and sounds almost like a Greek chorus and 2) at times Lonesome Rhodes, an uneducated drifter, talks like a sophisticated college professor), the movie masterfully portrays the life of Larry Lonesome Rhodes and how he manipulates TV, a relatively new media back in 1957, and American public opinion. Kudos to Elia Kazan.In addition to being impressed by the greatness of this movie, I was amazed at the talent of Andy Griffith. He is not just the middle- aged guy who played nice-guy sheriff of a small town or the old guy who played the old crusty advocate Ben Mattlock. He is a very dynamic actor with a tremendous acting ability comparable even to acting greats like Olivier or Gielgud. (No wonder he became a star of Broadway.) Moreover, he can SING!! In this movie he sang country songs and blues better than many singers. Even though Andy Griffith did make some musical recordings, it is too bad that he did not make more. With his immense acting and singing talents I do not know why Andy Griffith did not become a bigger star. What a shame. At least, I am glad that this great thespian recently realized his life-long dream of singing at the Grand Ole Opry. Three cheers for this great thespian.   "}{"Title":"Rabble-rouser leans too heavily on melodrama for its content","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Radio-producer Patricia Neal discovers a loudmouth hick from Arkansas who excites the local crowds with his cynical blend of idealism and the truth; if she can parlay that into a commercially viable package, they might all end up rich. Almost for a full hour, this Elia Kazan drama is a blistering account of celebrity on the Everyman. Unfortunately, in its second-half rendering of the now-clichéd too-much-too-soon, the screenplay by Budd Schulberg (based on his own short story) reveals itself to be a house of cards--and when it crashes there's no collective feelings of mourning. These are just despicable people exploiting current events (and the public) by using broadcasting as a personal sounding-board. Kazan shows early eagerness in the introduction scenes with Neal and Andy Griffith (who eventually shows us a much meaner side to himself than television ever did), but Kazan himself seems to get wrapped up in the diatribes, and he and Schulberg dishearteningly turn their characters into bad examples. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Cast Against Type, Andy Griffith Is Fantastic. The Movie, Thought, Gets Preachy","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie came out very soon after the delectable Baby Doll. It is well cast and has its excellent moments. The difference between the two movies seems to me to be primarily this Tennessee Williams and Budd Schulberg.This is a long movie and it would be better without its preachy middle part. Yes, it presages such later explorations of television as Network. But these segments seem dated and heavy-handed.The early scenes are beautiful  The always divine Patricia Neal discovers Andy Griffith -- absolutely brilliant throughout the movie -- in prison and, sort of a la John and Alan Lomax, records his singing and then puts him on her local radio program.He gets a bit of a swelled head, she falls for him. All this is fine.Then it gets overblown and out of hand.The character Walter Matthau plays is extremely annoying, with his ability to cut through the hype and his own pious speeches, which seem to be speaking for the writer.Then, the final scenes, in which the Griffith character is undone and wants to be taken back into the arms of Neal, who is still ambivalent about whether t take him, are powerful.Though I abhor censorship and cutting, and don't therefore advocate that this ever, ever be done, the movie would be better if it were about half its length, with the critique  of America and Americans excised from its middle.  "},{"Title":"Lonesome Rhodes is alive and well and works at Fox News","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film many, many years ago, long before Fox News started populating its pseudo-news propaganda program with a Lonesome Rhodes for every white social class (funny, they don't have any of these type of characters for minority groups or women). In any case, it was chilling then, and is chilling now that it has become a reality again. I agree with all the positive comments made about this film and Griffith was magnificent. Of course, some people have made snide remarks about his not following up with other great roles and his doing Sheriff Taylor on TV. But folks, there was a bias in Hollywood against people with strong accents (except for British ones) for men in leading roles, and he did not have a leading role look. If Mr. Griffith didn't do great roles afterward, it probably has more to do with the fact that Hollywood is a business, it is not about making art. If it does make art, it's purely by accident or because some great artists are able to convince the Hollywood powers-that-be that they can make a lot of money with their film. So they promote the actors that will look good and appeal to the audience, not those who can act well.In any case, art is prophetic, it is the great predictor of things to come Verne told us about submarines and nuclear power, Fritz Lang showed us the way to modern megacities, Star Trek showed us communicators, which we call cell phones. The film Network told us that Fox News was coming and A Face in the Crowd has warned us of being led like stupid cattle by con artists and opportunistic demagogues it warned us about Glen Beck. "},{"Title":"Dreary Message Drama","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A country bumpkin randomly picked to appear on a radio show becomes a huge star in the mold of Will Rogers. The film makes no attempt to explain the rise to super-stardom of a man who's loud, unfunny, uncouth, untalented, and self-centered. It seems Schulberg is trying to make some important point about media power, but his dreary, overlong script runs out of ideas and veers into soap opera. In his film debut, Griffith is way over the top and his schtick becomes increasingly annoying but it's probably not his fault. The blame for the melodramatics must go to Kazan, who has always shown a knack for the theatrical. He even encourages Neal, a fine actress, to go a bit overboard. "},{"Title":"They Meant Well","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, it has a good message--but this kind of message (the no subtlety kind) is best delivered by Western Union! A  more complex central performance might have put it over, but Andy Griffith is the wrong man for the job. Not once in the movie could I see why the character became such a big star. Not once! "},{"Title":"Uproariously Funny -- But Not Because It Wants To Be","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A vicious, criminal southern drifter with a warm, friendly singing style becomes a TV and radio star with disturbing political ambitions in this overblown and melodramatic fifties satire.Two things spoil this ambitious and admittedly still relevant dark comedy about the negative power of media celebrities.First of all, whatever you've heard from other reviewers, Andy Griffith is terrible -- and I mean William Shatner terrible -- as the psychotic, power-mad hillbilly, Lonesome Rhoads. The concept of a Hillbilly Hitler is smug and patronizing to begin with, but then Andy Griffiths goes so over the top in every scene that the chilling truth just makes you roar with laughter.Ah'm the only wun what unner-stands these people! He roars. They's too igg-nant to speak so I has to speak fur them!!!!! If this stuff wasn't fall down laughing funny, it would be really, really offensive. Is this really what the elite urban left thinks about rural America? Budd Schulberg is long dead, thankfully, but when you read people like Joel Klein or Joel Stein you get the feeling things haven't changed.But no matter. Andy Griffiths is so funny (when he is NOT trying to be) that the offensive liberal smugness just backfires completely. Walter Matthau as the conscience of the film doesn't help matters much, either. He's much better as a rank creep in KING CREOLE, where he works with the real Lonesome Rhoads, a hillbilly cat named Elvis Presley.Now, is there anything good about this movie? You bet there is -- Patricia Neal. A born southerner, stunningly beautiful, natural in every scene, playing all sides of a woman who is appalled by Lonesome, ashamed of him, and deeply attracted to him, all at the same time. For her sake, I give this movie four stars.A FACE IN THE CROWD is a magnificent train wreck -- the satire is crude, the underlying snobbery is repellent, but the career-crushing grandstand performance by Andy Griffiths makes it a lot of fun. "}]