[{"Title":"Vastly undervalued Chaplin masterpiece","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's not only one of Chaplin's best films, but one of the most important films about America ever made. Thrown out of the US for his liberal views, Chaplin became very irate at America. This is his response, a bare-knuckle boxing match with Uncle Sam - and this tramp doesn't pull punches. He doesn't leave a stone unturned, movies, music, high culture, television, education, fame, and especially the communist witch hunts. Best of all, he still exhibits his comic brilliance, and almost all the jokes land. Chaplin's son Michael is very good as a young boy who espouses communist ideals without the slightest provocation. The film ends without resolution, as this dark period of American history was still going strong. Only the hope that it is only a phase is expressed, but otherwise, the darkness is left to brood. People have accused the film of not being subtle, but it is far more so than the infinitely more popular The Great Dictator, and also more so than his other two talkies, Monsieur Verdoux and Limelight. All of those films are great, but they all end up with Chaplin telling us directly what he wants us to walk away with. A King of New York is, even if it has its clunky moments, an exceptional achievement. It's about time that it was rediscovered. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A must-see for Chaplin fans","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A King in New York is one of those few films that gets better and better every time you see it.Yes, it's flawed--the sets look shabby, and some of the dialogue is stilted and melodramatic.  Yet despite these shortcomings, AKINY still stands out as a wonderful, playful satire of 1950's America.For those of you who may not know, Chaplin himself was targetted by the U.S. government at the time for his alleged communist leanings. In fact, AKINY had to be shot in Britain (Chaplin's birthplace) only because Chaplin and his family had been forbidden to re-enter the U.S after a short vacation overseas.AKINY was Chaplin's response to the nonsense and paranoia that pervaded American society at that time.  Chaplin also pokes fun at America's obsession with technology and the media--a point which is even more relevant today.Chaplin plays King Shahdov, a deposed monarch who flees to America in the hopes of selling his plans for a peaceful, nuclear-based society (which never happens). Chaplin plays Shahdov as an honest, but hapless European monarch thrust into the dizzying whirl of modern America. Chaplin is at his absolute best here as a befuddled and somewhat puzzled outsider.Shahdov soon meets up with two people.  The first is Ann Kay (Dawn Addams), a beautiful young woman who seduces the King and lures him into appearing in her television commercials, and Rupert Macabee (played by Chaplin's son, Michael), a brilliant young boy whose parents have been imprisoned by HUAC. Also worth noting is Ambassador Jaume (Oliver Johnston), Shahdov's loyal friend and confidante. Johnston and Chaplin play off each other beautifully, and together they share some of the film's funniest moments.AKINY is full of priceless bits of business, as Chaplin used to say--there's a hilarious restaurant scene in which Chaplin mimes his order to the waiter in order to overcome the dreadful racket from the house band.Then there's the scene in which Shahdov's newly lifted face become unhinged as he bursts into laughter at a comedy show. Chaplin slyly slips in and out of these bits (which are essentially silent comedy pantomimes dating back to his earliest days in English Music Halls) with great ease.Such scenes provide the most satisfying moments in the film.  Here, behind Chaplin's aged face and body, you can still see the little tramp come to life, and it's wonderful.AKINY is vastly underrated by most critics who, for some reason, obsess over the sets, and virtually ignore what is truly one of Chaplin's masterpieces. AKINY is rarely screened in North America for some reason, so if you get the chance to see it, don't pass it up.  "},{"Title":"The Genius of Chaplin.","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great film that was neglected by the good old US of A when it was released in the late 50's. It was brandished as being to critical of the political atmosphere of the United States at the time. It's funny that Chaplin could manage to offend both Adolf Hitler (The Great Dictator) and the fascist-like/inspired 'anti-communist' movement of the 50's/early 60's U.S.A. There is actually a common link in those two movements (Naziism and the 50-60's 'anti-communist movement in the USA but I won't get into that here). Anyway, it is sad that this film is overlooked as it is one of Chaplin's best and should be looked as one in a career overview of this great filmmaker. Besides him, in the film there really is not any awe-inspiring actor/actress but Chaplin brings out the best in everyone and elevates them from eternal anonymity to something of recognition. His son Michael Chaplin for example is used quite wonderfully in this film. I later bought Michael Chaplin's late teenage memoir 'I Couldn't Smoke the Grass on my Father's Lawn' based on seeing him in this film and him impressing me so. It's too bad he could not develop more as an actor or recording star (he released a single in Britain in the mid-60's). I heartily recommend this film. See it and be open minded. Take a look at the way your country was run 50 years ago and ask yourself have things really changed this day in age when the 'communists' have know been replaced by the 'terrorists'.  "},{"Title":"Once again, Chaplin greatness comes through","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A King In New York was a pure delight to watch. Seeing perhaps the greatest actor of the first half of the century is always a treat and he doesn't disappoint in this film. Chaplin made this satire as a shot at the United States, who only five years earlier had denied him re-entry into the country. This was based on the fact he wouldn't come before the McCarthy hearing and make a statement on his supposed ties to the Communist party. Regardless of the basis for this film's comedy pieces, one can find a few moments where Chaplin is taking a direct shot at those who had doubted him.The plot involves Chaplin as King Shadov, a ruler of a ficticious country whose people have ousted him based on his unwillingness to manufacture Atomic Bombs. He would rather spend the taxpayers money on finding ways to create atomic energy. Obviously this is a deliberate analogy of Chaplin being thought of as a communist although the complete opposite was the truth. So, the exiled leader goes to America in search of a fun vacation in which he can experience the excitement that he had heard about so many times before. The viewer follows Shadof and his trust aide throughout New York City and their many hilarious experiences. The best of which that come to mind are the scenes in which Chaplin pantomimes his order to a waiter who cannot hear him, the scene in which Chaplin recites the famous to be or not to be soliloque from Hamlet to guests at a dinner party and the scene in which Chaplin gets his finger stuck in a fire hose and cannot get it out.One can see some elements of the tramp in Chaplin in this film including the facial expressions, his smile and the way he moves about gracefully. I had never seen Chaplin in a talking film before this one and was somewhat surprised to see how much of a great talking actor he truly is. For an actor who had done so much in silent films and only silent films, this film shows that Chaplin is one of the top actors of this century.The only element of this film that somewhat disappointed me was the manner in which the hearings were brushed off. I believe that there was plenty of room for some gags to be thrown in here. Perhaps Chaplin felt as if he had already taken enough shots and didn't need to exploit this area.This film is yet another example of the Chaplin greatness and I would recommend it to anyone who loves films or are interested in seeing film making magic.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Do I have to be a Communist to read Karl Marx?","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Charles Chaplin had a love-hate relationship with the United States of America. On the one hand, it was in Hollywood that the British-born comedian and filmmaker built a successful life and career, immortalising himself as one of the most beloved directors and stars in the history of cinema. On the other hand, Chaplin's political attitudes during the 1940s &#150; that America should form an alliance with the Soviet Union in order to fight Adolf Hitler's fascist regime &#150; led to his being labelled a Communist or Communist sympathiser. In 1952, Chaplin returned to his home-town of London for the premiere of the brilliant 'Limelight (1952),' where he was greeted with great enthusiasm, though with his arrival came the news that the American government had rescinded his re-entry visa into the United States. Over the next few years, the aging filmmaker toyed with numerous ideas for his next film &#150; including a possible resurrection of the Little Tramp &#150; before settling upon 'A King in New York,' whose screenplay took about two years to complete.'A King in New York (1957)' tells the story of King Shahdov (Chaplin), a dethroned monarch who seeks refuge in the United States, his entire wealth cunningly stolen from him. The film starts off as an amiable slapstick comedy, which is basically what I had been expecting, before branching off into darker territory, become a scathing satiric assault on almost everything that America stands for. When he first arrives in the country, King Shahdov revels in the peace and liberty of this grand nation, exclaiming to his dedicated ambassador, Jaume (Oliver Johnston) if you knew what it means to breathe this free air. This wonderful, wonderful America. Its youth, its genius, its vitality! However, through his relationship with a brilliant young boy, Rupert Macabee (Chaplin's own son, Michael), whose parents happen to be members of the Communist party, Shahdov becomes embroiled in the period's rampant McCarthyist witch-hunts, revealing the devastating truth that perhaps America's notions of freedom have become a mere illusion.Despite Chaplin's insistence that my picture isn't political, it most undoubtedly is, with the director &#150; just as he did in the final scenes of 'Monsieur Verdoux (1947)' &#150; evidently expressing his distaste for what society has become. It's easy to dismiss 'A King in New York' as pro-socialist propaganda, but to do so would be completely missing the very idea behind the film. Personally, I'm unsure of Chaplin's official stance on Communism itself, but the filmmaker certainly reviled the manner in which the United States government approached the issue, citing it as an immoral invasion of privacy and liberty. Chaplin described himself as having no political convictions I am an individualist, and I believe in liberty. Perhaps referring to the Hollywood blacklist, he once said These are days of turmoil and strife and bitterness. This is not the day of great artists; this is the day of politics.'A King in New York' was filmed at Shepparton Studios in London, and the film does a very successful job of imitating the hustle-and-bustle of the Big Apple. As well as expressing his stance on McCarthyism, Chaplin also aims a few effective jabs at commercialisation and popular culture, prophetically predicting the prominence of commercial chain-stores, cosmetic surgery and reality television when King Shahdov is unwittingly coaxed into attending a televised dinner party, continually baffled as to why his lady interest (Dawn Addams) keeps unexpectedly launching into advertisements. Though my review has stressed the political implications of the film, 'A King in New York' also works pretty well as a light comedy, and I almost died laughing when Chaplin walked into the House Committee on Un-American Activities with a fire-hose attached to his finger. Michael Chaplin's impassioned tirades on the degradation of America were also a riot to watch, even if the young actor can occasionally be spotted mouthing his father's lines. Owing to its somewhat disagreeable stance towards the United States, Chaplin was unable to find any willing American distributors, and so 'A King in New York' remained unseen there until the 1970s. Freedom of speech, indeed. "},{"Title":"it's a bit more biting in its view of people (specifically Americans and capitalism), but it's still very funny","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Charlie Chaplin's A King in New York is a fine film to see when it's a laid-back afternoon and it comes on TV, as it's a bit of a surprise to come upon. It's a later Chaplin film, where he's no longer the iconic Tramp, yet in a way the logic of one of those films in terms of the society at large is still being toyed with. This time, instead of being on poverty row with holes in his shoes and a sweet and enduring love for a street girl, he plays a king whose country has gone to war and without many prospects financially comes to America to do commercials for products that he would surely rather not be pushing on the public. As life does imitate art (as far as the stereotype goes it does have a ring of constant truth), Chaplin at the time was an exile, kicked out of America for being a supposed communist, and with his non-prolific career going a little bit on the slide, he made the film as a quasi-light attack on American consumerism, of the vanity and stupidity that can come out of prosperity.But at the same time, there is still the sensibility that Chaplin loves life and individuals, if not certain groups. This can be seen in the child character- one of Chaplin's own sons- who through his very intelligent but arrogant manner is one of the nicer and funniest characters in the film. While a lot of the humor, sometimes rather dry, is in seeing Chaplin's King and his assistant/butler talk of money problems and in the observations of the 'other', the best scenes come in showing what levels King Shadhov has to sink to in trying to pay his expensive hotel bills and stay afloat in a strange land. My favorite scenes where Shadhov's botched plastic surgery debacle, where it's funnier seeing the King trying not to laugh at a slapstick spectacle than the actual spectacle itself, and the scenes of the King trying to shill the items, often to the dissatisfied directors (I'm reminded of Lost in Translation, and in fact Chaplin's scenes are probably more successful than Coppola's).Although the film is preachy at times- it's best when Chaplin goes for the more succinct jabs as opposed to the grandstanding, ironic since it worked perfectly at the end of the Great Dictator- the overall high-spirited and serenely theatrical direction makes this a worthwhile effort. Far from being the controversial film it got a reputation as following a non-release in the 50s in the US, it's only a cunning satire, with moments light and foreboding, and it deserves to be seen just as much as Chaplin's classics (if only by his fans, who might be apprehensive at the filmmaker making too many 'statements'). "},{"Title":"Instantly my favorite Chaplin film for its sheer brilliance.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I rented this movie, I had no idae what to expect.  Charlie Chaplin in a talkie?!  I had just seen (heard?) how poor Buster Keaton's awful voice destroyed his presence as the classic stone-faced pantomine.  Might Mr. Chaplin's performance in a speaking role be as sadly disappointing???The answer in a resounding word was, NO!  If anything, Chaplin's voice and accompanying ability to express himself with words enhanced his screen presence by providing a new dimension with which to appreciate his seemingly limitless talent.I'm not sure just how to explain this other than the fact that I watched most of the film with a big grin glued to my face.  I marvelled at the subtleties of Chaplin's performance which distinguish him not only as a silent movie actor, but as an actor of ANY era!  In today's world of over-the-top silliness and questionable acting passing as good comedy, his performance is a clear indication that intelligent comedy is not an oxymoron and that the King of it is the same person as the king of slapstick.If you're the kind of person who appreciates the subtlety in Woody Allen's humor, you will find yourself marvelling at A King in New York and you will see (and hear!) a part of Charlie Chaplin you may not ever have known existed. "},{"Title":"Delightful Surprise","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I was a child, Charlie Chaplin's name was anathema. Here was thepersonification of the Red Peril, made worse still by the fact that wehad loved and trusted him through a lifetime of film. When A KING IN NEWYORK came out it couldn't even get a distributor in the U.S. so virulentwas the hatred for turncoat Charlie.Now, forty seven years later, and thanks tp the amazing TCM, I havefinally seen A KING IN NEW YORK and though it is somewhat uneven andepisodic, I believe it to be one of the best of Chaplin's films.A mixture of broad slapstick and wry and subtle satire, the film isoften hilarious while at the same time touching and thought provoking.Satire has to be the hardest form of art to translate to the screen andthere are few films that even try to tackle it, (Frank Tashlin'shilarious WILL SUCCESS SPOIL ROCK HUNTER? one delightful example), so AKING IN NEW YORK is welcome as an attempt to satirize a ratherunsettling time in US history.There are many brilliant scenes in A KING IN NEW YORK; the ones in themovie theater, at the Montesori type school and shooting the Scotchcommercial among the best. Above all, the warmth, humanity and totalbefuddlement of the King, as performed by Chaplin, is the glue thatholds the enterprise together.In every frame, Chaplin is mesmerizing and Dawn Addams, playing it wayover the top as the epitome of the woman in the grey flannel suit(one, by the way,that is covered by a floor length mink!), is a constantdelight. Excellent too is Michael Chaplin, the director's son, as ayoung genius who spouts the joys of Communism at the drop of a hat.Joe McCarthy is gone (so far!), Chaplin is dead and we are left in yetanother unsure world. Comedy, as always, will help get us through. AKING IN NEW YORK gives us that comedic respite, while proving, so manyyears later, that governments are, after all,  transitory things whileart last forever.A comedic gem!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"very uneven but well worth seeing","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was the last film starring Charlie Chaplin and he went on to do only a very brief cameo in the last film he directed, THE COUNTESS FROM HONG KONG. And, while it lacks the quality of many of his famous full-length films, it is well worth your time.One of the reasons I say that the film lacks quality is the unevenness of the film. While the music Chaplin composed is very good and parts of the film are quite touching, other parts look a bit choppy and some of the camera work is rough. But, considering that mediocre Chaplin is still head and shoulders above most other work, this can all be forgiven.Chaplin plays the deposed benevolent king of a fictional European country. When he arrives in America, he is treated like a celebrity and he intends to make it his new home. However, over time his opinion about living here sours--partly due to the intensity and shallowness of American culture but mostly due to the zealous anti-Communist movement of the day.The film consists of two parts. The initial portion is pretty light-hearted and involves Chaplin's becoming acquainted with American culture (such as TV, Rock and Roll and even plastic surgery). While I have heard some comment that this makes the movie seem too episodic and lacks focus, I actually liked this part and found it charming--even though not all the gentle ribbing worked in every case.The second part begins when Chaplin visits an odd progressive school in the city. Here children are encouraged to express themselves and avoid inhibitions. In reality, it means that the kids are brats and have absolutely no discipline. This is a pretty funny segment--particularly when Chaplin is introduced to the editor of the school paper (actually played by Chaplin's 10 year-old son, Michael). This kid (Rupert) is incredibly obnoxious and instead of discussing politics with the democratic-natured king, he speachifies about the evils of all government and sounds a lot like Leon Trotsky! Although it is not apparent at first, this little vignette actually changes the course of the film. A bit later, Rupert is seen wandering about New York in the snow all alone. The king sees him and takes pity despite their political differences. He feeds and clothes the kid and Rupert repays him by telling people that he is the king's nephew. Well, people think that because the kid sounds like a Communist that the king must also be one--leading to a lot of confusion and a few laughs.It turns out that the kid had run away from the school after his parent had been forced to testify before the House Committee on Un-American Activities. The parents admit that they had been Communists in the past but refused to implicate others, so they are jailed for contempt. Next, the committee subpoenas Chaplin to testify while federal agents begin badgering Rupert to get him to talk. This leads to a very tiring and badly written part of the film. On the way to testify, Chaplin gets his finger stuck in a fire hose and he eventually has to charge into the committee room with it still stuck on his hand. Then, the hose gets connected to another hose and turned on--at which point, Chaplin thoroughly douses the committee. This part of the film just isn't very funny and lasts way too long.Despite this hosing, the scene abruptly ends and newspapers announce that Chaplin is cleared and he is once again beloved by the American people. Why and how this occurs is beyond me, as the last scene ended with the committee charging him with contempt! It is like there is a missing scene explaining how this all occurred. Regardless, Chaplin is tired of the hysteria about Communism and vows to return to Europe. On the way, he stops to see Rupert and finds his spirit is broken...as Rupert was tricked into betraying his parents' former associates. The film then ends as it shows Chaplin and his trusted aid flying out of New York.While Chaplin denied that this film was an attempt to get back at America for its shabby treatment of him in the early 50s, it is pretty obvious that this movie is a comedic and very poignant attempt to do precisely that. It reminds me a lot of the Woody Allen film THE FRONT, though it preceded it by almost two decades. While it was true that there was significant infiltration of our government by Stalinist spies (based on recent data released by the Kremlin), along with legitimate concerns many innocent people were hurt just because of their political leanings. Chaplin's leftist beliefs and movies that depicted the little guy as being oppressed by an uncaring Capitalist society came back to haunt him during this era of fear. In the end, he was forced to return to Europe to live out the remainder of his life. So, in many, many ways, this movie was an autobiographical film wrapped in comedy.Now as for the good and the bad about this film. The film has many amusing little segments and is quite charming. Its autobiographical aspects make for an interesting insight into Chaplin's psyche and even without that, it is a pretty good film. "},{"Title":"When I think of a million dollars, tears come to my eyes","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am pleased to find I'm not the only reviewer who thinks this film is an overlooked part of the Chaplin filmography. It contains some very pungent observations on the American way of life and American society which are still relevant today.Apart from popular culture and materialism, Chaplin takes very careful aim at the Reds under the bed hysteria of the 1950's (the equivalent of this century's war on terror). He tells the story through the character of a young boy whose parents are charged with contempt by the HUAC. When the boy goes on the run and finds shelter with King Shahdov he is collected by an apparently kindly and fatherly law officer. Later, however, we see him put under enormous psychological pressure to name his parents' friends (the so-called fellow travellers).The boy's final appearance is very moving. His school superintendent says how well Rupert is doing. All we see is someone whose spirit has been broken, and who is tormented by guilt and shame - all in the name of the Land of the Free.This film is very well worth watching, and not just in the context of its own times. "}{"Title":"Another Vastly Underrated Chaplin Film","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film dealing with the communist witch trials I  have ever seen.  It is black-comedic spoof on a subject that  still hasn't been spoofed enough...the UnAmerican Activities  Hearings.  Sure it has a funny and effective european royalty  thrown into American culture plot but this film really has more serious and important plans for the viewer....Watch it and don't feel guilty think  "},{"Title":"Something Timely in 2007","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wonder if someone will be making a similar movie 50 years from now, or will we be going through another phase, another swing in the political pendulum. Chaplin is wonderful as usual but the end of this movie really bothered me the little boy put through who knows what kind of emotional torture because of his parents and reduced to what looked like shame to me. Of course he was only a child, but smart enough to know what he had done-betrayed something important-even if he was just a kid spouting off earlier about politics he really didn't understand. I'm just barely old enough to remember those days and I know the fear was palpable. I was a kid growing up in a mid-west WASPish town where liberal was a dirty word and I have an Slavic last name. This should be seen more often-both for Charlie Chaplin's performance, and to remind us of what he went through, and that it DOES happen here. "},{"Title":"Chaplin was way ahead of his time on film & America","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"24 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What I find amazing is that even in the year 2001 people are so brain-washed by our corporate media that they can complain about Chaplin's bashing the McArthy era.  This embarassing chapter in America's history (up there with slavery, the Jim Crow south, and Japanese internment camps of WW2) was responsible for thousands of Hollywood job losses, the imprisonment of the great writer Ring Lardner, the expatriation of Chaplin, Paul Robeson, et al.  And all of this for a ridiculous witch hunt by some sanctimonious & hypocritical power-hungry politicians; with trumped up hearings gathered together faster than you can say Monica.  Well eventually it ended up backfiring on the anti-commie crowd of course, although I guess sure helped Ronald Reagan to be president of the Screen Actors Guild, then CA, and the White House weren't far behind (easy when you sell out enough I guess). But gee, since Chaplin was up against these zealots (who are the real anti-American ones if people actually knew their history), I suppose we should be able to forgive him for not being so subtle in A King in New York!  "},{"Title":"Charlie Chaplin's own experiences","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having gotten barred from reentering the US in 1952, Charlie Chaplin moved to Europe, where he spent the rest of his life (returning to the US only in 1972 when the Academy Awards gave him an honorary Oscar). His final starring role was A King in New York, which appears to be based on his personal experiences. He plays a monarch who flees a revolution in a fictional country, moving to the Big Apple where he accidentally becomes a TV star. But he gets stigmatized after befriending the son of communists. The highlight is when he turns the HUAC hearings into a water park.As can be expected, the movie didn't get released in the US for a few years. It's amazing that there are still idiots who think that HUAC was a noble cause (but what do you expect from a bunch of morons who get all their information from Rush Limbaugh and Fox Noise?). Anyway, CC's final starring role is a really great one. He directed one final movie, A Countess from Hong Kong starring Marlon Brando and Sophia Loren (it was an OK movie). "},{"Title":"King Charles the one and only","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although not a shred of footage was shot in New York and the cast was 98% British players, A King In New York which did not get released in the USA until the House Un-American Activities Committee had ceased to exist remains a stinging indictment of American culture of the McCarthy era. Charlie Chaplin being a premier victim of the era knew from whence he spoke and wrote.The idea of an exiled monarch from Ruritanian type royal house presumably under your typical royal family being a Communist is an oxymoron on the face of it. Yet that is exactly what Charlie Chaplin is accused of in A King In New York. Under what power an American Congressional Committee could compel testimony is still not clear, but HUAC did that too when it thought necessary.Chaplin decides to settle here, try out America before sending for his exiled Queen Irene Audley. But as funds run low, he's forced to sell his most prize possession, the good name of the monarchy in a slew of advertising schemes as launched by Dawn Addams and Sid James. Seeing the king sell all kinds of 'royal' products was pretty amusing itself.But when he visits a 'progressive' school and hears young Michael Chaplin spouting off the virtues of Karl Marx at the drop of a hat, he's taken with the kid although exasperated at being the butt of the jokes of these unruly kids. Later on when he takes the kid in after finding him on his hotel steps and the press hears him going on his Marxist jag, the exiled king is accused of being a Communist and has to go before HUAC. Chaplin waters down his testimony to the chagrin of the committee.Although Chaplin had abandoned his little tramp character at this point and the famous Hitler like mustache was gone, he still had some marvelous sight gags worthy of his silent classics. A King In New York, born out of Chaplin's exiled bitterness remains a really unjustly neglected piece of comedic satire and relevant truths of the time. "},{"Title":"The Complete Chaplin!","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of course, Charlie Chaplin is mostly remembered for non-speaking roles. A King In New York is a satire by Chaplin about his impressions of America. It is refreshing to see a movie that is critical of America. Chaplin plays a king of a fictitious eastern European country who is forced, due to a coup, to flee to New York City. Chaplin show his versatility as a talking actor by really sincerely getting down the mannerisms of a European monarch. He is an older man, but very charming. Soon, however, the king finds that his natural goodness and true compassion is exploited by commercialism and political opportunism. At first the king is entranced by America's freedom, but soon discovers that American is a brash society of loud big bands, and brash advertising and movies. When the king finds himself broke, he is used by a beautiful young woman (Addams) to do advertisements. Addams excellently plays the superficial American. She is always smiling, but ever criticizing about the monarchs age and lack of television persona. When he gets self-conscious, she says 'No, you're great. You just can't appear on TV with a sagging face'. She convinces him to get a face lift, but it ends up that his face is so tight that if he laughs, he will end up in the hospital. The evening after the face lift, he unfortunately goes to a club and is subjected to slapstick humor that literally forces him to go back for emergency surgery.The movie's only flaw is that at times it gets a little dull. Other than that it is a brilliant look at America - where image and appearance are everything. The climax of the movie deals with McCarthyism. For dare helping out the child of disgraced communists (the child played by Chaplin's real life son), the king is forced before the Committee On UnAmerican Activities. The conclusion of the movie is very funny. In conclusion, this movie displays the full range of Chaplin's great talents. His comic touch, his dramatic-ism, his political satire, his slapstick gifts, and his kind demeanor are fully displayed in this film. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Tremendous, meaningful motion picture","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For years I've read how controversial and second-rate this film is. I finally bought the MK2 DVD, and was amazed at how funny and intelligent Chaplin's movie really is. I can understand the controversial aspect - it's not very subtle although it's entirely correct - but second rate?? I also hear how supposedly 'shabby' the movie appears, due to a tight budget and shooting schedule, but I honestly don't see any of these flaws. In fact, A King In New York may be my favorite Chaplin picture. The only problem I have with the entire film is the comedians scene in the club. Every single person in attendance is laughing hysterically at two quite unfunny performers. It's actually so slow and stupidly surreal it takes away from the commentary that runs throughout the movie. Oh well, a minor quibble but, still. If you're avoiding A King In New York for any reason, go get it. You'll be very pleased with this classic. "},{"Title":"Chaplin Has His Say","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As probably one of Chaplin's lesser efforts, this falls short of the level of sheer genius to the level of mere mortal excellence.As proof of Americans' depressing ability to laugh at any ethnic group or nationality except for themselves, at the time, this movie got many Americans' hackles up, and by the looks of the comments here, still does for some people. However, Chaplin's tone in this film, described by some as bitterness, I would more accurately call incisiveness.Of course this movie had to be made in Britain, and wasn't shown in the USA for about 20 years, until after the youthquake of the late 1960's and the changing of the generational guard, proving Americans are not fond of having their foibles and hypocrisies pointed out to them in a rather obvious manner.Some of the more satirical aspects of the film, including the film trailers, TV advertising, the reality television show (Chaplin about 40 years ahead of the curve on that one) and the whirlwind feel of New York City, represent rather gentle pokes at a society in which, to remind everyone, Chaplin had worked in and made his fame and fortune in for over 40 years.It's only when the Senator McCarthy inspired storyline takes hold, around halfway through the film, that the story turns markedly more serious. Chaplin sprinkles the film throughout with references to the US Constitution, and freedom of speech, and American blood boiling. Clearly he is on the side of freedom versus totalitarianism, and against the witch hunt like tactics of HUAC that destroyed American careers, drove people into poverty or exile, and provably never found one person that was a real, imminent danger to American society. Looking back from this point, almost everyone agrees that HUAC and its blowback were a blot on the history of the United States and its aspirations of freedom, and rightfully so.Although this aspect of the film is a bit heavy-handed, and the rather sad ending is somewhat disappointing but rather realistic within the context of the times, I feel that this only detracts mildly from the comedy on offer, Chaplin's amazing screen presence, and artistry as a writer, actor and director. It is enough to make me wish he had done more than three talking films in his career. Yes, that guy in his 60's up there on the screen with the gray hair certainly isn't the little tramp of 1920, but he is a character almost equally as compelling, and much more formidable.Not mentioned by many is the fact that Chaplin even composed the score for this film, which is in itself worthy of praise. Chaplin probably could have carved out a career as a successful film composer, over and above his other gargantuan talents.See it if you can. A King in New York is a treasure. "},{"Title":"Funny, more strange than ah! ah!","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Charles Chaplin is setting up his own troubles with the anti-American activities commission on the screen, and that is quite funny though particularly dramatic. That episode of US history is so strange but also tragic that it should be remembered forever for the mistake not to be ever renewed in the future, though with no guarantee that it will be so. Unluckily in this kind of business there seems to be always a repeat and another repeat and a third repeat, without any ending. Charles Chaplin turns his own mishap into a comedy, with some very traditional but always lively and kind of born again gags and tricks. But he does succeed to turn a dramatic situation into a laughable short episode, though it means a child of ten is turned into a fink who exposes other people to protect his own interest, with no guarantee of any truth in what he may say, since he is a child, and with the certainty that he will be spoiled forever by the episode. This film, no matter how well-felt it may have been, will remain a testimony of that McCarthy period, mocked in his very victims that become Macaby. But we will regret that such a great artist was obliged to come to making this film to bring an end, or at least help to bring an end, to this sorry episode. We would have liked him to have reached his acme in political films with the Dictator and never gone beyond, but unluckily life made him write and shoot another episode which is just as sorry, even if not as bloody, as the previous one.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Chaplin's final swan song as Actor, Writer and Director.","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A KIng in New York (1957) was the second to last film that Charles Chaplin completed before his retirement. Chaplin stars as a King of a deposed European country who lives out his final days in a hotel. During his stay in exile, he meets the local upper class and becomes a sort of a t.v. celebrity. But his life and views about politics change when he meets an idealistic young boy. How does his life change when he crosses paths with the youngster? Does the viewing public accept this fallen despot with open arms? Will America change his way of life? Too find out the answers to these questions and many more you'll have to watch this Charles Chaplin classic A KING IN NEW YORK.I was surprised by how well this film was. It was a bit of a shock to see an aged Chaplin but he's still funny as ever. A lot of sight gags and witty quips and views about American society (some of them are still relevant today). I highly recommend this movie. Even if it's a bit heavy handed.A- "}{"Title":"No masterpiece but no disaster either.","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Someone once described A King in New York as the worst film ever made by a major artist. I can think of many worse examples and while this late Chaplin picture may lack the genius of his earlier work, (it was his penultimate film; he made it several years after Limelight and before A Countess from Hong Kong), it is an often very funny satire on what Chaplin perceived as 'the modern age'. Driven out of America by McCarthyism, Chaplin constructed his New York in a British studio and typical of its writer, director, star and composer it makes no apology for its attack on right-wing politics, in particular the HUAC, as well as television, Cinemascope and plastic surgery. It's also less sentimental than it might have been, (always Chaplin's biggest fault), but the plot involving a child played by Chaplin's own son Michael, does the film no favours. On the other hand, Chaplin himself is superb and Dawn Adams is surprisingly good as a television star. No masterpiece, then but not quite the disaster some people have said of it either. "},{"Title":"Hilarious but unnecessary 'soapboxing.'","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It had been over 20 years since Charlie Chaplin last adorned his beloved character 'The Tramp.' Although in his later performances, the aspects of the icon are inescapable, A King In New York deliberately brings the slapstick back into an interesting context. He is not a tramp, nor a barber, but a king. A king whose unfortunate attempts at sophistication end up humiliating. It's a clear critique on the buffoonery of authority figures as he obliviously goes out for entertainment in New York while his home country is rioting against him. The lure of celebrity is a temptation to all and Chaplin protests that it's irresponsible for these types of powerful figures to be drawn to it. His last two films, The Great Dictator and Limelight, were two of his best films that were seamlessly able to blend comedy with a message and emotion.Unfortunately, A King In New York doesn't have the same weight to it emotionally and leads it inevitably into being lesser Chaplin. That said, it's still hilarious, with great satire and slapstick, a highlight being where the king's curiosity gets the better of him and he puts his finger in a fire hose and drags it through the following scenes. Chaplin has always had a talent for getting the best out of a simple joke. It's a shame that he felt the need to have his political point on a soapbox in the form of a young child. It's distracting and feels unnecessary. The film's effect would've been far greater without it being spoken as Chaplin's king was enough to get the message. Although, in finally watching his unpopular films, they have made me realise how he has an unconditional place in my heart as all director, writer and performer.7/10 "},{"Title":"Chaplin makes a film about a king exiled in a strange land ...","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... while he himself was basically exiled in a strange land. 1957's A King in New York shows Chaplin at the end of his film career. In fact, it is the last film in which Chaplin himself stars. Refused permission to reenter the U.S. in 1952 due to the idea that he held anti-American beliefs, he actually made this film about a deposed European king in New York in England. The film suffers from production values that are not as high as they were in Chaplin's earlier films, and if you have the version Warner Brothers put out in 2004, the commentary points out that Chaplin had much trouble making this film mainly because he was not dealing with familiar personnel in his own studio as he had in his earlier efforts. The film's political statements are heavy-handed, but there are still some good comic turns by Chaplin and his viewpoints and comic bits on America and rampant commercialism and consumerism still hold up today. In fact, they are probably much more relevant today than they were when this movie was first made. If you are curious about Chaplin's work you need to eventually view this film, just don't start your journey here. If you are just starting out, I recommend you view Chaplin's Mutual Comedies. These are 12 two-reel comedies Chaplin made in 1916 and 1917 and show his comic technique evolve from the pants-kicking fests of his Essanay and Keystone films into the sophisticated technique he had from the end of the series onward. Also, the Mutual period was named by Chaplin himself as the era in both his personal and professional life in which he was the happiest. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Critique of 1950s America","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A recently-deposed European monarch (Charles Chaplin) seeks shelter in New York City, where he becomes an accidental television celebrity and is later wrongly accused of being a Communist.Although the main character is obviously the king, we have to give credit to the Communist child (or perhaps more properly anarchist). This was quite a performance, and although I do not know who that boy was, I hope he has gone on to do well for himself.We also have the advertising woman, which rounds out the characters -- the political child, the commercialism of the woman. What does it all mean? I am not quite sure. But the film is such a fine critique of McCarthyism and commercialism. Indeed, does anyone think we are not inundated with pointless ads? The Communist aspects are a bit harder to judge. At the time, he probably received great flack for this (indeed, the film was poorly received). But he was also not completely innocent -- he certainly had leftist leanings, despite his denial of such. Perhaps not strictly Communist, but most likely he was sympathetic. And why not? The king was a Communist from 1940-1950 and then resigned. This seems fair -- it was not until after World War II that America became anti-Soviet. Looking back today (50 years later), it all seems silly. "},{"Title":"A genius","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I see it, first, with quick comments The technical aspects of this film were perfect. Chaplin evidently had a high IQ, and he expressed his rebuttals in a light-hearted and dignified manner. The juxtapositioning of the Queen and the TV producer may have been his way of telling his personal life critics cast the first stone if you're qualified.Now, for a somewhat more extended commentary. Chaplin and his wife Oona may have made at the time what I see as a pandemic cult mistake that many made at the time of imagining that the Bolsheviks could have somehow meant well; but the reaction from politicians at the time was much worse. For them, an exorcist was and is needed, but such politicians were and are into an evil hopelessly too deep. Some of them even say that they've heard of Moses, Jesus Christ and Apostle Paul. Have they? Finally, Chaplin's script and delivery were superb. If this was 1957, this was an encore from the Golden Age.**Here is an addendum to this review. The purpose of congressional committee hearings is to gather facts, opinions, etc. for providing guidance for possible future legislation, and so the naming of names has nothing to do with this. In other words, the investigators for these committees always had all of these names in advance all the time; and so the committees were merely playing a trick in order to humiliate the witnesses, and to score points with the voters. This means that the judges should have always found that it was the committee chairmen who were in contempt of court. "},{"Title":"A different person","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched a lot of early Charlie Chaplin films and can only say that like Red Skelton, to me they were neither funny nor what I would classify as great. For me, the ones from that era that were funny were Oliver & Hardy, or later on Abbot & Costello. I loved this film but watched without even knowing it was a Charlie Chaplin movie when I first saw it. As proof that Charlie was correct in his assessment of the American lunacies and a denunciation of McCarthyism is the fact that the movie wasn't released in the US until the 1970s and probably wasn't viewed except by only a few Americans until the 1980s. I think the reason some people don't like it is because they want the Charlie Chaplin of the old silent film era. I would say they are not even the same person. After being hounded out of the United States and being told he would not be allowed to return, how do you expect him to feel? He had to become an almost totally different person after that kind of experience. The penultimate moment of the film for me is when he is labeled as being a Royal Communist. That has to be the most absurdly funny statement I have heard for a long time. His answer in a Latin sounding phrase made it even more humorous. I rate it right up there with Abbot & Costello's Who is on first, What is on second, I don't know is on third ... The ensuing actions of what starts it all hinges on those moments. Is it really possible to have a Royal Communist? If you like Oliver & Hardy, Abbot & Costello, or the Marx brothers you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"An Overlooked comedy gem!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A KING IN NEW YORK is an overlooked comedy gem. It isn't on the same level as THE GOLD RUSH or CITY LIGHTS, but it has many comic highlights (including the King trying to order a meal at a cafe, but unheard by the waiter due to a loud rock n' roll band.) Other highlights include the trip to the movie theatre, and the TV ad for the Wine. It has some touching moments too, such as the King helping a young boy whose parents are being questioned as Communists. This is a Chaplin masterpiece, despite its few flaws.   "},{"Title":"A great and underrated film by Chaplin","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A King in New York is a very smart and underrated movie by Charles Chaplin. While it brings the slapstick comedy that made him famous first, putting the deposed King Igor Shahdov from fictional European country Estrovia in absurd situations and making funny facial expressions, the film also presents a very important political discussion about McCarthyism and the Communist-hunting obsession, besides very nice sketches about TV shows, advertisements and cinema (the short trailers shown in the first part of the story are hilarious, and so is Ann Kay's behavior in from of the cameras). Chaplin had left the United States because of the cold war right- wing paranoia that victimized, Therefore, he produced this film in Britain, his home country, in order to satirize that undemocratic situation, just like he had done with Nazism in The great dictator. The scenes have been shot in London, in spite of the story being held in New York. It is also essential to mention that the commie kid Rupert Macabee is an amazing character, reminding me a lot the kind of humor that would later be successfully revived by Monty Python afterwards. It is very nice to know that the 10 years old boy who played it so well was Charlie Chaplin's son Michael Chaplin! Although somewhat successful in Europe, the movie could only be screened in the United States after 16 years. "},{"Title":"If you want to send a message, use Western Union.","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mr. Chaplin should have heeded Goldwyn's advice. A telegram is terse and to the point. If the message of this movie is to call attention to the evils of McCarthyism, the message has been diluted by jabs at TV advertising, Cinemascope, teenagers, and by the inclusion of dragged out archaic slapstick, and an implausible romance. Falling fully clothed into a bathtub was old twenty years earlier. The business with the fire hose went on much too long and looked as if it had been lifted from a 1918 Chaplin short.The denouement is witless. If only HUAC could have been wiped away by spraying it with a fire hose. The kid, Rupert, had a stage father instead of a stage mother. "},{"Title":"piece from a war","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" it remands me the Travels of Gulliver. same sarcastic image of society and political system. same form of patriotism in clothes of high criticism. for many, it is a tool for revenge against an unfair country. in fact, it is only a precise picture of a country who, in the name of democracy, destroy its roots. level by level. step by step. in frontal manner Chaplin explores the sins, the errors, the selfish and absurd rules. maybe, a version of Modern Times. but more desperate. and not comfortable . a film about human rights and about the need of change. about art, politic, moral code. in a brutal- honest manner. because it represents a declaration of love for a country and piece of war against sick system. a film who propose a different Chaplin. not as author of another The Great Dictator but as citizen who defends the values of his adoption country. a piece from a war. at the first sigh. fresco of a dark period from American history. in essence, a letter of love. who reminds the values of an entire life. "}{"Title":"The American Way and Chaplin's Take on It","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many admirers of the golden era of Chaplin's work may wish to think that A King in New York (1957) never existed, but if we get past its seeming difference with the director's preceding oeuvre, we come to glorify the fact that the film did in fact come to existence. When Chaplin first abandoned silent cinema (at least technically speaking) in The Great Dictator (1940) he used cinema to directly attack on Nazism. After the war he made Monsieur Verdoux (1947) in which he, more or less directly, accused war and capitalism of fascism as well. In the following decade his thought was sharpened by McCarthyism and the Cold War which gave birth to A King in New York. A story about an English king who, on his exile in the States, is first turned into a product of the media and then a communist suspect, goes even further in social criticism. It might just be Chaplin's most anti-American and perhaps most cynical film. At its heart, A King in New York is a satire of the American way of life which is dominated by falsity, betrayal and competition, emerging as the capitalist ideology whose weaponry includes the culture industry, superficial worship of youth; and the media as a de-democratizing power. McCarthy might accuse Chaplin of un-American activities, but Chaplin would shake his hand on this one for if America is this, there's a good reason to isolate oneself from it. When it comes to history, A King in New York is famous for its portrayal of the age of McCarthyism and HUAC. The film was received poorly and had major difficulties with distribution not only in the States but also in Europe. But when one comes down to it, one sees that there's no film like it from the 50's; no film with such courage and clairvoyance with regards to this subject. A film historian, Peter von Bagh has claimed in his new book on Chaplin that although the committee scenes may be stylized in an exaggerated fashion, they are nearly documentary in their nature. With his critical touch, Chaplin infiltrated an era and humiliated it. Although one can clearly note the connections of the film to Chaplin's personal life, the film isn't merely an autobiographical settlement of his, but an insightful social and historical observation. Many people who would use one of their three wishes to wipe this film out of existence do this because of the film's striking conflict with Chaplin's previous film Limelight (1952). Limelight is indeed different. It is lyrical, whereas A King in New York ironic; it is an elegy, whereas A King in New York is a satire. In a word, LimeLight might just have been the perfect farewell. Satire is of course a hard genre to master. Although Chaplin's references to reality TV, plastic surgery and the totalitarian power of the media are prophetic to say the least, and arguably he has succeeded in creating a great film, some of his satirical touches may seem conventional from today's perspective. Not only, however, are these elements to be appreciated from a historical point of view but also we must acknowledge the poignant and continuing relevance of Chaplin's satire. If Theodor W. Adorno's thoughts about the loss of the individual's autonomy in the reality dominated by the culture industry were timely back in Chaplin's day, they would be even more so today. The oppression and the submission of the people in front of the capitalist ideology has become a reality. Unfortunately, this awareness is something that is scarcely found in contemporary cinema, and maybe Chaplin was an exception even in his own day. "},{"Title":"The Chaplin six pack","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a brief review of Charlie Chaplin's last six feature films.A comical take on Lang's Metropolis (1927), Chaplin's Modern Times opens with the words a story of industry and individual enterprise, humanity crusading in the pursuit of happiness!, an ironic jab at the mantras of industrial capitalism. The film then finds Chaplin reprising his iconic role as the tamp, a poverty-stricken but lovable outcast whose ill-fitting clothes epitomise, amongst other things, his inability to fit in.The film watches as the tramp struggles to survive in a depressed economy. Like Metropolis, it satirises labour, management and dehumanising working conditions. Elsewhere life for the worker is seen to be precarious, alternatives to playing the game are but death or prison, giant clocks speak to the daily grid of blue-collar workers, bosses are shown to be obsessed with speed and production, the property class relies on police brutality and all-encompassing surveillance, and the workplace itself is painted as an absurdest torture chamber. The film ends with the tramp on a road, America's future uncertain.Modern Times made waves when it was released. It was banned in fascist Germany and Italy, then allies of the West, and scorned by those in power in the United States. It was also heavily praised in the Soviet Union and France, particularly by philosophers Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir and Maurice Merlau-Pony. The film's middle section, which featured Chaplin waving a red flag and unwittingly leading communists and worker unions, would get Chaplin on several government watch-lists.Chaplin followed Times with The Great Dictator. Hollywood studios wanted the film scuttled, so Chaplin financed it himself. It contains two criss-crossing plots, one about a Jewish barber who is essentially persecuted by Nazis, the other about a brutal dictator, a stand in for Adolf Hitler. Funny, scary and sad, the film would rock the US establishment. Hitler was, at the time, a US ally and good for business. What's more, he was viewed by those in power as a tool to destroy communist Russia. For many, Chaplin was a subverisive who was inciting war with an ally. Deemed particularly offencive was a last act speech in which Chaplin urges the people of the world to love one another, throw away international barriers and foster an international brotherhood. Though deliberately vague, this speech was viewed as inflammatory. Was Chaplin extolling the virtues of the United States or the Soviet Union? Regardless, the US' approach to the conflicts in Europe promptly shifted. It became an ally with Russia, Hitler became the enemy and Germany attacked Russia. In the blink of an eye, Dictator went from being sacrilege to prophetic.Chaplin, British, was born into extreme poverty and often found himself sleeping on the streets of London. As such, he identified with his tramp character completely, as did millions word-wide, who saw themselves in the tramp desolate, poor and forever bumbling down life's highways. Prior to shooting Times, Chaplin would embark on a tour of the world, intent on seeing the effects of poverty. He'd talk to many prominent figures, most notably Churchill, George Bernard Shaw, Einstein and Gandhi.As Chaplin grew in consciousness, so would FBI files on Chaplin. He was put under government surveillance and forced to appear before a Senate subcommittee in 1941 where he was accused of being anti American and an unofficial communist. Many newspapers, including the Times, began a campaign attacking Chaplin, and called for his deportation. In the mid 1940s he was charged with the Mann Act and the FBI would collude with newspapers to smear Chaplin as a sex maniac who perverted American culture. From here on, conservative political pressure groups would attack each new Chaplin release. Some of his films would be boycotted or outright banned. In 1947 he'd be brought before the HUAC committee.Chaplin followed Dictator up with Monsieur Verdoux. A black comedy, the idea for which came from Orson Welles, the films stars Chaplin as a bank clerk who loses his job and so murders women for cash and land. The film's point is explicit if war is an extension of diplomacy, then murder is the logical extension of business. And so banking terminology is used to rationalise murder, weapons manufactures are idolised and the poor are condemned for trying to play by the rules of the wealthy. Numbers sanctify! Chaplain says, pointing to Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the ruthlessness of post-war capitalism; kill millions and you're a hero.Next came Limelight, Chaplin's ode to silent film. Elegiac and autobiographical, the film stars Chaplin and the legendary Buster Keaton as two fading comedians. A meditation on time's passing, the film's also relentlessly optimistic; man must assert his will, his desires, no matter how glum the times! The film would be banned from several US theatres. Chaplin himself was swiftly banned from entering the US and several of his assets were seized. He'd live in Switzerland henceforth.A King In New York followed. It finds Chaplin playing an usurped dictator who seeks refuge in America. Also autobiographical, the film pokes fun at various aspects of US culture, its irrational hatred of all things left-wing and the way in which humans are both always branding and refuse to look beyond the political, beyond superficial branding, to tolerate even the slightest bit of difference or dissent. Chaplin's son would play a hilarious anarcho-communist, but the film as whole messily mixed silent gags with sound comedy.Chaplin's A Countess from Hong Kong confirms that Chaplin's films were moving from the lower to the upper echelons of society. Here Sophia Loren plays a Russian tramp who is taken in by a wealthy politician (Marlon Brando). His worst feature, the film watches as humane capitalism benevolently absorbs the detritus of Russia and Asia. Chaplin accepted an honorary Oscar in 1972. He received the longest standing ovation in Oscar history.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not his best, but still often hilarious and thought-provoking","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A KING IN NEW YORK is a curious film in the Chaplin-canon. It was his first film to be produced outside of Hollywood. It was the last film in which he had a starring role. It was his second to last completed film altogether. It is also by many regarded as his worst film, but while it is hard not to recognize that KING is uneven in places, I find it equally hard not to recognize its better qualities.By the time he embarked upon the screen-play, Chaplin had been seeking for a story for his next film since his exile out of the United States in 1952. For a while he considered getting his beloved Tramp character back in the limelight, but abandoned this idea as he was getting too old for doing the sort of physical playfulness that was required from the character. He finally landed on the story of King Shadhov, who has eloped to New York as a revolution has taken place in his country. Nearly broke, the king is forced into making money in ways which might disturb his royal image. He acquaints a super-intelligent, albeit precocious kid named Rupert (Michael Chaplin), whose parents are suspected of being communist sympathizers during the prime of the McCarthy-era. Chaplin ridicules several aspects of contemporary American culture, including predictable movies, commercials, rock'n'roll, how plastic surgery is increasingly being used out of a obsessive desire to prevent age to be recognized, and Television; one sequence probably stands even more relevant today, when King Shadhov is invited to a gathering in which he, unbeknownst to him, is being filmed through hidden cameras and shown directly on TV&#x85;this was ages before reality-TV, folks.What is usually criticized about the film is how Chaplin's personal bitterness over his exile is made too evident, and that he seems to be dealing with more problems than he can chew. In my eyes, these are not big problems; the satire may rarely be subtle, and it is obvious that the film is based on personal opinions of the creator, but such it had always been with Chaplin. Ever since the first films he made in which a conscious move to leave comment on the society can be traced, Chaplin's motive had not been as much to put the society to question as to let the society be the target of his comedy simply because he found lots of comic potential in it. I don't believe Chaplin would have made MODERN TIMES had he not seen the possibilities of making comedy out of the serious theme it covers. In the same way, he hardly made KING in a desire to let out his opinions, at least not solely so; rather, I believe that in search of new comedy material, he decided to use themes which had obsessed him much in the last few years, making the McCarthy-era and American culture obvious choices.Chaplin tries to chew a lot, but I think he succeeds most of the time, as his covering of nearly every theme in the film somehow relate to one another. More importantly, I think much of the comedy is breathtakingly funny; when King Shadhov arrives at the airport, exclaiming to his ambassador that We fooled them!, not realizing that a reporter has placed a microphone beneath his mouth, I laughed out loud, and it went louder pretty much throughout. One part which always makes me nearly roll on the floor in laughter is when Shadhov and his ambassador are having lunch right after Rupert has admitted to them that his parents have been members of the Communist party, making the two men so nervous they can't drink their coffee. It then knocks on the door, resulting in the ambassador getting his tongue paralyzed and being only able to shiver a series of C-c-c-c-c-c-c&#x85;'s until the person who knocked, a room service man, has left, whereupon the ambassador THEN exclaims totally exhausted, &#x85;Come in! The timing is perfect from both Chaplin and Oliver Johnston, who in fact overshadows Chaplin's performance a few times in the film.Yet, despite my conviction that A KING IN NEW YORK is a far cry better than its reputation claims, it suffers from inevitable short-comings. Some of the parts in which the comedy is not present are rather dull. I don't get what purpose the queen in the film fulfills, other than making way for an obvious conclusion to the story; the king and the queen has decided to divorce on the king's insistence, but they part on friendly terms. A scene follows in which the two of them chat about how the king once thought the queen was too young to know her best, but it turned out that she weren't, and so on, and the queen is then not granted a mention again until the very end, when it turns out she won't get a divorce after all; it's remarkable how these news fail to affect me each time I view the film. Also, here and there the dialogue feels rather superfluous. It has been pointed out that Chaplin here was working without his own studio and employees, for the first time in forty years, which possibly made him less open for criticism from others while making the film, or he may not even have been offered it. One should also note that Chaplin didn't remain blind to KING's lesser qualities; several years later, he wrote that he felt rather uneasy about the whole film. Chaplin went too far. A KING IN NEW YORK is by no means his best film, but it must rank among his funniest, and is quite thought-provoking every once in a while. "},{"Title":"Essential Chaplin","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was the last one Chaplin made in which he also starred. In the 1950s, American hysteria over communists and communist sympathizers and allegations that Chaplin was either one or the other led J. Edgar Hoover to block Chaplin from returning to the USA from a European trip Chaplin was on in 1952. (Contemporary bad publicity about Chaplin's private life didn't help CC's standing with the public.)This movie was made in 1957 and tweaks some American fetishes and attitudes its anti-anything-left-of-right-wing, Sen. Joe McCarthy and the House UA committee, plus our American TV ads and commercialism, our fear of looking old, plastic surgery, waves of press hysteria, US progressive education, etc. The movie wasn't shown in the USA until about 15 years after its European release.Chaplin typically worked on a full length movie for a year or more in Hollywood with a crew of intimates he'd assembled over the years; often many scenes were shot well over 100 times until it suited CC perfectly. AKiNY was made in just 12 weeks in an UK studio with people largely unfamiliar to Chaplin. So maybe we should consider it as a first draft of his usual final copy. Chaplin plays a European king (King Shahdov) who escapes his country, flies to America to avoid being deposed and imprisoned. He plays the part of a royal perfectly, IMO. Shortly after arriving he finds one of his trusted officials who'd also fled with him has now left his king, but taking with him all the king's money.Before the king can solve the dilemma of his unexpected poverty, he is taken advantage of by an attractive TV hostess of a reality show (in 1957 !!-- that was prescient!!) and that leads to a brief career in advertising commercials which supports his life style. On a trip to visit a local progressive school, he meets 12 year old Rupert (played by Chaplin's son, Michael) who spouts left wing political jargon he's picked up from his parents. The parents are later charged and sent to jail as communist sympathizers and Rupert ends up by chance in the king's care. The king also is charged with being a communist sympathizer -- but finally acquitted.We get a few, rare glimpses of the vintage Chaplin facial expressions and sight gags (as when his finger gets stuck in the nozzle of a fire hose). But most sight gags are performed by people other than the king (Chaplin).While this isn't Chaplin at his very best, it's still quite good and, for lovers of Chaplin's work, an essential film to experience (as also is Limelight, one of his VERY best so AKiNY is a slightly lesser- than). As usual, Chaplin wrote and directed this film plus composed ALL its music.I'll rate it 8 of 10 stars -- 7 of 10 if it was anyone else doing an equally excellent job as the king. "},{"Title":"King Crowned by Commercialism","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The nice thing about film is sometimes time has a way of improving our outlook on once-failed films. Sometimes they're just ahead of their time like The King In New York. Charles Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, and starred in The King In New York as the deposed King Shahdov fleeing an imaginary European country. He makes his way to New York City where he is inundated by the excesses and inconveniences of American life. The film contains nice pot shots taken at modern American targets, such as commercialism, new technology, noisy nightclubs, plastic surgery, rock music, and perhaps even Edward R. Murrow's Person to Person. However, I think Chaplin was aiming for a higher target than these the individual compromising his values when forced to do so.It's well known Chaplin was forced out of the United States for good in 1952. Between then and the making of this film, the H.U.A.C. hearings took their toll on the entertainment industry and private individuals as well. It's no surprise then Chaplin focused on those aspects of society closest to his personal concerns. The film tends to waver a bit in its second half. This is largely due to the communist hearing/witch hunt subplot involving Chaplin's son Michael, who plays the son of suspected leftist school teachers. Chaplin at first plays the scenario semi-serious, but then when he actually becomes victimized himself, he plays the climactic scene for laughs. After seeing the boy broken by government officials, the king consoles him before returning to his own country, exasperated with American life.Clearly the film was ahead of its time. The public still had a sore spot for Chaplin at the time of its release, delaying its release in the United States some sixteen years. If the film had continued in its satirical vein during the second half of the film, it would have been more consistent in tone and in its focus. Instead we get an uneven film at the end, unsure of its focus. Shepperton Studios in England hampered Chaplin's normal creative process by limiting the shooting schedule. As a result, the film took only twelve weeks to shoot; where as, typically Chaplin would take up to a year to make a film previously. What happened to Chaplin in his last twenty-five years was unfortunate, and it's unfortunate for us he made only this film and one other before retiring for good. He composed the score for this film, (and the main theme is entitled The Sadness Goes On), and it's his last leading appearance in film. It's simultaneously entertaining and disappointing, and one wonders what Chaplin could have done with the material at his own studio had Shepperton not rushed it through production. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Chaplin's Anger Management a flawed gem","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As evident in Chaplin's life, he was quick to make a reaction - often without thinking for the best. A King in New York feels a lot like Chaplin's temper being released in the form of a film. Surprisingly, though, his satire of 1950's culture is interesting considering when it was made.The 1950's are still stereotyped as full of white people, no feelings, and patriotic. What's funny about King is that Chaplin hits the nail on the head with his parodies of 1950's mainstays. He turns the communist witch-hunts into a really bleak item. Most of the music was shockingly bad.Chaplin really did a fine job of criticizing the McCarthy era, even if way too preachy. Among of the other highlights... the King going to see a CinemaScope movie. While I love the format, for someone who had been directing films since the teens... Chaplin probably thought it was a mess. To be honest, a lot of the early CinemaScope films really did make silly compositions.The face-lift gags are hilarious. Chaplin looks hideous in the makeup and it makes way for the great restaurant scene with him struggling not to laugh.The main problem is that a lot of extraneous plot was unnecessary. I think Chaplin tried too hard to pad out the film. There's a lot of preachy monologues... although, it's neat to see his young son, Michael do a monologue against McCarthyism.I think at its base, Chaplin's films would be flawless post-Tramp if he allowed a co-director of some sort to help enhance the cinematic nature of post-Modern Times films. Considering that Orson Welles could have joined Chaplin in making Verdoux, it makes me wonder if these lesser works would have been classics. "},{"Title":"I hate everyone who hates A King In New York","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What's wrong with you, folks?! Why don't you like this movie? Is it because most of the IMDb users are American? Why don't you judge it reasonably, dear American IMDb users?For those people who do not know any background story about this filmThere was an important biographical turn in Chaplin's life in the mid 50's he actually shot A King In New York in Switzerland. He had to leave America because he was accused of having communist tendencies. I see that he had problems with Americans, but in the mid 70's he had been officially redeemed. He was not a communist, even that he supported Russia in the WWII was just because he had to position himself against Hitler. Everyone who had seen The Great Dictator should understand what I am on about. (watch again at least the last 5 minutes)This overlooked gem is just as serious as the earlier LIMELIGHT, but it still has its funny moments. Most of the jokes landed perfectly in my case. But definitely the hostilities, divorce from his wife took away a lot from the Genius. Eventually he is just a human like us.A King In New York. Charles Chaplin In New York. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Patchy Satirical Comedy from an exiled Chaplin","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A KING IN NEW YORK was Charles Chaplin's penultimate film and his first in his native Britain.The actual plot,that of an exiled European monarch (King Shadov) and his various adventures in the USA's biggest city,was most certainly intended irony by Chaplin as he himself was in exile from the US after years of harassment and condemnation from McCarthyites,the HUAC,moralists and various other right-wing factions.It was many years before he was persuaded to return to the US in the early 1970's (to receive an honorary Oscar),and indeed this film was not shown there until around the same era.Chaplin clearly had many issues he wanted to address at the state of American society at this time,and although it is perfectly laudable to bring up these many subjects in a satirical film,the perceptions of US society involved (film,television,advertising,plastic surgery,education,etc.) are sadly not all that funny,cutting or ruthless enough,but rather half-hearted and uninventive.The best moments occur in the first half or so,with an adroit lampoon of film trailers and widescreen ratios;some neatly executed (but all too brief) mime concerning the description of caviar and turtle soup,and the highlight being King Shadov's struggle to contain his laughter during a slapstick nightclub act after undergoing plastic surgery.However,other would-be mordacious barbs at other subjects such as TV and advertising are rather placidly administered (at least Chaplin's skit on a reality-style TV show is surprisingly prescient),and the second half of the film turns far more serious when the matter of the McCarthyite witch hunts comes to prominence.The film certainly gets bogged down at this point with tedious,witless,pompously over-sermonising dialogue,most of which is uttered by Chaplin's ten-year old son Michael,portraying a boy that the King meets during a visit to a school,whose parents are affected by the anti-communist purges.To be fair,Chaplin Jnr actually gives a fine performance,perhaps a slightly more assured one than his celebrated father whose clipped,rather hesitant manner of speaking conveys a reluctance to enunciate too excessively (not very surprising,as Chaplin always made it clear he was far more comfortable with pantomime than speech).This may be the reason why he gave his son the most sententious lines in his script,which don't as much come across as normal conversation but rather as gross political pronouncements,further emphasised by a continually wagging finger.Chaplin was justified to feel bitter at his treatment by the American authorities,but the sledgehammer non-subtlety he employed to make his point here was woefully superfluous,and it is only his son's natural adeptness at performing that prevents the scenes involved slipping this side of total embarrassment.Because it was produced in the UK,the film further suffers within it's limitations of monetary production compared to the US.Much stock footage of the Big Apple is utilised,plus some rather obvious back projection and super-impositions,giving the film a rather stagey,claustrophobic if not cheap feel,with famous cameraman Georges Perinal unable to give the film a visually stylish look with the unexceptional set designs at his disposal.Most of the British supporting cast don't make any attempt with American accents,though the inimitable Sid James comes off best in this aspect,with Dawn Addams also not too bad with her transatlantic drawl (though her occasional romantic mutterings with an obviously ageing Chaplin are a trifle creepy).Familiar British performers make brief appearances (such as George Woodbridge and Jerry Desmonde),with Oliver Johnston as the King's confidante coming off best,and an unexpected cameo from a very young Frazer Hines (he of EMMERDALE FARM) as an unhygienic cookery pupil at the school King Shadov visits.If Chaplin had not concentrated too much on the political elements and pared down the masses of straight,expository dialogue related to this,A KING IN NEW YORK would have probably been a quicker,more biting invective on America in the 50's.It is therefore mostly the case that only brief sequences in the first hour come off with any sort of distinction;the rest,predominately an essay on his personal bitterness,should've been disposed of.RATING6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not  Chaplin at his best, but certain moments shine","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is indeed sad to see the great Charlie Chaplin, on screen here for what amounts to be, in effect the last time, and it is even sadder that this final outing couldn't have been slightly better and a bit more successful.Perhaps it might have been had the Americans given it an audience, but they were still too burned with Charlie over suspected Communist leanings to do him any favours. I have noticed a few of our American reviewers noting the fact that they didn't get to see the film at the time of release due to this stateside black-balling, and have only just managed to catch it now on TCM. Well what can I say? America deserved it after the way they treated Charlie.Throughout this film, you see Chaplin making remarks about America being the land of freedom and democracy, all of which are made with his tongue pressed so firmly in his cheek you can almost see it bulging. His character, King Shadov, is presented before the house of Un-American Activities Committee as a suspected Commie, mirroring Charlies real life experiences in the states just a few short years earlier.If ever a film delivered the ultimate two-finger gesture and a final winning laugh then this was it. I certainly hope that any Americans who have seen this film are thoroughly ashamed of what their countryman did. America was, for once, fully deserving of any shame it felt. Comparisons to Hitler and the Jews were quite stark and obvious.I am not a communist, I do not have communist sympathy's, nor do I agree with communist theory or doctrine, but in a land that boasts freedom and liberty for all, people should have been able decide for themselves what their political beliefs were, and they should have been left alone to express and practise them without fear of persecution.In my opinion Senator Joe McCarthy and the rest of his gang of bullies were guilty of the most Un-American activities in the history of your great nation. It was a blight on your constitution.Charlie had, for nearly fifty years, lived amongst you, worked with you, entertained you and employed you, and this is how you repaid him. Shame.Right. Telling off and political wrangling over, I shall turn my attention to the film in question.Due to Chaplin's expulsion from the United States, this film was made in his homeland of England and features a mainly British cast trying to convince us that they are native New Yorkers which doesn't really seem to work. Why set the film in New York then? Why not have the European King finding asylum in Britain (everyone else seems to be doing it.) Call it the King of London or something.No this had to be set in America for Charlie's revenge to have worked. This is a political film which is designed to generate the feelings I have already outlined above...it is as much of a mockery as when he played the Great Dictator dancing with his blow-up globe, it is the same satire designed to show up the USA for the kind of place it had become and was becoming.There are moments in the film where Chaplin is practically miming and the tramp is once again on our screens and it is magic to behold..not half as gut funny as his early shorts were but he still has a lot of the old spark and at 68 he shows no less energy than he did back then either.There is also a nightclub act involving two characters who mime a wallpapering scene and I'll eat my hat if Chaplin hadn't worked that routine out himself before hand. It was Chaplin-esque in the extreme.He did have a great speaking voice, which makes it hard to believe he stayed silent on screen for so long and in this picture he treats us to Hamlet's soliloquy and does rather well methinks too...Olivier would have been proud.All in all not the best film for him to have bowed out on, but a film made on his terms, with his inner being projected on the screen. A true performer and true non-conformist to the last. He always went his own way and I guess he finally got it in the end on this picture too. "},{"Title":"Where is Shani in this movie?","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on TV many years ago and remember being amazed to see the great Charlie Chaplin talking and displaying his wonderful comic talent. I remember being amazed by the talent of Chaplin's young relation - I believe it was his son or grandson. I also remember seeing the great British actress and singer Shani Wallis belting out a number about a Jukebox as a nightclub singer, but since buying the video she is no where to be seen! With such a talent, was it necessary for the editors or distributors to have her part cut? Does anyone out there have a copy of this movie on video or DVD with Shani's minor part included? "}{"Title":"OK but surprisingly blunt and obvious for a film that is all about the satire","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the inconveniences of the modern world is that kings are now subject to revolution; fortunately for King Shahdov he managed to flee his European kingdom with his wealth before his people could overcome him. He arrives in New York keen to re-establish himself and maintain his status as a monarch but it is not long before American life overtakes him and he feels the effect of television, advertising, plastic surgery and political witch-hunts.Although I was concerned what I would find, I felt I should check out some of Chaplin's final films. Wholly made in England after Chaplin after he left America and was refused re-entry, it will be of no surprise to find that this film is a rather barbed commentary on many aspects of American life but what will surprise many is just how blunt the majority of it is. Despite apparently taking nearly two years to write, the plot is essentially a series of scenarios that allow for various satires of the US and as such it is very broad and obvious. Many others have commented on the lack of laughs but I didn't really have a problem with this because a filmmaker is quite welcome to branch out and do something more than comedies if they so desire. However what I do have a problem with is the way that I was hammered with the points being made in a way that suggests I would not be smart enough to understand unless it was painted in massive letters.This is not to say that the film is without value because actually the points it makes are interesting enough to carry the film even if they are crudely made. Watching it from fifty years in the future it has an extra value in seeing the problems of American society being highlighted and comparing them with today &#150; the same in many areas with only the scale being different. Otherwise though it simply is not clever or subtle enough to stand up as anything more than an OK film. Where it should be biting and cutting like a sharp weapon it comes over like a lead-pipe of satire &#150; it is still interesting but it is hard to overlook that it is a very blunt tool. "},{"Title":"Positive and negative observations","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film suffers from a low budget and an apparently hasty production. Chaplin's direction is rather flat, his performance a bit over the top. The sets seem cardboard. Yet there are many good moments film theatre scene, wordless comedy scene where the king and the valet watch Addams bathe, ordering turtle soup. Chaplin's music is very good and very well paced to support the story.Still, I think it should have been more polished, editing should have been tighter and the film should have been in colour to counterpoint the rather unattractive things (noise, crowds) that forms one of the film's themes. Very amusing, though. "},{"Title":"Want to say a few words to the American people?","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Chaplin wanted to say more than a few, it seems. What a shame it all had to end like this. To all intents his final film, short on laughs and high on bitterness, it rarely achieves the heights of prior works.Chaplin was never subtle when it came to satire, as the wonderful Great Dictator should attest. But, after being subpoenaed for suspected communist affiliations, what does he do? Makes a film about a man facing a subpoena for suspected communist affiliations. A discreet allusion this isn't.Chaplin's son, Michael, is also roped in on the act as a boy versed in Marxism, and who gets to echo many of Charles' feelings. When first questioned by Chaplin's King Shahdov over whether he is a communist for his reading matter, he is told do I have to be a communist to read Karl Marx? That's a valid answer, Shahdov counters. The boy, Rupert, then goes into a rant about committees dictating how people should think, and the removal of passport rights. His final outburst on the subject is the telling I'm so sick and tired of people asking me if I'm this, if I'm that. So that then if it pleases everybody, I'm a communist. Saying such things yourself is fine, but using a small child to make your political speeches for you is extremely unsettling.The film, his first effort to be shot in England, tries to recreate New York with sets and stock footage, as the star was no longer allowed entry into the United States. A number of British actors help along the illusion by adopting US accents. Look out for a hoarse-sounding Sidney James (yes, he of dirty laugh and Carry Ons) as well as an impossibly young Frazer Hines. Chaplin would complete one more film after this, 1967's A Countess From Hong Kong, the only one of his films on the IMDb to be less well-regarded than this one. Containing just a bit part for Charlie, King is really the last time the public would have to see him fully on the screen.King Shahdov is probably one of the least endearing Chaplin characters as he is painted as a lecherous man who peers through keyholes at bathing women and says things like I must tell you some of my jokes... naughty ones. There are also one or two barbs thrown at the US film industry, including a snotty dig at banal movie magazines. At one point Chaplin enters a cinema where we see three fictitious trailers. One of them, Killer With A Soul seems to poke fun at the loss of innocence in cinema, with the tagline Bring The Family. Another is a distasteful &#x96; and quite childish &#x96; mockery of transsexuals, called Man Or Woman? and ends with the punchline we can go to Denmark. As with the majority of the film, it never really amuses, as it all seems so resentful, and laced through with spite. The slapstick elements are also contrived and somewhat obvious.Not a poor film by any means, the pace certainly never drags, but it is weak by Chaplin's own high standards. However, it is hard not to get a lump in your throat as Shahdov's plane flies away for the final time...2012 Post-script Having seen A Countess From Hong Kong since writing this review, it's notable that, while Brando is completely miscast, it has some merit, including Chaplin's ruminations on political issues. Like A King in New York it's a mediocre piece and not the work of a genius, but it's a shame Chaplin wasn't making more films towards the end of his life, even if both pictures do fall firmly in the camp of it's regrettable he didn't retire after Limelight. At the risk of being churlish, it's also somewhat amusing how members seemingly use the useful vote button depending on whether they agree with the review. To date I've reviewed 13 Chaplin films, the majority favourable. None have had as many unuseful votes as this one. Maybe I'm wrong, and this review "},{"Title":"Needed more subtlety.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Chaplin's next-to-last film is not among his greatest (although it's better, in my opinion, than, say, Monsieur Verdoux); it's visually ugly and awfully unsubtle as a political satire, and the character of the brilliant, leftist kid who condemns the whole American system is absurdly conceived. But there are some (scarce) pretty funny moments (Chaplin trying not to laugh is one scene that stands out) and the movie is worth seeing anyway, because it's one of Chaplin's relatively unknown efforts.     (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"Honesty means giving Chaplin a bad grade","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are not doing research on Chaplin and are looking for an entertaining but obscure film, avoid the King of New York. Simply put this film is a mess. The story makes little sense, the pace just stumbles along and even 50 years on, the humor shows signs of age. Chaplin's problems with the US authorities clouded his artistic judgment and although his frustrations are understandable, his creativity suffered and this is very evident on the screen.Although Monsieur Verdoux and Limelight will never be considered classics, they worked despite their flaws. A King In New York simply stumbles along to a very unsatisfying end. And while the comments from Jim Jarmusch on the DVD feature are accurate &#150; Chaplin had a wonderful way of satirizing America's rampant consumer culture &#150; Jarmusch is simply being generous to Chaplin by saying that this film is well executed. One can almost sense Chaplin's sense of dislocation of having to work in London after 4 decades in the States and owning his own film studio.This film is required viewing for those studying the entire life and works of Chaplin, but as entertainment (always Chaplin's aim) it falls flat on it's face. It's doubly tragic that this artist, who contributed so much to America and the world should have been hounded out of the country with such vehemence. Equally astounding is how the American public accepted this treatment of a cultural icon with such equanimity. There's small comfort in the fact that the later works of other masters of film from the first half of the twentieth century (i.e. Preston Sturges, Erich Von Stroheim & Orson Welles ) were equally pallid and uninspiring. This film was intended as a comedy, but it simply leaves you feeling very sad. "},{"Title":"Second-Rate Chaplin","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was very disappointed in this movie and surprised to see it so highly rated by IMDb viewers. I think you have to want to like this film a great deal in order to find much joy in it. I can see why Chaplin's own story would tip some folks toward giving it the sympathy vote, but face it, if this were, heaven forbid, the only Chaplin film you had ever seen, wouldn't you come away from this wondering why he was regarded as such a comic genius? It has intermittent moments of satirical insight and a broad range of targets in its send-up of 1950's American culture. But Chaplin did it with so much more balance between entertainment and enlightenment in films like The Great Dictator and Modern Times that this one suffers greatly by comparison. Cheap-looking sets, relatively no-name actors, and a rather rushed pace in far too many scenes keep this King off my list of royal Chaplin experiences. "},{"Title":"Chaplin  - the political hero!?","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Chaplin's savage attack on the good 'ole USA. Unfortunately it was poorly scripted and technically atrocious, proving that sound did kill the King of Silent Comedy. But still, Chaplin had a few important issues to tackle and that came over loud and clear, like a big thump over the head with a sledge hammer.  "},{"Title":"Charles Chaplin and Michael Chaplin","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A polemic on behalf of Chaplin whereby he uses his son, Michael Chaplin, to tout his own frustrations. It seems as though in the talking era, Chaplin just used the media as an outlet for his own political agenda. There is not one ounce of entertainment value in this film. "},{"Title":"Agonizingly slow and painful to watch. Looks like a bad rehearsal.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Agonizingly slow and painful to watch. Looks like a bad rehearsal of an play written by a comittee of junior high students that ran out of time. Random ideas stretched thin between endless scenes of standing around asking each other to answer the phone, going back for hats and gloves, and other filler. "},{"Title":"Mostly Awful","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is probably Chaplin's worst film. What starts out as an interesting premise devolves into a pro-socialist propaganda piece. The only things that save this film from being a complete waste of time are1. The scene with the dinner party that is actually a reality showand 2. Chaplin's commentary on film as depicted in the movie theater scene.But these aren't enough to merit anyone watching this really bad film. Chaplin's kid can't act, and there's not anything in this film worth watching. It's kind of sad, because of his previous brilliant career. Also embarrassing is Chaplin's portrayal of his own predilection for much younger women. "}]