[{"Title":"Insect Aside","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is an above-par gigantic monster thriller from the golden age, well-presented. A thawed, flesh-eating prehistoric preying mantis from the Arctic circle makes way for New York. Director Nathan Juran handles scenes well, including nostalgic map graphics detailing radar sites in the introduction, and using eerie nighttime photography covered in fog-shrouded atmosphere. Musical score is forceful and suspenseful, Clifford Stine special effects are fine for its era. Stock footage abounds but is not uninteresting, leads Craig Stevens and William Hopper are stalwart and wooden, but Alix Talton, a husky voiced former Miss Georgia and resembling Jane Wyman, is fun and natural. Last sequence still thrills, when we start to feel a little sympathy for this wounded animal, roaring and wailing as he meets inevitable doom. "},{"Title":"A fine example of 50's Sci-fi movies.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Deadly Mantis is a fine example of the best of the 1950's vintage science fiction movies.  A good story line with enjoyable character interaction. The movies use of documentary footage to introduce scientific or geographic fact into the setting of the fiction was classic 50's. I actual learned something about the multi-million dollar DEW Line. Today's modern viewer may complain about the special effects, but remember that the movie was made in 1957 not 1997. With that in mind, rent the movie, pretend you're at the drive-in, and have an enjoyable evening. "},{"Title":"my favourite giant killer bug movie","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'd gladly watch this one without the benefit of MST3K, as it wasn't half bad, considering the genre and era in which it was made. But then I'm a sucker for movies which open with giant maps, and story lines that offer military responses to life's problems.To those of you who think this movie sucked, I suggest you view Beginning of the End, another '50s era bug spectacular, this one featuring Peter Graves vs. a giant mutant grasshopper. I think after that you'd agree that the Mantis wasn't so bad. "},{"Title":"Jeepers! A giant mutant mantis.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A giant praying mantis is awakened from its sleep in the artic region and heads south causing havoc. Boats, planes and trains meet their match with the flying creature. Before unleashing its full wrath on NYC, the mantis meets its doom at the hands of the armed forces in a New York tunnel. The special effects are of course crude by todays standards, but for a ten year old boy in 1957 this was very memorable.Starring are William Hopper, Craig Stevens, Alix Talton and Pat Conway. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining movie!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why everyone thinks they're a great movie critic. If you get a kick out of old sci-fi flicks, this one was a lot of fun. Where else can you find a giant bug making war on the American military! My favorite scene is when the mantis is hiding in a ditch and cocks it's head to watch it's enemy fly overhead. And I didn't think a mantis was a strategist. I wish they would have forgotten the romance part, because the leading man really sucked. Through the whole movie, I was waiting for his demise, which unfortunately did not come! And then he ended up in bed with the girl. (not really, but you get the idea). I thought it was a very watchable movie if you've got an imagination. "},{"Title":"I Like This Movie!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Say you like this movie if you thought it wasn't a complete waste of your time.  Seriously, folks, movies are largely just an assemblage of lies (including documentaries and biographies) strung together by some type of formulaic narrative strategy.  As Giant Monster Movies usually go, I've only two personal favorites Japan's War of the Gargantuas and this one served up in the late '50s by America's Universal Studios.This lie (In real life, even prehistoric dragonflies didn't get half as large as this cinematic 'creation') is told effectively enough; for its time, it must have seemed infinitely impressive.So if you felt you had to say anything about DM, say enough good things about it as well...Serviceable special effects, especially when we get close-ups of the titular Praying Mantis, peeping in windows and a roar to match its size and density.  The monster has a special aversion to planes, trains and automobiles (all the miniature vehicles and sets met with my own personal 'satisfaction' standards).The overall production is marred slightly by the film's initial 'public service message,' warning us that atomic energy is bad (Duh!), and its piddling knowledge about North American ground control (yadda, yadda, so what!), the story's most interesting moments are repeatedly slowed down by long stretches of non-activity (through the use of time filling dialog and scenes that take you 'nowhere' in particular).In short, this would have made a fascinating half-hour production, with non-stop original thrills (Case in Point the filmmakers in this one resisted showing a hyper-destructive opportunity when, as the flying monster alights on the Washington Monument, it doesn't destroy it; my guess is, it needed to rest its wings).  I must point out one error in DM Although Mantis is supposed to be migrating due south, why is he heading north, from Washington, D.C. to New York City?I found the ending satisfactory (Watch for the modest, yet interesting false alarm!). "},{"Title":"A good giant bug movie from Universal","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Deadly Mantis was made towards the end of Universal's 1950's cycle of monster/sci-fi movies.  This one is one of the best.A giant prehistoric mantis is awoken from a long sleep by atomic bomb testing in the North Pole.  After going on the rampage in the frozen wastes and killing several people in the process, it heads first for Washington and then New York, where it is eventually gassed in Manhattan Tunnel. The giant mantis in this movie looks quite impressive despite the low budget.  The movie's cast is led by William Hopper (20 Million Miles to Earth).  He and the others play good parts.I found this movie quite enjoyable and is worth watching if you get the chance.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Pray Tell, Not Bad!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although the intricacies of the plot are forever unbelievable, this film works very well both as a suspense film and also as a creditable Giant Bug film, so typical during the 50's Golden Age of Science Fiction.  A giant Praying Mantis is preserved in the ice of the Artic Ocean, only to be dislodged by man's environmental meddling.  The bug flies over various places in the Artic eating human beings as it makes its way toward the Equator.  The task of destroying the giant insect befalls to three protagonists  Craig Stevens the military man(and romancer), William Hopper as the dedicated paleontologist, and Alix Talton as the hungry reporter/photographer/necessary female character so that main character can fall in love.  The three manage to find the mantis and well....let's just say the poor creature didn't say his prayers TOO often.  The film is tight, has lots of action, and is a great entertaining diversion. "},{"Title":"Hardware","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well I can tell you this scared the bejeesus out of me when I was kid.Watching it today, there are three things of note.The first is the military footage. The virtual budget of this was millions of dollars because of the military supplied footage. It was defense policy to let the Soviets know of our massive three-tiered air defense and there was an office to so publicize. The idea was to convince the Russians that an attack couldn't possibly work, that the thing really existed. That's why the Pentagon subsidized these things. The scripts were therefore friendly to military success at the end, too.A solid third of this is from the department of defense, no model planes here.Perry Mason, the detecting lawyer was a literary phenomenon when this was made, the books about him being outsold only by the Bible. And there was a very popular TeeVee show based on him. Perry's own detective was a guy played by the detective here. And his sidekick is a Della Street (the third member of the gang) lookalike. It was like having Indiana Jones appear. The effect is lost today but was quite something in the day.The third remarkable thing is what scares us. What we fear in our imagination is largely defined by movies. And what movies use to frighten us is tightly constrained by what they can show. In the fifties, that was often disappearing or morphing things, guys in rubber suits and small things made big by trick photography. Them was probably the first giant bug movie, but it used real bugs. This is already a second generation, using stop motion.The footage of Aleutians &#151; borrowed from an older film &#151; is great, really great. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Prepare to deploy giant tissue and smoosh the enemy","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on MST3K, and it's one of my great favourites.  The endless map sequence at the beginning is quite hilarious, but my weakness for this movie stems from the fact that almost the first third of it takes place in Canada's arctic, and my dad actually worked on the DEW Line while I was a kid.  The stock footage of the building of the radar lines up in the Arctic was fun (stirring music and all), but I think that someone connected with making the movie must have either been on the DEW Line, or knew someone who had.  There were so many odd little details I've never seen in another movie, even though 'The Deadly Mantis' is not original in its use of the military to fight off a giant invader.  The giant Check Your Antifreeze sign prominently displayed at headquarters was one - who would think of a detail like that, unless they'd actually seen it somewhere?  And the most bizarre thing was the guys dancing together at the little party on the base; when you think about it, it makes sense - no women up there, so if you want to dance, you'd have to have men dancing together, but it's just not something a writer would just dream up while writing a movie.  Alas, my dad died before I saw this movie, so I couldn't ask him how authentic it was in its portrayal of life on the DEW Line, but I think of him every time I watch it, and I'm sure he would have laughed uproariously. "}{"Title":"Get the Bug spray.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Giant Mantis is the title and plot. There isn't much more to say. Acting is better than some of the other giant something or other films of the 1950s. The mantis is pretty movable-not some model that does nothing. The sequence at the very beginning is kinda cheesy but the footage and info about the DEW line and the whole radar net is pretty interesting. The character of Dr. Ned Jackson is fairly dull but Col. Parkman is OK. I get a kick out of the archive footage of the Eskimos in their kayaks. The effects are ordinary and the sets are the same as other sci-fi movies of the same period. This is a good flick to catch if you're in the mood for a giant bug movie. "},{"Title":"One of the better giant monster on the loose films","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the better giant monster on the loose films from Hollywood. This one has a giant praying mantis thaw out of a block of ice in Canada before heading south and warmer climes. To be certain the idea of a praying mantis hopping around in the snow is silly, but if you accept that-hell you're already accepting a giant insect- you'll have a pretty good time. Really watching it again for the first time years I was shocked at just how good the film is. To be certain its not really scary, but it does have a certain amount of tension, even when you know how and where its all going to end.Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Too cheesy not to love","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ***** SPOILER WARNING *****I have a special fondness for this film because (a) it and I are of the same vintage, and (b) it's still as scary and silly as it was when I first saw it at about age 10.  Marvel at the motherlode of movie cliches!  Thrill to the pseudo-newsreel coverage of brave new radars!  See Eskimos madly paddling their canoes!  See macho stock footage of the brave U.S. Air Force!  See the beautiful woman turn grown men into drooling fools!  See the beautiful women shriek their pretty heads off!  See bewildered brass battle the bodacious bug!  See styrofoam insect body parts!  Hear the scary music and the scary insect drone!  Watch the big bug defy the silly humans and their futile weapons!  Watch the obligatory shallow romance materialize out of nowhere!  Watch the flat acting that, yes, you *could* have done better!Despite its pervasive cheesiness, previous reviewers are right The Deadly Mantis is really too good for MST3K.  Uninvite Joel and the bots when you watch this one.  The story holds together, and shows 1950s American fears and bravado as well as most productions of the day.  The mantis is big enough -- and yes, deadly enough -- to scare ya real good.  (They scare me plenty when they're normal size.)  But in the end, when it's trapped and dying, you can still muster some pity for a creature that, after all, was only trying to survive.This is no classic.  It *is* a piece of cheese.  But by God, it's lovable cheese.  "},{"Title":"Good one!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really good.It was really neat how they made the mantis that big!Good acting and effects make this a winner and a quite interesting and entertaining film!This is a good one to check out especially old 50s flicks! "},{"Title":"One tough old bug","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From that great series of classic prehistoric beasts of the Fifties, The Deadly Mantis is a prehistoric insect the size of about three tractor trailers who gets thawed out of the Arctic ice and begins moving south for warmer climate and food. The Air Force spends a lot of time trying to kill this tough old bug, throwing everything they can at it, save atomic weapons. Given the speeds that this mantis is going which rival and in some cases excel what our latest jet fighters are doing, that would have been impractical.The film focuses on the efforts of three people to bring the mantis down, fighter pilot Craig Stevens, paleontologist William Hopper, and photojournalist Alix Talton. Of course a little romance gets going between Stevens and Talton while Hopper is strictly business.You have to wonder though what ancient prehistoric earth might have been life if indeed insects got that big and were flying around at supersonic speeds. Maybe they're what killed the dinosaur.Other than the special effects to create The Deadly Mantis that were done at a major studio being Universal, the film itself is a no frills affair even with a small romantic interlude. The Deadly Mantis is in keeping with a great tradition of Universal horror classics. "},{"Title":"Good of its kind.","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As far as Universal-International's genre output of the 1950s goes, The Deadly Mantis is engaging escapism if not on the level of the classics of the period like It Came from Outer Space, The Creature from the Black Lagoon, and This Island Earth. It's based on a story by producer William Alland, who'd probably been brainstorming on species of insects & arachnids that had yet to be enlarged and unleashed on various unlucky humans. The praying mantis makes for an effective antagonist in this formulaic but still likable and enjoyable movie. It's unleashed from a frozen tomb in the Arctic and goes on the expected rampage, steadily making its way South towards a more tropical climate. Identifying the beast is eminent paleontologist Nedrick Jackson (William Hopper), and hoping to destroy it are Colonel Joe Parkman (Craig Stevens) and General Mark Ford (Donald Randolph). There is an obligatory dose of romantic material here, as Joe strikes up some chemistry with Ned's associate Marge Blaine (Alix Talton), a magazine editor looking for a big story, but it doesn't really ever intrude on the action too much. Just like many other genre films of the period, The Deadly Mantis goes for a semi-documentary style, educating the audience on the radar fences spread throughout Canada, and the short lived Ground Observer Corps, a real life group of citizens that had been instructed on how to spot and identify various forms of aircraft. The result is quite a bit of talk, although there is still enough good praying mantis action to make the movie diverting. The special effects are mostly pretty decent, with the rampaging insect coming off as formidable enough, and definitely not easy to take down. The story is also not without a sense of humour, as we see Joe's fellow servicemen going gaga over the attractive Marge seeing as how they encounter members of the opposite sex so infrequently. The efficient direction is by Nathan Juran, a busy filmmaker of the period whose other credits include 20 Million Miles to Earth, The Brain from Planet Arous, Attack of the 50 Foot Woman, and The 7th Voyage of Sinbad. All things considered, The Deadly Mantis offers up a fair amount of fun, for fans of this kind of thing. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Reasonably good","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A volcanic explosion on the island of Dot upends an iceberg on the other side of the world. Embedded within the ice is The Deadly Mantis, a gigantic flesh eating insect which has been in a cryogenic sleep since the Jurassic period or so. The ice melts, the Mantis awakens and embarks on a deadly reign of terror around the North Pole. It munches on some Air Force personnel who have set up radar stations in the remote wasteland, and then eats a couple of Inuits before anyone catches on. Dr. Ned Jackson, a renowned expert in the field of entomology, arrives on the scene with his friend and photographer Marge to confirm what Ned has already guessed that a giant Praying Mantis is on the loose. Marge and Col. Joe Parkman fall instantly in love and the Mantis decides to head for a warmer climate, namely Washington DC!!!This really isn't as bad as it sounds. True, Tarantula and Them! were much better, but at least this isn't as excruciating as The Beginning of the End. As far as films about giant insects go, this one is pretty good, and it's interesting to note that the mantis did not become a huge monster due to radioactive mutation it's just a dinosaur! And Ned is right there with an ant trapped in a globe of amber to explain it all, some 40+ years before Richard Attenborough spared no expense on Jurassic Park. Decent fun. "},{"Title":"Average sample of the 1950's b/w sci-fi movies.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie does keep your attention.  Plus some general history about the radar systems in use during the fifties.  Fact is mixed well with fiction. Just one of the many movies during the fifties that help make the sci-fi world what it is today.Other movies like Earth VS the Flying Saucers, The Day the Earth Stood Still and Them, plus a few others, all helped the sci-fi movies to build into today's special effect wonders.A must see movie for the true sci-fi fan.  Also, notice the acting by future Drake from the Perry Mason shows, and also, Peter Gun is in this movie. (William Hopper and Craig Stevens.) "},{"Title":"DEW Or Die","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" By the time the sci-fi shocker The Deadly Mantis premiered in May 1957, American audiences had already been regaled by a steady stream of giant-monster movies on the big screen, starting with 1953's classic The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms. In 1954, Them!, with its monstrously large ants, kicked off a subgenre of sorts, the giant-insect movie, and Tarantula would follow in 1955. After The Deadly Mantis, The Beginning of the End (giant grasshoppers), Monster From Green Hell (giant wasps), Earth vs. the Spider and Attack of the Giant Leeches soon appeared to stun and amaze moviegoers. Unlike most of those other films, however, TDM featured a giant monster that was not the result of radioactive bombardment or an H-bomb blast, but that was just naturally humongous; a prehistoric entity released via natural phenomenon.In the film, the viewer witnesses a volcanic eruption that takes place near Antarctica, while our narrator intones the ominous words of Isaac Newton's Third Law of Motion For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. And, implausibly enough, this blowup near the South Pole soon triggers an earthquake near the North Pole, almost 7,900 miles away (!), which releases.... Anyway, cut to the intrepid men working at the polar DEW line, where odd events soon begin to transpire. Colonel Joe Parkman (Craig Stevens) investigates the demolition of a weather station, the downing of a C-47, and some very odd tracks in the snow. Before long, noted paleontologist Nedrick (!) Jackson (William Hopper, who many viewers will recall from his roles in The Bad Seed and 20 Million Miles to Earth) and museum reporter Marge Blaine (Alix Talton; a great screamer, as it turns out) join the colonel near the North Pole to join in the investigation, and Jackson isn't long in getting to the bottom of things, declaring In all the kingdom of the living, there is no more deadly or voracious creature...than the praying mantis!Of all the giant-monster films mentioned above, The Deadly Mantis is most reminiscent of The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms, the granddaddy of them all and, in my humble opinion, the greatest dinosaur movie ever made. Like the 1953 film, it too opens in documentarylike fashion and with a dry, scientific narration. The monster in both films is first observed as a radar blip near the North Pole, and both pictures feature discussions regarding the thawed-out mammoth remains that had recently been discovered in Siberia. In both films, our prehistoric creature attacks a fishing trawler off the Canadian coast and is ultimately destroyed near a NYC landmark (Manhattan Beach in the former; in the depths of the Manhattan Tunnel in the latter). But whereas Beast had boasted the truly awesome stop-motion FX of the late Ray Harryhausen, Mantis had to make do with FX of a lesser-calibre, more traditional kind. Still, the creature looks impressive enough on the ground, if a tad silly while in flight. The film contains at least four memorable sequences our first glimpse of the creature, from below, as it towers over a bunch of fleeing Greenlanders, who swarm away in kayaks out to sea; the creature's attack on the DEW station, repulsed by both rifle fire and flamethrower; the mantis' ascent of the Washington Monument; and finally, that Manhattan Tunnel windup, as Parkman and his men toss 3RG chemical mines at the mantis in an already densely foggy environment. (This denouement might bring to mind the storm drain finale in Them!) For once, the use of stock footage is well integrated; the footage used is crisp and clean and actually looks as though it had been shot for the film in question. Surprisingly, the first 1/3 of The Deadly Mantis, before we even get a glimpse of our monster, might be the film's best section (an Arctic tour de force, according to the Maltin Classic Movie Guide), slowly building suspense in an intelligent manner against its snowbound backdrop. The picture has been surprisingly well directed by Nathan Juran, although perhaps it is unfair of me to use the word surprisingly; Juran, after all, would go on to helm such cult favorites as 20 Million Miles to Earth (released just one month later), The Brain From Planet Arous, Attack of the 50 Foot Woman, The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad AND First Men in the Moon (those last two WOULD benefit from Harryhausen's participation). TDM also features a love triangle of sorts--seemingly obligatory in many of these '50s sci-fi films--that is a tad surprising, as pretty Marge does NOT wind up with the guy you might be expecting. In all, a satisfying, nicely realized and intelligent monster movie, and perfect fare for viewing with your 8-year-old nephew, of course.Further good news regarding The Deadly Mantis is that it comes to us today as part of Universal Studios' Classic Sci-Fi Ultimate Collection, and is presented via a pristine-looking print. On the same DVD disc can be found the film The Land Unknown, another B&W sci-fi outing from 1957 that also (strangely enough) clocks in at precisely 78 minutes and showcases prehistoric monsters in a polar setting. A perfect double feature, both films come highly recommended by this viewer, an admitted sucker for 1950s sci-fi. And speaking of that decade, back in the 1950s and '60s, I am old enough to recall, a NYC urban legend had it that there was a $1,000 fine for killing any praying mantis. Well, I'm sorry to report, baby boomers, that this popular myth just had no basis in reality, beneficial as these harmless, little insects might be. Beneficial, harmless and little...three words, surely, that would NOT describe our deadly mantis.... "},{"Title":"average 50ties monster movie. But good with popcorn!","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Monster Movies out of the 50ties how enjoyable.Okay lets be fair it is yeah one of those and you know the monster effect is actually quite acceptable. There are problems like certain moments fall dead, the begin is way to slow.. allot of stuff about Radar. And more Radar and more..And yes stock footage allot, but the acting is good. The story is very acceptable. I can't call it bad it is enjoyable for its faults and its good part.I would say it isn't as good as the thing from outer space 1951 I belief. But it has good moments, basic fun giant monster movie moments and isn't that what you want. To be entertained. It could do with cutting out some slower passages, it isn't as if these 50 movies really do allot with developing characters anyway. Some areas of this movie easily could be cut. But you know So you know popcorn time, I put it somewhere in the middle of the movies of that age. Not super great neither really bad just average.So yes watch it! "}{"Title":"Standard classy old school monster fun","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Curious breed, these old school monster films. Lapped up by the kids of their time, yet I can't imagine today's CGI glutted youth grooving to them, talkative, even educational, weaving together dry facts, ripe drama and a splash of romance and chuckles into their giant beast template. The Deadly Mantis is pretty much a textbook example of the genre, and as such I can say right here that if you enjoy the creature features of the 1950's you could do well in looking up this one. The plot deals with an enormous preying mantis revived in the Arctic by human activity. The film diverges from the standard nuclear portents in its explanation, in fact its explanation is a little fuzzy but it does tie into Cold War fears, the human activity in question being the development of Arctic early warning radar. There are tussles, tracks and development of mystery, then just under half way through the mantis rears its ugly head and the film locks down to classic shenanigans, delivering some nifty action, a few nice chuckles and a satisfying tense finale. Director Nathan Juran keeps a steady hand on events, fairly mastering the build up and release structure that sometimes undoes these films by opting less for destruction and more for journeying and pursuit. There is a little in the way of things being crushed or broken but the film never sets itself potential in those areas that it can't fulfil. The pacing is a little patchy though, with the film suffering from a dusting of dry spells in the first two thirds that keep it from being really great. A bit of off humour as well, but I didn't mind it so much as it comes with the territory. Acting is fair throughout, everybody plays pretty standard roles but they fill them out nicely, I never groaned at anyone though no one exactly sparkles. William Hopper makes for a good determined scientist and has a compelling intonation for proclaiming theories, Craig Stevens, Donald Randolph and others make for solid military men and Alix Taylor is an pleasing romantic interest. The cast work well together and have plenty of opportunity to do so, one nice thing about this film (typical of its type) is that the characters work together, they get along and once they realise what the enemy is, they embark on taking it out no matter what. Not much more to say, but it would be remiss of me to not mention the mantis itself. Its a terrific beast, bug eyed winged, fierce clawed and multi legged, a fine, looming antagonist. It doesn't look so hot in flying sequences, but when on the ground its pretty darned ace. Definitely worth a look for 50's monster buffs, as far as giant insects go its one of the best, even if it wasn't put together with Harryhausen expertise. All in all its a film worth a shot then, I certainly liked it and if you like this sort of thing you might well do too. "},{"Title":"Fun movie!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There is no doubt that there are some bad 50's sci-fi creature features, but The Deadly Mantis is definitely not one of them.You know the plot - strange disappearances and damage are happening, big bug shows up to cause havoc, then finally perishes in the big city (New York). It does have a lot of the clichés you'd expect in a flick like this; military guys and scientists having meetings on what is going on, screaming girl, military guys whose jaws drop at the sight of a woman (along with the 'wolf whistle') and more. But really, in this case, it's all actually pretty interesting, even scenes where there's a good deal of chatting.The girl is pretty, and she ends up with this lame military guy seemingly out of nowhere, whereas beforehand she seemed pretty interested in her partner, the guy who figured out it was a giant mantis doing all the mysterious damage. They had some good flirting scenes early on so her changing interests so easily seemed a bit odd.And the Mantis itself - despite the cheesy video cover, the Mantis is actually *very* cool looking and just kinda pops up at one point out of some ice, then it's action all the way. The FX are pretty darn good for the time, especially when the Mantis flies and attacks various vehicles. And the roar is killer - this is one of the best monster roars in any movie. And the music is pretty spectacular, always laying strong emphasis on the happenings on screen.After various attacks, the Mantis makes its way to New York City, and is smart enough not to go in the subway so he takes a car tunnel instead. One reviewer asked about a possible missing scene as we never actually see the Mantis enter the tunnel - it's the same on the DVD release. My guess is that they never filmed it. Truthfully, the Mantis never really does much in NYC, if anything at all - but my guess is probably that's because of budget restraints, because really, every scene with the Mantis is darn good, why else would they seem to skimp.If you are fan of this stuff and have never watched The Deadly Mantis yet, you won't regret it. BUT - if you get the DVD (part of a great set of old sci-fi movies), don't watch the trailer first! It shows way too much! "},{"Title":"The Big Apple will never get a break!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Giant prehistoric praying mantis thaws out from a glacier and heads south for a tour of destruction!Memorable giant-monster film from the golden era of monster flicks. The Deadly Mantis starts off slowly with a kind of documentary about the nations defense system, but picks up with the introduction of its title character! The films plot escalates steadily to an atmospheric show-down in the Lincoln Tunnel. The monster FX aren't half bad, especially considering the time of the film. The cast is also fairly decent.So all around, The Deadly Mantis is an enjoyable watch for those who like the monster movies of the '50's.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was part of a trilogy of giant monster on the loose films that Universal released in the mid-fifties (the other two were Tarantula and The Monolith Monsters).  This movie is a good example of the genre and works pretty well.  The only thing I found fault with was the overabundance of stock footage (the Eskimos and the coast watchers).  Other than that this is a good movie. "},{"Title":"Really big and scary","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Deadly Mantis gets 10 from me because it's easily the most terrifying television movie experience of my early childhood. At around age 7 (1962) I distinctly remember hiding behind the lounge chair and barely being able to stand peeking through my fingers.Luckily I overcame my phobia of insects as an adult and my only tattoo (on my right shoulder blade) is of a local Australian species of praying mantis. The Deadly Mantis would be a thing of beauty for me now and I'd be more than likely to cheer as it ate the humans who were trying to kill it.B grade horror of the first order which, like many popular religions, fully exploits our fear of the unknown. "},{"Title":"The Deadly Mantis","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yep so 1957 was most definitely the year of the big bug thriller movie, talk about over kill! After the huge success of 'Them!' in 1954 the genre was alive and kicking followed closely by the excellent 'Tarantula' in 1955. Since that explosion of insectoid goodness, studios at the time were systematically going through every known bug they could to make a horror sci-fi. Any bug that could be transformed into a huge slimy, fanged beastie was slapped up on the screen.This third movie from the era (I think third?), as you can clearly tell, is all about the exploits of a giant Praying Mantis, cos they look scary right! A volcano erupts (as they frequently do in these films) which in turn causes the Polar region to shift and break apart, which in turn releases a giant Mantis that had been trapped in the ice for millions of years. Cue the Mantis running around and eating lots of stereotypical military types until it can be trapped and killed with extreme, yet polite, prejudice.Now, far be it for me to take the p*ss too much, but...holy tentacles this was a fun flick! Yes that's right, you thought I was gonna sh*t all over it didn't you, well hold on. OK so the plot is ridiculous and virtually a carbon copy of every other big bug movie ever made. A natural disaster releases the monster bug or its the result of some kind of experiment, either or. From there on its the simple process of watching a predictable trio of, a good looking bloke, an attractive female and an old intelligent scientist type, discussing tactics to destroy the bug whilst others get eaten. Then eventually they manage to succeed but not before many innocent faceless people have perished, everyone's a winner.The film initially starts out like a documentary for schools or some kind of news reel. It goes on for for at least 5/6 minutes about the military and how they are building this base in northern Canada with all these early warning barriers that cross the entire country. Its all your typical Cold war malarkey, in case the Ruskies attack via the Poles. But this intro goes on and on, I started to wonder if I had the right thing playing. Anyway the big question is of course how the hell did a giant Mantis get trapped in ice (or whatever it was before it was ice), at the Poles (where ever it was before it was the Poles), and manage to survive for millions of years. Although, I guess a bigger question would be, how the hell did a Mantis get to be giant in the first place.The main attraction of this movie is of course the giant Mantis and the way the effects team created it. Overall its a bloody good rubber bug puppet and model combination, it actually looks like a genuinely real Mantis of epic proportions with all the correct details and shape. More importantly it looks quite scary and intimidating, it does actually lend some genuine scary atmosphere to the proceedings when it lurks in the background. A lot of that is down to the correct shape of the insect with its long, thin, pointy, jagged, sharp looking legs, the eerie sound it makes, and those two big silver emotionless eyes. The short sequences of the bug flying are also well realised, the only downside with this, and much like all giant bug movies, the bug roars like a flippin' dinosaur, or Godzilla. The best sequence on show has to be the quick scene where the Mantis climbs up the Washington Monument, that actually looks really good all things considered.The movie takes on a very King Kong-esque approach as the Mantis eventually makes it way to New York, after fighting off some jet fighters along the way (ahem! copyright). To avoid a complete rip- off the big bug ends up crawling into the Manhattan Tunnel to recover, this in fact leads to a sequence where a group of blokes go in after the bug all dressed up in biohazard type suits. This one scene actually reminded me of many modern sci-fi movies. A group of characters all suited up in special outfits, creeping down a dark space with flashlights, all culminating in the heroic final group pose shot when they find the creature. This whole sequence was probably the slickest in the movie and gave it some real gravitas. Alas the ending lets everything down with such a weak clichéd display of male chauvinism as the male lead virtually bullies the female into kissing him...right next to the huge dead bug. Its like they just killed it, and that turned them on (or him), sadistic tendencies.As always plenty of good and bad to be found, the small Eskimo village sequence is probably the daftest and most amusing. And I still can't work out how no one thinks to shoot this thing in the eyes, it has two huge silver eyes, shoot those surely, pretty sure that would stop it straight away. Anyway despite the odd little expected flaws this is still a solid bug flick and easily one of the best in my opinion.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A fairly decent giant bug film from the Fifties","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Giant movie monsters, usually (though not necessarily) spawn or awakened by atomic experiments, that subsequently went rampaging through unsuspecting cities could be divided into two categories in the Fifties, the decade in which they were most prevalent. The first and most famous category was reptilian in nature, and hearkened back to Willis O'Brien's Brontosaurus crushing London in 1925's The Lost World, eventually giving rise to the famous ultimate atomic nightmare Gojira (1954) (though certainly not stopping there). The second category consists of the various types of creepy crawlies that together can be sided under the general moniker of 'bugs'. As notable creatures in this regard the giant ants of Them! (1954), the gargantuan 'sixtopus' of Ray Harryhausen's It Came from Beneath the Sea (1955) and the oversized spider in Tarantula (1955) deserve honorable mention. Less well known is the tremendously large praying mantis from The Deadly Mantis, which is not surprising since it offers little that has not been seen in other bug movies, save a different monstrous creature threatening mankind. Nevertheless, it's a fairly entertaining atomic age flick.Surprisingly, the origin of the titular beastie is not actually atomic. In this case, a volcanic eruption is responsible for freeing a 200-ft long prehistoric mantis &#x96; since everybody knows that in prehistoric times every animal was stupendously big after all &#x96; from its Arctic tomb. The effect is all the same though. The creature travels southwards, wreaking havoc and killing many people in its path. The United States military soon responds to the loss of its polar outposts and sends a team to investigate, which includes a paleontologist, a handsome army officer and a beautiful woman. Of course, the latter pair predictably gets more involved with each other than with the big bug running rampant, as is all too typical for movies from this era. But when the mantis finally attacks Washington D.C. decisive military action is called for and the team searches for a way to annihilate their hideous opponent. But naturally not before it has had a decent opportunity to terrorize a few national landmarks, also an ever delightful genre staple.Nathan Juran, who would continue making similar pictures like The Brain from Planet Arous (1957) and the original cult classic Attack of the 50 ft Woman (1958), serves as a capable director for crafting an enjoyable monster movie out of a by this time already worn-out premise, which betrays his qualities that would later cause him to become a valuable collaborator on several excellent Harryhausen movies, namely the rather similar 20 Million Miles to Earth (1957) in which a reptilian/humanoid Venusian threatens Rome, First Men in the Moon (1964) and of course, the wonderful 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958). The obvious mantis mock-up doesn't look as phony as it could have looked under the instructions of a lesser director (though a far cry from realistic), while the cast plays their parts convincingly enough for this type of B-movie. While The Deadly Mantis proves less than a stellar entry into the 'creature' subgenre of the 1950s, it remains somewhat of a cult favorite among fans of the science fiction pictures of the era. However, it's also exemplary of the tail end of the decade, that witnessed the notion of big beasties trampling both civilization and audiences' interest to death in rapid succession in ever cheaper and worse movies, despite the decent start offered by all too similar pictures in the first few years of the First Wave of science fiction films. Don't blame the mantis for that though. "},{"Title":"Nifty 50's giant monster outing","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A huge prehistoric praying mantis gets unleashed from an iceberg in the Artic and embarks on the expected destructive spree. Shrewd and helpful paleontologist Dr. Nedrick Ned Jackson (a lively and engaging performance by William Hopper) joins forces with the military to find a way to stop the pesky critter. Director Nathan Juran, working from a tight and straightforward script by Martin Berkeley, relates the entertaining story at a steady pace, does a nice job of creating a spooky and mysterious atmosphere in the opening third, maintains a serious tone throughout, and stages the monster attack scenes with real aplomb. This film further benefits from solid acting by an able cast, with especially praiseworthy work by Alix Tilton as perky journalist Marge Blaine, Craig Stevens as the stalwart Col. Joe Parkman, Florenz Ames as the wise Prof. Anton Gunther, and Donald Randolph as the no-nonsense General Mark Ford. The big bug looks pretty gnarly and the climax with the wounded over-sized insect trapped in the Holland Tunnel is both tense and exciting. Ellis W. Carter's sharp cinematography makes neat occasional use of artful fades and dissolves. The robust score by Irving Getz and William Lava does the rousing trick. Best of all, this movie has an earnest quality to it that's impossible to either dislike or resist. A very enjoyable creature feature. "},{"Title":"Watch The Skies - Because There's A Dumb Movie Heading Your Way","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With a film like this you know what to expect - a large bag of pop corn and your brain being left in neutral gear . Science doesn't have to be brought up in a film called THE DEADLY MANTIS but there's still the need for a suspension of disbelief in the storytelling . I don't believe in life on other planets because there's no evidence that there is . That doesn't stop me from being compelled by a television drama from someone like Nigel Kneale because his almost superhuman storytelling technique of spinning an idea out is so intelligent and well done it's impossible not to be caught up in one of his plots . An unexploded bomb being found in London and revealed to be a Martian spaceship is pure fantasy but done so well and with a dramatic realism it's like watching a fly on the wall documentary take place . THE DEADLY MANTIS is an anti-thesis to this From the opening scene the film shoots itself in the foot . A voice over informs us that Northern Canada and the Artic Circle is protected by a ring of radar stations . The Cold War was in full swing and the film has an almost rabidly reactionary edge watching it today , almost as if it's screaming for these damn communists to start something . It also screws up the internal continuity and logic to the movie where the eponymous monster attacks bases and planes and yet it doesn't show up on radar until the story requires it The narrative structure itself is a problem . A base is attacked and a plane brought down but no one except the audience know what's going on . This means the audience are one step ahead of the characters in the movie and are left to twiddle their thumbs until the characters join up the dots . When someone says  Gentlemen we're going nowhere fast  you can't help but nod your head in agreement The classic giant bug film THEM may have also suffered from the same slight problem but that was such an atmospheric film containing moody scenes like the policemen finding the wrecked diner that there was more than enough to hold the audience's attention . Here it isn't and it's not until 33 minutes in to the movie we get to see the giant mantis . As I said continuity is often ignored . For example while attacking a plane earlier in the movie the mantis managed to knock of a chunk of itself but later when it's attacked by rockets and shells it's impervious to them . Let me see a giant mantis can injure itself attacking a plane but something travelling faster than the speed of sound with a warhead of something explosive won't damage it in the slightest ? I know suspension of disbelief is needed but couldn't the screenwriters have thought things through a little more ? Next thing you know they'll be writing a screenplay where a country can protect itself from a zombie attack by building a very high wall There is a market for this type of giant bug sci-fi / horror B movie and I sometimes have affection for these type of films . However to be effective there still needs to be a modicum of intelligence . There's very little in THE DEADLY MANTIS which has a very lazy narrative technique and starting a film by referencing the butterfly effect and Newton's third law doesn't make a dumb film any smarter . There's also a rather militaristic aspect to it but if the American military can't find a giant insect with all their technology how could ever defeat a pre-emptive strike by the Soviets ? "},{"Title":"Pray the Praying Mantis doesn't Squish YOU!","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the main reasons why I personally love Creature-Features from the 50's so much is because they usually begin with extended scientific and philosophical lectures that immediately set an atmospheric mood. Oh, and also because they form the easiest excuse for scriptwriters to justify the events in the film, no matter how absurdly grotesque and far-fetched they are! These movies open with a lovely collection of environmental images whilst a narrator with a firm and serious voice informs us that nature's ways are unfathomable and that modern science has only just begun to unravel some of its oddest mysteries. So, if you want to make a movie about a gigantically over-sized mantis, all you have to do is claim that it's one of nature's many mysteries and you actually get away with it! The Deadly Mantis is a wondrous example of prototypic 50's Sci-Fi and, once again, I totally don't understand why its rating around here is so low. Admittedly the concept is vastly implausible (actually just a blind attempt to copy the success of Them and Tarantula) and the acting performances of the entire cast are laughably wooden, but these are almost fundamental characteristics when talking about B-movies from this decade! Moreover, The Deadly Mantis contains more positive elements than you would anticipate, like professional camera-work and special effects (the giant mantis looks genuinely menacing), fast-pacing (no tedious and dreary sequences like in most contemporary low-budget horror films) and some efficient moments of suspense. The Deadly Mantis starts with an unusually long voice-over, as the narrator doesn't just talk about the mysteries of nature but also elaborates &#150; in great detail &#150; about radar networks in Northern America and Canada. Quite interesting and educational, but not exactly relevant. Following a volcano eruption, a mega-sized mantis awakes after millions of years of being buried in ice and promptly begins to devour random soldiers stationed in a military base in Greenland. The giant bug continues his journey southwards and leaves a trail of hysteria and destruction. The military teams up with eminent palaeontologists for finding methods to destroy the nearly indestructible creature. The Deadly Mantis is a fairly standard and overall forgettable B-movie from the 50's, but it nevertheless guarantees 80 minutes of good fun. Certain sequences are quite inept and clumsily handled (like the mantis attacking the Eskimo village, which almost looks like a Benny Hill sketch without the silly music), but director Nathan Juran nonetheless maintains a reasonable tempo and succeeds in making his main characters amiable. This clearly skillful director moved on to slightly more acclaimed projects after this, like 20 Million Miles to Earth and The 7th Voyage of Sinbad. If you like old-fashioned monster flicks and big bug attack movies, please disregard the negative reviews and give The Deadly Mantis a look. "}{"Title":"This cute little bug?","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Deadly Mantis.If you are a fan of movies from this era and age, then you'll love it. It has all the (cheesy) elements a scientist, a hero, a (screaming!) woman and of course a nasty 50 ft tall critter.In this case, it's a mantis. *crosses out mantis from his list of giant monsters* Didn't had that one yet...I liked this film. Sure, it was sometimes amazingly stupid, but that's part of the charm. I especially would like to describe one, small scene.At some point in the movie, the hero and woman enter a base. It's an isolated base with only males, so they haven't seen a woman in ages. One of the men there starts talking It's a woman... A female woman!Just... wow6 out of 10 stars just for it's sheer classic fun! "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable science fiction 50's movie","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge fan of bug movies.I own this movie and I re-watch it time to time while I am on my computer.Though it does have its flaws and weak moments,I agree the acting and actors could of been better for this.It could of been improved.I haven't seen another mantis bug movie since this one.Hint,Hintmovie producers >).Though I agree it doesn't come close to the much better bug movies of the 50's like Them and Taranula.I have seen worst.If you have young kids that like these kind of movies,but want to stay away from the more modern horror bug movies because of the gore and blood,this one you can enjoy with the whole family and even get some laughs out of it.It does bring memories for me being that I was a kid growing up in the 50's.Enjoyed it and appreciate it for the time period it was made in. "},{"Title":"As Big Bug Movies Go, This One's Pretty Dull","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Half the movie is stock military footage of jets being scrambled, anti-aircraft guns being fired, and so forth. There's even a little lecture, with graphic, about the air-defense radar and jet base installations guarding us from enemy attack.The bug is sort of goofy. In flying shots, it seems immobile except for blurred wings. It does rock forward and back slightly as it flies. You can almost imagine it mumbling contentedly to itself, Doop-de-doop-de-doop, as it moves through the air without any exertion.The acting, direction, writing--what can you say? With creature features you're not talking Citizen Kane, but even so this movie is pretty bad.As in so many creature features, our hero follows the big bug every step of the way, from discovery to combat to alerting the public to leading the final attack in the Manhattan Tunnel. He sure gets around! Also, by being in so many places in such a short time and being multi-skilled to boot, it eliminates need to pay more actors.Unlike the grand-daddy of all big bug movies, Them, this movie does not build a story about the bug acting the way a bug should, only bigger. The mantis roars like a maddened lion, for example. In Them, the writing very cleverly includes real details about ant behavior and then shows it taking place, much to everyone's horror.The best scene is in the tunnel at the end of the movie, as the big bug gasps in its death throes. Suddenly you feel sorry for the guy. Possibly it's the only real drama in the picture. "},{"Title":"Deadly dull","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm usually a sucker for giant creature threatening mankind movies, even if they are dumb in nature and have special effects that look primitive by today's standards. The special effects here are indeed amusing. And unlike many other giant creature movies, the script here tries to be pretty serious and more intellectual. (The sequence where the scientists gather the clues and concludes what they are facing is pretty engaging.) Unfortunately, The Deadly Mantis makes of the greatest sins a movie makes - most of it is deadly dull. The opening doesn't spark audience interest, and as the movie progresses, you soon realize that the story is barely moving along. Speaking of speed, it's never explained why the mantis barely moves in some scenes, while in other scenes it moves really quickly. There are other goofs like flipping around stock footage of jet aircraft (you can see the jets' aircraft serial numbers are backwards), and extremely fake snow. And the mantis monster is neither amusing nor scary to behold. I know most people seem to like this movie, but it just didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"The Deadly Boring Mantis.","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An over-sized prehistoric preying mantis&#x97;trapped for millions of years in ice at the North pole&#x97;is released by seismic activity and proceeds to make its way south (to New York, of course), attacking US defence stations and military aircraft along the way. It's up to Col. Joe Parkman (Craig Stevens) to save the day, with a little help from paleontologist Ned Jackson (William Hopper) and his plucky assistant Marge Blaine (Alix Talton).I had the 70s Aurora model kit based on this monster movie when I was a kid; it featured a cityscape diorama in which the mantis stood proudly over several crushed cars; now, 35 years later, I've finally caught up with the movie, and am pleased to say that the model they used for filming was far better than the one I built (try as I might, I would always get in a mess with the cement). But even though the big bug is well realised&#x97;a nicely detailed marionette with glowing eyes&#x97;the film itself leaves much to be desired it takes an absolute age to get going, there's an over-reliance on stock footage to pad out the action, and the script is extremely talky.Worse still, despite its terrifying appearance, the mantis proves to be a huge embarrassment to the atomic-era big bug fellowship, a lightweight in the chomping department, failing to chalk up the requisite number of human victims during its long journey south, and equally crap in the stomping department having flown all the way to New York (suspended on clearly visible wires), the big bug neglects to go on a rampage in the streets like any self-respecting B-movie monster, instead opting to hide in the Manhattan Tunnel where a few well-aimed cans of pesticide soon put paid to his antics. Rather pathetic, eh? "},{"Title":"A good premise gone wrong....","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here we go with another truly terrible movie.This one fails in every possible way. First of all it should have been called The Giant Mantis,how did that not happen? For some reason the main characters are paleontologists.They are brought in to try to identify a piece of the mantis that has broken off but they become the focus and we are thrown into their lives,which have nothing to do with the story. The female paleontologist holds up a picture of a squid(with the word squid written under it)and calls it a jellyfish. They call a military outpost in Canada and the guy does a horrible British accent(no doubt because no one in America has any idea what a Canadian sounds like). Anyway,we never see the full mantis on screen unless it's flying and then it's very dark and blurry. It can fly 200mph but prefers to trudge along the ground like a snail.Exactly halfway through the movie they start having fog or smoke in every scene to obscure the mantis.It's truly pathetic. A fighter jet crashes into the mantis and you can clearly see that it goes behind it.The pilot ejects and it takes 10 seconds for the cockpit to open then he slowly drifts out as the jet continues to go straight ahead. It cuts straight to firemen pumping smoke into the Manhattan Tunnel.They have decided the best way to deal with a monster that smashes buildings and eats people is to send guys on foot to throw land mines at it. Garbage. "},{"Title":"Good Popcorn Stuffer","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Better than average 50's sci-fi, thanks mainly to producer Alland, who put together such drive-in gems as Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) and This Island Earth (1953), to name a couple. This creature feature doesn't reach that level but is very well mounted and acted. The use of arctic scenes combined with well-constructed sets gives the setting more believability than usual. Plus, we get not just one leading man, but two. Both of which went on to successful TV careers&#x97;Hopper and Stevens.The plot is pretty standard. A thawed out giant mantis decides to wreck what it can of human civilization and dine on those responsible. Needless to say, the Air Force and its citizen allies take a dim view of such anti-social antics, but the flying insect is tough to incinerate, especially when our pilots look like they need more target practice. Anyway, you can guess the outcome, especially when the comely, but slightly stiff Alix Talton, serves as a prize.Unfortunately the monster element suffers from two drawbacks. First, it's ugly as heck but not especially fearsome. The script should have shown it doing something really bad to an unfortunate human, then we could really loathe not just its looks but also what it does. The script depends too much on ugly close-ups to really instill fear. Nonetheless, the special effects are really quite well done.All in all, it's a drive-in feature I would have actually paid to see instead of using a buddy's car trunk. And, oh yes, to those folks finding fault with the technical details--- who is it, anyway, that goes to movies to be educated. Hollywood has never let fact stand in the way of story, good or bad. "},{"Title":"Big Bug Formula Soldiers On","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Something strange is happening in remote areas of the Arctic. An Air Force weather station is found wrecked, its occupants missing. An Eskimo village is destroyed. A fishing vessel disappears. Curious spoors are found in the snow. A four-foot piece of a living organism is found near a destroyed airplane. The piece looks like half of the claw of a giant Alaskan crab. The military (Craig Stevens as an Air Force officer) and its experts are baffled. A distinguished scientist (William Hopper) and his pretty assistant (Alix Taltan) are called in from New York. Hopper deduces from this flimsy evidence that they are dealing with a monstrous praying mantis. He's right. The pretty assistant happens to look out the window of the office and sees the hideous face with its bulging eyeballs staring in at her. She drops what she's carrying, claps her hands to her cheeks, and screams in horror.The mantis begins flying South along the Gulf Stream, pausing now and again to attack major population centers like Washington and New York to overturn buses and eat people. Military weapons don't affect it much but finally Stevens crashes into it in his jet fighter and mortally damages the beast, which comes to earth and occupies the Manhattan Tunnel linking New York and New Jersey.Stevens, having survived the collision, leads his team into the tunnel and kills the big bug with 3RG mines despite its fierce appearance, threatening behavior, and earth-shattering roars. Stevens and Taltan kiss in front of the body while Hopper chuckles and takes their picture.Ho hum.Like the deadly mantis itself, the formula by this time was panting and gasping for air, flopping around, seeking as its prey not human beings but anything at all in the way of a fresh or original idea. As it is, they overlooked one cliché. Hopper should have hurriedly had to invent a Super Duper DDT that, alone, could defeat the insect. That's what the 3RG mines should have been filled with, rather than ordinary explosive.The model work is pretty good, considering what the budget must have been. Not much money could have been spent on anything else because everything else is pretty routine. Craig Stevens is bland, a face and style made for a TV series. William Hopper looks right -- tall and silver haired -- but his instrument has only one note. The pretty assistant is rather plain, considering her role. The part calls for Joan Weldon or Laurie Nelson. They couldn't act either but carried with them slight but distinct intimations of molestibility. Anything would have helped this fagged-out movie.I wish the deadly mantis hadn't roared so loudly and so often because you can't roar -- you can't even whisper -- if you don't have lungs. I didn't mind, though, when the monster met its demise in the tunnel. A praying mantis is a graceful insect in its own spindly way and it's great to have them in the garden because they eat caterpillars and whatnot. But when you get right down to it, they aren't really very appealing. The male mantis is smaller and weaker than the female, as in humans, and when the couple are just about through copulating, the female bites the head off the male, also as in humans. But at least human males know when to stop. The male mantis keeps on copulating for several minutes even though he is now without a head. We humans don't have mindless males copulating with goal-driven females. Do we? "},{"Title":"Missing scene?","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Am I missing something? I haven't seen the movie in years and on the VHS copy I recently purchased there seems to be missing footage. I could be wrong but when the Mantis is downed by those fighter jets over Newark and Col. Parkman bails out of his plane after it is struck by the Mantis, immediately the next scene cuts to the I assume the smoky Holland Tunnel entrance the smoke being used to camouflage the soldiers going into the tunnel. Does anyone remember if there was a scene of the creature landing and going into the tunnel as well as some discussion of a strategy to lay down some smoke before entering the tunnel. I guess I just want to be sure that the copy I purchased of this movie is not incomplete. "},{"Title":"Kinda stupid, but a lot of fun","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is a guilty pleasure. After all, smart people don't watch movies about giant bugs that terrorize the Earth! But, despite the high cheese factor of this movie, you can't help but enjoy it on a camp level. Frankly, where there are many shortcomings to this film, it is solidly entertaining and fun.The film's plot isn't all that important. It's a giant bug versus the Earth sorta thing. However, the giant bug looks awfully good for 1957 and aside from an over-extensive use of stock footage (something most people can easily spot and is easy to hate), the film is technically well made. It has most of the usual clichés of this sort of movie--such as the sexy lady and the obligatory triumph at the end. But, because Universal Studios played it so straight, it works.My advice is NOT to watch this in front of people you want to impress--they will no doubt think you are an idiot for watching such a film. But, by all means watch it--you'll have a good time. "}{"Title":"The Deadly Mantis","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A volcanic eruption near the Antarctic circle causes an after-effect which triggers the release of a gigantic Prehistoric praying mantis, enclosed in ice centuries ago, in the Arctic circle. An outpost(Weather Shack) of a dew line radar system set up around the North Pole, is the first of many attacks by the flesh-eating insect(..with an insatiable appetite)which can leap, fly, and walk making it a dangerous and deadly threat to human civilization. A C-47 plane and an Eskimo village become other targets before Colonel Parkman(Craig Stevens), authority over a radar Interceptor base for the Dew Line(Red Eagel 1, Sentinel of the Arctic)built as a distant early warning system to cease sneak attacks by other hostile countries, and Dr. Nedrick Jackson, curator of the Department of Paleontology of the Museum of Natural History and chief scientist in his field, are called to stop the monster before it poses an even deadlier threat to the United States during it's suggested path of a more tropic climate of South America. General Ford(Donald Randolph)of the Pentagon hopes they can stop it as the praying mantis sets it's sights on Washington. The closing of the film is the mantis' attacks on Washington before a showdown in the Manhattan tunnel between it against Parkman and his men.While the low IMDb rating of 3.3 perplexes me, I'm guessing that a modern audience will find it hard to accept the monster for this movie. It's not as realistic as the Harryhausen creations, but if you are a die-hard fan of these types of creature features, then The Deadly Mantis will provide a decent amount of entertainment. I thought the dialogue was literate and intelligent..those who wrote the script weren't numskulls. The flick has a serious tone and is handled very matter-of-fact, and I think this can only help considering the hokey monster created on screen. You might call The Deadly Mantis a second-tier creature feature, as it doesn't have the qualities of much better sci-fi/horror giant insect outings such as Them or Tarantula. Still, I think the cast is fine in their roles, enhancing the dialogue, bringing a bit of respectability to this B-movie item. I've seen a hell of a lot worse movies than this and, at the very least, the film uses stock footage well, juxtaposing it within the film rather seamlessly. Only major problem I had was that no insect, no matter how huge, could sustain the attacks of bullet-fire, missiles, and a flamethrower, not to mention the mini-mines used in the tunnel at the end. My favorite scene was the climax in the tunnel as the men try to stop the mantis as it emerges from the smoke. The special effects are a detriment that are awfully hard to overcome, specifically in the age of CGI. Alix Talton is Marge, a magazine photographer working with Jackson and the military, and a love-interest of Col. Parkman. "},{"Title":"A Trash Classic","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so it isn't high-art 50's sci-fi like The Thing From Another World or The Day The Earth Stood Still...it isn't even Earth Girls Are Easy, but it's worth watching just for the sheer fun of the exercise.  My favorite parts are when the critter roars like a lionasaurus (my own invention) and flies through the air with its little (!) claws together.  Best thrill scene is the one with the big blonde (her horror!) at the bus stop.  It stars hunky Craig Stevens and William Hopper & the first part plays like a rip-off of The Thing.  Hilarious at nearly every turn; no wonder Hopper & Stevens spent the rest of their careers on the small screen. "},{"Title":"Watch Out!","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Nathan Juran directed this reasonably effective monster yarn that sees a giant prehistoric preying mantis being accidentally freed from its arctic glacier tomb to kill and terrorize first the local population, then the world. A knowledgeable informed scientist(played by William Hopper) and a determined Army Col.(played by Craig Stevens) lead the fight to defeat the deadly mantis, before the human population is extinct... Although the plot is familiar(The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms comes to mind) and characters unmemorable, the model F/X of the giant mantis are quite good, with tense direction and good pace(only slowing down for the obligatory romantic subplot with Alix Tilton). Exciting tunnel climax compensates in this OK thriller. "},{"Title":"Momma Mia! It headed straight for us!","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** The movie The Deadly Mantis has the identical storyline of that of The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms. In that the big bug has been frozen alive in an arctic glacier and released by a violent geological shift, in the case of the Beast a nuclear explosion, under the earth's surface.Coming to life the mantis starts to fly south in search of food that's almost nonexistence in the arctic's frozen wasteland. Attacking boats planes and even an Eskimo village on its trip it's not until Washingto D.C Museum of Natural History paleontologist Dr. Nedrick Ned Jacksonn, William Hooper, positively identifies a broken off five foot appendage of the mysterious creature as that of a praying mantis that the USAF and Army goes into action in trying to bring the big bug down! That's before it destroys everything that's in its path on its flight down south! Which includes Boston Philadelphia Washington D.C and finally the Big Apple itself the city of New York ! After the mantis was injured in an air to air combat confrontation with a USAF combat jet it hid itself inside the Holland Tunnel in New York City where the final battle between man and mantis was to take place in the movie. A battle that the very fate of mankind's existence hinged on with the US Army using it's most deadly and destructive WMD, Weapon of Mass Destruction, in its entire arsenal A super powerful bug-bomb that it kept under lock and key as a last resort to finally stop and kill the thing!Despite it's gigantic and threatening size, some 200 feet long, the deadly mantis was more comical then scary. On the ground the big bug could barley walk and just slumped along barley being able to stand up straight. It's as if the mantis was still suffering from the frostbite that some 2,000,000 years of being frozen in ice caused it. When airborne the mantis seemed to be immune to rocket and missile attacks from attacking USAF jet planes, even knocking down a number of them, but for some reason a USAF pilot got a lucky shot at it and ended up bringing it down! That's after dozens of other rocket attacks had absolutely no effect on the mantis. It was also puzzling why the mantis choose to barricade itself in of all places the sealed off, from the both New York and New Jersey side, Holland Tunnel when it has so many other and safer places to hide in!P.S The most interesting thing in the movie was the face of the mantis itself that in the many closeups of the bug looks exactly like the descriptions and drawings of alien, with their wrap around eyes, from other space by those who claimed to have been kidnapped by them! "},{"Title":"Who's praying now?","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who likes 1950s flicks about giant insects is sure to love The Deadly Mantis, about a member of the order Mantodea who gets released from his arctic dwelling and proceeds to wreak havoc on Canada and the United States. Although it's interesting to hear the humans have scientific discussions about what kind of an animal this might be, the big guy remains the star. As is typical in these movies, the obvious phoniness of the insect -- along with the campy soundtrack -- is what makes the movie really enjoyable. A very hokey movie, but one that you definitely gotta admire. This overgrown bug is truly a mant'* of war! (pardon the pun) PS William Hopper was Dennis Hopper's cousin, and played Natalie Wood's father in Rebel without a Cause. Also, director Nathan Juran is best known for Attack of the 50 Foot Woman.*Mant was actually the title of the movie-within-a-movie in Joe Dante's Matinee, in which a producer (John Goodman) brings a movie about a man turning into an ant to Key West, Florida, during the Cuban Missile Crisis. "},{"Title":"Mostly Just Boring, and a Lot of Nonsense","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A giant prehistoric praying mantis, recently freed from the Arctic ice, voraciously preys on American military at the Dew Line and works its way south.This film is just bad. I like the map in the beginning, but after that it gets cheesy. Why is there a giant praying mantis? I mean, you know, just one? And why is it at the North Pole? And why did they steal footage from S.O.S. Eisberg (1933) to show Eskimos fleeing? If you like seeing a big bug fly across the sky for 80 minutes, this is your film. But, for me, it just was not as good as many of the other big animal pictures out there... it was not menacing, and really made no sense. The scientific attempt to explain it? Non-existent! "},{"Title":"THE DEADLY MANTIS (Nathan Juran, 1957) **1/2","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal was known to milk its formulas dry and, so, we had this middling return to TARANTULA (1955) territory &#x96; itself inspired by the superior THEM! (1954); in all fairness to them, other studios also contributed to what came to be known as 'atomic monster' cycle &#x96; such as Allied Artists' ATTACK OF THE CRAB MONSTERS, Warners' THE BLACK SCORPION and United Artists' THE MONSTER THAT CHALLENGED THE WORLD; coincidentally, all three were released the same year as the film under review and I guess I should mention that the first and third will also be included in this year's Halloween challenge. Anyway, this is yet another William Alland production and, as was his fashion, gives a documentary feel to the proceedings; alas, this only resulted in a deadly sic first half &#x96; especially since there was no one among the bland (and anonymous) principals with whom to empathize...and, what is even worse, the obligatory love interest feels particularly intrusive here! However, once the creature turns up, it becomes your standard 'bug' movie with much the expected mayhem and thrills and, therefore, fairly entertaining if hardly surprising (down to the climax where the mantis is cornered inside a tunnel). It is a big plus, then, that the design of the monster here is pretty good &#x96; looking appropriately menacing in close-up. By the way, this is another title issued by Universal in their second DVD set of Sci-Fi 'Classics' and one that I opted to acquire through ulterior sources (in fact, the copy I ended up with did not even seem to be culled from this latest edition &#x96; unlike CULT OF THE COBRA 1955; another upcoming viewing, THE LAND UNKNOWN 1957 and THE LEECH WOMAN 1960). "},{"Title":"Decent 50's creature feature.","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Deadly Mantis starts as a Volcano erupts somewhere in the Southern Hemisphere which has an opposite reaction as a Glacier melts in the Northern Hemisphere releasing a huge Praying Mantis from it's icy rest place, after it thaws out it decides to fly to a warmer climate. En-route it attacks several American military bases & planes which brings the giant insect to the attention of the American army, they call in palaeontologist Dr. Nedrick 'Ned' Jackson (William Hopper) who advises them on the best way to destroy the killer Mantis as it continues it's rampage across modern day America...Directed by Nathan Juran The Deadly Mantis is another giant bug creature feature from the 50's, after the likes of Tarantula (1955) & Them! (1954) some bright spark decided to make a film about one of the few fearsome insects left the Praying Mantis. Unsurprisingly the idea didn't take off & to date this remains the only film to feature a Praying Mantis as it's main monster. Anyway, the script by Martin Berkeley is a little slim. The explanation given for this huge Mantis is that it had been frozen in a Glacier millions of years ago when such creatures were common, that's pretty thin stuff & I'm surprised Berkeley didn't use the old 'bug mutated to giant proportions because of Atomic Radiation' which was the common cause for giant monsters during the 50's & 60's much like genetic experimentation is now the modern standard equivalent. Also I find it very hard that the US Army could 'lose' a huge giant Praying Mantis, surely once they have it locked on radar they would be able to follow & track it indefinitely even back in the late 50's? Get over the extremely simplistic plot then one has to say The Deadly Mantis isn't too bad a film at all, sure it has all the problems one associates with these cheap monster films from the 50's but it moves along at a decent pace, at less than 80 minutes it's short, the character's are alright, the film builds up to a good climax & there's just about enough monster action to keep ones interest maintained.Director Juran made several of this type of monster film including 20 Million Miles to Earth (1957), The Brian from Planet Arous (1957) & The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) along with numerous episodes from TV show's such as World of Giants (1959), Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea (1965 - 1966), The Time Tunnel (1967), Lost in Space (1965 - 1968) & Land of the Giants (1968 - 1970) with The Deadly Mantis being his first. He does alright & the film is well made although there's a lot of stock footage, in fact the first ten minutes is probably 95% stock footage. The Mantis effects are not too bad, in the 50's there would be guy's in rubber monster suits, photographically enlarged real creatures or puppet effects & the Mantis is almost entire puppet work. This gives the appearance of the Mantis actually being in the location which it is supposed to be but also means you can tell it's attacking toy cars & the like. I also think I spotted one use of a real Mantis as it climbs up the side of a scale model of some building in Washington. To be fair the effects aren't too bad at all, sure they can't even hope to compare to todays multi million dollar CGI computer effects but they serve their purpose well enough & it helps that Juran films a lot of the model sequences in & around mist & smoke which helps.Technically the film is fine, it's functional & looks alright even if it isn't going to win any awards. The black and white cinematography is OK & helps make the special effects look a bit better than they probably were. The acting is alright, it's not quite as stiff & awkward as a lot of 50's monster films. I am reliably informed the Craig Stevens who appeared in this wasn't the same Craig Stevens who won medals at the 2002 Olympic's in Atens for swimming!The Deadly Mantis is better than the usual giant bug creature features from the 50's although not by much & it still has all the same problems that plague this type of thing. Interestingly the IMDb states that The Deadly Mantis (1966) was subsequently edited down to 9 minutes (!) to make an affordable movie for home use! Presumably on 8mm film to be played on a projector? I can't imagine The Deadly Mantis being edited down to 9 minutes though, I doubt it played very well! "},{"Title":"There is no more deadly or voracious creature than the Preying Mantis.","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Deadly Mantis is another of the big bug sci-fi movies that the studios were putting out in the 1950s. While these movies have a lot in common, not all big bug movies were created equally. Even though The Deadly Mantis does have a point or two in its favor (special effects, etc.), overall it's just not as good as similar movies. One problem is the lack of originality. The Deadly Mantis comes toward the end of big bug cycle. The better movies of this type had already been made. When you consider the number of other big animal movies that were made in the 1950s, it's little wonder why The Deadly Mantis doesn't feel very original. It's the same tired plot line that was pulled out and used over and over &#150; a giant mantis destroys a few buildings, kills a few helpless citizens, and generally terrorizes a populace. If you were to substitute the mantis for the tarantula and the Arctic for the desert, The Deadly Mantis and Tarantula become very similar movies.Another real problem is the first 15 or so minutes of the movie. It's pure, Grade-A, unadulterated U.S. government propaganda. I've read that the U.S. wanted to make sure that the Soviets knew that the country's northern border with Canada was more than adequately protected against a surprise attack across the North Pole. So for what seems to be a good portion of the movie, we're treated to maps of Canada's northern most territory, a voice droning on about the hard work of building and maintaining the radar stations, and a variety of stock footage. While it's reasonably interesting in that 50s Red Scare sort of way, it does nothing for the movie.So, if you really want to see a big bug movie from the 50s, check out either Them! or Tarantula. While The Deadly Mantis certainly isn't the worst movie you'll ever see, there are much better examples of this genre available to be watched. "},{"Title":"I'm sure this guy knows all about the term 'dishonorable discharge'","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Thirty per cent of this movie appears to be the prototype for the Map Channel. You see a giant map for about ten minutes, then they unleash the stock footage big time while droning(droning, get it?)on about radar. Apparently there's a lot of radar stations in the far north, protecting North America's borders from attacks by deadly polar bears. The bears never show up, but a giant Mantis does. It was frozen in the ice for over a million years or so, until it was released by an earthquake somewhere else in the world(yeah, right. For my money, it was released by global warming). It is a huge prehistoric insect, and it needs lots of food. Since there aren't any cows in the frozen north, it decides to feast on the most bovine-like creatures it can find up there. I.E., human beings. It starts attacking radar stations, probably because the humming from the radar dishes was getting on its nerves.Enter Col. Joe Parkman, the resident smarmy guy of the film. He's investigating a plane that went down, and is puzzled why there are no bodies in the wreckage. The only thing he finds is one of the claws of the Mantis. Apparently it decided to trim its nails while it was snacking on the plane's crew. Parkman takes the claw tip back with him to be analyzed by a thousand year old scientist.Grandpa scientist can't make heads or tails of the claw, mostly because he's missed his naps so his mind isn't functioning too well. So he calls in a smug paleontologist played by the guy who was the P.I. in Perry Mason. He and his friend, a transvestite photographer, fly north because he's decided that the claw must have come from a Praying Mantis. Just one the size of a commuter train.It's Luke warm love at first sight when Col.Parkman first sets eyes on the she-male photographer. The men at the base, obviously having been deprived for many years, think she's the hottest thing to come along since Granny Clampett. Smug science guy and smarmy soldier guy start working together to track the path of the Mantis, which has devastated some stock footage of an Eskimo village. It comes to the base looking for an after dinner snack, and crushes some cheap sets quite effectively. Then it flies south and disappears.Now comes the tense hours when the civilian ground observer core are called on to sweep the skies looking for anything large flying overhead. I doubt that in reality they would have been told that they were looking for a giant flying mantis that eats human beings, since that would haver caused a panic. Probably they were told to look for a giant 727 that was painted green and hummed because its engine was out of tune.Col. Parkman goes up in a plane to try to shoot the Mantis down, and botches the mission. The Mantis lands in New York City, probably because it wanted to take in a show on Broadway or visit Sex World in Times Square. The army corners it in the Tunnel, and Parkman and his men don stupid suits that they borrowed from the Orkin Man to go in and try to blow the Mantis up. Success! Well, almost, since the Mantis is still twitching enough that it almost kills the mannish Eve Arden photographer lady. There's a tepid love scene at the end, and the paleontologist takes a picture of the dead mantis because Colonel Hair Grease and Ms. Gender Unspecified are busy smooching. So kind of a nauseating ending. "}{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    This film ranks as a low mark for Universal-International who made some of the most entertaining science fiction movies in the 1950's. The cast walks through their roles. The special effects are quite poor. The idea of a giant preying mantis is a good one. A preying mantis is very interesting, and to many people, a very creepy insect. Yet from watching this film, it looks as though no one connected with this film ever saw one. The preying mantis just lumbers around stepping on people like Godzilla. To bad the makers of this film didn't feature a giant preying mantis that behaves like a preying mantis, now that might of been effective. Universal probably did not care about making good science fiction anymore by the time this film was made. Note that they handed the directorial chores to hack Nathan Juran and not to their house science fiction movie director Jack Arnold, who knew his way around these kind of pictures. The only good thing about this movie is William Lava's score and the final sequence inside the Lincon Tunnel, which shows some signs of visual flair.   By the way, if  I may use this review as a chance to sound off a bit. When reading users reviews of these old horror films, I WILL IMMEDIATELY SKIP OVER ANY REVIEW THAT MENTIONS MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000. It is a sure sign that a person has nothing objective, informed  intelligent or original to say. Sorry, if that makes me uncool, to bad. "},{"Title":"A good ol' bad movie.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A giant praying Mantis attacks a City. Okay special effects, campy music and hokey dialogue make this a must-see for fans of bad movies. "},{"Title":"what a joke","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hope that, when they made this movie, they were laughing as hard as I was. The sets were cheesy, the file-footage of the eskimos paddling away from the mantis in their kayaks was so amateurish, and the mantis itself looked like something a sixth-grade class could have fabricated for their float in the school parade.  And what was it with Marge and Col. Parkman mugging for the camera at the end of the movie--just a few feet away from the recently killed beast in the tunnel?  Earlier they did the same thing in the car while the beast was supposed to be nearby.  This was clearly a movie so bad that it was good (to laugh at). "},{"Title":"Hmmm...Giant Bug. William Hopper. Works for me.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another one of those MSTK3 specials from the '50s, this one is basically the same thing as the Giant Claw or Tarantula, safe for the stock footage of the eskimos(obviously much older vintage than this!), the air force stuff and whatever too. I didn't mind watching this though-its fun if yer in the mood. They needed a giant fly swatter I think.** for the effort. "},{"Title":"Not a Lot of Bite","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I got hold of a discount copy of this. I had seen it several years ago. My only recent experience had been Mystery Science Theatre where it was soundly spoofed. One never really gets a chance to get into these movies because of all the byplay. I love the beginnings of fifties horror movies. They give us a pompous lecture on the defense systems near the Arctic. These were there to protect us from the expected Soviet invasion, but they should come in handy, given the threat of very large insects. This particular one flies. For some reason, despite its exoskeleton made of the stuff grasshoppers are made of, they can still fend off air to air missiles and disable fighter planes. Anyway, it's more fun--first, the obligatory deranged case who saw the flying thing, cooling his heels in a hospital (it just teaches one--see an insect as big as a house--keep your mouth shut). I wonder if the poor guy got to go home after they found the bug.Otherwise, this is a pretty ordinary effort. It follows the usual efforts to come up with a way of dissuading the stubborn bug--and leaves us open to other possibilities--the Russians next time. I still get a kick out of these films and this one is serviceable. "},{"Title":"'sects in the city","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So you're a giant mantis and you've been hanging out in the arctic for a while, and you're tired of Eskimos hitting you with snowballs.  What's a giant mutant insect to do?  Head for the big city, of course!  See the sights, maybe catch a show on Broadway.  But wait!  Just when you find a nice cozy tunnel to call your own, some pesky humans start attacking you!!  Argh!  Time to smash!Anyhow this movie is one step up on most other giant bug movies, because it has pretty decent FX for 1957.  But that's about it.  Avoid unless you really need to see another big bug smash things, or see another Perry Mason actor in a B movie.4/10 "},{"Title":"What We Really Need Is A Great Big Windshield","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" THE DEADLY MANTIS certainly won't scare any one, but as sci-fi programmers go it is better than most. A volcanic eruption at the south pole thaws out a giant, prehistoric preying mantis at the north pole. Military men go missing. Dr. Ned (William Hopper--Hedda Hopper's son and best known as Paul Drake on television's PERRY MASON) is called in to i.d. the creature--but by this time the creature has eaten up several Eskimo and is en route to the Washington Monument.About a third or more of the film consists of stock footage old government educational films, military men in radar rooms, air planes--and would you believe Eskimos putting out to sea? Which explains, of course, why a tribe of Eskimo is attacked in the movie. (Hey, Guys! Think we can work this in?) Mix in some negligible special effects, some clunky dialogue, and some sexist attitudes and you're good to go. Not as original as THE MONSTER THAT CHALLENGED THE WORLD, but fans of 1950s big bug schlock will enjoy it--and the kids will have a good time throwing popcorn at the screen.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Where's a can of Raid when you need one?","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Without question, this is one of the worst of Universal's many sci-fi flicks of the 1950's. Considering that Universal gave us It Came From Outer Space, The Creature From The Black Lagoon and The Incredible Shrinking Man, this one not only fails to meet the standards set by the aforementioned classics, it looks almost as if it were made by AIP or some other cheapie outfit. In fact, the Eskimo scenes were taken from a 1933 film called SOS Iceberg. The most memorable thing about this stinker is Alix Talton's haircut--really awful, even for the 1950's! "},{"Title":"Ludicrous 1950s schlock SciFi  B-movie","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Other commenters have described this movie as classic 1950s SciFi with clever use of stock footage and documentary footage, and clever character interaction.Nothing could be further from the truth.Yes, this is classic 1950s SciFi...but 1950s SciFi at its most blindingly stupid worst.Consider that the Mantis's first prey is a radar station shown first from the air, then on the ground... but the station is (from the air) pictured as on a mountaintop, with snow on one side and semi-cleared dark ground on the other side, but when (on the ground) investigators visit the site, it's suddenly on a flat, evenly white plain, miles from the nearest mountain.Consider also, the ludicrous pseudo-scientific babble of the highly-recommended expert who is brought in to examine a huge claw. He says Well, we know one thing... it can't have come from an animal, because every known species of animal has a bony skeleton. Even reptiles and birds have bones. He then goes on to say that some creatures ...snails, shellfish, insects... do not have bony skeletons. Excuuuuuse me ? Let's define animal, here. Not even in the 1950s could anyone over the age of six take this man as an expert in biology, since he clearly doesn't know what an animal is, nor have the ability to name several broad categories of animals who lack bony skeletons (sharks, rays, jellyfish, insects, mollusks, arthropods, gastropods, sponges, arachnids, echinoderms....you get the idea.) The characters are cardboard, 2D stock types... scientist, sidekick girlfriend, big bad monster. Nothing here shows any sense of creativity. No pulse, no life signs.There're no witty dialogs, the special effects are silly even for their time, and the stock footage is employed with a reckless disregard for continuity. This is B-movie making at its dead worst, with a production crew that clearly couldn't be bothered to try even halfheartedly.Use sparingly, as sleeping medicine or punishment for small children who're easily offended by bad science. "},{"Title":"Slow start and not a fast finisher.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts by showing you a map and then explaining radar and it is quite awhile before you ever see the deadly mantis. Probably a better movie in the 50's this dated piece is a bit to slow moving and the pay off in the end isn't very good. Though it has its moments like when the guy from Perry Mason argues with an old man and when he says I have narrowed the possibilities to one excuse me, but when you narrow something down you have a couple or more possibilities not one...if you get it down to one you haven't narrowed it down, but you have in fact figured out what it is. The monster is standard 50's sci-fi fair, better than say the grasshoppers in the Beginning of the End. Acting is sub-par and the heroine is the most unattractive...in fact in some shots she does look like a guy in drag. You see plenty of fighter plane stock footage and other things, but you won't see much at all of the deadly mantis. "}{"Title":"Bad","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Deadly Mantis isn't the worst movie of all time and in fact much better than many of the movies shown on MST3K. But it is still filled with many flaws and bad effects even by 1950s standards. This is one of those horror movies that came around because of the atomic age (like Godzilla). MST3K makes this much more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A Make-out movie for nerds.....","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *might be a spoiler, I'm not sure LOL* I truly love this movie. Both the MST3K version and the original. In fact, this is me and my fiance's make out movie - anyone who's watched the MST3K version know why.....Colonel Feelgood......But I've got a mantis in my pan-tis........Ah, truly a wonderful piece of 50's giant monster hysteria. Also, the most hilariously droll acting ever seen, as performed by the lackey on Perry Mason. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Of MST3K","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"      I saw this giant bug movie for the first time when I was a kid and felt rather indifferent to it. After all, I was more into ghosts and vampires,but today I would have to say that it is among the best in the roster of MST3K episodes, those guys always did the best jokes with monster an Sci-Fi movies. The movie's premise is out of left field a giant mantis from before the dinosaurs is thawed out from inside an iceberg and traces its migratory path unaware of how much time has passed. Munching on people and anything else it can get into its mouth, it looks rather good, but the scale and size of it varies as per the scenery and the script. The end is almost a classic, but it doesn't measure up to the magnitude of King Kong. "},{"Title":"Ironically, their insurance only covers destruction by giant arachnids.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was actually much better than most of the turkies which are given the MST3K treatment. But that's not to say that it doesn't have it's cheesy moments.  For instance, just WHO is the hero meant to be? Is it Joe the army guy or Ned the scientist? I mean Marge starts a romance with Joe very quickly, especially considering that she and Ned are meant to be old friends!  The Mantis itself looks ridiculous, but then again, this was '50's sci-fi movie, what did you expect?  Still makes for humourous viewing. "},{"Title":"Better than most, but still pretty cheap","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this film made me wonder, just why was Universal putting out films like this?  They had a wonderful string of films with all the classic horror films.  The dawning of the atomic age brought on an onslaught of giant creature films.  Spiders, ants, praying mantis'.  With The Deadly Mantis, we have a giant praying mantis flying around the arctic, scaring eskimos, and being hounded by the armed forces.  The bug reaches a tunnel in New York where the soldiers eventually destroy it.  Of course, this is all made much more watchable by viewing it on MST.  Who thought it was a good idea to start the film out by showing a giant map? "}]