[{"Title":"Transcendental","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"85 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The best sci/fi movie of the 50s. It's different from most others in that it has a theme; it's not just a series of scary and threatening events. The smaller Scott Carey gets, the braver and more resourceful he becomes. As he shrinks, he reaches a kind of spiritual enlightenment.The only sour note (besides the special effects, which may seem primitive by today's digital standards, but which I, as an 8-year-old in 1957, seeing this for the first time, thought were astounding) is the scene with the Little People. The metaphor of you are as big as you feel is laid on pretty thick, and that particular set of special effects (especially that big coffee cup Clarice drinks out of) didn't fool me, even as an 8-year-old. Incidentally, up until recently, TV showings of this movie usually cut that scene out, although the names of the actors who played the Little People were left in the end of movie credits.However, the point is well taken, and Scott realizes that as his physical size decreases, his mental and spiritual powers are increasing. The final scenes are a testament to Transcendentalism. For example, Scott says in the narration that he no longer hates the spider who has been threatening him during his imprisonment in the cellar. He understands that it has as much right to survive as he has. In Transcendental terms, he is saying that existence is neither good nor evil, it simply is. (Do people in California really have tarantulas in their cellars?) The wonderful last scene, where Scott (the absolutely gorgeous Grant Williams), bruised, battered, exhausted, looks up at the heavens and is no longer afraid, is one of the most empowering scenes in all cinema. This man has been so beaten down by fate that he is literally disappearing, and yet he affirms existence, and resolutely continues to move forward to whatever that next plane of existence may be. This ending is a far cry from the usual finales of sci/fi films of the 50s, where destruction is generally the resolution of the crisis. Here, there is no destruction, only transcendence. I never get tired of this film. "},{"Title":"Incredible indeed.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"68 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Along with invasion of the body snatchers(1956) forbidden planet(1956) and the fly (1958),the best movie sci-fi offered in the fifties.Richard Matheson's remarkable novel was adapted by himself,thus the movie is an accurate rendition.Differences are kept to the minimum,and are probably due to censorshipone character,the pedophile,who wants to take the hero to his home has been removed and the relationship with Clarice remains platonic.Besides,Matheson focuses here on the second part of his novel,which takes place in the basement.The special effects are absolutely stunning for the time ,but what's the most extraordinary is that they take a back seat to the hero's frames of mindthe voice-over is never redundant and Matheson's brilliant lines,a thousand miles above the B-movie level,perfectly convey his hero's plight.Arachnophobia(1990),with a much more comfortable budget pales into insignificance when you've seen Grant Williams'fight with the spider.The doll house,the scenes with the midgets,the metaphysical final are as awesome today as they were half a century ago.Do not miss the cast and credits at the beginning either. During its second half,except for the voice-over,the movie is almost silent and Jack Arnold sustains the interest with only one character.With its inexorable progression -the hero slowly becoming on his own-,its first-class screenplay and a fine direction by Jack Arnold,who could ask for a remake? This movie and the three I mention above are genuine classics,they have in common fears hidden in collective unconscious. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Sci-Fi","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"59 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Instead of the typical blood and gore screaming sensationalism of many 1950s sci-fi films, this is an amazingly well thought-out film that is underplayed and even philosophical.There are some amusing moments in the film, such as when we discover Scott in a dollhouse, but much of the story is handled seriously -- the topics of being different, surviving in an unsympathetic world, crass commercialism, and loneliness are well portrayed.The theme of the film is what is really amazing. Despite the rather schlocky title, we are given a view of humanity's place in the universe. The final sequence is an imaginative portrait of the balance between the macrocosm and the microcosm.The film is more than it first appears. Definitely see this one. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957) ***","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I finally caught up with Jack Arnold's most highly-regarded piece of science fiction, and I have to say that I agree it's his most accomplished work.True, the plot isn't terribly original (how about THE DEVIL-DOLL 1936, which I watched again right after, and DR. CYCLOPS 1940, for starters, not to mention the 'little people' of BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN 1935?) but none of the others quite touched upon the psychology of its admittedly fantastic situation, let alone treat it with such intelligence, sensitivity and, ultimately, persuasion. Legendary author Richard Matheson is to be congratulated for his truly excellent script, as should be Arnold for putting his ideas on the screen with such vividness and imagination. Special mention must go too to Grant Williams for his fine performance; Jack Arnold seemed to think it was worthy of an Oscar and I can't say I disagree!It was interesting to see that the title character's peculiar affliction effected him gradually and not all at once; the fact that this was caused by exposure to radiation must have struck a note of panic amid contemporary anxiety-ridden audiences (this was the Cold War era, after all) and, in any case, it was inevitable that such 'monstrous' radiation effects (as seen mutating various forms of animal life on the screens of 1950s America) would not spare man himself in the long run. An episode featuring sideshow midgets, with whom The Shrinking Man seems to identify for a little while, is quite moving - as is his jealous possessiveness of his wife who he suspects wants to abandon him.Despite the low budget, the film's special effects are terrific and the second half of the story basically resolves itself into a struggle for survival for our unfortunate hero as he has to battle various elements (the family cat, a spider, water, the re-dimension of objects around him, his own weakness due to hunger) which a normal person would more or less take for granted.I thoroughly enjoyed THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN - though I must say that Matheson's bleak yet strangely affecting ending blew me away, giving the film an intellectual resonance lacking in most films of its type and period. "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi film with a good script. Who could believe it?","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"56 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is more than a Sci-Fi film, this is really a good movie. On the Sci-Fi side, the effects are mostly good. But the script is great, one of the greatest for a Sci-Fi film. And I love the last line, To God, there is no zero. Sure it's a movie about a guy who shrinks, but it can be related to any person. As for the time it was made in, it blows just about every other sci-fi/horror made in the 50's to pieces with the exception of a few films. A must see for a fan of 50's sci-fi and a must see for any fan of good writing. I give it an 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"My favorite '50s sci fi movie","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has always been one of my favorite science fiction/horror movies from the 1950s. This is an existential science fiction movie. Man alone against the universe is always a powerful topic, and writer Richard Matheson, who adapted his own novel for the screen, does an admirable job. Grant Williams' character isn't fighting aliens or demons, but rather the extraordinary circumstance of his mysterious shrinking, and the unforeseen consequences of his ever-dwindling size.I love the fight with the spider, but my favorite part of the movie is the final monologue. It adds another half a star to an already extraordinary film.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Eisenhower Era Science Fiction Films","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"46 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the tale of the very cruel joke played upon a young man by Fate. Against horrifying odds he triumphs and retains his dignity. In so doing, this film is raised from being a merely superior monster movie to one of strangely spiritual significance.The special effects are still pleasing and the tarantula remains one of Cinema's truly terrifying embodiments of mindless evil.This was to be Grant William's finest film. He died in 1985 at the age of only 54. "},{"Title":"Horrifyingly inevitable sci-fi with imaginative touches gracing a cheap production&#133;","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The plot is simple after being exposed to a mysterious, possibly radioactive mist, a man finds he is slowly but inexorably diminishing in size&#133; His pride, job, marriage and, finally, his very life are threatened as his relation to the world about him changes daily&#133; A cellar floor becomes a stark desert where giant insects hunt prey and the only food consists of rock-like crumbs of stale cheese left in mousetraps&#133; Arnold's expert use of huge sets and props provides excitement, but it is the philosophical script that supplies its rare power complacent modern man, forced back on his primitive wits simply to survive, finally discovers hope, peace and meaning in the realization that everything in the cosmos, however small or insignificant, has its own place and worth&#133; "},{"Title":"An Unbeatable Sci-Fi Classic!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN (4 outta 5 stars) Not many of those hokey-looking old sci-fi movies from the '50s are still as effective 50 years later... but this one definitely hasn't lost any of its power. Great script written by Richard Matheson, who later went on to do much good work for The Twilight Zone and even today is still producing scripts for such films as Stir of Echoes and What Dreams May Come. The story is fairly simple- after passing through a mysterious cloud on the ocean, our hero Scott (Grant Williams) discovers that his clothes seem to start feeling looser. More time passes and he discovers that he is now shorter than his wife. Day after day, he becomes smaller and smaller until he becomes so small that an ordinary housecat becomes a terrifying threat to his very life. The special effects might seem unconvincing to modern eyes... but the otherwise high-quality of the editing and direction make the action scenes as effective and suspenseful as anything you likely to see spewed out by today's CGI factories. I was totally unprepared for the ending of this film... you'd never see a movie end this way nowadays... but you never too many of them end this way back in the '50s either! A classic! "},{"Title":"To lose everything","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"48 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is a truism that America in the 1950s was a conformist, cowed kind of country. Social criticism was suspect, potentially un-American.  Hollywood had to convey its messages in the guise of sci-fi or historical analogy.This spare, cheap, black-and-white film, starring unknowns, has the ruthless, unswerving narrative drive of an arrow into a bullseye. No subplots, no diversions nothing but the examination of what it is like to lose *everything*, to be stripped not only of the material consolations of conformity but the emotional insulation of marriage and friendship.Shrinking-- the MacGuffin of a nuclear cloud means nothing-- is a visual metaphor for exile and disillusionment. The hero becomes an outcast by becoming progressively more freakish until he is invisible, or at any rate irretrievable. Yet every stage of deprivation has its consolations. Once he falls through the floor, he escapes the attentions of the pruriently curious and the need to pay his way by performing for them; and although at first the grille in the cellar is like the barred window of a prison, shrinking further means he can squeeze through and leave the fearsome cat trapped behind.All this is very American in its qualified optimism, and very characteristic of Richard Matheson's imagination as one of the great popular mythmakers of mid-century. Not for him the easy slither into plastic angst. Scott Carey's reversion to the primitive-- long hair, needle-sword, ragged robes-- mocks his former status but also looks forward to the hippie protagonists who would soon reject social norms and carve out their own psychic territory. Carey's resourcefulness and refusal to be daunted are the qualities of a pioneer. One incident sums up Matheson's brilliant integration of narrative detail and philosophical meaning. After being diagnosed, Carey and his wife swear they will stay true to each other, come what may. He leans forward to start the car and the wedding ring rolls off his finger. It sounds like a lumberingly symbolic moment, something out of Iris Murdoch... only it isn't. His finger has shrunk, and shrinking is what the movie is all about. Accept the premise, and all that flows out of it fits it.The Incredible Shrinking Man is an adventure story and a fable about how little it takes to stay alive, seamlessly sewn together. It is one of the works that put Matheson (and Rod Serling) up with Wells, Verne and Conan Doyle. Literary professors now give the Europeans serious attention. When will the American dream-weavers get their due? "}{"Title":"Astounding","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is simply a superb science-fiction drama of a couple's prosperous 1950s world turned upside down. Vacationing on a boat, while the wife Louise (Randy Stuart) is below deck, husband Scott Carey (Grant Williams) above becomes exposed to a radioactive mist, that changes his body's metabolism (anti-cancer). Critics question why the mist did not affect others, including the wife, but the doctor's (Raymond Bailey) explanation later is that Carey was accidentally previously exposed to insecticides, the 2 compounds in his system reacted together to create the phenomenon. (This idea was used in The Leech Woman - 1960, also with Williams, where fluid from a male pineal gland had to be mixed with a floral powder to achieve youth). As a kid, I was in awe with the attacks from an ordinary cat and a spider, but as an adult, one feels great sympathy for this character, and his family. Williams, a handsome Nordic blonde, gives a beautiful performance, and narrates over much of the film which later has no dialogue, but greatly aided by a magnificent score; the title piece is haunting with its Trumpet solo set against an advancing cloud that gets bigger while the human frame dwindles. Stuart is terrific as the suffering wife, faintly resembling Dinah Shore, she even co-starred with Shore's ex-husband George Montgomery in the following year's Man From God's Country - 1958, her last film. April Kent (daughter of actress June Havoc, did she have a sister named May?) is warm and sympathetic in her two scenes playing a midget (although not) when Williams is 3 feet high, a poignant interlude. The special effects are supremely done. The first 3 words of the title have become part of our culture, even recently a major magazine heading stated The Incredible Shrinking... on its cover. Director Jack Arnold paces beautifully, Richard Matheson script is intelligent and the closing scenes have a soaring, wondrous quality that few films have ever matched. "},{"Title":"One of those fifties' all-time-greats.","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those great films of the fifties which is still as powerful now as it was when originally made.Robert Scott Carey, after encountering a mysterious mist whilst holidaying on a boat, starts shrinking. Whilst doctors struggle to find a cure, Carey's ordinary household becomes monstrous and intimidating. Before long his pet cat seems a giant beast of prey, the gap between two cardboard boxes is a yawning abyss and a house spider is more like the ultimate tarantula. This film combines monster movie terror and tension with genuinely dark philosophical musings about being stranded and alone in another world, and boasts an ending which really is a tear-jerker. "},{"Title":"One Of The More Memorable Of The '50s Sci-Fi Flicks","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I found it interesting to hear that this is now available on DVD, although only at one retail store. It brought back fond memories of when I watched this back in the last 1950s. This was a fascinating film for both me and my two brothers.Seeing this again about 10 years ago still was interesting, but of course it didn't have the scary tone it once did, but one can't expect that. Seeing films as an adult is quite different from seeing them as a young child. Also, one can't expect the special-effects to be anywhere approaching today's caliber, but it's not bad in this old film and certainly top-notch for its day. Almost everyone agrees, this was tons better than most of the schlocky '50s sci-fi films.Not only is it done pretty well but it's a good story and with a good ending. That ending is different, too, in that the man (Grant Williams, by the way, playing Scott Carey) is not cured, but he doesn't die, either. He just accepts his condition with an interesting speech at the end.It's dated and doesn't have the impact, of course, it did when it came out, but it's anything but a stupid movie and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Another great Sci-Fi film from Universal.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is indeed a great film. Universal seemed to have a monopoly on these Sci-Fi hits. Grant Williams is terrific in the starring role as a man exposed to a mist. 6 months later, he discovers he is shrinking. Randy Stuart is also very good in the role of the wife. To see Scott Carey(Williams) dodge water drops, scale a wood crate and battle a spider is something to be seen! The acting is very good and the pace moves along well. The special effects alone could have carried the film and almost does. Clifford Stine did a magnificent job. Jack Arnold does his usual fine job directing. This is a classic from the 1950s and shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"To God, there is no zero...","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film speaks not only about the time in which it was made, reflecting the fear of radiation poisoning in the nuclear age, but also about man's continuing struggle to maintain his sense of self in the complex modern world.  Aside from the well-executed special effects and action, this is an allegory detailing a person's loss and eventual reclamation of purpose and understanding.  The closing narration is both unexpected and completely inspirational--what a surprise from what at first glance appears to be a standard 50's sci-fi movie! "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Man","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When a businessman Scott Carey (Grant Williams) is infected by a mysterious cloud of mist on a boating vacation, little does he know how his life and whole way of existing are about to change. After six months of normal life he notices he has lost a little weight and height, and that this strange loss of size is continuous. He keeps growing smaller and smaller every day, to the amazement of doctors and to the chagrin of his wife (Randy Stuart). Soon everyday things become grave dangers to him and he has to completely let go of his old way of comprehending his place in life.The over-sized props and the creative trick photography that is used to create the illusion of shrinking must have looked absolutely stunning in the 1950s when the film first came out, because they still look impressive when I'm typing this in 2010. Carey's struggles with unexpected sources of terror like a cat, a mousetrap or a spider haven't lost any of their charm over the decades they are still edge-of-your-seat suspense, and I'm not saying this as any kind of affirmative action in favour of old movies &#x96; I genuinely haven't been this thrilled by a movie in a long time! Besides the visual effects, the riveting music is also perfectly in tune with the thrilling style of the film.Even though the film can easily be enjoyed as a great sci-fi suspense film, there's also a deeper, more personal level to it. Carey truly develops as a character over the course of the film. He is aware of his frustration and changing moods and scolds himself for being rude to his wife and not being able to take the new challenges bravely head-on. The sense of loneliness, created excellently with beautiful black & white cinematography and camera angles, has been said to mirror the fearful atmosphere of the Cold War and the nuclear era. This is a valid interpretation, but it's also possible to see Carey's journey as a symbol of Man's existential despair and feelings of inadequacy in life that is seemingly normal and mundane. The grandiose finale provides a majestic ending for the tale of new-found self-esteem; all my worries about a predictably tacked-on happy ending were proved unnecessary.I wrote this review immediately after seeing the film for the first time. These words came out completely without effort and that is, to me, a sign of an honestly compelling cinematic experience. The Incredible Shrinking Man is a delight to watch, not the least bit goofy or dated like some other old sci-fi films. I recommend it for every fan of the genre, admirers of imaginative special effects and anyone interested in existential character studies. "},{"Title":"Top shelf material","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Indeed a very credible Sci-Fi film directed by Jack Arnold whereby a man; Scott Carey (played by Grant Williams) is subjected to a toxic gas. After a few days of this incident we see the gradual deterioration of Carey's size. How he copes and the psychological aspect are all handled with a great amount of consistency and logic.Formatted in B/W and the use of some very clever trick photography&#x85;watch out for the battle scene with a spider (just brilliant). It's entirely a William's film and with him basically trying to survive the miniature world he has unfortunately been thrown into.Matters are made worst when his wife thinks the family cat has devoured him. She leaves the house with her brother-in-law thinking her husband is dead and that's when Carey finds himself alone to face an unknown future. A nice touch to the film was Carey narrating his thoughts to the viewer which gives it a somewhat haunting feeling. The film after you've seen it will not be easily forgotten. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent science fiction movie from Universal","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible Shrinking Man has to be one of the best science fiction movies that Universal made in the 1950's. I taped this some years ago when BBC2 screened it in the early hours of the morning and was part of a 1950's sci-fi season they were having at the time.After passing through a strange radioactive mist while out boating with his wife, Scott Carey starts slowly shrinking. After seeing doctors who cannot do anything to cure him, he gets smaller and smaller until his wife gives up on him when she doesn't see him for several days. He is in the cellar of his home after being locked in there by accident. For a while, he uses a doll's house as a home and that is where he is attacked by the family cat. The best part of the movie is where he fights a giant spider in the cellar.Scott Carey is played well by Grant Williams and the rest of the cast includes Randy Stuart as his wife and Paul Langton.I'm surprised that this movie hasn't been released on DVD and it is deleted on VHS in the States. At least I haven't recorded over my TV copy.Fantastic stuff.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Classic Sci-Fi","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Robert Scott Carey (Grant Williams) and his beloved wife Louise Carey (Randy Stuart) are spending vacation on the motor boat of his brother Charlie (Paul Langton). When Louise goes to the galley to bring a beer to Robert, he is engulfed by a weird mist.Six months later, Robert is sprayed by insecticide and when he goes to the doctor for the routine medical examination, he realizes that he had become shorter. Then he goes to a laboratory to be examined by scientists and they conclude that the combination of the mist with the insecticide has caused the effect. When Robert is only 93 cm height, the scientists find a formula and he stops shrinking and meets the midget Clarice (April Kent) that gives hope to him. But soon he continues to shrink and he moves to a dollhouse. One day, Louise is not in the house and their cat breaks in Robert's house. However he succeeds to escape to the basement and Louise believes that the cat has eaten him. Robert is trapped in the cellar and he has to struggle to survive against a spider and to find nourishment. The Incredible Shrinking Man is a fantastic classic sci-fi with impressive special effects for a 1957 film. The story and the screenplay are excellent and the philosophical redemption in the end, when Robert concludes that the infinitesimal and the infinite are so close, is beautiful even for non-religious viewers like me. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Incrível Homem que Encolheu (The Incredible Man that Has Shrinked) "},{"Title":"a very deep movie","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" me and 3 of my girlfriends seen the shrinking man and as soon as it started i was hooked.thought of a grown man slowly shrinking was incredible and fun.while he bosses his wife around in the start 4 a beer as he went thru the fog as he started getting smaller and smaller until the roles changed and his wife started dressing him in boys clothes.the doll-house part was my best.a tiny little man living in his wife s doll-house.his wife did a great job 2 taking care of her 3 inch tall man and never stop loving him.the cat part was fantastic.the tiny man trying 2 escape a house cat and cats r usually viewed as women so hese a man living in a girls world then in his own prison hunting 4 food .i found it interesting how he used his wife s tools as weapons.climbing in her sewing basket using her sewing pin 4 a sword using her thread 2 climb.an emblem of her femininity.and the rags he had on which looked like a tiny raged skirt.me and my girlfriends loved it and bought the movie.i m a feminist and i cant see how any woman can not love be interested and have fun watching a tiny man survive in his own little prison.the last thing is no matter how he kept shrinking or how tiny he was he was still a man and this had 2 be the 1st pro feminin film ever.so like the tiny man says this could be the man of the future lol.enjoy it. suzyann79@aol.com "}{"Title":"Nothing big or small is insignificant in God's Universe","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" (Some Spoilers) One of the best and most thought-provoking Sci-Fi movies of the 1950's The Incredible Shrinking Man is about L.A businessman Scott Carey, Grant Williams, who by some quark of fate is infected by this strange radioactive cloud while out with his wife Louise, Randy Stuart, on his brother's Charlie, Paul Langton, yacht one sunny summer afternoon.Some six months later Scott starts to feel that something is wrong when his clothes don't fit him and his both weight and hight starts to diminish. It's when Scott is checked out by his doctor that it becomes evident that he's shrinking and the only explanation he has about his condition is the strange luminous cloud that engulfed him some six months ago! As Scott shrinks things that he took for granted start to terrorizer him like his and Louise pet cat who looks at Scott, now living in a doll-house provided to him by Louise, as his next meal.After surviving a vicious attack by the kiddie Scott ends up in the basement of his house where he faces even worse dangers as he still keeps shrinking to the point when he becomes almost invisible to his wife and bother who assume that the family cat killed and devoured him! Now truly on his own facing dangers that he never thought possible Scott is more then determined to survive his fate and at the same time becomes enlightened in the odd situation that he now finds himself in him soon, by shrinking into the size of an atom, becoming as insignificant as the number zero itself. Scott also learns to both fear and respect those, like a house spider, whom he has to compete with for food by being forced, in order to survive, to fight to the death with them!Terrifying mind blowing and at the same time extremely touching movie that shows that there's nothing in God's Universe that doesn't have a place in it. As Scott shrunk into what he at first thought insignificance his mind and conception of existence grew, in what he experienced, to gigantic proportions. Alone and on his own in a world of giants Scott in the end realized his place in it and in the vast universe as well. Scott says it best in the movies final sequence I now knew the answer to the riddle of infinite. That existence begins and ends is mans conception not that of nature. As I felt my body dwindling away into nothingness my fears melted away with it. And in their place became acceptance. That if all this majesty of creation means something then I mean something too. In the eyes of God there is no zero; I Still Exist! "},{"Title":"If you're only 2 inches tall....YOU BETTER FIND A DOLL HOUSE!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really good!  I wish that they would show this on TBS or even HBO more often. I was only interested in the parts when the guy was the size of an action figure, and almost turned into, literally cat food when the household cat spotted him in the dollhouse!  If I were the guy I would not have even opened the door, all I would have done was hide in the closet in the dollhouse.  But then again, it's not like if someone really shrunk to 2 inches they would know what in the hell to do! The ending of this movie was classical, but in my opinion was not nearly as classical or terrifying as the experience the man had with cat. Some other interesting parts were when there was a water leak in the basement, it seemed like a stream to that man!  But Hollywood only made it possible for the man in the show to be as smart as he was.  But I would definitely suggest this movie  if you are in the mood for a good old sci-fi classic.  "},{"Title":"Best Sci-Fi Movie ever!!!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Incredible how pure & artistically this movie has been made!!! Some people that like mostly true based stories (like my girlfriend) will typically say a child movie or something,but they don't see what a performance Jack Arnold did here! Next to one of the best special effect movies of the fifties,it has an emotional story, it burns very deep into the soul. At the end you unexpectedly pink a tear when The Incredible Shrinking Man becomes one with the Universe, he reaches the out world but nobody can see or hear him, size doesn't mather.That is what i'm looking for,movies with special effects and a deep story,hard to find these days. This movies deserves a solid <10>.Other movies I give the high scores  Clash of the Titans,Eyes Wide Shut,The Game,Jason and the Argonauts,The Shining,Them!,Coma,Creature from the Black Lagoon,Full Metal Jacket,Misery,Predator,Spartacus.Original imaginative stories are great, especially when bouncing on the border of real/unreal. "},{"Title":"Introducing the most terrifying spider in all of cinema!","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I hadn't seen this one for at least 7 years, so it was somewhat built up in my mind when I sat down to watch it yesterday. Some things occurred just as I remembered them, while others were much different. For instance, I remembered the scenes of Carey and Clarice to be more numerous, but there were only two, and each quite brief. Likewise I thought their final scene occurred back at the café, but instead it happens on a park bench. I also totally forgot about Carey's final voice-over! Kind of funny how memory distorts things.Anyhow, I wasn't able to appreciate this as a kid, but in retrospect I thought of it as being quite profound, so I was excited to revisit it. Thankfully it turns out to have aged quite well. Unlike the modern genre film (or at least the modern mainstream genre film), which relies almost exclusively on spectacle, this combined the top notch special effects of its day with some top notch writing, courtesy of Richard Matheson. Though not all of the effects hold up (some of the compositing is pretty bad), this is still an incredibly strong film thanks to the thoughtful script, some very good performances, and some suspenseful direction from Jack Arnold. What sets this apart from most films of its ilk is the focus on human drama. Whereas a lot of films might be built around set-pieces (which this film certainly has its share of), this has a healthy focus on the deterioration of Carey's marriage and his crumbling ego. Grant William's performance as Scott Carey is especially affecting, as he effortlessly segues from sympathetic victim to bitter tyrant and finally a zen-like acceptance. While I already mentioned the dubious compositing, most of the special effects hold up pretty well, thanks to some clever use of forced perspective and giant sets and props. The creativity that went into the various sequences of Carey fighting for survival in the basement is admirable. His fight with the spider is still absolutely horrifying. As for his battle with the cat, it's pretty suspenseful but definitely a bit humorous. The only decision I still find to be somewhat detrimental is the casting of an average sized woman as the diminutive Clarice. That we're supposed to buy that this woman is an actual little person (especially with Billy Curtis in the same scene!) is ludicrous and somewhat offensive. Would it have been so hard to cast a female dwarf?Besides that it's still a great movie. I do think the ending might have been a little more profound without the final voice-over, but it's still a very haunting sequence. For years after my first viewing the visual of the tiny Carey climbing through the window screen stayed with me! And the way everything that can go wrong does with Carey makes this an incredibly nail-biting, even depressing experience, but also ensures that the audience remains sympathetic towards him. For now, I have to applaud Matheson and the filmmakers for using such an unconventional ending. Matheson for envisioning it, and the filmmakers for choosing to stick with it. Thanks to their decision, this remains a film that will continue to challenge viewers for years to come. "},{"Title":"A big movie","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very interesting and fascinating movie. It must have been quite a lot of work building all the props and putting the little guy in frame with the normal sized things. The movie certainly held me occupied for the duration and it also turned out to be rather philosophical, so I wouldn't put it into the same box as monster movies from the same time, since it has a bit more substance.Of course were there some scenes and events that looked a bit outdated seen with todays eyes, but you have to remember that the movie is very old, thus shouldn't be taken too seriously at all times.I liked the acting, because for the most part it looked as if the guy was actually making things up as he went. What I mean is, it didn't look as if he knew exactly what to do and how to do it. What irritated me a bit but which isn't specific to this but to all black and white movies is that whenever a character has to run away they normally stumble and fall, turn around, look at the enemy for about an hour or two, then stand up and continue running. Was it really that recent that man learned how to walk and run or is that just some very tiresome movie trick to heighten the excitement?Still a very watchable movie! "},{"Title":"One of the better 50's sci-fi films","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's horribly unfair to judge a film made nearly 50 years ago since we all expect so much from films now. This was a product of the late 50's and yet still holds up fairly well, even today. The acting of that time, especially in films like this one, tended to be a little overdone and this one's no exception. The acting is better than could be expected despite the fact that there were no big-name actors in this film at all. The props were extremely important, and everything seemed just the right size. As the main character got smaller, everyday objects had to get bigger in relation to him. This film is entirely about perspective, and the director managed to capture it pretty well. For their day, the special effects are also pretty good. Overall, I'd give this film a solid 7. "},{"Title":"incredibly fun to watch","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" as a 5 yr old girl i always saw my mother watching this wen it was on and wondered why.at 12 my mother sat me down and told me to view the shrinking man with her.and we watched and i couldn't blame her for wanting me to see it.we all know about the tiny hero and his struggle to survive without his wife.but grant Williams was brilliant as the tiny man and as my mother says very handsome.Williams is eye candy surviving with his wife's sewing pin and thread.the mouse trap and lighting the match.the doll house scene with tiny Scott ordering Louise around is one of the first and most important role changes anyone could ever see.with my mother laughing saying that a tiny man living in a doll house lorded by a feline and a female was funny drama and important.watching Scott talk with his wife looking up to her on the doll house steps gave me a rush of power as a girl even though i was only 12.the props were great and the story was great.shrinking slowly day by day instead of all at once made it a much better movie.and the prison Scott survived in was a more feminine prison not to mention Scott's new home a matchbox rite under his wife's towering cloth tree.now i own the movie and yep watch it every so often.this is a great movie sci fie fan or not.i agree with my mother that they should leave it alone and never make another or newer one.it would be hard even with the movie being so old and grant Williams was well incredible as the shrinking man.this one will be remembered for another 50 years. "},{"Title":"No other sci-fi film has emotionally affected me as much as this one","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible Shrinking Man more than lives up to its reputation as one of the finest sci-fi films of the decade. After having heard about it for years, I just recently managed to see it. My mind was blown, as almost every aspect of the film was first-rate. The direction by Jack Arnold is his best, Grant Williams should've been a bigger star after this, the set design and special effects are still impressive today, and the screenplay by Richard Matheson brings much more depth to the story than expected.This is certainly not accurate scientifically, but it doesn't need to be at all. The lack of explanation certainly adds a surrealist feel to the proceedings. The dream like quality contributes to a film like no other I've seen. As I stated above, the screenplay is much more deep and philosophical than expected. The final resolution and soliloquy is both nihilistic and spiritual. Some have complained about the ending being anti-climatic, but personally I think its perfect and the main reason why the film holds up so well on repeated viewings. I can't say enough good things about this film. The Incredible Shrinking Man is a true classic, not to be missed. No other sci-fi film has emotionally affected me as much as this one. (10/10) "},{"Title":"One of the best SF movies from that era!","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first saw The Incredible Shrinking Man as a teenager, shortly after it came out. Some parts (especially the scenes with the spider) were SCARY on the big screen, and I thought it was a great movie overall. I watched it again on TV about 1980, and then for a third time on TCM last night - 6/05/2006. It wasn't quite as good as I remembered - it's a bit slow, and Grant Williams' performance is pretty wooden. Nonetheless, the movie holds up well after half a century, and it's markedly superior to most of the b&w sci-fi efforts of the 1950s. In fact, I'd rate it as one of the top three, the other two being The Day The Earth Stood Still and Invasion of the Body Snatchers. All three are more psychological thrillers than the typical rubber-suit monster flicks, and each leaves a strong lingering impression in your mind. If you haven't seen this, seek it out. (And the spider is still pretty scary, even on a small screen!) "},{"Title":"Realistic special effects, captivating story","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  We're all used to being the size we are. But what if we awoke one morning to find that our clothes don't fit anymore; they're now too big...and we now have to stand on tiptoe to reach something that seemed rather easy to reach before? That's the unique problem of Scott Carey (Grant Williams), hero of Richard Matheson's 1956 novel and the 1957 film The Incredible Shrinking Man.The special effects are excellent, giving the illusion of a dwindling man whose life gets more bizarre, embarrasing, and dangerous as he gets smaller. He shrinks to kid size, then doll size (even living in a dollhouse), and finally to just a few inches tall. The last half of the film consists of the cellar scenes where Scott faces three obstacles a voracious spider, his own hunger, and the thought that he may shrink down to nothing. The oversized props look truly real, and you are indeed convinced that this tiny man is getting chased by a cat, almost stepped on by his brother, and being swept up by a raging flood that would be ankle deep to you or I.The story is captivating, getting more exciting the smaller he gets. And the effects, script, and acting are far above what you'd expect from a 1950s B-movie! "}{"Title":"Size matters...","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Famous, a classic from the 1950′s Sci Fi stable, The Incredible Shrinking Man has stood as one of the top films from the shrinking sub- genre, but until now, I had never seen it. But what a treat this was. Adapted for the screen by Richard Matheson from his own novel, this charts the story of Robert Scott Carey, Grant Williams, a married man who whilst on holiday with his wife, encountered a mysterious radiation cloud which begins the shrinking process.The interesting thing about this film is right from the get go it takes itself seriously at a time when Science Fiction was struggling to be taken seriously. The shrinking, though leading to obvious set pieces, is almost secondary to the emotional and social consequences of such a transformation, certainly in the 1950′s, as his wife, played excellently by Randy Stuart, begins to tower over him and as a result he, now standing at about three feet tall, begins to exert an enormous amount of power and domination as his size leads to an ever-growing insecurity complex.This is a kin to a man being wheelchair bound and feeling inadequate for example. But these themes are very well portrayed in a Sci Fi film of its time, but proof that there are a few films pushing and even breaking the mold of the day. But when all is said and done, this is a film with the title The Incredible Shrinking Man which actually takes a mature, philosophical and metaphysical route rather than just cheap thrills and spills.But as for the action, you couldn't really ask for more, as once he ends up a few inches tall and trapped in his own basement, he must battle mouse traps, flowing water, great chasms and the infamous spider, all in a struggle to claim a small piece of stale cake left there by his wife But considering its age and special effect limitations of the day, this looks spectacular, thrilling, exciting, gripping and scary and with real motivations and a believable ethos, Carey is striving for dominance in his new macro world. Overall, I really liked this, which took an abnormal situation, grounded it with real character studies and a plausible analysis of the situations at hand, make this a valuable entry into Science Fiction cannon. "},{"Title":"Superior Science Fiction, Amazing Special Effects","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Grant Williams had a long and varied career, but he is best known for his 1950s science-fiction roles. His best role was undoubtedly as Scott Carey in The Incredible Shrinking Man, in which Williams gives the performance of his career as a man who is inexplicably shrinking.The film begins as Scott Carey and his wife Louise (Randy Stuart) are relaxing on a boat. Carey is exposed to a mysterious cloud, after which he gradually begins to shrink. Soon, he's the size of a little kid, and eventually he's so small that he's living in a doll house, as the media surround the family house. After a life-or-death struggle with the family cat, Carey winds up in the basement, and Louise and Carey's brother (Paul Langton) decide that Carey is dead, and leave the home. The final part of the movie has Carey struggling for survival in the basement, dealing first with a flood from a broken water heater, then fighting a brutal battle with a hungry spider. The final scene shows Carey wandering into the yard at night, where he disappears among the blades of grass.Several 1950s sci-fi stalwarts appear in the film, including Raymond Bailey and William Schallert as doctors, and the dependable Paul Langton as Carey's brother. April Kent is very pretty and appealing as a tiny circus performer to whom Carey is attracted, but unfortunately she is only on screen for a brief time. Randy Stuart shows great patience while dealing with a petulant Carey and his horrible condition. Williams nearly carries the film by himself, showing a once-in-a-career acting range while maintaining believability at all times; through the rest of his career, he never again showed this kind of talent. This over-sized sets, such as the giant furniture, telephone, and pencil, give the movie an almost surreal feeling. This intelligent film with outstanding special effects should be a must-see for all 1950s movie fans. "},{"Title":"B-movie Sci-Fi classic that does more than grow on you Introduce yourself.","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of 1950's science fictions proudest achievements, this outstanding classic is told as a nightmare vision of flashbacks and bitter memories. This is the story of middle-class suburbanite Robert Scott Carey, played here by Grant Williams (1930 - 1985), and his unpleasant and disturbing verbal obituary into the last remaining months of his existence.Scott and his wife, Louise, acted by the beauty Randy Stuart (1924 - 1996), are our typical happily married middle Americans; beautiful, successful, content but distinctly average, the future and new horizons that they look forward too are never out of reach, they are the new age of the new America.This breed of ever expanding white-collar culture is just about to get the shock of its life. After unfortunately being exposed to a strange mist, Scott Carey slowly begins to lose both his weight and his height and unbeknown to him, yet, his mind.After the initial shock of realisation, Scott's problems are about to grow into the wildest of imaginative turmoil and disbelieve. This is beyond human comprehension, this is beyond physical possibilities and this is beyond the laws of God. His ever-growing anxiety is doubled ten-fold by the ever-decreasing status of his marriage through his frustrations of impotency and inadequacy. His pride, his manhood, his role of the dominating breadwinner and his ego are thrown into doubt and it is this new mental torment, and physical challenge, that has our storyteller growing more and more insignificant and angry.Angry too, at the media circus he has become and the way in which his ever-dotting wife is finding his resentment to his physical changes more and more devastating and alarming. The divide is widening with each passing day, Scott's world is not only enlarging but it is also shrinking around him.The second act is where his world of giants becomes more sinister and unpredictable, after his final readjustment, it is now a game of survival. While his ever-decreasing size is more apparent due to the ever-enlarging surroundings that share his world, it surpasses the point of novelty to dangerous and deadly reality. What middle America would once consider tranquil, comforting and safe has now become the jungles of extraordinary danger and maladjustment. With both body and mind in complete disarray, his self-hatred and thoughts of self-destruction are ever pounding his brain. Scott is a man, and though tiny, he still has the power to recognise his own uniqueness A man. No matter how tiny his stature, his battle to carry on and take his fate day by day is still bigger than what nature is can throw at him, but at what cost? The Incredible Shrinking Man will be forever known for its fantastic realism of its physical pains and mental anguish of the ordinary man, if not his readjustments to his changing predicament and the soul-searching in the change of his environment. Here, we see the likes of Robert Scott Carey and the dangers that face him, we see the pet cat that now tries his best to feed on his tiny bones and the giant spider that both now must fight for domination to survive. It is in these physical battles, and mental strengths, that show us the astounding attributes to his basic instinct to survive, even if it means facing head-on a tarantula spider of goliath proportions for scraps of food.But it is the underlined narrative that holds The Incredible Shrinking Man in such high esteem, where man has become complacent in his wealth, power, domination and destruction of his world, it is the message that man is less important than the sum of the whole. Man is worthy, but he is also a very tiny atom in the design of something much bigger, much more important. This is Robert Scott Carey's epic story of his journey of transcendence into the world of spiritual and physical acceptance and the infinite vastness of mans irrelevance and fallibility when confronted by the creation and knowledge of God.This is Jack Arnold's (1916 - 1992) adaptation of the Richard Matheson (b. 1926) novel The Shrinking Man, shrinking not in size or stature but in knowledge, understanding and that man is growing backward in time and is blinded by his own uniqueness. Where the novel differs from the movie, the literary work is more dark and sinister, another work from R. Matheson that may be known is I Am Legend (aka The Omega Man) 1954. Jack Arnold's work is a sci-fi master class, the historical 1950's epics range from It came from Outer Space (1953), Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954), This Island Earth (reshoots, 1955) and Tarantula (1955). Between them, they have given us a movie that both respects and honours this genre.The Incredible Shrinking Man is a movie acted well by its leading player, with conviction and drama, it is delivered with an intensity and honesty when the chips are down. This this a finely tuned script that holds its own when played against this important subject of mans need to understand itself against the magnitude and scope of life, death and ones own existence.The Incredible Shrinking Man, Them! (1954), Forbidden Planet (1956), When Worlds Collide (1951), Invaders from Mars (1953) and Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956) amongst others, are la crème da la crème of this genre; the 1950's sci-fi B-Movie. All highly respected and all standing their own ground, and each being given their dues when the likes of Gene Roddenberry (1921 - 1991), George Lucas and John Carpenter, for example, are well documented to having been a little more than inspired by these movies too.With each of these 1950's movies making its own unique social comment with great intelligence, skill and entertainment on how and why man is so fallible, so weak and yet so deniably valuable to the very fabric of this glorious solar system that we call outer space. "},{"Title":"a movie that will never leave you","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i saw the shrinking man a zillion times and ir was scary but interesting and fantastic at the same time.as a woman wife and mother watching a grown handsome man start shrinking slowly every day was incredible i read the book 2 was even better.it was funny 2 in a way a tiny man in a prison 3 inches tall hunting 4 food dwarfed by everything and still shrinking.amazing scary and made me giggle a lot.the doll house seen was fantastic.here his loving wife puts her tiny 3 inch man in her doll house so he doesn't get hurt or lost and she still loved him taking care of him.the cat scene was funny and scary .the cat playing with its new tiny prey.and in his prison yelling up 2 his wife 2 please look 4 me up the stairs shrunken out of his old rags already was sad and true my husband would do the same.the way Scott hunted 4 dood and used Louise's pin as his tiny sword and thread 4 climbing showed he was still a man with a mans brain.ala killing the spider .the only thing that didn't sit rite is if he was my man unlike his wife i would never stop looking 4 him.my mother knew jack Arnold the director and was on the set while making the movie .she s so lucky seeing a classic made live.and like me thought grant Williams was a doll no pun intended.very handsome.i say the movie of a man shrinking and surviving still a man but tiny is amazing and fun 2 look at at least 2 a woman's point of view.my mother sat me down 2 watch it at 7 yrs old and i ll never 4get the 1st time i saw it at 7 .i loved it i wanted grant Williams in my doll house lol.i ll end by saying this is the best sci fi fantasy fun and it was fun 2 watch movie i ever saw please put extra s on the DVD 10 stars all the way. thanks Donna "},{"Title":"Still 5O's greatest Science-fiction classic","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What to say about this highly effective memorable classic that hasn't already been said?  Recently, I saw it again, first fearing that it wouldn't live up to my fond and frightened memories, but it actually MORE than did! As an adult, I was able to see the many disturbing existential themes in this marvelously crafted Jack Arnold production, undoubtably his best.Top screenwriting honors go to Richard Matheson for his brilliant script that makes all the pseudo-science believable and maybe even possible. Obviously, the science in this film is total nonsense, but with each seduced viewing, I would automatically react as if it could possibly happen - and worse than that - it could happen possibly to ME or even YOU.  When I first saw this, at lucky age 13, on the late show, I took those nightmares to bed with me.  I was completely stunned and very disturbed.When Scott Carey first notices that his clothes don't fit right and he's now two inches shorter, I was cringing in mortal terror as if it was happening to me.  This was deadly serious - no tongue in no cheek.  This is also great filmmaking at its greatest and most frightfully effective.  I don't know of anyone who never got completely lost, absorbed and captivated by the intriguing story and its moral and philosophical themes.Special FX hold up impressively well; 5O's audiences must have really been mesmerized by them on the big screen.  The Cat and Spider scare scenes are amongest the best;  tense, riveting action of the most murderously suspensefull kind.  I dare anyone to feel complacent or ho-hum during them.Williams somberly assertive narration deserves to be congratulated - I really and fully cared for him and feared over his impending, doomed fate as if it was happening to my best friend and even myself.  It was the taut existential lonliness and bleak isolation that forced me to identify and relate to Carey's tragic hell- ingenious, allegorical portrait of one's own personal angst.  WHEW!!!Interesting how Carey begins as your so-called average Joe, who wouldn't be too popular with todays feminists, then, as he gradually shrinks, becomes more deep and humble and even poetically intellectual for a former jock. Wickedly ironic how his shrinking begins to castrate him til he's in the humiliated, impotent position to his bigger wife.  Sinister, as to how their roles slowly reverse - the patriarch is now the fallen angel.  Why do these things have to happen???Superb acting from the underrated Grant Williams, strong and sensitive, tough and vulnerable - may God be with him.WARNING - POSSIBLE SPOILERS - Moreover, it was that profound and ambiguous ending that really got to me.  I was left astonished and dumbfounded as I stared at the old test-pattern, wondering what the hell I had just experienced  Was it final acceptance of the inevitable? Our own lone search for our place in the world and universe?  Search for God?I can keep going on forever as Scott Carey will go on shrinking forever. Scary, bizarre, astounding, but highly enlightening.  Not many films can do this and not too many, if any, probably ever will.ISM was both a commercial and critical success - entertaining and artistically provocotive.  It will always be a treasured enigma to me as it's been to so many others I've known and reviews I've read.  Check it out - again.To God there is no zero - I still Exist. "},{"Title":"So close, the infinitesimal and the infinite.","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible Shrinking Man is directed by Jack Arnold and adapted to screenplay by Richard Matheson from his own novel The Shrinking Man. It stars Grant Williams, Randy Stuart, April Kent, Paul Langton and Billy Curtis. Cinematography is by Ellis Carter and music is scored by Irving Getz, Hans J. Salter and Herman Stein.While out at sea enjoying a break on a boat with his wife, Scott Carey (Williams) is suddenly enveloped by a mysterious mist. Thinking nothing of it at the time, Scott finds that once he returns home he starts to lose weight and appears to be shrinking. Confounding the medical people it's believed that he was subjected to some sort of radiation poisoning that causes him to shrink to only a couple of inches. Pretty soon Scott must battle to stay alive in his new world down in the basement...One of the greatest sci-fi films of all time, an intelligent and scary picture that subverts the creature feature marker of 50s sci-fi. There used to be a creature or being growing large to bring terror to the human race, but now is a man forced to confront a world that is getting bigger, where the once harmless pet cat is now a monstrous threat to life, a basement spider a fearsome foe, a mousetrap an agonising conundrum and to ascend a crate is like trying to scale Everest. Everyday things such as pins and scissors, so mundane to us, are now weapons of war and tools for survival. The science is strong, the prose of pesticides and radiation dangling deftly in the narrative, the fear of the atomic age knocking at the door.Yet it's not all about the small world that Carey ultimately finds himself struggling to survive in, Matheson's literary bent takes us on a journey of substance. Time is afforded the effects of Carey's illness on his marriage, on society and the medical profession. It's not just a physical journey, but a psychological one. Hope is dangled, both medically and in the meeting of someone of his own kind, but crucially Scott Carey is a victim of cruel fate, wrong place at the wrong time has done for him, thrusting him into a world he can't control. If he can survive and adapt? Then he may be opened up to some sort of revelation, where metaphysical existentialism can come crawling through the gloom to reveal itself.Scott Carey's world is brilliantly realised by Arnold and his team, with over sized props, nifty effects and a miniature POV filming style that lets us in on the terror and angst of a man forced to evaluate his place in the universe. Williams is excellent, begging the question on why his career didn't reach better heights? The mental transformation of Scott Carey is smartly layered by the actor, and his oral narration pulses with emotion and reasoning. All told it's a great production, a great film, don't be fooled into thinking it's a piece of sci-fi schlock, it deserves better respect than that, as does, Jack Arnold in fact. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is as entertaining as they come. It is by far and away one of the few existential action movies ever made, and they only made a handful. Jack Arnold, the director and Richard Matheson make for quite a team. You can easily see Arnolds influence over great directors like Spielberg. There is some talk of remaking this movie, seems pointless, but if anybody would and could pull off a remake, it would be Spielberg. Jack Arniold was considered to be the king of the B movie monster movies and it is a title that is well earned. He always added a certain quality to his films that elevated them to a memorable status. Richard Matheson of course has always been one of the top sci fi writers, and the combination of talents here is staggering. I first saw this movie expecting a simple fantasy, but I never would have guessed that this movie had quite the psychological edge. I cannot begin to imagine that a B movie would take me out of myself and cause me to look at the world in a whole different way. It made me question life. It made me realize that one day I will die. It opened my eyes frankly, and caused me to enact the greatest theme of man Wonder. The action is relentless. The special effects are amazing for its time. The acting is very much above average. It moved right along with zero weak spots. But above all, it was the existentialism that blew my mind. I was so caught up with the plight of the main character. This movie did a wonderful job of putting me into his situation. And that ending!!! The studios must have wanted a happy ending, but from what I understand, Jack Arnold and Richard MAtheson fought them tooth and nail to the bitter end, and won the right to one of the best endings ever in a film of this caliber. This movie is an undisputed classic. For anyone to not think so, may I humble myself and say that perhaps it is a lack of sheer imagination that prohibits one from throughly enjoying this. All I can say is Wow! I ve since seen it many times, and it never gets old. I d go so far as to say it is easily one of the best movies from the 50s. Kudos to Jack Arnold, its his best movie. Richard Mateson was at the peak of his career. Its message is universal, figure it out for yourself. They don't come any more existential then this. Such a rare treat. Go to your public library and get this movie. I am an avid movie watcher because of films like this. I struck gold watching this. "},{"Title":"Gripping fantastic classic  about a good guy  exposed a rare  mist and  then  suffers a mysterious shrinkage","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A Sci-Fi masterpiece stunningly mounted and directed . Almost beyond the imagination . . A strange adventure into the unknown ! . After being contaminated by what may or not to be radioactive mist , a good man finds himself turning smaller and steadily shedding the inches and pounds until he reaches actually minuscule proportions . A suburban husband named Scott Carey (Grant Williams) begins to shrink because of exposure to a combination of radiation and insecticide and medics (William Schallert) are powerless to help him . He becomes a media darling but starts to feel humiliated and expressing cruel anger against his wife (Randy Stuart) . In his home's basement he battles lethal threats as spiders , floods or drops of water in an endless and surreal environment . At the ending terminates in a strangely and moving religious assertion of what it really means to be alive.Universal classic of the 50s with numerous unforgettable scenes including a rousing showdown with a giant cat and a common house spider. Good performance by Grant Williams in that a strange fog causes him to dwindle becoming into unfortunate man who forces him to view the world in a diverse light than ever before. Intelligent and brooding screenplay by Richard Matheson with many memorable dialogs and including philosophical and pantheist speeches ; furthermore based on his own novel . Joseph Gershenson's impressive score with thrilling strains. Fine special effects highlight and good Art Direction by Alexander Golitzen .This well-edited motion picture is compellingly directed by Jack Arnold in his best foray into the Sci-Fi genre. He reigns supreme as one of the greatest filmmakers of 50s science , achieving an important cult popularity with classics as The Creature from the Black Lagoon, and its follow-up titled Revenge of the Creature that was a nice sequel . Tarantula was likewise a lot of amusement . This The Incredible Shrinking Man attained his greatest enduring cult popularity , it's a thought-provoking and impressive classic that's lost none of its power throughout the years . Arnold's final two genre entries were the interesting Monster on the Campus and the outlandish The Space Children¨ . It's followed by an inferior Sci-Fi comedy titled ¨Incredible shrinking woman (1981)that results to be a semi-spoof , being directed by Joel Schumacher in his first movie , with Lily Tomlin , Charles Grodin and Nead Beatty. Rating  Better than average . Well catching for amazing acting, philosophical and existential argument and really peculiar transformation . "},{"Title":"A SF classic!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible Shrinking Man is an undisputed classic of the SF genre. If it hadn't been for this film, there would have been no Fantastic Voyage. No Honey I Shrunk the Kids. No Innerspace. All of these films are entertaining in their own right. But TISM is a breed apart. It is much more than a micro-sized adventure. Its a stunning, textured and brilliantly conceived parable of human frailty.Clocking in at a slight 80 minutes, it manages to cram in a wealth of imagination and ideas. And that's all before we get to the last third of the film that becomes a hugely entertaining struggle of one man's will to survive.Scott Carey (Grant Williams) is exposed to a strange mist while on holiday with his wife Louise. With foreknowledge of what's to come, it struck me that the way his body is outlined against the mist, the cinematography renders Scott as powerful and in control. Already a subtle hint that there is hidden depths to what could have been a slimly plotted scenario. The idea that control is gradually taken away from you.Getting back to the plot, a few months later, Scott starts to get smaller. His clothes no longer fit, and it gets to the point where his own wife is taller than he is. Another hidden layer of subtext there is the idea of impotence and powerlessness of the common man. This bizarre phenomenon has completely dominated Scott's life. He can't do his job, his marriage is becoming more and more strained, and he eventually becomes the subject of media hounds looking for a story. Even his own privacy has been invaded.The scenes between Scott and Louise are beautifully written and performed. He's beginning to see himself as a joke. Their marriage as a mockery. Its moments like this that you realise how daring TISM was. The way it gives the impression that a woman could feel more powerful than a man. An idea that steadily becomes clearer to Scott as he gets smaller and smaller while Louise gets taller and taller.Grant Williams manages to inject a great deal of poignancy into what could have been an unintentionally hilarious situation. Because even though its easy to sympathise with him, Scott is not always a likable character. There's a very sweet scene when he visits a travelling circus and encounters Clarice, a midget who's one of the attractions. Seeing himself as a freak, he finds comfort in Clarice who explains she was born a midget, and had to learn to accept her lot in life.Scott cheats on Louise with Clarice, because he believes he's found a kindred spirit. But he abandons her when he continues to shrink, because now even someone as short as Clarice is taller than Scott. When he's small enough to fit in a dolls house there's an amazing scene where he verbally abuses Louise. What I liked about the scene is she's about to ask him something, and actually looks like she's afraid to. She's actually afraid of this shrunken man, and I was surprised to find I winced with anticipation along with Louise.But its at this point the film becomes an even more gripping adventure. Which starts when the family cat tears the dolls house apart, trying to eat Scott. There's some great moments here with Scott running for his life, and eventually ending up in the cellar. A virtual castaway in a foreign land, the cellar becomes like an alien landscape with giant sized matchboxes, jumbo sized cellar steps, mousetraps and paint cans. Even a leak from the boiler becomes a treacherous ocean for Scott to navigate.Scott has to learn to fend for himself while in the cellar. And the worst part is... he's not alone down there. A house-spider has made its home, and it becomes a thrilling David vs Goliath battle between the two. The special effects with the gigantic spider are marvellous. Not to mention tense. And their fight to the death is brilliantly orchestrated. I really was on the edge of my seat. Scott relying on only a pin for a weapon, as well as his wits. Brilliant!The ending is bravely not a happy one. I kept expecting some miraculous cure to be handed to him. But no. It more daringly has Scott keep shrinking away until there's nothing left of him. I was stunned by the melancholy ending. The way it saw the plot right through to its logical conclusion. A feat I wouldn't see again in SF until 1986's The Fly.Scott's continual voice-over keeps things in perspective throughout. And some of the dialogue is extraordinarily thoughtful. I could listen to it all day. His final moments are surprisingly hopeful before he expires. Its a wonderfully moving finale, and the perfect cap on this remarkable film.The Incredible Shrinking Man is the single finest SF film of the 1950s. In fact its up there with some of the very best. Like Alien. And Cube. And Dark City. But this is not just a superb special effects, souped up adventure. Its a dazzling metaphysical journey of one man's inevitable descent into infinity.An utter classic! "},{"Title":"Lives up to its reputation as one of the best Sci-Fi movies of the '50s","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If not for slow beginning, this would definitely be a great sci-fi adventure movie. As it is, it's certainly awesome enough in parts. When Scott Carey shrinks small enough that his pet cat is a danger, the movie becomes something of a masterpiece. Carey is knocked into the basement. His wife thinks the cat actually got him, so no one is looking for him. He must try to survive with the few items that are small enough for him to manipulate. A large spider roams the room looking for food. What Jack Arnold failed to do in Tarantula, he succeeds in doing here. This spider is damn frightening. I'm not really sure how I feel about the ponderous final sequence. I'm leaning toward not liking it very much. The strong scenes in the film are so good, though, I ended up really liking it. "}{"Title":"Nail-biting, only occasionally campy, tragedy of a stricken man","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Considering that its title sounds like something that might be seen in a circus or freak show, this is actually a serious, even harrowing film. Williams plays a happily married man enjoying a boat trip with his wife Stuart when he is exposed to a misty cloud of radioactive matter. There are no immediate effects from this, but soon he begins to notice that his clothes are all too big. Next he realizes that he's shorter and smaller than he used to be. Pretty soon, to the consternation of his wife and of the doctors he sees, he has slid to the size of a small doll! One day, his wife leaves him alone temporarily and, from there, his already agonizing existence turns into a passionate battle for survival. As he stands at just a few inches in height, common household objects and beings take on completely new dimensions, sometimes in a horrifying way. Williams, a drop-dead handsome actor who never got his due in Hollywood, gives a somewhat understated, yet completely committed performance here. It's a difficult role, physically, and also requires empathy from the audience, which he usually achieves. Stuart plays the typical fifties housewife role, fretting and fussing, and powerless to do anything for Williams except offer limited support. (Even though the actress was only six years older than Williams, she comes off as even older.) Few other actors have roles of any significance though Kent shows up for a while as a shapely midget who is temporarily able to make Williams feel like less of an oddity. Famed real-life midget Curtis has a walk-on role as well. It's mostly Williams' show here and he does an admirable job. He is aided greatly by some special effects that are good now, but must have been practically mind-blowing in 1957. He has a memorable encounter with a cat, a tremendously arduous climb in order to secure food and a ferocious battle with the deluge caused by a burst water heater. Most excruciating of all, however, is a nail-biting battle with a household spider. Arachnophobes should beware the latter part of this film as it is every bit as terrifying now as it had to be upon release. As the film progresses, it becomes less and less clear how Williams will be able to combat his predicament and come out of it alive. The ending will either be lauded as a compelling perspective on things or, for more literal viewers, count as a disappointment. The fact remains that the film is, for the most part, a tense, haunting little thriller. Only the occasional corny situation (or the humor of seeing Williams' diminutive figure plopped in a huge chair or tip-toeing to see out the window) relieves the sense of dread. Williams fans will also delight in seeing his attractive physique, both in his swimsuit in the beginning and as his clothes keep becoming more and more ravaged through his adventures. "},{"Title":"Excellent SciFi flick from the fifties","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was immediately drawn to the physical presence of Randy Stuart and Grant Williams in the opening scene. I don't know if the director was giving any subconscious messages about physical beauty and how fleeting it is. Once he starts shrinking, he becomes brooding and domineering, possibly in an effort to drive his wife away since he can no longer please her in a physical sense. Part two, when he is trapped in the cellar, shifts to a philosophical exploration of man's place in the world. The props and sets were excellent and the story was thought provoking. It is only when Scott Carey begins to realize the futility of human existence that he is granted the power of just being. Acceptance and taking responsibility for his circumstances are what gives him his eventual freedom. "},{"Title":"Incredible special effects....best sci-fi thriller of its kind...","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In an era when sci-fi flicks were becoming so popular (THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS), this was always one of my favorites. There's a Twilight Zone feeling about this kind of story and it's done very effectively.Handsome, sensitive GRANT WILLIAMS had only a brief fling at a few more big screen films before he went back to TV, where he started, and spent the rest of his career in a variety of classic old-time television shows and a string of other detective or western yarns. He was a competent actor, convincing here as the hero who shrinks to the point where he has to fend off a feisty house cat and even further to the extent that he lives in a doll house.The chase by the house cat into the cellar leads to the film's big set piece, where his diminutive size challenges him to a struggle for survival among larger than life objects, including a spider intent on making him its prey. He manages to deal with his obstacle course in very resourceful ways because, as small as he is, he still has a man's brain. This leads to some philosophical voice-over narration which makes the whole story seem a level higher than the usual science fiction stories with happy endings.This still holds fascination for viewers today with its very clever use of over-sized sets to give the illusion he is shrinking at a rapid rate. Produced on a modest budget, it was a huge success and remains a cult classic today. It borders on Ray Bradbury type of fiction and is well worth viewing, lasting a brisk one hour and twenty-one minutes. "},{"Title":"the shrinking man is an old but great 1","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" me and my wife were changing the t v .and on the screen it says the incredible shrinking man.i thought oh a drag and my wife giggled and wanted 2 watch it .while my wife's eyes are on nothing but the TV i start getting into it and feeling silly .as the man keeps shrinking it not only scared the heck out of me I'm 34 i start picturing I'm scott carey.and my wife's Louise.then his wife puts him in a dolls house by now I'm scared outta my witts and my wife's enjoying herself.i never put myself into a movie like i did this 1.i was scott carey for the whole movie and the battle with the spider well nightmares.1 of the best movies ever.i was shrinking along with grant williams.and when it was over my wife bought the cd damn and now she makes me watch it with her .i scared today thinking bout it a must see.oh my smart azz wife measures my height all the time now and i sweat thru it. "},{"Title":"INFINITE POSSIBILITIES","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN (1957) **** One of the all time best science fiction films ever.  Grant Williams stars as a man who begins to shrink little by little every day after being exposed to nuclear fallout and faces a life of infinite terror the smaller he gets.  Great special effects and some interesting existential mind candy to mull over mankind's role in the universe overall (being practically nothing compared to its vastness).  Fine screenplay by Richard Matheson, based on his novel,  and top-notch thrills elicited by Jack Arnold.  Best scene the spider attack! (Note of interest I've always wanted to have the power to shrink at will oh the possibilities in high school...the girls' gym shower... anyway at least not doomed to become a spider's snack!) "},{"Title":"Whoever said size doesn't matter?","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This nearly indescribable masterwork of 50's Sci-Fi cinema evokes feelings and emotions that you don't immediately expect to have whilst watching this type of movies, like fear for far-fetched & impossible illnesses, compassion for fictional characters and &#150; most of all &#150; deep respect for little obvious things that you've always taken for granted up until now. The Incrible Shrinking Man is Richard Matheson's brilliant screenplay-adaptation of his own novel and yet another genre triumph for master-director Jack Arnold, after Tarantula, Creature from the Black Lagoon and It Came from Outer Space. I realize it's a cliché statement to write, but this film works on so many different levels! As you can probably derive from the title or heard before from all the other enthusiast fans around this website, the film revolves on the unfortunate Scott Carey who, as a result of being exposed to a passing cloud of radioactive waste, slowly finds himself shrinking until he reaches truly minuscule proportions. During the first phase of the mysterious & horrifying 'phenomenon' that overcomes Scott, the film enfolds itself as a devastating psychological drama and a realistic depiction of a desperate human being. Scott feels humiliated, useless, impotent and he works out his anger on his wife Louise who, in spite of everything, remains faithful and caring. During the second phase of the illness, after a period of stagnation and false hope, The Incredible Shrinking Man suddenly turns into a mesmerizing and totally exciting Sci-Fi spectacle that literally turns entire universes upside down! Following a nearly fatal confrontation with the otherwise adorable house cat, Scott is trapped in the cellar of his house and considered dead by the world. All alone in this isolated and seemingly unsurmountable landscape, he faces heavy ordeals that are unimaginable for normal-sized people, like an exhausting battle with a spider or simple water drops falling down from a broken boiler. Then finally, there's the sensational climax that simply left me speechless, even though it's extremely philosophical and typical for that cinematic era. Particularly the second half of the film, obviously, is a non-stop series of exciting action sequences and nearly unbearable suspense. Scott's quests to find food and especially his battles for survival are compelling and genuinely nail-biting, partly also because they're guided an impressive score and realized with astonishingly brilliant effects. The camera-work is obviously groundbreaking. Presenting ordinary and daily random objects as gigantic obstacles is strangely fascinating and &#150; even more so - inexplicably unsettling! Also, it's often amazing what the gifted director Jack Arnold can accomplish using just ... simple tricks, really. The narration by Scott's character, for example, is very atmospheric and there are several thoughtful paradoxes to discover throughout the film. The premise and even the title may sound a little foolish, but don't be mistaken, this is a gigantic (pun intended) classic and a true masterpiece in its genre. "},{"Title":"A special effects feast.","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Along with Jason and the Argonauts (1963) this was one of the movies that had the biggest influence on the evolution of special effects.The Incredible Shrinking Man for me is a movie in which the story for me plays no importance at all. I just watch this movie to enjoy the early and many special effects. Sure, most of them now days look almost ridiculous and outdated but I can appreciate and enjoy them. It's wonderful to watch the special effects as they are one of the earliest in movie history and set the trend for many future movies to come. But honestly, I also have to give credit for the story. From a movie like this you would expect that it heavily leans on the special effects alone but the creators actually spend lots of effort on the story and manages to put some extra layers, emotions and deeper meanings in it.There are some truly classical scene's which involves the main character Scott Carey (played by Grant Williams) fighting against a cat and the final fight against a spider. It's a kind of like an early Shelob versus Sam fight from The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King and it's very similar in many ways.The mother of future science fiction movies, a must see.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The unbelievably small and the unbelievably vast eventually meet, like the closing of a gigantic circle.","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Philosophical sci-fi classic about a man named Scott Carey who, through a chance encounter with radiation and then insecticide, begins shrinking at an alarming rate and there's nothing he can do to stop it. Richard Matheson wrote the script, adapted from his own novel. It's an intelligent script, brilliant even. It's not just a talky movie full of ideas, though. It's got thrills and action, too. From the point Carey is attacked by the cat to the end of the film is a fight for survival. Exciting, gripping stuff from director Jack Arnold, one of the great genre directors. Excellent acting from the cast, especially Grant Williams. Wonderful special effects and camera tricks. Today's CGI couldn't do better. People who demand clear resolutions and explanations for everything will likely have problems with this movie. I actually enjoy the ambiguity. Without it I don't think this would be as beloved as it is. The monologue at the end is one of my favorite speeches from any film. It's a bona fide classic from the golden age of science fiction movies. If you haven't seen it, you definitely should. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, Chilling, Weird and Wonderful!","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wow! Just Wow! I heard about it, I read about it, but I did not see it until I saw it on Svengoolie. Let me tell you, it is incredible on what adventures he faces and the perils he runs into such as cats, spiders, and water! The guy who made this movie was the same guy who directed The Creature from the Black Lagoon, Revenge of the Creature, Tarantula and Monster on Campus. Yup! Jack Arnold alright (he also directed some episodes of Gilligan's Island). What made this scary, was the cat and the spider. The cat, gives you and experience on what's it like to be in the shoes of Jerry the Mouse when he is chased by Tom the Cat. The spider, well it is scary and he wants to re-create the magic or terror from his previous film, Tarantula. The little eight-legged beast is crawling up to the camera and this is not for the arachnophobic. It is quite interesting and scary. I saw the spoof with Lily Tomlin called, The Incredible Shrinking Woman, but that was a parody with a friendly gorilla in place of the mean cat and scary spider. Speaking of which, there were a lot of spoofs in cartoons such as the original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles where Michelangelo shrunk and that Donkey Kong cartoon on Saturday Supercade as well that Tom and Jerry cartoon from Filmation called The Incredible Shrinking Cat. Speaking of which, I don't think it needs a remake. The original was gold and timelessly inspirational. So no, leave it alone. (Read my Creature from the Black Lagoon review.) There was going to be a sequel called The Fantastic Shrinking Girl, but it never got made. I highly recommend it for all you thrill-seekers out there. The trouble is, it is too scary for children, especially when they are under the age of seven. Although, this film is unrated, a nice PG would work and here is why Because of all the scary going-ons and the danger our hero runs into. "},{"Title":"A gradual Lilliputian","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Radiation, something we were only beginning to understand, is once again the villain of another science fiction movie. Grant Williams got the career role when he plays a man exposed to a combination of radiation and insecticide which causes him to gradually shrink. The Incredible Shrinking Man is a film that is truly unique unto itself in both concept and execution.I imagine with computer graphics we could do so much better with the special effects showing Williams gradually shrinking and how he relates to all around him. I could see someone like Matt Damon in a remake today. It's a wonderful and complex part of the man becoming a gradual Lilliputian in his own house. A great struggle for survival in a world that gets more terrifying as the house cat becomes a beast of pray and he struggles to survive even against life we normally step on.I did so like the ending as Williams resigns himself to his fate. We're all just a lot of molecules lumped together and it's in that complexity of arrangement which we could only judge if we were that small. Williams realizes he's been given a gift of sorts part of a package with his horrible fate. Too bad he can't report back to the rest of humanity.Take note also of Randy Stuart as our shrinking man's wife who bears up under the most unique of trials ever given anyone besides her husband.A real classic and advances in technology almost demand a remake. "}{"Title":"Finally saw this classic and was very impressed.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's interesting that one of the absolute best science fictions films of the 50's is one of the few that has never had a serious remake (Incredible Shrinking Woman doesn't count IMO because that was a satire played strictly for laughs), although it has been ripped off more than once. I think it's because Matheson and Jack Arnold managed to catch lightning in a bottle when they made it, and a remake would lose the resonance and relevance of the source material. It's a hard story to tell properly, especially with the ambiguously metaphysical ending, and it appears no one really wants to try (even Matheson appeared to give up on a sequel).It took a while for me to connect Grant Williams in this role with the first two roles I saw him (his last two roles, Brain Of Blood and The Doomsday Machine), and it's saddening to think that this actor peaked so early in his career, only to end up in dreck like Brain Of Blood. He really is excellent here - a beautiful bland cipher who somehow manages to stand in for Everyman with his combination of good looks and vulnerability.The movie's sense of paranoia, inexplicable disaster, and identity crisis combine with some stellar special effects that hold up very well more than 50 years later. And the final narrative, told via voice over as the hero finally escapes his basement prison to face whatever destiny waits for him packs, every bit of the punch that critics and reviewers have claimed for it.If you haven't seen it, try. I'm glad I finally did. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Man - Make way for the little guy!","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" No sci-fi movie from the 1950s had more thoroughly had me on the edge of my seat than Jack Arnold's 1957 chiller The Incredible Shrinking Man (adapted from the novel The Shrinking Man by Richard Matheson, also this film's screenwriter). Well, I take that back. I was thoroughly on the edge of my seat during Gojira (1954), The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951), The War of the Worlds (1953), Them! (1954), and maybe a few others that I can't remember but would be worthy of mention here if I could.But The Incredible Shrinking Man is utterly terrifying, and this isn't even technically a horror film - it's sci-fi, and '50s sci-fi that's way above the norm of nuclear allegory, Little Green Men from Mars, giant insects/monsters, and Cold War hype.Scott Carey (Grant Williams, in a truly daring, heroic, and sympathetic performance) is accidentally exposed to a cloud of mysterious radioactive mist, that coupled with the accidental ingestion of ordinary insecticides, causes him to shrink 1/7 of an inch a day. Modern medicine proves futile in coming up with a cure for his delicate condition (though in the middle of the film, a group of scientific researchers succeed in temporarily arresting his shrinkage), and pretty soon as Scott grows smaller and smaller, the world around him becomes bigger and bigger, and more dangerous.Eventually he has to take to living inside a doll house when he is a mere two inches in height, and he has a harrowing battle with their house cat, which was once just a harmless, playful household pet. It all culminates in Scott's terrifying battle with a voracious house spider (actually a tarantula, but this is a moot point here). But all the while, as Scott's condition worsens and he becomes more desperate, he also alienates his wife Louise (Randy Stuart) and even becomes tyrannical over her, despite the fact that she's now a towering giant compared to him in his diminutive state.That last part is really one of the central reasons why The Incredible Shrinking Man rises above its typical sci-fi trappings and becomes a sly social metaphor and critique Scott Carey was once at a healthy normal height of 6'1 and 190 pounds, but once exposure to that fateful radioactive mist happened, his world began to grow smaller and smaller, both in a figurative sense and a literal sense. His surroundings, once puny to him, suddenly come alive with all sorts of hidden dangers, and he is powerless to defend himself. We also see earlier in the film that he is somewhat controlling of his wife - which echoes the common belief at the time (before women's liberation in the '60s and '70s, obviously) - that men were superior over women. It is from these sly social critiques that The Incredible Shrinking Man really shines as a film.And of course, what is a film such as this without its action sequences and special effects? While dated by today's overblown standards, this film is still thoroughly action-packed and scary. You have to give Jack Arnold credit for the way he stages the film's optical effects to create the illusion that Grant Williams's character really is shrinking before our very eyes while he converses with his wife in the very same frame. And then there's the classic battle with the spider in the basement.I know it's far cry, but Grant Williams definitely deserved greater recognition for his performance in this film. He creates a truly sympathetic character in Scott Carey, and we're with him throughout his entire journey as his own home is quickly transformed into a house of unimaginable horrors. I truly felt sorry for this guy, and truly imagined myself in his shoes and the terror he must feel at his worsening predicament. It's one of those instances where you really feel for the *little guy* in the film.The Incredible Shrinking Man allows you to make way for the little guy in film, which is I why I loved this film so much. It kept me on the edge of my seat from beginning to end. It's a truly frightening film, but one that makes you feel about just how small you are in this ever-expanding universe.10/10(P.S. Lily Tomlin starred in 1981's comical The Incredible Shrinking Woman, an acknowledged modern-day parody of The Incredible Shrinking Man. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, thought-provoking sci-fi that holds up well","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Incredible Shrinking Man reminds me of a great episode of The Twilight Zone. It's thoughtful, well-written, and ultimately pretty daring in its conclusions. Hokey at moments, with a few special efx that are pretty badly dated, it's still tense, inventive and emotional, with good twists and turns, It's also ultimately very thought-provoking, and raises some interesting (and vaguely Buddhist) ideas about the meaninglessness of size in the vastness of the universe. Richard Matheson, who wrote many of the best Twilight Zones, wrote the script. This film could be the poster child for what's now called by Hollywood a 'smart genre film' i.e. it can be advertised as a genre movie (horror, action, sci-fi, etc.) but transcends the limitations usually associated with that genre to become a special, well-made film that could speak to an audience beyond those simply looking for a cheap thrill. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Man is still quite a thrilling sci-fi movie","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Just rewatched this classic sci-fi movie that I taped from AMC years ago. Adapted by Richard Matheson from his novel and directed by Jack Arnold, this was quite an intelligent and entertaining depiction of what happens when a man keeps shrinking with no hope of ever getting back to his normal size. Quite the opposite of what happened to those people in Dr. Cyclops that I reviewed earlier this month. Anyway, Grant Williams plays that title character named Scott Carey whose wife, Louise (Randy Stuart), promises she'll never abandon him whatever happens. She doesn't but he almost does when he meets a woman named Clarice (April Kent who I just found out was the niece of the legendary stripper, Gypsy Rose Lee) who is just the same small size as he is when he stays at a certain height for a brief time. The reason he is briefly not shrinking further is because a Dr. Thomas Silver (Raymond Bailey who I didn't recognize from his famous role in The Beverly Hillbillies) seemed to find a way to prevent that from happening. But it turns out to be for naught as we eventually see Scott having to deal with giant things like his cat, almost being stepped on by his brother-Charlie (Paul Langton), and a tarantula. I've probably mentioned too much (hopefully you've heeded the spoilers warning) so I'll just say what a thrilling movie this was especially compared to Dr. Cyclops which took a while for its excitement. Director Arnold provides great thrills of what I just described that I'm sure looked even more awesome on the big screen. Okay, if you've read this far and are not annoyed by what I revealed at this point, I'll just say go see The Incredible Shrinking Man! P.S. I recognized both longtime character actor William Schallert as another doctor named Arthur Bramson and little person performer Billy Curtis-who I previously saw in The Terror of Tiny Town and Little Cigars-as the one who called Clarice for her spot in the carnival. "},{"Title":"Matheson's metaphysical masterpiece...","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Nobody comes close to putting his characters through the psychological ringer like Richard Matheson- and this is one of the finest examples, thanks in no small part to the dead-on direction of Jack Arnold. THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN is Matheson's metaphysical masterpiece, an existential epic of surprising depth of character. Grant Williams is 100% believable, every shrinking step of the way. Along with many of the stories he wrote for THE TWILIGHT ZONE (the original, black and white series), THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN remains, to this day, one of the finest examples of a fully realized Matheson masterpiece. (When one considers the three lackluster versions of I AM LEGEND to have hit the Big Screen over the years, one can't help but hope that someone of Arnold's caliber will one day do THAT one the justice it deserves.) Many years ago, I did an unofficial, one-page comic book sequel to THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN. The top left panel showed Scott Carey, running, looking back over his shoulder at something above him. The top right panel showed him screaming as something slammed into him from behind. The bottom panel, which took up roughly two-thirds of the page, showed a mosquito atop Carey, sucking the blood out of him. Looking back on it now, it seems somehow like a very appropriate metaphor for what's happened to Matheson's work when it's been adapted... "},{"Title":"Man vs. incurable illness","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Scott Carey, a formerly healthy man, happily married, contracts a strange debilitating illness. He becomes increasingly disabled; what he could do yesterday, he can't do today; and what he can do today, he may not be able to do tomorrow. The doctors try everything in their power to cure him, but fail. Carey becomes increasingly bitter and angry, yelling at his wife; even going outside the marriage for female companionship. Yet, in the end, as the illness progresses and Carey approaches possible oblivion, comes a quiet acceptance--and an existential insight as to his own place and purpose in the Universe.This story could have been about any life-threatening disabling illness Cancer, Lou Gehrig's disease, any. But the SF part is that the disability here is tiny size--Carey continues to shrink away, day by day, till he's only the size of an insect.The set-piece battles Carey vs. cat, Carey vs. spider--are of course what sold the movie. And they are beautifully done. But it's the philosophical dimension, watching a man struggling to cope with this medical catastrophe that has befallen him--that sets this SF movie above most others.The only negative note was that the interaction of Scott with his new female friend was, frankly, unrealistic. She was supposed to be a midget, but female midgets just don't have the same figure as a life-sized actress playing a midget inside a giant set. It would also have been nice to let the romantic angle develop a bit more--just to the kissing stage. Even in the 1950s, you could show a married man having an affair. "},{"Title":"Where the measure of a man is more than just his size.","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a B-movie, but maybe one of the best ever made.What makes it special are three things the visual effects produced by director Jack Arnold; the acting from Grant Williams; and the great story from one of the masters of science-fiction, Richard Matheson.I read the book too long ago, and I saw the movie in 1958 or so, when still a teenager. So, when a friend lent me his DVD, I just had to have another look.The idea that underpins the story is original what would and could happen if, by a stroke of bad luck, a person should begin to shrink from adult size? Matheson developed that idea into a gripping story, which I recall well, and from there a powerful script. Jack Arnold then directed a work that still stands the test of time, despite the wizardry of today's CGI and other special effects.The standout, however, is the acting from Grant Williams (as Scott Carey) who carries the film for almost two-thirds, with voice-over narration, as he battles to stay alive while he continues to shrink. In sequence, Scott narrowly escapes being eaten by his house cat, falls into the home's basement where he remains trapped, tussles with a large spider, almost drowns when water overflows from a water tub, and just misses being squashed flat by his now-giant brother Charlie (Paul Langton) who can't hear Scott's diminutive voice screaming at him for help; nor can Scott's wife, Louise (Randy Stuart), as she stands on the basement stairs asking Charlie to bring her suitcase upstairs.Both think that Scott was killed by the house cat anyway&#133;a delightful irony that is captured beautifully by Arnold. Every time you see a cat cleaning its paws, you'll think of that scene. At least, I do.The story continues until Scott shrinks to the point where he can finally fit through the wire mesh on the basement window&#133; to escape to a new &#150; but old &#150; world for him to discover and, it's implied, to conquer the world of the infinitesimal. Facing that new experience, Scott then waxes poetically as he sets off to make and meet his fate, an ending that I'm sure was constructed for the movie audience of the day. The ending in the novel, as I recall, was not nearly as saccharine or saintly, however.This movie comes from a long line of sci-fi films of the 1950s Jack Arnold was also responsible for It Came from Outer Space (1953), Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954), Revenge of the Creature (1955), and Tarantula (1955). By 1951, Howard Hawks had already terrified us with The Thing from Another World, Gene Barry shot to stardom in The War of the Worlds (1953), while in 1958, even Steve McQueen got into the act when he battled The Blob (1958).All of those films had the common theme of fear of the unknown, the fear of difference and the fear of insignificance &#150; all fears that seemed to plague the citizens of USA during the scares of the Cold War and the UFO experience at that time.Shrinking Man is then not just a sci-fi scare movie. I think it could also double as a metaphor &#150; way ahead of its time &#150; for that personal diminution of power and significance, in the face of Soviet aggression and the threat of nuclear war. Whether that was Matheson's intent, I don't know.When compared to those films above, and others at the time, one thing is certain this film has the best use of split-screen and superimposition of frames, coupled with very clever perspectives, all to provide the illusion of a tiny Scott in a gigantic world. It's a masterpiece of filming and editing and should be seen for those effects alone, if not for the story.By today's standards, it's not slash and gore terror, nor creepy-crawly thriller it's a brilliant adventure story, with a sci-fi premise, that extols the virtues of courage, self-reliance and independence, in the face of almost overwhelming adversity. Only the perverse or churlish would scoff and scorn; but it would be their loss.Highly recommended for all.Unhappily, however, I've discovered that a remake is now in production for release in 2010 which, for me, is almost as bad as trying to remake Casablanca (1942) or Citizen Kane (1941). "},{"Title":"I still exist!","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Too small to be noticed, but larger than life in the best manner of 50s melodrama, Scott Carey fights fears of inadequacy and a spider twice his size on the way to enlightenment existence is its own reward.The metaphors are bold and vicious. A middle-class guy in the classic Atomic Age mold - tall, reasonable, Brylcreem hair, nice suit - starts to shrink. His wife pretends it doesn't matter, but in the most Freudian of visual similes, his shriveled finger slips out of its too-loose wedding ring. Carey can't satisfy her in more ways than one - as he's too ashamed to go out in public, he can't earn a living either. The very sight of his wife becomes enough to send him into a self-loathing funk. He is reduced to an implied affair with a circus freak, but pretty soon he's too small even to make a midget happy.Father Knows Best turns into Dennis the Menace, dressing in kids' jeans, his hair wild and unkempt, throwing tantrums as his older brother takes care of his wife for him. Actually, big brother is an extended metaphor for the larger society it's on his brother's boat that Carey is exposed to the shrinking agent; he works for his brother, who fires him when times are tough; his brother talks him into becoming a media spectacle for some quick cash; most definitively, his brother takes his wife away in a big Chrysler.The symbolism piles up as this quintessential modern man is reduced to living in a little girl's doll house. Then the cat chases him into the cellar (is he a man or is he a mouse?), where he has to fight a tarantula for a piece of his own stale birthday cake (now he's reduced to the significance of an insect.) Finally he climbs through the screen (this vale of tears?) into the garden (!), and realizes that food doesn't matter; love doesn't matter; hope doesn't matter. Matter matters. He finds his ultimate solace in the knowledge that however small he gets, he'll still be a part of the big picture.So, basically, a guilt-ridden boy lives like a toy on the gradual descent toward either Eden or Forest Lawn. This is the saddest, truest science fiction comment on the condition of the second millennium male we know everything, we have everything, we can do anything, as long as we stay plugged into the system. But out on our own, where the sidewalk ends - when we get sick, or old, or decide not to conform - we are as insignificant and helpless as ants under a magnifying glass. "},{"Title":"The greatest of all B-movies and a masterpiece","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If B-movies made on a shoestring and essentially with just one actor commanding the screen for most of the film's length can be masterpieces, can be among the best films the cinema has given us, then surely Jack Arnold's The Incredible Shrinking Man must be one. The premise is alarmingly simple. A perfectly ordinary young man, (Grant Williams in a very good performance), lying on the deck of his yacht passes through a strange cloud floating just above the ocean and soon after he begins to shrink. (The origins of the cloud are never explained but we may assume it has something to do with 'the Bomb', the movie having been made in the Cold War fifties).It turns out the shrinking is irreversible. At one point he is the size of a midget and he soon realizes what life can be like for people who grow no bigger than a small child. Later, as he shrinks further, he is forced to live in a doll's house and it is at this point he has an encounter with the family cat, a gigantic monster many times his size. While trying to escape from it he falls into the cellar and is given up for dead by his wife, (she thinks the cat has eaten him). Yet still he shrinks and still he struggles to survive. Even a spider becomes a monster he must fight and kill. And still he shrinks.On the one level Arnold's film is a marvellous sci-fi adventure about a man in a kingdom of giants battling monsters, (the special effects are really special, the best I have seen in a movie of this kind). On another level it is a questioning, philosophical work about God and his role, and our place, in the Universe and in the very act of creation, but while Richard Matheson's superb script addresses large issues he also knows how to thrill an audience as well on a simple, primal level. Arnold directs with consummate skill and the film holds up to repeated viewings. It is simply one of the finest films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A giant of 50s sci-fi","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible Shrinking Man is one of those examples of how your own tastes change over the years. As a kid I always enjoyed the film up until the metaphysical ending, which felt like a cheat, yet now it's one of the things I like best about the film. Throughout the film the narration is constantly leading up to a spiritual and philosophical resolution rather than a physical one, and there's something moving about the hero's realisation that all things have a valid place in the universe regardless of size. It also stands up surprisingly well as a science fiction adventure, with the second half's increasingly primal battle for survival against increasingly overwhelming odds both savage and exciting in its ingenuity. And there's also a great sax solo over the terrific main title music. Still a giant among 50s sci-fi. "}{"Title":"It's About Our Human Condition","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie, with it's silly 1950's title, is a great work of the mind as it fathoms the universe. It's about a man, an ordinary man, who, after an astronomical event, begins to become smaller. Unlike so many cheesy films, his clothes don't get smaller along with him. Richard Matheson considered all the implications of a shrinking man along with all the forces that would work against him. Our power is often dictated by our size, so this man finds himself having to fear things that he previously took for granted. We can only imagine what was going to happen down the road. The sad fact that he must live in a doll's house, without hope, to be forsaken pretty much by the humans who have left him, is very depressing. There are the usual things, being chased by a cat, fighting with a spider, having objects like pencils and common pins become huge to him. The ending, however, is what puts this beyond anything that has been done since. It's a look at the hugeness of the universe and the relative tininess of our own earth in the scheme of things. It really has a positive side. This man has dignity and, while he doesn't know what is coming, he knows that the great order of the universe gives him a position in it. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi from it's big screen golden age","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Director Jack Arnold made three of my favorite sci-fi flicks from the golden age of sci-fi in Creature From the Black Lagoon, It Came From Outer Space and The Incredible Shrinking Man. He made a couple less memorable but still good flicks in that era including Tarantula, The Space Children and Monster on Campus. Arnold also directed some b-movie westerns in the 50's before going into a television directorial career that landed him on many popular episodic TV shows from the 50's into the 80's. Here in Shrinking man he teams up with popular writer Richard Matheson who would write many episodes for The Twilight Zone in years to come. Matheson takes his story and provides his own screenplay in this movie about a man exposed to a mysterious cloud while on deck of a pleasure boat at sea. He begins a startling process of shrinking. Just a little weight loss at first but then the effects soon become obvious. I've seen this many times since I was a kid and it's still a smart and powerful film with Grant Williams in the role of Scott Carey, the shrinking man. I would give this an 8.5 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the 50's finest sci-fi films","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the early sixties I was glued to the TV set every Saturday at noon when Shock Theatre was aired. It was then that I came to love the horror/sci-fi genre of films. This particular film is one that I always remembered fondly. When I first subscribed to cable television in the mid eighties, one of the first films I saw was this one. I hadn't seen it in over twenty years.Unlike some films, this one had lost none of its appeal. As a child, the philosophical aspect of the film was not apparent to me. As an adult I was fully able to appreciate the story. The effects are better than average and the actors do a splendid job. Grant Williams has the distinction of starring in two sci-fi films that were vastly different from the norm, this one and The Monolith Monsters. Unfortunately, this film is not currently available on DVD and is out of print on VHS. Nevertheless, this film is shown on a variety of cables stations. Turner Classic Movies airs it every once in awhile. "},{"Title":" I   am   conceived,   therefore   I   have   a   special   Place ","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For many who have read the Richard Mathesons' novel, this motion picture is a good companion. The movie is entitled  The Incredible Shrinking Man  which presents some the earliest Black and White special effects in Pictures. This film star's Scott Carey as Grant Williams who's life is forever changed when a strange white cloud of Radioactive particles envelopes his small boat and his entire body. The immediate effects which he suffers is only apparent when he discovers he is shrinking smaller during the following days. Doctors Thomas Silver and Arthur Bramson (William Schallert) are unable to reverse the effects, nor offer any remedy for his condition. Growing smaller each day, Grant becomes more despondent until he meets some circus people (Billy Curtis) who offer their philosophy on how to cope in a big world of people. Grant begins to accept his diminishing world, until he has to face a hungry household cat and an even more dangerous voracious Tarantula. The picture is in Black and White, but for it's day was ably directed by Jack Arnold who had audiences of the 1950's screaming in the aisles. Good movie fun and a Classic for the age. **** "},{"Title":"No ordinary 1950s American sci-fi B-movie","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  9/10CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERSOn the surface, TISM tells the story of Scott Carey, a normal healthy American, who encounters a strange chemical cloud whilst on holiday with his wife. The film follows his plight as he slowly starts to shrink until eventually he can barely be seen at all, using some fairly amusing special effects along the way. However, during its final third, the film reveals deep existential undertones which culminate in Carey's memorable final monologue. Having come to terms with his emasculation, he begins to ponder the meaning of man's existence in a speech reminiscent of Sartre or Camus I was continuing to shrink, to become what? The infintessimal? What was I? Still a human being? To God there is no zero. I still exist.Unfortunately this cult classic is only available on VHS in the USA and completely unavailable in the UK. "},{"Title":"For God, nobody is a zero.","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A classic of sci-fi horror, The Incredible Shrinking Man is one of the most remarkable films of the genre. It was directed by Jack Arnold, also responsible for such horror sci-fi classics as Creature from the Black Lagoon and It came from Outer Space, but The Incredible Shrinking Man is undoubtedly on the top of my list.   It's an amazing story of Scott Carey (Grant Williams) who as a result of an exposure to radiation begins to diminish in size. In the beginning he finds a full support from his wife and brother who take him to the hospital where an attempt is made to find an antidote to stop the shrinking process, while Scott finds his life endangered first by house cat and later by a spider as he grows smaller and smaller into infinitesimal. How long can this go on? But one thing is for sure For God, nobody is a zero       A great sci-fi horror drama, featuring some amazing special effects. As fresh and exiting as at time of it's release in 1957. A must see. 9/10   "},{"Title":"One of the Greats","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Incredible Shrinking Man, with what is surely one of the oddest titles for a film, deserves to be in any collection of Great Movie lists, whether it is science fiction, horror (although it is not a horror film) or in general.  The film takes a bizarre pretext, what would happen if a man started shrinking, and explores what would happen to him.  It works because everyone, from the screenwriter, to the actors and the director, take it seriously.  It even explores the inner psychology of the man trying to understand and eventually accept his situation, and oddly enough, actually becomes a parable for accepting death and oblivion, although I don't know if this was the intention.  The man goes through the same process has someone having a terminal disease, trying to keep his dignity and humanity even as it is literally being taken away from him.  The end is nothing less than transcendental, extremely odd considering the films coming out at that time.  The special effects are lovingly done, and some of them will creep you out even today, in this age where every frame is digitally enhanced.  If you see this film, keep in mind the year it was made and the quality of the other films that were being made at the same time.  It is nothing less than a triumph, and deserves to be in the film classics moviehouse of fame.  Check it out at Blockbuster if you're looking for something different (way different) instead of the latest drek being released to video.  But be prepared for different film than what you expect.   Nine stars.   "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw this for the first time on AMC and was hooked from the onset. Very good special effects for a 50's film with an excellent story line and first rate acting. The film definitely stays with you long after viewing. Why is this fantastic film not available on DVD?10/10  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Science Fiction Films of the 1950s","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This imaginative science fiction adventure directed by Jack Arnold and starring Grant Williams in the lead is one of the best and most thought-provoking science fiction films to come out of the 1950s. The philosophical ending will likely not appeal to everyone but I for one was pleased to see that such an ending could and did get made. For a 1950s film, the Special Effects are fantastic and I still can't figure out how they pulled off some of them. Of course there is no shortage of adventure in this tale with the spider being particularly memorable but it's the strong character focus and attention that makes this film unique for the time, era and style of film it was. Written by the talented Richard Matheson. "},{"Title":"memorable","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  yes, this is one of those movies that lingers into one's brain, somehow the memory of the last scene triggers a deep thought common to humanity - the merging of the separate self into the oneness of the universe. We pray that we wont shrink into nothing. A classic of a movie. "}{"Title":"Good!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It seems as though everybody that wrote a review on here enjoyed this movie and I did as well! How could you not? The scenes keep you on the edge of your seat, the music is put together well for more suspense and the scenes with the spider had me turning away lol. For it's time it had really good special effects. Certain scenes like him floating on the pencil in the basement or pushing off the scissors looked really good. It's a sad movie though towards the end he just fades away to nothing. I keep seeing how they're gonna make a remake which would be cool but if it has Eddie Murphy I fear it will be a goofy comedy so I dunno about that. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good concepts and great special effects!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A strange concept, handled very intelligently.  A bizarre cloud  of white mist envelopes Grant Williams (hero of `The Monolith Monsters') and causes him to start shrinking in size.  He goes to a hi-tech clinic where Raymond Bailey (the scientist from `The Space Children') and other doctors attempt to analyze and reverse the shrinking process.  Grant shrinks until he is microscopic in size.  An accident traps him in the cellar of his house, and the rest of the movie is about Grant's battle for survival against starvation, a mini-flood, and a `giant' spider.One of Jack Arnolds better efforts, much better in fact than his famous `Creature from the Black Lagoon'.   The special effects are imaginative and effective.  The music by Hans Salter is rousing, with a truely haunting title theme.   Lovely April Kent portrays a midget, but she's much too well proportioned to be a `little person'. "},{"Title":"A neat scifi movie...","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie to its full extent. Some people consider these things silly and old fashioned, but for the time in which it was made, this is a very good movie. I enjoy the principle, and the special effects. Overall a neat scifi movie that anyone who likes the classics would enjoy. "},{"Title":"Sharing Carey's emotions","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite I was born in the 70's, every time I watch this movie I feel like I'm a comtemporary living person of those speculative, deep-thinking 50's.You realize you've got involved into this Sci-Fi masterpiece when you find yourself sharing Scott Carey's worries about our everyday  uncertain future!A transcendental Sci-Fi!  "},{"Title":"Short People Have Reason to Live","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a classic science fiction film about what happens to a man dusted by radiation particles while at sea when he begins to miniaturize.  Grant Williams plays Scott Carey very nicely as he goes from 6 feet and some odd inch or two to no bigger than a thread spool.  Based on the wonderful Richard Matheson novel, the film mixes philosophy with action to get a thinking science fiction film that just does not show the life of a miniature as filled with peril but also adds some reasoning and rationale to the proceedings and even touches on man's relationship with God no matter what the size.  The last soliloquy of Scott Carey that ends the film was for me every bit as memorable as the little protagonist fighting a spider, hunting for food, grappling a box with needle and thread, and living in a doll's house only to be scared by a giant cat.  Those scenes are all well-shot and create stirring images as well. Maybe what the film was trying to say was that it was not the size of the man but the size of his heart, his determination to survive, his faith in God.  At any rate, The Incredible Shrinking Man is certainly one of the films that must be considered when talking about the Golden Age of Science Fiction in the 1950's.  I rank it with films like The Thing from Another Planet, The Quatermass Experiment, The Day the Earth Stood Still, and Invasion of the Body Snatchers. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi which is hampered somewhat by it's preachy tone.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Considered one of the classic sci-fi film's of the 1950's, 'The Incredible Shrinking Man' has an intelligent narrative ( scripted by Richard Matheson from his novel ) and good special effects. The film also shrouds itself in high-brow philosophical aspects which climax in sermon-like monologues accompanied by rousing organ music. Whilst this may lift it above the Goggle-Eyed-Men-from-Mars films of the period, it also tends to get in the way of the entertainment value.The story has Scott Carey engulfed in radioactive mist whilst sailing, after which he starts losing weight and, somewhat more alarmingly, height !!  The first half of the film concerns itself with the medical attempts to remedy his condition and his own mental struggle to come to terms with what is happening to him. Despite his wife's attempts to reassure him - As long as you've got this wedding ring on you've got me - Scott not surprisingly starts to get paranoid. The story then jumps from him being 3 feet tall, to being a 6 inch midget living in a doll's house. From here the exciting second half of the film begins when he is stranded in the cellar of his home and he tries to become master of his new universe - ...and I resolved, as man had dominated the world of the sun, so I would dominate my world.  'The Incredible Shrinking Man' is a good film and a must-see for fans of the genre. The serious approach to the subject and the ideological themes don't elevate the film to the higher level which it seems to aspire to and the likes of 'The Thing from Another World' and 'It Came from Beneath the Sea' may appear more lightweight but are certainly better films. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best sci-fi movie I've seen. Incredibly good compare to other 50's movies of the same genre. A man grows smaller everyday and no one knows why. The scene in the dollhouse with the cat is unforgettable.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a 50s sci-fi gem","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow. This was one of the most entertaining films that I have seen in a long time. I did not expect much, but this film delivered with good old fashioned entertainment. This is perhaps the best sci-fi picture to come out of the 50s.  So many scenes that stick in your mind including near deadly confrontations with a cat, a shoe and a final showdown with a tarantula. But the great thing about it is that the story is actually well-written and developed. This movie is so inventive. I thought it was cool to see everyday objects like pencils and matchboxes taking on epic proportions. This film is totally enjoyable and very compact at 87 min. If you can find a copy of this movie, by all means rent it!Why cant they make movies like this anymore? I would rather watch this than some of the awful science fiction movies that are put out today. "},{"Title":"One of the better ones from the 50's","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the science fiction movies made in the 50's, only a handful stand out as exceptionally well made. The Incredible Shrinking Man is one of them. In a clever twist, instead of growing to monsterous proportions after being exposed to radiation, this man Shrinks to miniature size...and keeps on shrinking. There are many memorable scenes using a creative display of props and special effects. The scene where his size ideally fits inside a doll house (a very well-appointed doll house!) and the cat is trying to get at him, is a great one. And the spider scene is indeed scary. I was most impressed by the ending, which takes on an almost spiritual tone. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Man","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Superb sci-fi classic that includes inventive trick photography that makes it all happen with interest and suspense. Williams plays a man exposed to a radioactive fog, then shrunk to a miniature size. His view of the world is changed forever. Incredible indeed!  "}{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't let the fact that this is a 50's black and white movie scare you off. It has a terrific and efficient screenplay, great effects-they're somehow less fake looking than the digital stuff that has overtaken most films these days-solid acting, and an actual heart and soul. The plight of the wee guy is heartbreaking, and the ending gets very deep indeed. This joins THEM, INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, and THE THING as one of the great post-atomic scare movies.  "},{"Title":"a classier sci-fi movie from the 50s","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The same era and genre that brought us ATTACK OF THE 50 FOOT WOMAN and THE AMAZING COLOSSAL MAN also gave us this more cerebral and less sensationalistic account of a man who shrinks thanks to the miracle of atomic mutation! Because it takes a slightly less sensationalistic bent and the acting and writing are a definite notch above these other two movies, this is more likely to impress viewers. But, if you are looking for a good laugh, this really isn't your film, as it is both a fantasy sci-fi film AND takes a rather philosophical attitude towards this poor man. Additionally, people who MUST have a clear ending in a movie will be greatly disappointed, as the film ends but the problems of this shrinking man aren't really resolved. "},{"Title":"A childhood favourite that is still as wonderful as ever!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Many childhood favourites simply don't stand up when watched with an adult's eyes, but 'The Incredible Shrinking Man' to me is still as entertaining as it ever was. Easily one of the best 1950s science fiction movies, the special effects are superb for the time, and still, for the most part, very effective, and the script (by Richard Matheson - 'The Pit And The Pendulum', 'The Last Man On Earth', 'The Devil Rides Out', 'The Legend Of Hell House',etc.etc.) is very intelligent and imaginative. Some of the supporting cast are a bit shaky, but Grant Williams is excellent in the title role, and will never be forgotten by antone who watches this classic. Of course the science in the movie is ridiculous, but if you can accept it (and I had no problem whatsoever suspending my disbelief), you're in for a wonderful and wonderous experience. The classic spider sequence is still one of the greatest things you'll ever see, and the ending is perfect. I envy anybody who hasn't watched this movie before, it is without doubt a landmark SF movie.  "},{"Title":"a classic for the master of 50 s.f Arnold. A must see","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the 3 great movies in the 50 styles of Universal Science Fiction cicle. Among the finest Jack Arnold thrillers.With is suspense packed plot and superb FX, this tale is a great movie from the time of golden movie making "},{"Title":"Story Is Heartbreaking and Incomplete.","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The antithesis of the Movie The Amazing Colossal Man, this 50's sci-fi tale starts on a boat. A man and his wife enjoying the ocean and each others company until he gets hit with a strange sparkling mist. Days go by and our leading man Scott Carey (GRANT WILLIAMS) feels a little short. Runs to the Doctor (William Shallert) and the findings reveal the unexplained through a series of chest x-rays. Mr. Carey is indeed shrinking. Reality hits hard abruptly as his wedding ring slips off his finger. The pain and anguish of his ailment is presented in a gradual way. At one point Scott befriends a beautiful midge-petite played by (APRIL KENT). Charice, his new found significant meet secretly for a time and as far as I was concerned the movie could end right there. But the reality is the yardstick doesn't lie. Scott begins to shrink again even with a makeshift antidote given by Beverley Hillbillies Banker Raymond Bailey as Doctor Thomas Silver. The furniture gets larger and the curiosity seekers wait outside as Scott sees his world enlarge. Then you see Scott in proportion with living room furniture. Everything for a moment seems normal until you here Scott yell at his wife to be quiet as he sits in a doll house. The pet cat gets loose and our shrinking star falls into the cellar for safety. The remainder of the film takes place in the basement complete with a Spider and a hunk of cheese to fight over.Scott eventually gets through the basement screen and heads for the outside world. What happens next? Great set-up for a sequel, RIGHT? The creative geniuses of Hollywood could have made a micro world with organisms and microbes attacking or befriending Scott. The imagination of the making of this film ended when a new idea could have put this movie into another fantastic movie the ranks of 1966 Fantastic Voyage. I felt so incomplete in waiting for an ending to this despairing story. The moral was simple. Size doesn't matter a decent ending does. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The story is a classic today - a man accidentally passes trough radio-active cloud (or is it the other way around?) and as a result starts to shrink. At first just discreetly, than becomes newspaper sensation, goes to children's size and continues getting smaller and even smaller. At this point the story goes truly fascinating because he is suddenly in all sorts of danger. If as a kid I was probably gaping watching normally sedate kitten harassing Grant Williams, now as a grown up man I truly squirmed watching his fight with darn spider. Sure, the movie is an old classic and time had long eclipsed those special effects, but this is what it gives this special warmth and charm. One does not approach movie like The Incredible Shrinking Man in search for depth or a life philosophy (although there IS quite philosophical finale, which completely went over my head as a kid since I must have been too excited about the cat and spider), this is a pure, good-natured classic entertainment and I guarantee that once the story gets going, any kid would be glued to the screen. And if you still treasure the kid inside, chances are you might enjoy it again. "},{"Title":"Complex Film-noir","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" No spoilers here. No need.The Incredible Shrinkin Man (TISM) is way more complex than I originally imagined, which was a fresh surprise, given the slump in the quality of movies nowadays. Recent action movies tend to make the story as complex as possible simply by confusing the viewer by tricky storytelling. The best example which immediately comes to mind is Inception, but there a tons of other examples. Inception is a really shallow movie, but the chances that Christopher Nolan fans will agree with me are the same as those of a teenager agreeing that most recent pop or rap songs are trash. Can't happen, right? Coming back to TISM, which is almost the opposite of Inception, its power relies on the fact that the story is very simple a man shrinks inexorably to the infinitely small. This simple idea can give way to the most complex questions how can we live/survive if we are, say, a foot tall, an inch or less, etc. Now, the movie is pure Film-noir genius, as we are entirely immersed into the daily complications of living such an ordeal. Consequently, it is very entertaining just for that, and I was kept at the edge of my seat during the entire movie.I highly recommend TISM to anyone who's into movies that rely on a combination of deep psychological and philosophical storytelling while at the same time being mysterious and funny. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Simple and yet so effective","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN is a '50s sci-fi flick based on a novel by Richard Matheson, who also wrote the screenplay. I read the novel beforehand so I can confirm that this is true to the book and just as engaging. THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN is a hugely influential movie that really popularised the trend for little people movies, particularly thanks to its excellent special effects. Stuff like GULLIVER'S TRAVELS, ATTACK OF THE PUPPET PEOPLE and, of course, TV's LAND OF THE GIANTS all owe their dues to this.The story is simple and yet so effective due to a series of unfortunate events, an ordinary husband finds himself shrinking in stature. The first half is almost comedic in its depiction of his unusual plight, but the second half is where it gets really interesting; the guy is trapped in a house with ordinary household critters turning into deadly monsters due to his extreme size reduction.The special effects are still highly impressive and there are only a couple of dodgy shots where the main character appears see-through. The action scenes with the cat and spider are the highlights, of course, but I also enjoyed watching the character working out how to overcome various obstacles. Hell, I've always loved the idea of tiny characters struggling with their world - I used to read Pratchett's Bromeliad trilogy and THE BORROWERS as a kid, for instance - so I was predisposed to love this one too. "},{"Title":"A great movie.  Kept me gasping.","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Strolling through the movie menu, I saw this title and thought I really should watch that to see what it's like. thinking it would be very corny because of the date of it. BUT, I was so pleasantly surprised. The idea, the use of the current technology, the acting, the scenery and surprisingly the mystery and terror were FANTASTIC. You could really imagine what Scott Carey would have been going through. The ending of it was surprising and thought provoking. Everyone should see this movie. From the happiness of the beginning as a sweet vacation on a boat, to the vastness of the universe taught at the end, I kept on guessing and waiting for the cure or the happy ending. Instead I got a lesson in earth-life and God's love. "},{"Title":"The amount of people that saw this are shrinking. I'm glad, I'm one of the very few people that did see it!","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The 1950's Sci-Fiction scene had a slew of cheesy B-List sci-fi movies featuring rubber aliens or giant bugs. In the midst of all this, there came, this wonderful and provocative film. A true classic. It's a great movie to watch, but it's such a downer. Directed by Jack Arnold, the film is based off, Richard Matheson's novel, 'The Shrinking Man'. Richard Matheson came up with the idea, while watching an apparently incidental during the 1953's musical, Let's Do it Again', in which an actor puts on hat, belonging to someone else whom is has a much bigger head. This became the basis for one of the best sci-fi novels of the 1950s. The book was able to capture the nuclear war fears of the shifting Cold-war era and the different politics of each party. While, its premise might seem like B-Movie material, Richard Matheson wrote the story with such detail, tragedy and drama that makes it watchable, from start to finish. The movie follows that same direction. The movie is about Scott Carey (Grant Williams) a happy marriage businessman while on vacation, off the coast of California got exposes to a large, strange poisonous cloud. The radioactive material from the cloud start to have a weird react to Scott's body, forcing him to get smaller and smaller by the day. Scott Carey's life become a living hell as he's force to cope with his every changing standards. The movie depth with the psychological toll of the man whom afraid of what's happening to him, and hates how other people are reacting to him. The movie has no idea of dwarfism looks like, but you really get a taste of how life is like, for people that go through dwarfism. While, you don't see him suffer, the physical genetic maleffects of dwarfism, like malformed bones or bowleg or knock knee deformities. You see him go through somewhat of a castration anxiety in his masculinity. A good example of this, is how bitter and angry, he got with his wife, Louise Carey (Randy Stuart), as she began to tower over him, accusing her of treating him like a child. You really see his lost-love life. While the movie never focus on the sexual tension between the two, due to 1950's censorship, you get hints of it, through the crafty words, they were able to use to show their tense relationship. It's get harder and harder for him to find his libido. Estranged from his wife, you feel for him as he tries to find, any sense of connection. Great use of symbolism, when Carey's wedding ring slides off his finger. I'm glad, they at less, took the way too disturbing behavior of him turning into a sexual predator, trying to get with the babysitter. That would had ruin the film for me. The movie really digs deeper, as Carey's life get more limited. Each day become more of a day to day survival when Carey shrink to the size of a bug, forcing him to fight against house cats, and terrifying tarantula. This is where the best of special effects play in. For a 50s low-budget film, while the special effects are dated, the effects are impressive. The use of rear projection, split screen and model effects all help convey Carey's dwindling size. The best sci-fi is the kind that focuses on the people, rather than the technology. Take a premise, speculate how it will affect human behavior and interaction, and you get profound movies like this. The acting in this movie are great from Grant Williams as the lead, to its supporting cast. There are some different between the book and the movie, such as Carey's daughter being absent. The structure, too has been significantly altered, as the film has no flashbacks to his happier days. The film has this linear dogmatic narrative. The result is a film is a doom-laden tone. No wonder, why the director felt it necessary to add a somewhat optimism tone to the bittersweet ending. This is actually a unique way to end a movie, and in a way inspiration and very easy to relate to. We all sometimes have to try to find that kind of closure in real life. The movie really become haunting as it pluck at our fears about illness, loss of control, and death. All handle a pulpy concept with intelligence and integrity. The film won the first Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation presented in 1958 by the World Science Fiction Convention. In 2009 it was named to the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being culturally, historically or aesthetically significant and will be preserved for all time. Matheson made a number of novel sequel to the film, such as 2006's Fantastic Little Girl (alternately titled The Fantastic Shrinking Girl), but a film version was never produced as of this writing. Indeed, a 1981's The Incredible Shrinking Woman movie was made, but it little to do with the original source material, and play off as a comedy. 1989's Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is by far the best movie since this movie to use the shrinking Sci-Fiction concept. Overall A great philosophical film worth watching. If a remake movie was to be made, let's hope, it's keep the emotional depth needed. "}{"Title":"Don't mess with the works of God","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible Shrinking Man is a film consisting of three basic elements. It's a movie about fear of new technologies and their treats for mankind. It's about the psychological effect on a man whose certainties in life are washed away. And in the second half of the movie it's pure adventure.Scott Carey (played by Grant Williams) is exposed to a combination of radioactivity and insecticides. As a result his molecular structure is changed and he begins to shrink. Although doctors succeed to slow down the process he keeps shrinking. In order to overcome financial problems because he is not able to work anymore he sells his story to the press and pretty soon he is portrayed as a freak of nature. Frustrated by the physical process and his inability to take part in society he becomes unruly to his wife and finds solace in a short relationship with a pretty female dwarf. But Scott keeps getting smaller and he ends living in a doll house. When his wife is out the house cat chases him and he is forced to take shelter in the cellar. His wife believes that the cat caught him and nobody is looking for him downstairs. In the cellar he meets a landscape way too big for him and full of dangers and challenges that are new for him (spiders, a leaking boiler and a mousetrap). After surviving a flood of water from the boiler, climbing a shelf which became a mountain and winning the battle with the spider he manages to get through the grid and he flees into the wilderness in the knowledge that he probably will shrink to the point that he hardly exists.The fifties were a period full of fear. The Second World War caused the invention of new technologies which consequences were hardly known, like the atom bomb and nuclear energy. It was also the period of the start of the cold war, a conflict with hardly any fighting but with the shadow of mass destruction overshadowing mankind. Like The Incredible Shrinking Man a lot of films were made in this period in which the shadow side of the new inventions was placed in a forbidding near future.But this is also the story about an all American man, handsome, athletic, successful and with a beautiful wife whose certainties in life are swept from under his feet. Within a few weeks he is not able to participate in society, neither to take care of his wife nor to satisfy her as a man. As a result Scott becomes bitter and cynical and impossible to live with for his wife Louise.The Incredible Shrinking Man manages to succeed on all three elements. It acts on the feeling of fear of the public around the time the film was released. There is good portraying of a man who looses all his certainties and is faced with a new and hostile environment. And it's great entertainment with proper use of the special effects which were on hand in the fifties. The scenes with the cat and the spider (for which a tarantula was used which isn't a very common spider in most people's cellar) are still looking very impressive and the use of interior adapted to Scott's new size is very well done.A lot is said about the conclusion of this film which is very religious and philosophical. I think that's a logical way of thinking in a world that has changed dramatically and where the fear of a nuclear attack or life threatening pollution was never out of the news. The film implies that what happened to Scott Carey could happen to anybody or to the whole mankind. And in certain ways we are still living under that threat. "},{"Title":"Honey, I Shrunk My Career","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There's a basic fear in all of us that we'll dissipate into nothing, without a voice, or an identity, because we have faith in our individual importance in the great cosmic scheme of things. The Incredible Shrinking Man touches on this primal fear and carries it to an extreme existential climax in a film that always feels as if it was about to break into some comic moment as we watch a man become smaller and smaller physically.One day while sunning on his boat Scott Carey (Grant Williams) is enveloped by a strange cloud that leaves him affected in strange ways. Soon he discovers that he is shrinking, although his wife Louise (Randy Stuart) discards this idea. After consulting a doctor Scott discovers that he has developed an anti cancer, brought on by some insecticide, possibly in the cloud that appeared over his boat. As Scott continues to shrink, his brother Charlie (Paul Langton) convinces him to trade on his condition and soon Scott is trending crazy in the trades. This celebrity status alienates Scott even more and as he becomes more distant from Louise. Eventually seeking company with little people, he develops a romance with Clarice (April Kent), but when Scott discovers that he is shrinking even more he becomes a recluse eventually seeing that he will continue to shrink as his understanding of his place in the world expands.Speaking of shrinking men, and that there are plenty of jokes that this film touches on. Grant Williams as the lead character Scott Carey discovered his own acting career shrinking away, as he would practically disappear from view, this being virtually his best showing as an actor. Besides this obvious metaphorical reading, the film can also be read as a commentary on how learning makes Man smaller in the scope of the universe. The film still feels like a great spring board to what could be great TV.Although Grant Williams is in every scene the real stars in movies like this are the cinematographer, properties, art, and FX departments. Cinematographer Ellis W. Carter, and the Special Effects, and Visual Effects crew produce a top-notch product. Ellis Carter had a good career shooting this kind of flicker. He worked on the Peter Gunn (TV series in 1959, and went on to shoot memorably forgettable things like Sex Kittens Go to College, Bourbon Street Beat (TV series), Neon Nightmare, The Missing Queen, and The Leech Woman the following year.Cleo E. Baker, and Fred Knoth are credited for the special effects, and the Visual Effects by Everett H. Broussard, and Roswell A. Hoffmann really include the optical effects which means that much of the appeal in the film is with the picture captured in camera, and not just done in post production, or via Computer Generated Imagery (like today). The look of the movie is outstanding for the B-level product it is.The Art Department also gets nods for supporting much of the one-man show that the film ends up becoming. Floyd Farrington, Ed Keyes, Whitey McMahon, and Roy Neel created a world of enlarged items that Grant Williams interacts with during the film. Things like giant matches, enormous scissors, and oversized pencils, all are real objective props that the actor uses to make his plight all that much more believable. This kind of acting produces a deeper performance and is quite different from much of the green-screen performances in most movies now.Regardless of how the film spins away into nothingness with the overtly philosophizing voice-over, the imagery will still excite when the viewer sees in within the context of how sci-fi flicks have developed. It's still a fun way to spend 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Fantastic and entertaining for the whole family","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was browsing TV one night and came across this title. Black and white movies from the 50's usually aren't my first choice, but this caught my eye. The Incredible Shrinking Man, cast in 1957, is known as the best sci-fi film of the 1950s. This sci-fi movie is based on the novel by Richard Mattheson and Mattheson himself adapted his novel for this movie. Scott Carey (Grant Williams) is subjected to this mist that possibly may be radioactive and soon discovers he has been shrinking. It is then a downhill battle for Carey, where he eventually discovers what it's like to battle small creatures of prey such as a tarantula and the house cat (played by Orangey).The script of the Incredible Shrinking Man is well acclaimed in that it is very philosophical and Mattheson brings out spiritual aspects (mostly Christianity) in how this tiny man increases to a transcendental and spiritual state of being and all of the emotional battles he had to overcome in his shrinking life.Cast of the Incredible Shrinking Man includes Grant Williams, Randy Stuart, April Kent, Paul Langton, and Raymond Bailey. If your in for a good philosophical sci-fi, then The Incredible Shrinking Man is a must-see. I'd like to conclude by saying that modern day movie makers would probably not be able to remake this movie with the same sense of awe (they'd probably destroy the film with special effects). "},{"Title":"Poor Scott!","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jack Arnold directed this excellent science fiction tale based on a story by Richard Matheson. Grant Williams plays Scott Carey, who is one day vacationing on a boat with his wife Louise when it passes through a strange mist. Later, after Scott is accidentally sprayed with insecticide, he discovers to his horror that he is now shrinking, slowly at first, but before long he is so small he now lives in a doll-house! The press get wind of this, and Scott becomes a national sensation. Scientists try to help him, but to no avail, and after he is(mistakenly) believed dead, he finds himself alone, but still fighting for survival... Thoughtful and well-acted film has excellent model work and acting, with viewer becoming engrossed in Scott's tragic plight, leading to a most unusual existentialist ending that is most moving and satisfying. A classic of its kind. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There is nothing here that is less than remarkable. It is virtually a flawless film. To God there is no zero says the perpetually shrinking man as he hopes to be recognized and recognizable as a human being as he becomes infinitesimal and sinks into the infinite. Occasionally a Primitive Art piece can be so profound as to be a perfect representation of the angst of the age. With all the 1950's atomic and radiation paranoia movies this one pegs the needle on the Geiger counter. The special effects are especially effective and to this day are an amazing sight to behold. It is a metaphysical and existential entertainment that is so even handed that it is stunning in its simplicity. It has an ending to end all endings and can be enlightening and spiritually uplifting without being preachy or vainglorious. No small task. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Man","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From director Jack Arnold (It Came from Outer Space, Creature from the Black Lagoon), there were lots of 1950's science-fiction based movies where people or creatures were shrunken or enlarged, and if it wasn't for this one we probably wouldn't have had Honey, I Shrunk the Kids or The Borrowers, and it is the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so that is high praise. Basically businessman Scott Carey (Grant Williams) is on vacation on a boat off the California coast with his wife Louise (Randy Stuart), we see her go down below for a moment, and on the horizon is a strange cloud, eventually it passes over the craft and leaves a reflective mist on Scott's skin, and when his wife returns she is worried for him as it quickly disappeared. Six months later Scott notices in the morning that he has shrunk a little, he knows he is normally 6 foot 1 inch, but his shirt and trousers have become too big for him, he thinks it just the laundry service, but this trend continues and he think she is getting smaller. He sees physician Doctor Arthur Bramson (William Schallert) who assures him he is in perfect health, Louise also thinks he is being silly thinking that he is shrinking, saying that he must be losing weight, but his height reduces as well, and she notices this when she would usually have to tiptoe for a kiss. Scott visits the doctor again to get x-rays, and they conclude he is indeed getting smaller, and referred to the California Medical Research Institute he spends three weeks of numerous sophisticated tests the new doctors, with Scott remembering the mist, know that the exposure to the cloud was radioactive. The cloud was apparently an insecticide, and the accidental exposure has caused a chain reaction where his whole molecular structure has been rearranged, his cells are slowly shrinking his body and his proportion is diminishing, and after months of this happening his story hits the headlines and he has become a national curiosity. Unable to drive his car and work his job, his brother Charlie (Paul Langton) suggests he can make money from his selling his story to the national press, he keeps a journal to track his experience to be published, of course his humiliation and situation is causing friction between him and Louise who is reduced to tears. There is a point when a possible cure has been found, it stops his shrinking when he is the height of a small child or a midget, he has to learn to live at this new height, and meeting sideshow female midget Clarice (April Kent) who assures him being small is not a disadvantage, and they spend time together, but he is very upset when he notices the cure has not worked as he has become shorter than her. Months go by and Scott has become small enough to fit inside a doll house and whenever Louise comes to comfort him he is cruel and dismissive, he contemplates ending his existence and barely hoping doctors can save him, and being his size he knows the dangers as well, this is proved when his own cat attacks him. Escaping his cat he ends up accidentally trapped in the basement, and Louise wrongly assumes that her husband has been killed by the cat, this story is also reported to the news, of course he is doing whatever he can to survive, finding shelter inside a matchbox. He gains a terrifying enemy with a monster sized spider, he battles to stay alive drinking the water dropping from the boiler and trying to get a piece of cheese from a mousetrap and crumbs of cake from the nest of the spider, and of course his shrinking is still continuing. There is a point when the boiler bursts, and he attempts to get the attention of Louise who happens to come down to have a look, but he fails and she leaves the for good as it is being sold, and after the water is drained he knows he is alone. The final scenes see him decide to take action against the spider and sets a trap to catch and kill it, it is eventually successful, but instead of claiming his prize with the pieces of cake he decides to leave the basement through the air vent and wander into the garden, where of course he accepts that he will shrink to nothing. Also starring Raymond Bailey as Doctor Thomas Silver, Frank J. Scannell as Barker, Helene Marshall as Nurse, Diana Darrin as Nurse and Billy Curtis as Midget. Williams plays his part as well as you could expect, and you can certainly feel sympathy for him and hope that he will get through whatever situations he is put in as he gets smaller and smaller, this early example of what is possible with special effects and props to transport a person into the world of the bigger or smaller world is sensational, there are some effective scary moments with the cat and spider battles, it is just a fantastic journey and adventure for the audience, a brilliant science-fiction thriller. Very good! "},{"Title":"Zen Psychonaut","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 1950's sci-fi is replete with radiation horror, which was a way of recognizing what film noir had been doing the previous decade, though in a much different context imperceptible forces in the universe with the power to radically disrupt the flow of life and alter its shape. In most sc-fi films, it is dished out as a simple gimmick a beast threatens to destroy conservative normalcy.This is something else, much more noirish, but maybe you won't know it until the evocative finale.The premise is that a man is being slowly erased from existence. There are several stops in the journey that I assume are better fleshed in the Richard Matheson novel. His own script has to fit into b-movie running time and demands, so we get a clipped, uneven pace. Don't let that bother you, this is really good.The first dislocation is from happy 1950's 'reality' to the world of fiction and storytelling - our 'shrinking man' is now a nationwide media sensation, he is the 'story', we are as interested as the reporters who ambush his house. He is writing his own 'story' of what is happening to him.The second is to the world of 'freaks' and outcasts, of carnival performers on a stage - a cinematid device. He finds the possibility of a new life here, new love behind the stage. No dice. He keeps shrinking.We shift a third time to now a parody of the world of scintillating sci-fi movies; the gigantic beast is not some tentacled atomic mutant but a common household cat, his house is an actual miniature house, the desert landscapes of films like It Came from Outer Space and Tarantula now become the vast expanses of carpeted living-room floor.The fourth is death and the spiritual journey of transmigration beyond death. You will note that he is reported dead on TV, his wife is mourning and making preparations to move on. He is at this point effectively 'dead' to the waking world of normal life, having forever slipped through the bars of perceived reality. It is not a 'real' journey however, like we get in Aguirre, The Searchers, Apocalypse Now, the premise is fantastical after all, the landscape entirely figural. It is much closer to film noir in mechanism. What does this mean?It is a story being recalled by a narrator at the mercy of callous fates.It effectively starts with him passing through a mysterious mist, something from out at sea that 'clouds' and distorts his vision. The rest is the narrator framing himself inside an increasingly hallucinatory story that he presents, one he has no control of and sweeps him through different worlds of performed life, which is the life we all know, one of acting roles and being a part of stories. In each of these worlds, the narrator 'dies', or experiences if you will a metaphysical loss of himself.More to the point. In each new world he enters he is stripped of a part of ego that strives to control life, quite plainly by shrinking in size, he loses everything else that comes with it; pride, desire for respectability, vanity, etc.And with each loss of the baggage of ego, the disembodied narrator is free to swim to the edges of consciousness, past the fabricated reality of stories to where things can mean themselves and have an empty center, what the Buddhist know as awakening to shunyata. It is when he stops struggling that the psychonaut can freely go from his prison and be one with things.The ego-redemptive journey horrifies, because it is from the Western self-centered pov. There is all this anguish and despair that is not Zen at all. And yet, the transcendent realization when finally he escapes the prison is the same being one with a universe of inter-connected moon-reflections.Something to meditate upon. "},{"Title":"Size does NOT matter.","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Grant Williams plays Scott Carey, a man who is accidentally exposed to a bizarre cloud of radiation when lounging on deck of his brother's Cabin Cruiser during a vacation voyage. His wife, Louise (Randy Stuart) escapes this fate as she goes below deck for refreshments. As the story unfolds, we see how Scott gradually starts to become smaller and smaller. A victim of a weird mutation which causes his molecular structure to reduce in size, Scott must first grapple with the social implications of his changing state, then his psychological battle for acceptance by his peers. He also fears losing what matters to him most- Louise's love and acceptance. Scott's whole world suddenly becomes a fate worse than death, when, after escaping from an attack by his pet cat, is accidentally plummeted into the basement. The rest of the film deals with his continuing shrinking, and his fight for survival for food, shelter and against a spider which has become his single nemesis. Scott ultimately accepts the fact that his infinitesimal size actually intersects with the infinite, that to God, size does not matter. This is one of the rare sci-fi films that can be enjoyed from its mere perspective (a LOT of hard work, thanks to director Jack Arnold) and to an intelligent script (among many from Richard Matheson). Still as inspirational today, as the first time I watched it 40 years ago! "},{"Title":"Being small","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Scott Carey and his wife Louise are spending a day at the ocean when he is passed by a strange mist.Later he also gets sprayed with an insecticide.One day he suddenly notices he begins to shrink being finally only six inches tall.Surviving in the house becomes a challenge to him.The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957) is directed by Jack Arnold.It's based on the novel The Shrinking Man (1956) by Richard Matheson, the author who turned 85 on February.He also wrote the screenplay.Grant Williams does excellent work as Scott.Randy Stuart is fantastic as Louise.April Kent is wonderful as Clarice, the short woman with whom Scott befriends with.Paul Langton is great as the brother Charlie Carey.William Schallert is terrific as Doctor Arthur Bramson.Orangey, the famous cat actor, plays Butch the cat.For a 50's film the special effects look pretty amazing.Just look at that cat trying to reach for the little man in the doll's house.Or the battle against the big bad spider.And him trying to survive in the flood of the basement.The Incredible Shrinking Man is some high class Sci-Fi. "},{"Title":"A Pre-Land Of The Giants With Herman Stein Music","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have seen all the old Hollywood sci-fic films about little people in a giant world (Attack Of The Puppet People, Village Of The Giants, etc) and they all have something special to offer. The Incredible Shrinking Man has a few things to offer the quality script, the quality direction, the quality effects and the quality acting.When the time came to review this film the first thing that entered my mind was the music some of the music was done by the under-rated composer Herman Stein! The score is so vital to the second half of this film because there is not much in the way of talking in the second half, outside of the narration. So the emotion-charged music is what you listen to.Later in the 1960s, Herman Stein would add music to Irwin Allen television shows such as Lost In Space, The Time Tunnel and Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea (just one episode of Voyage, The Phantom Strikes). "}{"Title":"One of the 50's Best","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Featuring a no-name cast, a ludicrous title, and coming at the height of 50's camp, it's understandable how this little gem got lost in the shuffle. Nevertheless, the story continues to unnerve after all these years, reaching down to deepest fears about ordinary processes gone suddenly awry. Seldom has middle-class complacency been so eerily attacked as when we witness the husband's role and breadwinner's status shrink slowly out of sight amid an Ozzie and Harriet living-room. Cult director Jack Arnold makes the most of a modest budget, deploying the special effects in highly suspenseful fashion. Here the effects mean everything as Robert Scott Carey's descent into ever smaller worlds exposes him to fresh terrors among the commonplace, and it's truly odd to transition from normal surroundings into a subterranean world at the same time the former becomes alien to both him and us. Other sci-fi classics of the period threatened us with external enemies to which the military was an appropriate response. A few threatened internally with a loss of personal identity. This movie, I believe, is the only one to threaten with a loss of significance. It's horrifying to think that physical size is more important to our evaluations than simple humanity. Yet this is what we experience as Carey grows ever smaller and less significant to the normal sized world. We are glad when the wife is finally rid of him. Like Hitchcock, this film confronts us with our own deeper and less desirable emotions.The battle with the spider is an epic one, showcasing effects that continue to impress, now as then.The central performances are quite good, with Randy Stuart's anguished wife a standout. However, Grant Williams as Carey, deserves special mention. He brings just the right combination of grit and melancholy to a role that demands equal parts of both. Judging from other performances in a brief career, the melancholy came natually to one of the most blandly handsome faces in the business. The scene that lingers for me is of Carey's running through a gantlet of lawn sprays, having learned that the process has started again and knowing that the sprays can soon drown him. Though less well known than other 50's classics such as The Thing or Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Arnold's film (minus the rhapsodic ending) is at least their equal and ranks with the very best of any period. "},{"Title":"Despite not living up to it's great potential, when this movie's good, it's really good.","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Amongst all the campy and horrible 50s science fiction films, this gem stands out as one of the most believable. The special effects still today are fairly convincing, and all the model sets look great. The only thing that mars this movie is it's ending, which just feels like a cop out to me, but the rest of the film is really top notch for a 50s sci fi film.Scott Carey (Grant Williams) and his wife are on vacation on their yacht when some strange dust blows over and hits Scott. Months later he is no longer fitting in his clothes, and soon he finds out he's shrinking. After a run in with the house cat, Scott ends up stuck in the basement trying to survive through primitive skills. This movie starts off right away, and doesn't let you go until the end. Within 5 minutes we've been introduced to our two leads, and Scott has been infected, and within 10, he's shrinking. This movie zips along at a breakneck speed until he gets trapped in the basement, and that's when the movie gets even more interesting. The basement scenes are really captivating, and the self narration which could be annoying gives us insight into Scott's mind during these scenes. The sets are great. Just as believable as anything from Honey I Shrunk the Kids 30 years later. From the giant matchbox to the enormous spiderweb, everything looked and felt authentic enough to stop this from being corny, and instead help it be tense and captivating. Despite a few corny lines, the dialogue is quite good and insightful too. And the acting is good, and the music is really good, and despite that in many ways it's a typical 50s score full of all too lush orchestration, thanks to the trumpet and piano there are moments that really stand out as great in the score.It's the darn ending that is not satisfactory. After the climax, the film just peters out with some narration that's supposed to make us feel closure for our protagonist, but it doesn't work. Instead it just feels like they had no ending and just tacked one on. There's no closure for any other character, including Scott's wife and brother, and no message comes from this, and all that we get is a main character who is ready to disappear. Not much of an ending.It's understandable why this film is considered a classic, but even classic's can be flawed, and this ending is too much of a non-ending. But check it out nonetheless, it's one of the best the 50s had to offer!My rating *** out of ****. 80 mins. "},{"Title":"Such a positive surprise","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the novel, but I can imagine that it's excellent(not only is this adaptation marvelous, but from what I know of I Am Legend the novel, it's fantastic). This also appears to be the first thing I've watched by this director. I wasn't expecting this to be this great. It's a rather smart, and even deep, film. The script is immensely well-written; yes, the narration contains a healthy amount of hyperbole, still, the truth it holds is tough to argue with, and the moral is very uplifting(and without being sappy). Every character is well-developed, credible and psychologically accurate. I found it really impressive that, considering the period, there is essentially no sexism or xenophobia in it(in fact, they mock those qualities here and there). The plot is engaging throughout. This is quite exciting, and I would suggest adding adventure to the list of genres it falls under. It is a suspenseful tale of fight for survival. Sure, the FX are see-through by today's standards; however, they are nicely done, they sell it(they put serious effort into it, and it shows) and I challenge you to not jump or otherwise be scared at any point in this. The version I have is 77 minutes(another 30 seconds with credits). There is a little mild violence and a tiny bit of blood in this. I recommend this to everyone who enjoys science fiction, and isn't bothered by when this is from(trust me, it has aged extremely well). 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good story delivered with effective (if dated) effects and surprisingly tense action sequences","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Scott Carey is exposed to a mist of mysterious silver particles while sun bathing as it moves quickly over his boat. A weird experience no doubt but it is over so quickly and without any other incident that they think nothing of it. It is a full six months later before he notices he has lost weight and a bit of height &#150; or at least so he thinks. Tests are run, x-rays taken and soon his worries become reality as he is clearly losing inches in short periods of time. Science gets involves to help him but Scott is shrinking quickly and soon Scott is facing dangers in his very home.Whenever something is described as a classic one must approach with caution as you never know if this means high quality or perhaps just that the film was important in its day. So with this in mind I thought I would watch this film for myself. I am happy to report that the description of classic applies in both regards here because, while it is an important film in regards effects and influence it is also tense, entertaining and interesting. The plot is a series of incidents strung together with an overwhelming sense of despair and loss and it makes for a great sci-fi film where the threat is from things we see everyday rather than unknown alien invaders.Were this a typical alien sci-fi from the period I could ramble on about the allegory for communist invasion and so on, but with this film the themes seem to be much more about the threat of chemicals and things in our homes. I'm not sure if this is a valid connection for the period but for me this is the background I saw it in. Upon this we have a good character in Scott as we do feel his desperation and loss. It helps that Williams is good here and he even carries off the ending well. Shame that I didn't feel as convinced by Stuart, Langton, Kent and others, who seemed more stock and stiff.Of course the best thing about this film is the action, which is surprisingly tense &#150; several of the sequences in the basement had me focusing on the screen and jumping a bit. Although the effects are clunky by today's standards, I didn't think it mattered too much because mostly the film did a good job of engaging me, so the joins didn't bothered me too much. Arnold directs really well and seems happy to embrace the downbeat essence of the plot rather than trying to provide something light and fun for the audience.Overall then this is an engaging and fun sci-fi. The dark tone is informed by the fear of the known and a convincing performance from Williams. Of course the main selling point are the dated but still effective special effects which are well delivered in engaging and surprisingly tense action sequences. "},{"Title":"It's a big big world...","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Incredible shrinking man is one of these little gems that pop-up by time. Richard Matheson turning his own novel into a perfect scenario ending up in a real quality celluloid adventure.It's a 1954 classic that belongs in the must see list of every movie-buff. Not is it only an iron-strong story filled with extreme powerful acting it's also amazingly in it's special effects for that time, remember we're in the 50ties. FX that are hardly spot-able and figuring out in exact which way they did it is one of the pleasures. The FX are really outstanding, everything you see is and feels real. Keep an eye on the suspense created by director Jack Arnold in the attack of the spider scene. No use of dummies or other fake material. Realism here is to key towards success in many of such scenes.The story handles the narrative of a guy, Scott Carey who starts to shrink little by little throughout a nature phenomenon that affected him while he was on a boat trip. Once down to a couple of inches he has to fight his way thru the vicious incredible gigantic world. His surroundings becoming a fierce jungle and the only thing he can rely on are his primordial survival skills. Even the most ferocious little things and creatures turning into rancorous phenomenon's of another world.The plot is simple though pretty strong and worked out in a superior way. There are little till none faults, open plot lines or story mistakes to be found. Actually more the opposite. By watching the movie you will discover they have covered each and every little detail. An example; at a certain moment Scott has to cut some pieces of cloth. Though no knife available. He solves the problem in the exact same way as I would do it myself. Which is a little element but indeed an efficient one and it proofs that the writers took care of even the littlest detail. Not that many people would look onto it in this way to think of solving it like that though it's so evident. Maybe even so obvious you just don't see it in the first place. More of these little details will become clear throughout the movie which only proofs the capacities of the writer, Richard Matheson. I can and will recommend this outstanding piece of celluloid to everyone who loves his classics. Bloodhounds or a younger audience wont see the benefit of watching a movie like this, although films like these are the roots of our today's cinema. Not only it's a must see it's also a must have for every collector who's into the exceptional cinematographically masterpieces of the past century.7.5 outta 10 Written by Dario the 2'nd IMDb horror boarder. "},{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN is a very special movie. Why? Because it is based on a very simple MacGuffin an ordinary man is shrinking almost to zero, and nobody knows why.  Because it has nice special effects made with a small budget. Because the movie has a wonderful end. Watch it again. "},{"Title":"Incredibly great movie","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is another one of the sci-fi classics that stands on its own merits. If they try to remake it they will ruin it just as they did with Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Thing.  This is one of those classics that should be left just as it is.  No colorization as it would ruin what the director meant it to be.It stands on its own and is a must see for any Sci-Fi fan.On a Scale of 10 I would give it a 10. On a star rating I would definitely give it a 5 star rating. In other words two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Good, bad, has its moments.","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" We open up on the American dream... a man and his wife on a leisurely cruise in his brother's boat, living the upper-middle class life, joking about their roles in the world to each other and generally just happily taking everything for granted. Then, while the wife goes to get the man a beer (don't worry, they debated it first), a strange fog rolls over.Months later, the man begins inexplicably to shrink, and suddenly his life is changed. The audience traces his journey as previous obstacles are overcome by shrinking, only to provide newer big obstacles in the process.The story is relatively well thought-out, commenting a lot about alienation pre-popular counterculture. Different? Isn't that just another word for alone? says the protagonist to the only person who can nearly relate to his situation, a circus midget. As he shrinks more, so seems his ego, as he gets increasingly more melancholy until finally, he's small enough that pure material need wins out over human emotional dilemma.The acting in this movie is sufficient. It gets rather melodramatic at times and, along with the overly dramatic score, can sometimes breach the level of interest and become laughable. The special effects, mostly double-exposure, are sufficient sometimes but sometimes so obvious it's hard to believe the action. Considering the times, I suppose it's really good, but keep in mind that our modern era of special effects existing in even the most minute of situations will probably still view this movie as hugely lacking, despite how much you want to forgive them.In general, this film is great for science fiction enthusiasts and b-movie classics geeks. As for its commentary, it certainly is interesting. The story and production itself may be a little difficult to get into, but it's worth the watch and definitely worth the time.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Small Packages.","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It all makes you wonder how small can a thing be and still be called human? If a person shrinks to, say, six inches, do his tissues still work? If so, have the molecules of which they're made shrunk with him? Does it mean -- how can I put this delicately -- does it mean his atoms are smaller? It was J. B. S. Haldane, in an essay called On Being the Right Size, who observed that we wouldn't want to be much different from what we are. The reason there are no giants is that the long bones of their legs would break because they couldn't support the weight. Haldane didn't get much into shrinking, as I remember.The same can't be said for Grant Williams, who is momentarily enveloped in some sort of sparkling cloud on his boat and thereafter, bit by bit, begins to grow smaller. First, his trousers and shirts don't fit properly. The doctors have never seen anything like it before and don't know how to treat whatever the condition is.Next thing, he sits at the dinner table the size of a little boy and has an argument with his still grown-up wife, suggestive of marital problems. No kidding. Watch it and see.When he's the size of a toy soldier he's attacked in a terrifying scene by the family cat and falls into the cellar. His family presume he's been eaten by Butch and they move out of the house, leaving Williams alone in a dark, dreary, and dangerous environment.Now the size of a rather large ant, he's attacked by a huge spider and barely escapes alive, to wander through the window grating into the lawn outside, musing wonderingly about how it is God's will that he merge with the universe, shedding his sense of nugacity, finding spiritual fulfillment -- or something like that.The mystery and tension mount up consistently. Jack Arnold was a proficient director. Events follow one another relentlessly and the pace is quick, with little in the way of sluggish asides.But if you drop the climactic mysticism, what you have is an exercise in special effects. It's as if the writers had sat down and agreed that mythology was full of giants. Gigantism is all over the place. Arnold's own Tarantula had a tarantula the size of the Astrodome clumping around the countryside just a few years earlier.So how about if, instead of making him big, we make him small? Fine. A high concept film. But then how do we end it? How small does he get? What HAPPENS to him! Well, you see, he merges with the universe. The scene ends with the writers dashing to the book shelves to look up the meaning of transcendental. The End. "},{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I can guarantee that my review is about to get a lot of not helpful votes because I am not going to praise this is a sci-fi classic. Inevitably, the lovers of the film are going to discard my opinion as that of someone who is either too stupid to understand the complex themes of the movie, or too jaded to appreciate classic film. To the contrary, I have a degree in Literature, so I would posit that I have some basis in examining and appreciating theme, and a review of my lists will show that I have a great love of classic film, even putting several silent films up as some of my favorites.There is plenty of material on this site to let you know the plot details of the film, so I'm not going to bother rehashing that information. The film was directed by Jack Arnold, a Universal staple in the 50s and director of one of my favorite films of all time, CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON. The story is based on a novel by the legendary Richard Matheson, responsible for I AM LEGEND, HELL HOUSE and the best TWILIGHT ZONE episodes. With that pedigree, I was really looking for a good roller coaster film and maybe it was those expectations that ultimately left me wanting a little more.My first problem is that the movie was in dire need of more character development. I would assume that this was present in the novel, but time constraints left the movie needing to trim, but I never really developed a favorable impression of the main character, or an empathy for what happened to him. He starts the film one shade from being a go get me a beer wench masculine jerk. As he goes through the ordeal of shrinking, he becomes a verbally abusive jerk to his wife and even goes so far as to cheat on her. I get the idea that he was struggling to cope with his loss of manhood and identity and that this sets up the theme that will be explored in the finale of the movie, but there was never a time where I ever liked the main character, or saw that he truly loved his wife at any time, so I never developed any care for either him or his relationship.The biggest problem is that nothing ever really happens in this movie. I know that that is going to be considered sacrilege by the devotees and that's fine. We all have opinions. The first half of the movie is nothing but angst filled scenes of our hero coping with his shrinking problem. Doctor visits, arguments with his wife, exploitation by the media, all of this is used to again further the theme of the movie, which is really that once all identity has been lost, man truly finds himself, but it's all just talking and more talking. As he chased out of his dollhouse safety by the household cat and becomes trapped in the basement, the real action begins, but still there are only a few really active, dramatic scenes. A lot of the rest of it is just flat and empty. The two pivotal scenes of the chase with the cat and the final battle with the spider are both good and provide some tension, but they didn't do enough to make me want to watch this movie again.I will give a lot of credit to the special effects. They were well-done and still look good almost 60 years later. I can only imagine how impressive they were at the time, but that only makes this a curio piece and not a movie that most of today's audience is going to enjoy. I don't believe this is as good as the best that 50s sci-fi had to offer (movies like THE THING and INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS are far better) and if you want to lean more towards a horror point of view, CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN was released by Hammer the exact same year and is, again, a far superior film. "}{"Title":"Heartwrenching Tale of Erectile Dysfunction","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Communism my a$$, McCarthyism no way, nuclear warism... not hardly! It's way simpler than that. It's about some stud losing his erection for the first time during what was supposed to be a hot & heavy encounter with his wife on a boat. And make no mistake, this guy never gets it up again.His shame is palpable, his manliness dwindles into nothingness like a package of hardened meat melting down to a flaccid pool of spongy material incapable of becoming even modestly firm ever again. The poor tool, the pitiful fool, driven by his pretending-to-be-sweet wife out of their bedroom and into a freaking DOLLHOUSE! Not even the marvelous mid-century modern dollhouse furnishings can alleviate this limp noodle's depressed state of mind. But wait, there's more! Even the household feline takes her wrath out on this dude's hapless sausage. And whoa, wait, I forgot about the tiny woman he encounters, Thimbelina The Circus Girl. He couldn't move the needle for her either.The ending is like a fabulous LSD trip. Smallest of the small, flaccidest of the flaccid, I mean something too! Who needs sex anyway when you've got enlightenment. A fantastic movie, one of the 2 or 3 best from the 1950s. "},{"Title":"honey, I'm shrunk","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the many sci-fi movies from the Eisenhower era, The Incredible Shrinking Man raised some questions in my mind. Why did Scott flee the doll house and run through the room where the cat could get him? Why would anyone really want to battle a tarantula? But most seriously, might the radioactive dust have represented a looming threat resulting from the nuclear age and pesticides (and was the shrinking truly a representation of alienation)? Whatever the deal was, I can't understand why anyone would remake it. They did it perfectly the first time. Certainly an important part of cinema history, and I certainly praise the Library of Congress for selecting it for the National Film Registry. Definitely worth seeing.PS Raymond Bailey, who played Dr. Silver, later played Mr. Drysdale on The Beverly Hillbillies. Also, Billy Curtis earlier played the Munchkin leader in The Wizard of Oz. "},{"Title":"Passable sci-fi but with a woeful ending","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saw this black and white movie on commercial free network TV here in Australia some months back. The only reason I'm reviewing it is because I want to mention the ending, without giving away any spoilers.Perhaps this movie can be viewed as symptomatic of human anxiety in the age of the atomic bomb and the possibility of the annihilation of civilisation. In any case, the story begins with a married couple holidaying on boat, in some idyllic location. The husband is exposed to some weird mist. After the couple return home, the husband starts to diminish in size...alarmingly.This movie is in black and white, and has some reasonable special effects for the time...ordinary insects assume dinosaur proportions and pose a thread to the life of the husband.Really, you wonder where the movie is heading...until the ending. Can't tell you how annoying that ending was...you sort of feel sucked in for having sat through it. Won't give away what happens, but the ending is symptomatic of a kind of American state of mind. If you are American, you may enjoy the movie all the more for this ending. But as a non-American, I sort of felt violated for having been conned (so to speak) into watching this kind of movie. You see the ending and think So THIS is what the movie was about, all along?.Perhaps if you like this movie, you may want to view a film from a similar era...I saw it as The man with the x-ray eyes, though it goes by other titles, like X, or X The man with x-ray eyes. This movie does have some overlap with the kind of element that annoyed me so much with The incredible shrinking man, but it was a less ham-fisted foray into this domain. "},{"Title":"creative!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a classic.  I especially like the part when the man shrinks to the size of a doll and is chased out by the household cat, which to a normal sized human being would be the size of a house! I liked the special effects used in the movie, which were very good at the time it was filmed in.  I think they could make a remake out of this, or at least colorize the old one. If you were to remake this....please keep it as original as possible, and have the dialogue(script) in more of a 90's way.  For example, when the shrinking man says, Come on you devil change it to, Come on you son of a bitch!  "},{"Title":"Interesting, But Not Flawless","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When Scott Carey (Grant Williams) begins to shrink because of exposure to a combination of radiation and insecticide, medical science is powerless to help him.The film starts out interesting enough, with the mist and the shrinkage... but stumbles at points. The superimposing of film was done poorly, and at times you can see through Carey. And what is up with the woman claiming to be a midget who is clearly not? But overall, the effects are pretty good and the creation of the miniature world is interesting. It is nice to see the tarantula from Tarantula show up (though I was not aware they lived in people's basements). There is some message in here about man's role in the universe, but I think it was pretty lame so I will not even discuss it... "},{"Title":"Good effects and acting, but very little plot","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Although the special effects were excellently done for the period and the message at the conclusion was well done, the overall storyline did not hold interest. I had no real idea of where the plot was going through the bulk of the picture. The acting was good and the narrative was great in describing a man's struggle of survival. However, the plot seemed to jump around from different things and tended to leave me confused as what really was supposed to be happening. It was hard figuring out where events were leading and then the climax is almost like a cliffhanger. There seemed to be no real conclusion. I know that some producers do that for effect, but here I didn't see it. "}]