[{"Title":"Think pink!","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"47 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Stanley Donen's Funny Face was one of the best musicals that came out of Paramount, a studio not known for that genre. The DVD format we watched recently seems to have been transferred with great care as the colors have a vibrant look, something that wasn't the case with the technique used during that era that made colors fade.The film owes its appeal to Audrey Hepburn, an actress not known for being a singer, or a dancer, but who had enough charm to make the movie her own. The pairing with the great Fred Astaire pays off well because Mr. Astaire was always an actor who had enough chemistry with his leading ladies. Ms. Hepburn's costumes by Givenchy and the way she carries herself in them is one of the best assets about Funny Face.The other surprise of the movie is Kay Thompson, who plays the magazine editor Maggie Prescott. Ms. Thompson makes an excellent contribution to the film as the no nonsense woman who ruled what the fashions of the day should be as shown in the pages of the magazine.The songs of George Gershwin are complimented by the original music composed for the musical by Roger Edens, Adolph Deutsch and Leonard Gershe. The great cinematography of Ray June shows Paris at its best. Thanks to Stanley Donen all the elements feel into place and we were left with this musical that will delight audiences forever. "},{"Title":"Gershwin, Paris, Astaire, Audrey Hepburn, Richard Avedon, and John-Paul Sartre","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This 1957 musical is a little odd. It has a title based on an original 1920s Gershwin musical (that included the title song) which starred Fred and Adele Astaire. It was a musical and scenic valentine to France (but only one tune in it deals with France - Bonjour Paris!. It is a spoof on the modern fashion magazines, fashions in general, and advertising - but the spoof while sharp at times is never pushed. The opening sequence, Think Pink, describes how Kay Thompson plans a campaign to make the American woman go for pink clothes, accessories, toothpaste, etc., only to admit to her assistant she personally loathes the color. It takes full advantage of the attractive face and features of Hepburn, who is convinced to be a model and help push a new line of fashions in Paris. And it makes two characters into imitations of Richard Avedon the photographer (Astaire as Dick Avory) and Jean-Paul Sartre (Michel Auclair as Prof. Emile Flostre). Avedon was a rarity - a fashion photographer who became a great artistic portrait photographer. Astaire never is shown taking pictures of great or famous people in the film but several times he demonstrates a refinement that separates him from the rest of Kay Thompson's entourage (most of whom don't care what havoc they cause, as long as they get their jobs done). He also has enough sense to question Hepburn's accepting of empathicalism, and it's viability. Witness his moment in the bistro pouring wine to the two old codgers who are quite pleasant to him while he insults them in English. Hepburn, of course, is so insistent on the validity of her philosophical beliefs that she rejects Astaire's warnings, and jeopardizes the fashion show.The final blow (seemingly) to the Astaire - Hepburn relationship is when he confronts Flostre at the author's home. He knocks out the Professor, and his brutality demolishes the relationship with Hepburn. But within minutes Hepburn sees another side to Flostre which is unexpected, and suddenly realizes that Astaire may be right after all.The character of Flostre is obviously based on that of Jean-Paul Sartre, the founder of existentialism. Based on in some details, but not in theory. Empathicalism has to do with trying to empathize with others so as to have a proper response to their needs and aspirations. Existentialism has to do with An introspective humanism or theory of man which expresses the individual's intense awareness of his contingency and freedom; a theory which states that the existence of the individual precedes his essence. This is from Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary. Sartre has a more complex view of man and society, and one can plow through BEING AND NOTHINGNESS to try to understand it. In fact some critics have wondered if the Nobel Prize Winner eventually got very wrong headed about his theory. But he certainly seems a meatier philosopher than his celluloid copy.But Flostre does have the trappings of Sartre on him. He is revered by his followers world wide (such as Hepburn). He is a man with sexual appetite (as Sartre was with his long time companion and fellow writer Simone Beauvoir). And there is some traces of an anti-capitalist, even anti-American attitude in him. It is not definitely pushed, but when Astaire and Thompson break into his house during a party, they pretend they are American share cropper singers whom Flostre had brought to France to perform for his guests. Now, we never hear what this actual pair actually would sing, but judging from their background they would have to throw in some protest songs. Sartre was very critical of the U.S.A. and capitalism (today his fans have to explain Sartre's willingness to accept Russian imperialist moves under Communism in the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s - they find it very hard to do so). On the whole the parts of the film work well, so I give it seven stars. Kay Thompson is best recalled for being the creator of the little girl at the Plaza Eloise, but she shows here a highly entertaining performance as Maggie Prescott, the editor who pushes and loathes pink. The film would have been better if somehow Avedon's portrait photography had been brought into the story, possibly in a final scene with Flostre as his subject. However, even without such a sequence the film is rewarding to watch, especially in the musical numbers. Astaire does equally well with Thompson and with Hepburn as his partners here. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Enough as Long As It's Not Taken Too Seriously","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As long as you do not take the premise or the characters or the plot too seriously, this is an enjoyable movie with an interesting pairing of Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn, plus an excellent supporting performance by Kay Thompson and some good-looking settings and scenery. The musical numbers are pleasant, if rather on the light side. Stanley Donen has the right touch in keeping things together without making the seams show too often.Hepburn is cast in a somewhat unexpected role, as a drab intellectual store clerk who gets involved with Fred Astaire's (much older) photographer character. Audrey is so charming that's it's very difficult to think of her as a wallflower, and while Astaire is as energetic as ever, there are more than a couple of occasions on which the relationship doesn't really look believable, despite the best efforts of the two stars. The plot isn't supposed to be anything weighty anyway, so perhaps that's the price you have to pay for a rather different pairing.Kay Thompson provides many of the best moments. Sometimes the satire of trendy philosophy comes off well, at other times it gets a little dull. Not to be forgotten are the colorful and interesting settings and backgrounds, which set off the story and music fairly well. It's sometimes a strange combination, but as lighter entertainment it all works well enough. "},{"Title":"Still a fun musical","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Funny Face was great fun during its first runs and is still a most enjoyable musical.  A top notch cast headed by Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire make this a winner. Kaye Thompson is on hand for songs, dances and laughs, and George Gershwin's score sparkles.  Filmed in part on location in Paris, Funny Face beautifully conveys its story of romance with elegance and charm. Smart fashion costumes, photography and choreography combine to make this a hit.  "},{"Title":"The Bird of Paradise","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a rare bird indeed, a Hollywood musical that succeeds as parody as well as musical entertainment, featuring the best song and dance man of all time, Fred Astaire, and the Hollywood establishment darling, Audrey Hepburn, who was always magnificent despite being pampered and fawned over by the media moguls. Unlike Gene Kelly, Fred Astaire's dancing seemed natural. Astaire spent as much time learning his steps as Kelly, but the viewer always got the idea that Kelly had learned the steps whereas Astaire appeared to be inventing as he shuffled along. Astaire's early movies were made during the age of the crooner, yet his singing could not be pigeonholed into that category. Like his dancing, his singing flowed naturally and freely.The story to Funny Face is a simple one, a musical variation on Shaw's Pigmalion which was already a hit musical My Fair Lady, turned into another Audrey Hepburn vehicle a few years after Funny Face. What makes this movie stand out is the spellbinding choreography by Astaire, Et.Al., Ray June's cinematography, George Gershwin music, such as the title song, the direction of Stanley Donen, and the Paris fashions by Hubert de Givenchy. The colors are breathtaking. Note the incredible images of the opening dance Pink. The sights of Paris have never appeared more intriguing. And who would have thought a song and dance in a photographer's dark room could be so delightful? One of my favorite numbers from Funny Face is the hilarious yet imaginative parody of modern dance performed by Audrey Hepburn in a Paris cabaret. The parody can also be interpreted as poking harmless fun at Gene Kelly's ballet-style dancing in An American in Paris. This scene shows the versatility of the multi-talented Hepburn. Teaming her with the also multi-talented Astaire makes for a winning combination. Why the hoopla about their age differences? Do film reviewers not live in the real world anymore?This is a much better musical than many of the more touted ones of the 1950's. If you're not careful, this little screen gem may slip past you. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is just fun! Singing, dancing, Audrey, Fred. Fun!I've seen all of Audrey Hepburn's stuff, and this is the one movie of hers that I enjoy the most. I can watch it endless times and not get sick of it. The songs get stuck in your head for weeks afterwards. Another good point about this movie is that it has a message about beauty being only skin-deep, and manages to convey that message without getting preachy. Sure, Funny Face isn't a super-important film that deals with huge issues, but it's good fun! "},{"Title":"Love that Audrey!!!!","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Outstanding.  Beautiful.  Classic.  What a real lady!!!The photo sequence in Paris has never been topped. Such a 10+ movie, I can just watch it over and over.  Those are kind of strange adjectives and comments from me, especially since I'm a Sci-Fi, action, fantasy kind of movie fan. This makes me wonder, will we ever have another Audrey??  Maybe an actress who is even close?  To think that she thought she had  1.  A square face, 2.  A big nose and 3.  Big feet.   That just shows how human and natural she really was..........  What a surprise for me to find this movie.  I had never even heard of it untill it came out on DVD.  S'Marvelous!!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Musical","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The bookshop salesgirl Jo Stockton (Audrey Hepburn) is accidentally found by the photograph Dick Avery (Fred Astaire), who convinces the owner of the fashion magazine Quality, the powerful Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson), that she could be the new model she wants for the magazine. Jo dreams on going to Paris to meet her guru, the philosopher Prof. Emile Flostre (Michel Auclair), but she cannot afford to pay for the travel; therefore she sees in the invitation, the chance to visit Paris. Once there, Dick falls in love for her.Funny Face has a great cinematography, art direction, set decoration, costume design and most important, a charming and delightful Audrey Hepburn. Kay Thompson is also excellent. The problem is the silly screenplay that shows at least two great mistakes. The first one is the inconsistent and contradictory character Jo Stockton, presented as an intelligent and clever woman in the beginning, but later becoming absolutely shallow, acting like an irresponsible spoiled child. The second big mistake is Fred Astaire (58), thirty years old older than Audrey Hepburn (28), therefore more than twice her age, as her romantic pair. This great actor looks like her father, and there is no romantic chemistry between them. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Cinderela em Paris (Cinderella in Paris) "},{"Title":"that age-gap romance","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This snappy musical teams an ageing Fred Astaire with the young and lively Audrey Hepburn, puts them in Paris with a lovely Gershwin score, and piles on the slush to create romantic confection that really is irresistible.Audrey is at her best here, whether singing (in her own voice) &#145;How Long Has This Been Going On?', dancing wildly around a café, or looking like a mannequin in the fabulous frocks.  Kay Thompson is on hand too, with her own fabulous number, &#145;Think Pink' about the trials and tribulations of being a fashion magazine editor.It probably works best with the misty filters and the dreamy sequences, though.  And Audrey is serenaded by Fred dancing beneath her window, like the dashing prince who comes to rescue Rapunzel.  Musical corn perhaps, but addictive nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love everything about this movie. It was written by Leonard Gershe about my mother (Doe Siegel) and her love (and then husband), Richard Avedon. It depicts Mom's brilliant intellect. Her compassionate, youthful energy. Forget about reading too many nuances into this movie. Art is a departure from reality and Leonard uses his creative license well. It seems I am to include more lines before this can be submitted...what more to say. Fun. Spontaneous. Flirtacious. Romantic. I hope people enjoy the very heart of this movie. Mom continues to be a gracious, caring, and inspirationally bright woman. She gave up her career to raise her family. We love her dearly. "}{"Title":"Colorful and energetic, but with a hackneyed script...","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn always said she was an introvert forced by her profession into playing extroverts, and usually that strain didn't show. It doesn't show in Funny Face either, but her natural gamine appeal does seem to get swallowed up in the fake-happy surroundings. The Oscar-nominated screenplay about a famous photographer discovering a beauty in a mousy Greenwich Village book-clerk is only good in its early stages setting up the story, but when we find that the plot is just a romance complication, it's a let-down. The plot-thread about the philosopher in Paris is dire, and the film laughably compares a beatnik lecture to a spiritual, but Hepburn works hard to create chemistry between she and Fred Astaire (older and less enthused) and she has some feisty, enchanting moments. She does her own singing here, unlike in the later My Fair Lady (which coincidentally also gave Audrey a fashionable makeover), and her dancing is sprightly and fun. It's a fluttery, gay, fashion-magazine movie without enough soul in it to really be absorbing, but the Gershwin songs are sweet and the eye-popping color-schemes give it a great visual kick. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A great MGM musical--made by Paramount","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face is one of the last great musicals. No one would be surprised to find MGM producing this film, but Paramount released it. All the care in casting, production, and direction is MGM-like, thanks probably to a large degree by frequent MGM director Stanley Donen and MGM jack of all trades musical Kay Thompson.The plot is typically a piece of fluff--drab Audrey Hepburn (it is genetically impossible for Audrey Hepburn ever to be drab) is discovered by Fred Astaire and transformed into a high-fashion model for Kay Thompson's fashion magazine, Quality.Although the job of fashion model goes against all her values, Hepburn signs on as the Quality Woman to get a trip to Paris where she hopes to meet the renowned philosopher Emile Flostre, who has developed the concept of empathaticalism. If none of this makes a great deal of sense, so what? Just sit back and be beguiled by Hepburn's beauty and surprisingly excellent singing and dancing. Astaire, of course, is sublime, and Kay Thompson is hilarious as a force of nature oblivious to everything not related to Quality magazine. Except for two new songs, Think Pink and Bonjour, Paris--both delightful--the score is by the Gershwins. Who could ask for anything more? Well, there is more--stylish photography, witty dialogue, clever production numbers, and delightful performances from all involved. The sight of Audrey descending a vast stairway in a stunning red Givenchy gown is classic and has been referenced frequently in other movies and countless advertisements and commercials. They don't make'em like this anymore, and they never will. They had TALENT then! Britney as Audrey? Madonna as Kay Thompson? Justin as Fred Astaire? "},{"Title":"Well, it's not exactly the worst film ever made, but...","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In some circles, this film is considered a classic (whatever that might mean to you). The question is why?  It's about as plotless as a music video, and the relationship between a  young girl and a much older man is fairly questionable.  I'm not one of those people who thinks Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn walk on water.  I like them in some films and don't like them in others.   Funny Face falls into the latter.  It has some nice Gershwin tunes, and Paris locales; but it meanders on, merely on the strength of Audrey Hepburn's looks.  In fact, if one were to find a point to the film, it would be to dress Miss Hepburn in as many clothes as possible.  If you find that entertaining (and there is certainly nothing wrong with that, if you do), then this is the film for you.  There is no question that Audrey Hepburn could play a mean Audrey Hepburn.  In the right vehicle (Sabrina, Roman Holiday, Charade, Breakfast At Tiffany's), there was no one better.  It's as if Funny Face is pretending to be such a vehicle; and she works hard at being Audrey Hepburn.  It's just that what's she's doing isn't all that worthy of her, to begin with.  Watching it is like eating cotton candy.  It doesn't leave you feeling satisfied, just a bit sick.  The characters in this film start to become very annoying, about a half hour into it. Just how much prancing around Paris can you take? I don't watch films for their hidden meaning or depth, so I'm not asking Funny Face to be more than sheer entertainment.  I just want to BE entertained.  Funny Face, barely entertains.  I get the feeling that the producers decided that since they were giving us Fred Astaire, Audrey Hepburn (with Kay Thompson thrown in to help with the Astaire/Hepburn overdose), Paris, its fashions and locales, and Gershwin tunes, then that would be more than enough.  They didn't need to bother with a good story to go with it all.  Well, they were wrong.  Unless you are a die-hard fan of either Hepburn or Astaire (or both), you'll be left wondering how such a pointless film could have obtain classic status.  "},{"Title":"Why can't they just leave my man Gershwin alone....","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Entertaining but thin musical -- Stanley Donen's take on American in Paris.  Astaire is a bit too old to be plausibly linked with Hepburn (who we're supposed to believe is unattractive in wool dresses and glasses.  This woman would look good in a trash bag).  The movie seems to take place in a universe where Fred Astaire never ages, because the difference in their ages is never even an issue as I recall.  the dances are pretty disappointing, except Audrey Hepburn's Basil Metabolism beatnik sequence.  Beautifully photographed with style, everyone does well but there is no real substance.  Good Gershwin songs culled from a handful of plays (including the original Funny Face, which was a better show starring Fred and Adele Astaire), mostly inferior versions of often-done standards.  No plot is taken from the original musical at all.  This movie just seems so out of place at its time -- making fun of beatniks just points up how much time had already passed Donen, Astaire, and certainly Gershwin by.  Must have felt like a relic to audiences in the 50s  seems like it could be a cherished relic to fans today. "},{"Title":"Some great ideas that get cobbled together with uneven direction...but the best is the best!","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face (1957)I was prepared to love this movie and it let me down even though it has two fabulous leads, the classic musical dance man Fred Astaire and the new star Audrey Hepburn. It even has its photography based on the work of Richard Avedon, and Astaire's character is based on him in his fashion work. I enjoyed it, but it depends too much on common formulas, which I normally don't mind, and it lacks cohesion, flow, and what you might just call magic.That it's partly shot in New York and then Paris (a famously rainy Paris during the shoot) you would think you could hardly go wrong. And in a way it doesn't go wrong overall. But the plot lacks energy, the romantic chemistry is missing (the two are really more like father and daughter), and the series of dance numbers is choppy and uneven. Because of all this, each song goes on too long and you itch for the next scene, and then that scene merely takes us back to the weak plot.If you focus on these weaknesses the movie starts to look almost terrible. Hepburn's transformation from a tweedy intellectual in a bookshop in Manhattan to the premiere runway in Paris sounds like dream come true stuff, but it isn't really convincing (or surprising, of course). The French counter-culture intellectual scene is fun idea but it doesn't push it very far, and the leading voice is played by an actor with no presence at all. Hepburn's interactions in this whole world are forced. Even the opening twenty minutes, which sets the tone, is rough sledding before out two leading actors appear.But focus on the strengths and there are some great moments. Like the series of photo shoots, one after another quickly spreading across the highlights of the city, is fun and stylish. A few of the dance numbers, though short of classic, are great fun, like the modern one in the French smokey bar and the one in the darkroom with the safelights on. In both of these, again, director Stanley Donen (a consummate pro at this stuff) let things drag on just a minute too long, which is a long time in a fast moving movie like this.Then there is Fred Astaire, at ease and warm and really wonderful. He doesn't get a chance to quite blow the doors off any of the dances, but he's still a joy to watch, dancing or just being his warm self. (He was initially a reluctant actor at this point in his life, but was still very active. For a sense of his truer self, perhaps, behind the scenes, see On the Beach two years later.)Then there is Audrey Hepburn, by now a stellar and unique star trying to spread her wings into musicals (this was her first). She, as usual in her career, rose above her part and like Astaire was herself with such charm she keeps even weaker scenes going. When she's in them, which luckily she is in most of them by the second half. Hepburn also comes across as a superb model (appropriately thin, but not especially tall), and Avedon's photographs of her taken in conjunction with filming are iconic. They get incorporated into the movie directly, both in the scenes where Astaire creates some photos in his role, and in some of the cinematography which imitates Avedon's style (white backdrops, modern styling). In the end it's a great seeming movie with such huge flaws it's just another musical. But that's not fair, quite, so think of it as an up and down ride with some very very fine high points which make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Charming fluff, very easy on the eyes and brain. But, considering the talent, it could have been even better.","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face has the credentials to be an absolute classic &#x96; we're talking great actors, a great director and the perennially popular background of Paris. It certainly emerges an entertaining, exuberant musical as one would expect. But there's just something missing, a little sprinkling of magic or some overlooked ingredient, that would have sealed its place in the echelons of truly amazing movie musicals. When giving any other movie a 7-out-of-10 rating, I'd normally be listing all the things the movie has done right to earn itself 7 marks; with Funny Face it's almost a case of listing what the film has done wrong to lose 3 marks.Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson), bulldozing head honcho at Quality magazine, wants to find the next thing in the trend-setting world of fashion. She and ace photographer Dick Avery (Fred Astaire) invade a quaint antiquarian book shop in Greenwich Village to carry out an intellectual photo shoot with their bimbo-ish models. During the shoot, Dick accidentally catches a shot of the book shop worker Jo Stockton (Audrey Hepburn), and later realises that her funny face might actually be the perfect profile to launch the magazine in a new direction. Dick and Maggie persuade Jo to come to Paris with them for a fashion shoot and show. She is reluctant to get involved in the industry, but accepts anyway as she is keen to meet her idol, philosopher Emile Flostre (Michel Auclair), who is giving lectures in Paris. By travelling to France she sniffs an opportunity to meet the man she admires so much. But, unexpectedly, Jo soon finds herself falling for the charm of her photographer Dick. Loves course never runs smooth, as Jo, Dick and Emile are soon to discover&#x85; Loosely based on a 1927 Broadway musical, this film is a lot of fun to watch. The noticeable age gap between Astaire and Hepburn makes their romance unconvincing, but watching the two of them own the screen in their inimitable way remains a joy. Overall the film's musical numbers are very well done &#x96; Think Pink, Bonjour Paris, He Loves And She Loves and Let's Kiss And Make Up being just a few of the highlights. There are occasional longueurs in the story (it has, after all, the thinnest of plots, flimsily stretched to a 100+ minute running time), but there's always a lively scene or song just round the corner to liven things up whenever tedium looms. Overall, Funny Face is a classy show. As mentioned, though, it could have been an absolute classic. It's reminiscent of a damn good golf player who can hit the green every time, but cannot seem to sink the putts that would make him a world beater. Funny Face gives itself a glorious shot at perfection, then lets it drift away on a wave of lightweight feathery fluffiness. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still superior","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'd seen this film once before, back in the days when videotapes on a CRT television screen were the only home theater. Doesn't really seem that long ago, does it? Well, I picked up the DVD in the bargain bin of a local store recently, and watched it tonight on the widescreen monitor attached to my computer.What a difference! The framing of all the shots suddenly makes sense, as does the absolutely amazing cinematography. It's a film built around photography, and that concept is reflected in the photography itself. Set design, choreography, camera angles -- it's all there. Having once been a professional photographer myself, I could really appreciate all the care that went into photographing this film.I was also very pleasantly surprised at how well Audrey Hepburn acquitted herself here. The role doesn't require much in the way of acting ability, but she gives it all she's got and makes Jo not only believable but sympathetic. She's not really a singer, but she handles her singing parts creditably. And though she isn't really a dancer, either, her dance numbers are outstanding. Ginger Rogers she ain't, but even next to Fred Astaire, her footwork is way above average. And how *graceful* she is! She carries off even her solo dance number with a balletic poise and flexibility that astonished me.As for Fred Astaire himself, he never at any point made a convincing romantic lead to me. Though a magnificent dancer, his screen persona was too much the cold fish to really play a passionate lover (as Gene Kelly certainly could). And his moment of Gosh, I never realized it before, but I must really be in love with this girl is just too much of an eye-roller. Even Laurence Olivier couldn't have pulled *that* one off.The multi-talented Kay Thompson, it need hardly be said, more than holds her own in the acting, singing and dancing categories.The script is by turns funny, banal, emotional and weak. Funny when it's gently skewering the fashion industry and self-righteous pseudo-intellectualism; banal in its clichéd and predictable love story; emotional when Audrey Hepburn gets to hint at the powerful emotions she can't reveal and weak in its rapturous Oui, oui, it's gay Paree! swoonfest over arriving in Paris.So, no, it's not one of the great classical musicals (even the chosen Gershwin songs were far from the best selections from that vast repertoire). But you've got to take the bad with the good, and the good is very good indeed. Recommended.PS Oh, and for God's sake, folks -- *puh-leeze* get off that age difference high horse. If that's the sort of thing upsets you so much, maybe you shouldn't be watching movies at all. "},{"Title":"Devil wore Prada... even in the fifties","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Guess which film I have seen today - no, not Funny Face again, but The Devil wears Prada, and it was impossible to me not to think at the Astaire-Hepburn movie from fifties years ago. There are so many similarities, from the main character (and Ann Hathaway does look as a Hepburn - wannabe...) to the editor, even if the excellent performance by Kay Thompson can't be compared to the terrific Meryl Streep. I haven't read yet the 'Prada' book, so I don't know if the similarities are also in the original story, and of course there are many points where the two movies are quite different, but in the whole the new film is sort of a modern version of this old masterwork. "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Movie from Hepburn","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm a big fan of Audrey Hepburn, but I was very disappointed in this movie. As soon as I saw the opening credits with Fred Astaire, I had a suspicion it would be heavy on the musical and dancing elements, but I usually enjoy musicals so I wasn't too worried. However, the further and further I got into this movie the more I wanted to turn it off. There was absolutely no chemistry between Hepburn and Astaire, and the musical numbers were far too frequent and over the top. I have to say, the most enjoyable role in this movie is played by the supporting actress, Kay Thompson. She does an amazing job with her character despite the lackluster script. The only scene from Funny Face I would watch again is the one of Hepburn dancing in the café, but then again I could just watch the Gap commercial on YouTube instead. "},{"Title":"S'wonderful indeed!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Funny Face and I was just enchanted from start to finish. This beautiful, sublime, light-hearted musical pairs the incomparable Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn. It was the perfect vehicle for Hepburn, and in my humble opinion, Funny Face ties with The Band Wagon as the best Fred Astaire musical of the 50's.Funny Face tells the story of Jo Stockton (Hepburn) a deep and outspoken Beatnik bookseller, and Dick Avery (Astaire), a raffish but compassionate photographer for Quality magazine. Quality is run by its hilariously vapid editor, Maggie Presscott (Kay Thompson, a real scene stealer). After some unusual circumstances, Dick convinces the waifish Jo that she has model potential and should go to Paris with him. The plot is sometimes a moot point as soon as they get there, but what happens after that is song, dance, great clothes, and a beautiful romantic song and dance with Audrey and Fred on a grassy knoll. There's also a rather famous scene with Audrey descending a flight of stairs in a gorgeous red strapless dress with white gloves.I've seen a lot of criticism for Funny Face, and I disagree that it's shallow and anti-intellectual. What separates this movie from, say, She's All That is that Jo only goes to Paris as a means to an end for modelling, which Jo is vehemently against. She never compromises who she is, and doesn't officially fall for Dick until much later, so romance is never a motive for anything. Also, Dick admires Jo's inner beauty, even before she becomes a stunner. They are much more likable and romantic leads than in most makeover movies. Please don't over-analyze Funny Face, just sit back and let yourself be spellbound. Trust me, s'wonderful!! "}{"Title":"Didn't bother finishing","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Good lord was this a) silly and b) offensive. I've got no issues with age differences (having grown up with a handful of family members and a couple friends pulling off differences of a decade or two - or in one case, three), but other reviews complaining about the lack of chemistry are so very right. I got up to matador scene - approximately 50 minutes into the movie - and I'm still not feeling the teensiest spark between the two leads.Audrey's character is just painful to watch. I stopped counting the ways in which she offended me. Of course when she's the 'brainy' girl she's ugly and drab. Audrey 'ugly'. HAH. That's so laughable it's ... not actually funny. Nothing like setting ridiculously stupidly high standards for girls, right? I mean geez, if *that's* ugly, what hope have the rest of us got? And my other complaint is *how* her character - her 'intelligent, brainy' character is portrayed. She doesn't sound 'brainy' even in the beginning. She comes off as an elitist, superficial cow. And then, less than half an hour into the movie, she magically morphs into a sheep and goes baa!ing along with the rest of the flock because a) a guy told her she was pretty and therefore totally validated her and b) free trip to Paris. Goodbye ideals, hello waxing, plucking and airbrushing! Uuuugh. Even for a dated movie from a simpler, more offensive time - this comes off as pretty offensive.I haven't even talked about the WTF moments. I got two examples for you a) the matador dance (IN Paris WTF) and b) the beatnik dive dance (no seriously W-T-F???). And the winner, a scene that was both WTF *and* offensive a couple arguing in the street, he slaps her across the face, and they fall into a passionate kissing scene. They weren't even a part of the story! They just threw it in! Whyyyyyyyyyy? I started flipping forward through scenes and the amount of soft, dreamlike scenes convinced me that this was not about to get better. I quit. "},{"Title":"A Peculiar Time-Warp...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Certain things are absolutely timeless, and then there are others that just do not translate. I was studying abroad in Paris when my mother sent me a box set of Audrey Hepburn films. Learning Funny Face took place predominately in my host-city, I popped it in. I am willing to make the occasional logic leap and accept some fluff, and I do understand Funny Face wasn't attempting to sweep the Oscars, but there is a limit. And while there are some fabulous scenes, overall, I was disappointed.Funny Face, in brief, begins with the owner of Quality magazine, Maggie Prescott, and her photographer, Dick Avery, trying to find a new face to shake the fashion world. It is found in the young Jo Stockton, an educated, introverted, and supposedly homely girl working in a bookstore. She dreams of going to Paris to meet Professor Flostre, the founder of the philosophy she studies, Empathicalism. Though at first reluctant, Jo agrees to model for Quality's photo shoot and fashion show, as both events are in Paris. Sparks fly between Jo and Dick, but jealousy reigns for the latter when Jo meets her professor and the man has more than talking philosophy on his mind. Hijinks, song, and dance ensue.As to my criticismsMy first issue came from the extraordinarily obvious age disparity between Miss Hepburn (playing bookshop employee-turned-cover girl Jo Stockton) and Fred Astaire (playing photographer Dick Avery). Both are great actors and it isn't the first time the former was paired with an older leading man, but this is a thirty year age gap and it shows. I might have been more willing to go with it if at some point the age difference had been addressed, but it's conspicuously left off like the audience won't notice if no one mentions it. In fact, I almost found it creepy to see Fred Astaire plant one on Audrey in one of the opening scenes. Their chemistry often seemed forced, and quite honestly, I thought Astaire and Kay Thompson (playing Maggie Prescott, and nearer his contemporary) had far more spark between them.The makers of this film again gave little credit to their audience by presenting the notion that putting Hepburn in a bizarre over-sized wool vest and shapeless shift made her dowdy and unattractive. And was it really necessary to play on the cliché that a girl who enjoys to read and demonstrates the general ability to think must be a sexually unattractive virginal frump? Admittedly, I live in a different generation, but the film bothered me by hammering in the idea that a truly happy woman gives up her books and devotes herself to buying designer ensembles and picking up her husband's laundry. I am continually floored when older films make comedic references to spousal abuse, and was so here, when Dick Avery is searching for Jo in the streets of Montmartre and passes an arguing French couple, the male of which solves the dispute by smacking his girl across the face--she responds by lovingly falling into his arms. I was particularly galled by Astaire's line concerning Jo's sex-crazed professor- idol, Flostre (Michel Auclair), He's about as interested in your intellect as I am! No, silly, a man doesn't want you to think--just stand there and look pretty like a china doll. This is what made no sense to me--they spend the beginning of the film struggling to find a fresh face with some substance behind it, only to transform it into the stereotypical vapid pretty girl who can only achieve real fulfillment if some man deigns to make her a wife.The strange subplot mocking beatniks led to some confusion. I am not an authority on the subject, but last time I checked, the beat generation was primarily focused in the United States and did not exactly sweep young Parisian intellectuals. It almost seemed placed there just so the filmmakers could have a go at making it look ridiculous and give Thompson and Astaire the chance for their energetic song and dance routine. The very fact that Funny Face is a musical was odd--the leading pair, while not tone-deaf, are not singers. And why when Dick serenades Jo outside her hotel (exactly why, if they're all on the photo shoot, do they all seem to be booked in separate hotels?), does he act like a matador? Spain and its bullfights are NEAR France; they are not IN it. And during his matador number, why in the world does a cow come through?? Paris, even in 1957, was a very metropolitan capital--live barnyard animals in the streets are a relatively rare occurrence.Absolutely hysterical was the number Bonjour, Paris! in which Maggie, Dick, and Jo, bright- eyed and ready to go even after at least eight hours on a plane, wildly dance through the city streets, magically jumping between the spread-out landmarks, and proudly proclaiming themselves as American tourists. Their dance in the elevator on the Eiffel Tower was particularly amusing--I'm not sure what the crowds were like back in the 1950's, but nowadays those things pack you in like sardines--you're lucky if you can MOVE your foot, let alone do a couple pirouettes.All that said, I will acknowledge the costumes (particular those by Givenchy for Audrey Hepburn) and shots of Paris are beyond fabulous--the best part of the film is Hepburn's photo shoots, interspersing her ensembles in the Louvre, Opéra, and other major sites in the city. The dance sequence with Thompson and Astaire is great--Hepburn's famous (and lately popularized by the Gap) Basil Metabolism dance is...unique. Amongst all that was bizarre, it does have a few moments of charm. To the potential viewer--do not watch this expecting any sort of cinematic masterpiece and know that not all t he jokes have carried over well across the half-century since it was released. It's certainly an attention-grabber, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"I expected so much more","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn AND Fred Astaire?! Good golly, I was expecting so much more. My husband and I settled down in front of the tube awaiting a gloriously dance- filled Roman Holiday, or something like that. Wow, it was going to be full of Gershwin tunes! And the costumes were going to be great, too--all by the legendary Edith Head.Unfortunately, we were disappointed in every way. From the completely chemistry-free love story (yeah, right) , to the unsuccessful caterpillar-turns butterfly story (um, hello...Audrey is supposed to be a funny looking girl, not model material? Gimme a break), to the unmemorable songs ( 'S Wonderful was the only good one), to the weird leaping-about stylings of Fred's dancing (come on!! You can do SO much better!), to, finally, the awful wedding dress that made even beautiful Audrey Hepburn look dumb (my husband finally burst out, Jeez!! Lose the gym shoes and tutu!!). The only good parts were Audrey's beatnik dance and multiple shots of a vintage Constellation airliner (hubby is an airplane buff). If you're thinking of seeing this, do yourself a favor and get My Fair Lady and some Fred&Ginger movie instead. "},{"Title":"Couldn't sit through it.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love Audrey Hepburn, and I've watched a number of her movies lately. This was one of only a few movies starring anyone I have had to turn off because I could not stand watching it anymore. I would rather have teeth pulled. It was soooo bad. It was a musical, and it shouldn't have been. The songs were intolerable. Many of the characters were annoying. I couldn't stand anyone in the movie nor did I care about anyone. I loved her in Charade, I loved Paris when it Sizzles, and My Fair Lady is my absolute favorite. I couldn't stand the bookstore scene, every scene in the Magazine office drove me nuts (oh, and I hate pink), and I thought the scene where she dances in the bar or coffee shop or whatever it was was utterly ridiculous. What happens after this scene is unknown to me, because it was at about this point that I deleted the movie from TIVO. "},{"Title":"Sexist content makes Funny Face hard to watch","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Funny Face has some great things going for it--the production values, some of the songs, the costumes, and the fashion sequences--but its script leaves a lot to be desired. Audrey Hepburn plays a beatnik who joins up with fashion photographer Fred Astaire in order to visit her favorite philosopher in Paris. Fred keeps trying to convince her that the philosopher is a fake, and that she should fall for him instead. To win her over, he says flattering things like, That guy's about as interested in your intellect as I am! Annoyingly, the movie takes his side, and tries to convince Audrey, not to mention the female viewers, that women should give up thinking and concentrate on looking pretty. In fact, they should only Think Pink! Strange that a movie so obviously geared to women should spend so much of its time insulting them.  "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The worst thing about this movie was how attracted my friends and I were to Audrey Hepburn *before* she gets made over.The other sad thing is how Fred Astaire looks in contrast to Hepburn; he's likeable enough, but his dancing is definately better in other films, and he looks like her grandpa.  This was definately one of the worst movies I ever had the displeasure to sit through. "},{"Title":"Fred Snaps! Audrey Crackles! Kay Pops!","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This original musical comedy is not based upon the 1927 Broadway Gershwin musical that starred Fred and Adele Astaire on the stage. It has been updated to the 1950's Greenwich Village where photographer Astaire and his merry models take over Audrey Hepburn's book store (long before some computer devise ran most bookstores out of business), leaving her with a huge mess to clean up. Realizing his error, Astaire helps her, and realizes, he too can make her a model. This is sort of a My Fair Lady/Pygmallion of the modeling industry, with Astaire playing Henry Higgins to Audrey's pre-My Fair Lady Eliza. Along with magazine editor Kay Thompson, the trio goes to Paris where Astaire and Rogers fall in love, she checks out the Latin Quarter, and the duo literally skate off into the sunset on a lily pad meant for two.Some people question the pairing of Astaire and Hepburn, citing their almost 30 year age difference as a major problem. I concur that Astaire was way too young for Leslie Caron in the entertaining but overlong Daddy Long Legs, but his style fits much better with Audrey. Yes, the age difference is quite noticeable, but I don't get that creepy feeling here that I did with the waif-like Caron. Unlike My Fair Lady, you get to hear Audrey sing here, and her voice fits her character. When she sings How Long Has This Been Going On?, you really feel for her. Ironically, when Ms. Hepburn passed away, it was this song that helped me celebrate her life, not Moon River (which she also sings in Breakfast at Tiffany's) or her dubbed songs in My Fair Lady. Seeing this years ago on a double bill at the Castro Theatre with Breakfast at Tiffany's, I was amused by the audience's reaction to various un-P.C. remarks, particularly Astaire's rather sexist remark that in a relationship, it is the man who makes the decisions.But irregardless of that, this is still one of the loveliest musicals of the 1950's, and try not to think music video when Kay Thompson (all in beige) pops up with her models to sing Think Pink, which by the way, she wouldn't be caught dead in. Then, in a dark room, Astaire sings the title song to Hepburn, appropriately lit for the song. In Paris, the trio sings (separately) the lively Bonjour Paris! which has many great visuals of the city of lights. This is an example of real art deco in movies way past the age of Paramount's classy romantic comedies and musicals. Astaire and Thompson get to become hip in an opium den when they break into Clap Yo' Hands, one of the liveliest 1920's songs still being sung 90 years later.Acting wise, Thompson steals the show, playing a character that Boosom Buddies/Two & a Half Men supporting player Holland Taylor cut her teeth on. Stanley Donen, a veteran dancer and musical film director, turns a rather ordinary May/December romance into something special that remains as fresh today as it was 55 years ago. "},{"Title":"How did the writer ever get nominated for this non-plot ??","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I actually stumbled across this and wondered how it was that I had never seen a film with Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire ... then I watched it, and realized why it is rarely shown... it sucks.If not for the watchability of the stars, and some of the cinematography, (and some of that is truly mucky, I assume due to the bad Parisian weather at the time)it wouldn't be worth watching at all. There is no plot. There is no humor. There is nothing going on... just clothes... just a few songs that seem completely out of place. A few dance numbers that seem even more out of place -- there is one scene where Fred dances alone and the choreography is so odd that even he looks a bit off. I don't have trouble with the age difference here -- that's not the main problem with the film -- all you have to do is watch Daddy Long Legs to see that it need not have been a problem, but since it's there along with everything else, and there is no plot development, character development, and few cute interaction between the lead characters, there is nothing to give you a reason to believe that she falls for him in spite of it. How this mess of a film ever got nominated for any Oscars is a mystery -- I guess you had to be there at the time... ! I am certain that it had to be a function of Hollywood politics... the script seems dreadful to me. Interesting that Hepburn turned down Gigi, in which she had been discovered on stage, in order to do this... but at least that choice gave us Leslie Caron's great performance in that film, which almost makes me glad that this film was made afterall. As much as I love Audrey, Caron's performance in Gigi, for me, is her classic one, and her very French interpretation of the role makes it for me. "},{"Title":"Beauty of France and Audrey Hepburn","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Though it occasionally suffers from high sugar content, it is a very diverting film musical. Afterall, how often do you get to see Audrey Hepburn sing and dance? This the first of the 3 films that Stanley Donen collaborates with Audrey Hepburn. Not sure if this is a coincidental, but all of these 3 films are shot in France.Here, Stanley Donen successfully captures the beauty of France, as well as Audrey Hepburn. One of the highlights of this film is Bonjour Paris, where all the major characters sings as they explore Paris. In this sequence, Stanley Donen uses his trademark split-screen technique(see also Indiscreet and The Grass is Greener). Another highlight is Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire's dancing duet He Loves and She Loves. The couple don't just romance with each other, they romance with Paris. The scenery was very beautifully shot and the intrusion of the ducks and swans only add to the scene.With the help of Stanley Donen, Audrey Hepburn redefines modeling. Like Jo Stockton said in the beginning, I initially think that modeling is chichi and is an unrealistic approach to economy. However, this film rediscover modeling. A model full of live and spirit, and speaks with intelligence. Here, Audrey Hepburn's love for dancing is apparent. She did a wide variety of dances. Being a trained ballet dancer, she did the ballet sequences the best.As usual, Fred Astaire plays his role with perfect comic timing and dances like that way he always has. However, one of the drawback of this film is his romance with Audrey Hepburn. He is old enough to be his father. Fortunately for me, I found that chemistry sizzling enough to forget about their age difference.Many people pointed out the the plot is too thin to be worthy of being a classic. Sure enough, it is very slight. Still, being a comedy that is endlessly filled with funny dialogs, adding to the film is the great score and songs An under-appreciated gem. "},{"Title":"Excellence in Grace","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There is absolutely no way to match the grace of Fred Astaire. Wait maybe you could balance it with the elegance of Audrey Hepburn! That's what this movie does making it a must see for any Classics fan. This is the epitome of greatness. Two of the greatest of all time together is to meet the combustion potential of Audrey with the flare of Astaire. There are absolutely no words fitting enough to describe this coupling. They are absolutely incredible. Please do yourself a favor and pick this one up anywhere you can! It will not disappoint you and if it does then romantic-musical-comedy isn't your genre, maybe you should try Greek tragedy. Ha-Ha! So get it and enjoy! "}{"Title":"My heart melts for Audrey Hepburn","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What can one say about Audrey Hepburn? Her singular beauty and charm fill up a screen like no other actress. It was nice to hear her real singing voice in this film. NOTE on the DVD release of My Fair Lady, there is a supplement which has Hepburn's voice on two of the songs. Her voice is pleasant and good, albeit maybe not as belting-it-out professional as Marni Nixon's. Fred Astaire showed some of his moves here, although he's somewhat past his prime. No other performances were notable. The film is OK but Hepburn makes it classic. Grade B "},{"Title":"They gave us the old pizzazz, all right!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie is strictly a lark, a journey into escapism, and all the better for it.  With sprightly direction from Stanley Donen, a sparkling performance from Audrey Hepburn, a colorful performance from Kay Thompson, and Mr. Good Old Reliable, Fred Astaire.  And of course, the Gershwin songs! And the color and style and costumes!  And Paris!  That's for me!  I love your funny face, think pink, on how to be lovely, you gotta be cheery! Ring-a 'dem bells!  How long has this been going on?  S'Wonderful, S'Marvelous!  And Audrey uses dance as a form of expression and release, too! "},{"Title":"Plot, Schmot!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  You have Audrey Hepburn, you have Fred Astaire, you have Gershwin songs. Who needs a plot?Okay, there was something of a plot, something about a Greenwich Village girl who wants to go to Paris, talk b.s. philosophy on the Left Bank, wear black clothes and no make-up.  It reads like something out of one of Woody Allen's early stories - before he wrote it!Audrey Hepburn never knew how to look bad nor act bad.  But in this she looks light-years more beautiful as the proverbial Greenwich Village used-book-store Plain Jane than any Paris fashion model - then or now. "},{"Title":"What an attractive actress she was","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Like so many of her movies,Audrey Hepburn puts her heart and soul into this movie. Not only does she act well,but she also does an outstanding job singing and dancing with the also outstanding Fred Astaire.Plus,one of the best color movies in movie history with beautiful music to boot.An excellent movie! "},{"Title":"Didn't Connect With Me","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've read all the glowing reviews and posts hailing Funny Face as a tour de force 1950s musical.  It didn't connect with me for a couple of reasons. Reason One The disturbing use of Audrey Hepburn as a geezer magnet, not just in this movie, but a number of others.  What's going on here?  It's almost obscene, and is totally unbelievable that a young lady in her 20s will fall hopelessly in love with someone obviously old enough to be her father (or even grandfather). Reason Two The songs didn't stick with me.  I know I sound superficial but I do like musicals that keep me humming tunes days after I've first heard them.  That didn't happen here, I can't even remember single tune.   I did like the New York-ness of the movie, and the clothing and slang of the 1950s.  But this can't salvage what I found to be a boring movie.  "},{"Title":"Photography, Poses","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is an odd and appealing little movie.It is a musical from an era when they were losing audiences. It features the king of such things at the time, an aging Fred Astair, at 58 and substantially heavier than his prime. He has relatively few dance numbers and none of those are clever or graceful.Instead, this whole thing is cleverly engineered to exploit the rather unique traits of Audrey Hepburn. She was in the middle of a remarkable career based more on simple charm than presence at acting. When charm dominates the thing, you have to be extraordinary. Who else can you place in this category? Clara Bow and Louise Brooks, probably. Judy Garland when singing.There's no one like this today, hasn't been for decades. Perhaps we filter them out, as we demand other qualities. Still, it is worth watching her to see just what it is that makes her so mesmerizing. Her face is oddly misproportioned, with a shallow jaw, heavy brow and commanding nose over that huge mouth. Its almost a caricature of a face, so that when she smiles, she lights up the whole screen.And it seems to be more genuinely in her character than when Julia Roberts does a similar thing with a similar face. She has three faces against which she cast all her poses, all of them open to us. Smiling, crying or concerned and listening. Its an amazing limited vocabulary, though one more than Kate Hepburn managed to wring a career from.I think this and Breakfast at Tiffany's may be her best films because it is as if they were grown especially for her abilities, to endear us to her through her face.The setup in Tiffany's is complex, a call-girl in a movie who creates her own movie. This is more straightforward. She is discovered by a fashion photographer who -- in the body of the movie -- photographs her in all sorts of romantic settings. The beginning is just in getting her to Paris for this. The end is just the standard love, distance, reconciliation drill. But that second act is terrific he places her in scenes to photograph. We see the setup with terrific clothes, the actual shooting process and then the final print. I guess eight or nine times.Regular tedg readers will know I'm a student of folding in films. Here's an example. The point of this movie is to get us to fall in love. So while we watch beautiful, romantic photography, we have a surrogate in the film who does the same. As he watches and falls in love, so do we. A simple and effective narrative device.Hey, and the subplot involves her fascination with the philosophy of empathy. get it?Oddly, this conflates beatniks, philosophy and the French, which in my experience have little to do with one another. No matter, the result is an excuse for Audrey to perform -- without Fred -- the dance highlight of the film. Who would have suspected that such a gaunt frame, grown for static poses would come across so effectively in a modern routine that intends to poke fun at itself.You must see this for the exploitation of an odd and unique face. And that dance in the beatnik club.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Feel good in Paris","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie reminds how beautiful Paris is. Paris 50 years ago was nothing different from 21st except from the old cars and gorgeous vintage film color. Movie scenes were exactly like vintage postcards and lots of scenes are symbolic. French are described as crazy and over dramatic or even traumatic people. Audrey Hepburn as usual has a delicious performance, an innocent and very lady-like which makes men both crazy and crazy in love.A classic movie to be watched in Valentine's day and especially if you are in Paris, it will certainly raise your mood up. If not the case, its melodious and simple spirit wouldn't cause you any bad... "},{"Title":"Bitterly disappointing","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am a fan of Audrey Hepburn, but generally hate musicals (though there are a few exceptions - The Sound of Music, Across the Universe, amongst others), so this was always going to be interesting. Turns out even Audrey Hepburn can't overcome a lame plot, dull music, unimaginative direction and a unconvincing and wooden leading actor. More than boring, this film is irritating. The campy pretentiousness of the setting, the irritating fashion people, the songs which hardly have a tune. It all just seems so contrived and lame.Worst of all, Audrey Hepburn gets made to look bad thanks to the movie. Her character is overly nerdy, and the songs just don't suit her.A very bitter disappointment. "},{"Title":"Starts funny and goes fast to great disappointment.","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a dreadful mix of a few good things at the start... and lot of bad things, mostly unprofessional dancing and music... It's starts with a serious critical eye, kind of inside look on a girl magazine military like management... and forgets this interesting subject for a young girl that has to love pink and an old man (Fred Aster) who looks like a hobby photographer... and clearly, that's where the project looses its credibility... From time to time, u can admire some good cinema skills (the Paris arrival) but, then the thing goes mad.It's unbelievable serious people put money in this project. But, as u think it was even selected at 1958 Cannes festival, u get that these irresponsible people were certainly important too, as important and respectful as a wealthy American film producer can be(at that time).This is a bad, disloyal film that completely misses it's goal. I could not go without zapping this thing through all its second part and more. Too bad for Audrey Hepburn... "},{"Title":"Think Pink","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn rocketed to stardom in the 1950s, unwittingly becoming a style icon overnight. Stanley Donen's Funny Face finds her character, Jo Stockton, making a similar transformation. A bookish intellectual, Stockton is stumbled upon by Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson) and Dick Avery (Fred Astaire), a pair of fashion magazine workers who are desperately searching for a face that is both beautiful and intelligent. Stockton has such a face.Funny Face attempts to satirise two worlds the fashion industry and its pockets of haute couture, and 1950s intellectualism, with its Beatniks, hipsters and trendy French existentialists. The film ends with a French philosopher revealing that he is infatuated with Stockton's body and not her mind. French philosophy, then, is as surface-obsessed as high street fashion, a pseudo-intellectual ploy used to achieve by dishonest means the same goal that American men achieve honestly. Though predominantly anti-intellectual as a whole, the film's climax finds the worlds of High Fashion and High Philosophy eventually empathising with one another, each sphere learning that it is as self-absorbed as the other.Funny Face may not work as drama, satire or romance (Astaire and Hepburn never convince as a couple in love), but it is nevertheless stylistically interesting. Donen's location photography is impressive, his lighting, colour schemes and filters give the film an eye-popping look, and at least two musical interludes are memorable. Throw in the charismatic Astaire, the regal Hepburn, and some mildly interesting fashion by Edith Head and Hubert de Givenchy, and you have one of Donen's better pictures.6.5/10 - See Minnelli's The Clock. "}{"Title":"Hepburn's Funny Face.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face (1957) Dir Stanley Donen / Cast Audrey Hepburn, Fred Astaire, Kay Thompson, Michel Auclair, Robert Flemyng Free spirited musical celebrating expression but from two angles. First there is the fashion magazine that reduces everything to pink yet the editor herself refuses to wear it. It is the two-faced side of expression whereas the bookkeeper, played by Audrey Hepburn represents genuine innocence. She is reluctantly flown to Paris where she basks herself in the shallow with only a photographer, played by Fred Astaire to shed any real joy. Director Stanley Donen uses dazzling colours to highlight the freedom of Paris but this is not the masterpiece that his Singin' in the Rain is. The dance numbers are flashy and inviting but the film is overrated, particularly from a narrative perspective. Hepburn brings out the innocence and longing for what is true and good. Fred Astaire plays a photographer inspired by her nature but his scenes falter due to musical numbers that are often long drawn and pointless. It also doesn't help matters that the concluding romance is corny and absurd. To elevate supporting roles Kay Thompson steals scenes as fashion editor with witty dialogue. Michel Auclair plays a professor of philosophy whom Hepburn will see in a totally different light. Theme regards the phoniness of the profession and the ordinary qualities missed behind the lens. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Colorful Empathy","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In honor of Audrey Hepburn's birthday, which was earlier this week, I decided to watch another Hepburn musical, and I had an absolute blast. I really enjoy the types of movies that bring a tremendous amount of joy to the screen. Funny Face is most definitely one of those movies. It's extremely colorful, catchy, and well acted. And for being a musical that get's me interested, you deserve some extra points. Audrey Hepburn stars in this beautiful take on the musical that tells the story of a normal girl with a funny face and a whole lot of heart.It's another film in the long list of movies that Audrey Hepburn's love interest is significantly older than her. But unlike Charade, Love in the Afternoon, or even My Fair Lady, I never felt particularly fond of the love story in Funny Face. I have to admit, it's a ridiculously romantic film, I mean it takes place in Paris for gosh sakes, but the chemistry wasn't there for me. With that being said, just about everything else really works here. Hepburn's voice sounds like it's actually being used, and she's having a blast filming. Her expression dance scene was so entertaining and re-watchable that I couldn't help but smile all the way through. Her character is borderline forced into becoming a model by how drop dead gorgeous she is. And my golly, Audrey is just about as beautiful as ever here. Her photo-shoot montage all over Paris was wonderful and had me literally 'aweing' at least a few times. It even reminded me of Roman Holiday with her princess shoot and even Breakfast at Tiffany's with the classic black dress, even though the film hadn't actually come out yet. It was just a pleasant film to watch.Of course, it is a musical so there are plenty of catchy songs to sing and dance to. The classic Funny Face main theme song became a constant reminder that Hepburn does have such a unique face. Not only physically but as a presence as well. We just don't have anybody like her right now. In terms of acting, I think someone like Amy Adams is comparable, but she doesn't embody everything Hepburn does off camera as well. She is simply missed in this age of Hollywood. Again, the actual romance of the film didn't feel genuine enough, but I liked just about everything else. It's one of Audrey's best roles and a highly re-watchable film.+Audrey is having fun +Expression dance +Colorful +Set in Paris+Hepburn's gorgeous photo-shoot scene -Chemistry between Astaire and Hepburn wasn't there 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Funny Face Review","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face is a musical about fashion and love. The story and music for this musical, I thought was OK but the story lost me at parts where it was more about fashion or the song and didn't really expand on the people around the story/song. The music was good and had changes of pace to all of them being different and the dancing involved is some of the best I've seen in a musical, for example the scene where Audrey Hepburn's in the café and misses hair and make up and she starts dancing is great. Also another great thing about this movie is how likable Hepburn is in the role, starting off working in a book store then becoming a model is an interesting ride. Overall, I give Funny Face a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Flash meets substance","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It starts in some bizarre zone between cheesy and marvellously modern, but it's all style and flash. There's no substance in the first ten minutes, but when Audrey Hepburn comes into view, it's like the floodgates of emotion have been opened, it's like the sight of land on a barren sea. She plays her role like a naive heroine expecting a sincere fairy-tale only to be surprised by a macabre parade of shallow 20th century modernity. This instantaneously creates a clash between two worlds, and we are hooked at least to see how the next scene plays out. But in the end, we are let down by the leading man. Fred Astaire is no match in romance for such a queen as Ms. Hepburn. "},{"Title":"Good-natured musical","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" FUNNY FACE is notable as a colourful '50s-era music teaming the talents of two of the best-known stars of all time, Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn. In this film, whose story feels like an earlier version of THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA, Astaire and Hepburn consummate a May-December relationship when they're brought together by chance.Hepburn stars as one of those unbelievable mousy characters - here a bookshop assistant - who's transformed into an ultra-glamorous model when she goes to Paris for a photo shoot. Astaire is the top-of-his-game photographer, and much of the film gets by on their easy charm.Of course, there are there requisite song-and-dance numbers to enjoy, and a storyline that's never too heavy or too much. In all, it's just right, and old hand Stanley Donen brings plenty to the production with his assured direction. A very good-natured and pleasing effort. "},{"Title":"A star's charm isn't enough","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire are rightly Hollywood legends. Two great talents who both routinely turned in excellent and, especially in Hepburn's case, charming performances. But their talent and charm aren't enough to salvage Funny Face. It's a musical in which the songs are not memorable. It's a love story which never for a moment sparks to life. Attempts at humor fall flat. The plot as a whole is rather uninteresting. Hepburn and Astaire are good enough to save the film from being completely dreadful. But even those two great stars can't make the film enjoyable.Astaire plays fashion photographer Dick Avery, Hepburn his reluctant model Jo. Jo is a shy, bookish, almost drab Greenwich Village bookstore clerk. She's an intellectual, philosophical girl who certainly has no interest in the vapid world of fashion modeling. But Dick thinks she has the look, whatever that means, and Jo finds herself whisked away to Paris to be the face of a big fashion campaign. For Jo the trip is a means to an end, in Paris she hopes to meet up with the weirdo beatnik philosopher she idolizes. Anyhow off to Paris we go. There's some singing and dancing but not much in the way of plot. Inevitably Dick and Jo fall in love despite Dick looking old enough to be Jo's grandfather. The aforementioned weirdo philosopher enters the fray, still not much plot, and eventually the film crawls limply across the finish line. The film has a couple decent moments. Hepburn's famously strange dance is entertaining. Bonjour, Paris is a lively musical number which takes great advantage of its beautiful setting. But the other songs are pretty much all duds, with a couple being truly terrible. Of course Astaire has his requisite big solo dance number which is as technically excellent as you'd imagine but it doesn't really grab you. The two big stars give a game effort but the chemistry between them is sorely lacking. Astaire is a great song and dance man and in this film Hepburn gets to show off some vocal chops and smooth moves as well. But when they're not singing and dancing, when they're just talking and trying to make us believe they're falling in love Astaire and Hepburn don't convince. It's a romance with no spark at all. Audrey Hepburn is easy to love, her charm is always enough to provide the viewer a few smiles. But this film has little else going for it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but I have seen so much better.","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" FUNNY FACEIt was OK... but I was expecting more.I quite like musicals and when I heard that this one had Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire in it I thought it would be really good.The story is OK... it is about a fashion magazine photographer who finds a new model in the form of a book shop assistant. She doesn't want to be a model, but has always wanted to go to Paris to meet a philosopher. When she finds out that to be a model she has to go to Paris, she accepts. Then the photographer falls in love with her.The acting is not very good... but like I have mentioned in previous reviews, the acting is not very good in most musicals... but I like that. It makes the films more fun. Audrey and Fred both do good jobs though... they are both really good at singing and dancing which is what is needed for a musical. The film also stars Kay Thomson.I didn't feel like the songs were very good in this film. The thing I like about musicals is the songs need to be catchy and fun... Not one of the songs in this stuck in my head. I didn't feel like tapping my foot to any of them, but there was some very interesting dancing... especially from Audrey when she starts dancing in a pub. I don't know if I can call that dancing. haha.I will give this film 5 out of 10.It was quite good, but I was slightly disappointed.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Think Pink? Not in the Eisenhower-Nixon Years.","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Splashy colors, Paris locations, Fred Astaire's dancing, Audrey Hepburn's pixie-ish charm, Stanley Donen's direction, and George Gershwin's music should have melded into an enduring musical classic in 1957's Funny Face. However, the talented individuals involved produced a dated, clumsy film with but a few bright moments. Poor tweedy philosophizing shop girl is transformed into an elegant stylish fashion model, a My Fair Lady wannabe. While Audrey Hepburn is never convincing as a mousy clerk garbed in shades of drab, she comes alive in designer clothes, and, quicker than you can say Givenchy, the character swaps her principles for a haircut and makeover, a walk down the runway, and a trip to Paris. Hepburn was often paired with older men in her films; however, Cary Grant, William Holden, and Gary Cooper had enough masculine sex appeal to be convincing love interest for a young woman. Fred Astaire, however, was never romantic material, even for those of his own age. In Funny Face, Astaire in his late 50's is about 20 years older than Hepburn and looks it; oddly, neither the age difference nor Astaire's reason for advanced bachelorhood is ever remarked upon or mentioned in the script.Leonard Gershe's screenplay for Funny Face is planted firmly in the Eisenhower 1950's. Astaire's chauvinistic attitude, the man asks the woman to dance, is archaic and would have been poison to a free-thinking young woman like Hepburn's Jo Stockton. Kay Thompson's magazine editor is a post-World War II stereotype of the working woman unmarried, hard, bossy, mannish, and abrasive. Only in mid-20th-century America would a harem of lemming-like yes-women blindly follow Thompson and mindlessly praise her every mundane uttering. Further undermining the film's credibility, the supposed pictorial output of Dick Avery, a successful fashion photographer, and Maggie Prescott, editor of Quality magazine, is limp at best; Avery's photos are mediocre, and Prescott's earth-shattering idea is think pink. As always, Fred Astaire's dancing is worth watching, and, although her singing is more flat than melodic and her dancing mixed, Hepburn is always a winning charmer. However, under Donen's direction, the film does not soar, but rather lumbers from clumsy number to embarrassing parody; bearded beatniks, soul-searching laments, Parisian dives, empathetic philosophers, and even fashion magazines seem so last century. Funny Face may be worth a view as a mid-20th-century curiosity piece, but otherwise the film is most suitable as source material to excerpt scenes for documentaries on Astaire and Hepburn. Most viewers will have to think pink to plod through Funny Face. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable in spire of its flaws","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face is a far from perfect film. But, considering that it stars Fred Astaire, it's still well worth watching. Anything with Astaire is worth watching!The film begins with an odd montage in which the audience is introduced to Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson)--a wonderfully annoying lady who is THE expert on fashion. It seems she is out to find a new model with a new look and her photographer (Astaire) notices a lady that Maggie completely overlooked--cute little Jo, the girl at the bookstore (Audrey Hepburn). Jo is then signed with a big contract and goes to Paris for photo shoots and to make her a mega-star. In the process, she and her photographer fall in love. But, minor complications arise and it might just mean the two will go their separate ways.First, the good. A few of the songs are very nice and the film stars Astaire and Hepburn. It also has really lovely footage of Paris. If you've been to this city (like I have), it's a wonderful walk down memory lane and the city really is that beautiful. Now the not so good. The biggest problem is that Astaire is easily old enough to be Audrey's father--and I am sure that many in the audience must have thought that. Thirty years' difference is a lot. Also, while some of the songs were nice (particularly the Gershwin ones), a few of the numbers were pretty bad--such as the Florida song and dance number. Overall, the good does outweigh the bad and I suggest you see it. It's just that both stars did far better work. "},{"Title":"Now we know what the word empathy means","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a motion picture where Audrey Hepburn stunningly empathizes with the audience as well, more and more, all the way through to the very end of the movie. The lighthearted story line begins with high brow Audrey Hepburn employed as manager of an intellectual type bookstore in Greenwich Village, NYC, and her dream is to go to Paris where she can then attend lectures offered by someone who is said to be a Professor of Empathy. Meanwhile, Fred Astaire, a fashion photographer, also has the opportunity to implore Audrey Hepburn to empathize with his photographic work as well, which then leads to her being provided with free passage to Paris, as she also then becomes a great fashion model in turn.Towards the end, the Professor of Empathy turns out to be quite a bit younger than thought, and with Audrey, his idea of empathy turns out to be something unexpectedly more basic than also thought. Thus, Fred and Audrey certainly empathize with each other in a most dignified way in the end. Yes, in 1957, movies were generally quite a bit more dignified as well.Postscript I recently bought the Paramount Home Entertainment (UK) DVD version of this movie, and I watched it carefully more than once. I now believe this is the best motion picture that Audrey Hepburn made. It's almost even as though George and Ira Gershwin, even from the hereafter, were waiting for Audrey Hepburn, and then she came. "}{"Title":"Astaire makes this musical semi-watchable","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One would assume that combining the talents of director Stanley Donen, Fred Astaire, and Audrey Hepburn would produce one knockout of a film. The turnout is anything but. From the get go the film left me both disinterested and unimpressed, even as an avid fan of musicals. The only savior of the film was Fred Astaire, who makes the most of each lackluster song and dance. He also holds the only slightly intriguing character and dialogue, standing out from the remaining wreckage of the film, which is mostly fluff without entertainment.The film begins with Think Pink, an off the wall number which holds zero place in the plot. Donen effectively demonstrates the coldness of Quality magazine and the fashion industry itself through Kay Thompson's character, while the mostly sarcastic and charming dialogue of Astaire's character contribute to the message. The wit in Astaire's dialogue is the writers' only vehicle to humor.Once Hepburn is introduced, her soft face is the only saving grace of her character. The writers have managed to create a leading lady without charm. In short the writers create a stereotypical facade of an intellectual woman, further cheapening the plot. Hepburn's other musical roles feature her voice dubbed, which might have been the proper choice for this film. Not once does she seem fully immersed in the character or film. However, what could she have done with less than adequate material and a flat character to work with? Chemistry between Audrey and Fred would have helped tons. Despite thoughts in another reviews, age differences do not factor into any type of chemistry. Check out Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron in An American in Paris or Audrey and Cary Grant in Charade in which large age gaps do not get in the way of emotion between the actors.The production design and cinematography are small beauties, but do little to improve the soppy, one dimensional plot.As the plot progresses, our two leads inevitably fall in love (it is not evident of course) and one forgettable song after another only left me waiting for the film to improve. Instead of being amazed by the performers, I only wanted the song to end. Again, Astaire is the only performer that delivers, even through drab choreography. He is the only actor that infuses some form of charm and enthusiasm into both the songs and dances.By the end of the film, all you are left with is Paris eye candy and a flat, uninteresting script. And maybe a little Astaire. "},{"Title":"Paris mis-match","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Colourful Stanley Donen movie featuring wonderful Parisian locations and the superb music of the Gershwin brothers...and that's about it. I believe this may have been Fred Astaire's last movie as the romantic lead and on the evidence here, it's easy to see why. His performance is utterly devoid of any passion or even discernible attraction to the young Audrey Hepburn, plus for once his solo dance routines seem just that, routine and while still danced consummately, somehow lacking in dynamism or invention.Hepburn gets a dream ticket herself, decked out in a succession of high-fashion costumes and even getting to sing and dance with the great man, without ever convincing the viewer that she's a natural in either discipline. Otherwise, she gets to mope and loon by turn, pretty much the two main attributes of her acting ability. Her dancing is passable at best, while her solo routine improvising to modern jazz in a smoky West Bank bar is toe-curlingly embarrassing. And we all know, I'm sure that neither of them could be considered outstanding singers and hearing Audrey's not-so-dulcet tones, one can easily see why she was overdubbed (against her wishes) in My Fair Lady.The story has less substance than the fog over the Seine and hits a lowpoint near the end when an unlikely fellow-suitor emerges to contest Audrey's fair hand, her hero-philosopher who's much better-looking, not to mention much cleverer than old Fred. Yes it's the old why-would-she-fall-for-him conundrum that not unnaturally bedevilled the ageing Astaire's later films, but it's exaggerated even more here when contrasted with the ever-youthful looking Hepburn. The plot seeks to cash in and poke fun at Paris's post-war reputation for fashion and philosophy and certainly the settings, particularly the exteriors are luminously warm, but the humour is forced at best and lacking finesse. Director Donen employs some tricksy cinematography to mixed effect as he strains for modernity, but in the final analysis, like the pairing of the old Astaire with the young Hepburn, the marriage of traditional Hollywood musical characteristics with modern film-making ideas just clashes and doesn't come off. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the most exquisitely art-directed musical of them all, Funny Face is sheer delight. Forget the story (for the most part) and enjoy the remarkable Astaire-Hepburn-Thompson magic, the glorious Avedon titles and stills and the breathtaking cinematography. Think Pink, Bonjour Paris, He Loves and She Loves and many of the other numbers will transport you. It's very much a time capsule -- attitudes toward women are wince-worthy, the sneering at existentialism can be tiresome. The sophistication of the music -- a blend of Gershwin classics with three new songs by Roger Edens -- the dancing, the performances and, most of all, the physical production, more than compensate. Btw, the Edens songs provide some of the films best moments -- Bonjour Paris, On How to Be Lovely and the sly, stunning Think Pink. "},{"Title":"This film is a winner.","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Is there any woman more beautiful than Hepburn at her height? The film has humor and pathos, yet doesn't confuse. It has great music and great cinematography. I never tire of this film. One of my favorites that I can watch over and over again. The film brings humor to over-laden seriousness of philosophy and philosophers and mixes it the general fluff of high fashion, an unlikely mix that blends well in Funny Face. Hepburn, as Jo Stockton, elevates the airheadedness of fashion models into a true art form by taking her thought of philosophy and putting it to work in a fashion model job she reluctantly takes up. And along the way, teaches a cynical photographer a thing or two. "},{"Title":"Rather Disappointing","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fashion photographer Dick Avery (Fred Astaire), in search for an intellectual backdrop for an air-headed model, expropriates a Greenwich Village bookstore. When the photo session is over the store is left in a shambles, much to the dismay of salesgirl Jo Stockton (Audrey Hepburn). After seeing her in a photo's background, Jo is offered a modeling contract, which she reluctantly accepts only because it includes a trip to Paris.As much as I enjoy Hepburn and generally enjoy Astaire, I found this film very lacking. It was rather boring, the romance seemed forced, and the extended dance scene in the bohemian café did nothing for me. It seemed more like talent wasted than anything else. I did like Astaire's matador dance, but that was about it.Of the Hepburn movies I have seen (approximately eight), this ranks as the lowest so far. I hate to say it, but it is so... a second viewing may change my mind, but it is not a viewing I am eager to have. "},{"Title":"What Makes This a Classic?","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I watched this film for the first time earlier today and enjoyed it. Audrey Hepburn is charming even if she wasn't born to play in musicals, Fred Astaire is a little bit older, slightly tuned down version of his younger self, and Kay Thompson is very commanding in her Cruella Deville of fashion role. Something struck me as I was watching this, however does age add value to a motion picture?I can't imagine this being seen as an instant classic when it came out. The dance numbers were above average, but nothing spectacular, the star power was there but either outdated or out of place, and the visuals were absolutely stunning but a film needs more than that to last. With time, though, and the legacy Astaire and Hepburn have left behind, there is definitely some interest in seeing the one film they headlined together.That interest does not necessarily a good movie make, however, and I feel obliged to call it what it is An above average movie from Stanley Donen (who was able to do much more with less in his career) with the star power to make it last longer than it would otherwise. Rating 24/40 "},{"Title":"Funny Face","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" From director Stanley Donen (Singin' in the Rain, Seven Brides for Seven Brothers, Charade), I certainly recognised the title, but other than that I wasn't aware of any other details, but it sounded like a film that should be seen. Basically Dick Avery (Fred Astaire) works as a photographer for fashion magazine Quality, and suggests to publisher and editor Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson) finding a backdrop both beautiful, and intellectual. They choose a Manhattan neighbourhood bookstore in Greenwich Village, and despite the clerk and amateur philosopher Jo Stockton (Audrey Hepburn) protesting, they go ahead, and Dick has her in a photo too. Dick stays behind for a little to help clear up the terrible mess the magazine crew have left behind, and he gives her a little kiss that makes her feel special for that small amount of time. Having developed the photo Dick thinks that Jo has a very intriguing, funny face that has potential, so they lure her to the studio to offer her a modelling contract, and eventually she accepts. She may have accepted because of the idea of travelling to Paris, but she soon gets used to and enjoys the posing that comes with it, especially when it is with Dick, they are falling in love. One night Jo hears that the philosopher she has always wanted to see, Prof. Emile Flostre (Michel Auclair) is giving a lecture at a café near the fashion gala she is set for, so she goes, forgets the gala, and ends up in an argument with Dick. She goes back to the Professor, and Maggie and Dick after a song and dance manage to get in to get Jo back, and when he comes round from being knocked out he tries to make a pass at her she whacks her idol with a vase. Before the crew of Quality magazine leave Paris, there is one final fashion show, but Maggie and Jo find out that Dick has plans to leave on a plane, but Jo agrees to do the runway show/catwalk before running out to go and find him. In the end, after it looks like she's too late, but in fact Dick hasn't left at all, he goes to the one place he can think of that she would be alone, and they reunite for the loving end of the film. Also starring Robert Flemyng as Paul Duval, Dovima as Marion and Virginia Gibson as Babs. Hepburn is beautiful and lovable as the knowledgeable new to fashion model, and a good singer too (her voice was dubbed for My Fair Lady due to it not being the sort required, i.e. powerful), Astaire is a nice guy with plenty of moves and witty dialogue, they make a good couple on screen, and Thompson is pretty good too. The music and songs are catchy in their own ways, the dance and choreography is well done by the two lead stars, and the Paris locations are good viewing, all in all, a good old-fashioned musical comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design and Best Writing, Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen. Fred Astaire was number 81, and Audrey Hepburn number 13 on The Greatest Movie Stars, and Hepburn was number 31 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Astaire was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men. Very good! "},{"Title":"Romantic, stylish and witty- just great fun","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was surprised at how much I loved Funny Face. It looks beautiful, with stunning locations(Paris especially looks gorgeous), splendid costumes and sets and ravishing photography. George and Ira Gershwin's songs are superb, I especially loved Funny Face and How Long Has This Been Going On?, and the incidental music is suitably mellow, while the story is wonderfully romantic if very simple and the script sparkles with wit.Stanley Donen's direction is credible, and the choreography fits each musical sequence very nicely, especially that of He Loves, She Loves which is beautifully filmed and Audrey Hepburn is so elegant in this scene. The performances add a lot to this film. Fred Astaire is charming and debonair and acts, sings and dances very well. Audrey Hepburn is beautiful and very beguiling, while Kay Thompson also stands out which is no easy feat considering she is up against two greats. In regards to the chemistry and the age difference between Astaire and Hepburn, I had no problem with the age difference and I thought the two worked really well together.However, Funny Face does have a few scenes that I am not all that fond of. One is the Clap Yo' Hands routine, it's well performed and choreographed but to me it was also very dated and humourless. The main ones are the ones with the ridicule of Emile Flostre, which came across as very anti-intellectual and very atypical of Donen.Overall though, it is a very nice film and great fun. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Astaire and Hepburn don't disappoint","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ebullient musical about a fashion photographer who plucks a bookstore salesgirl out of obscurity and romances her in Paris during a magazine shoot. Fluffy, to be sure, but also colorful, well-written, and a great showcase for the endless charms of Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn. The peerless Gershwin songs are well-chosen and well-spaced. Hepburn isn't much of a singer in a technical sense (no wonder she was dubbed in My Fair Lady), but she can certainly act the heck out of the lyrics. Her wistful version of How Long Has This Been Going On? is a highlight, as is the arrival-in-Paris number, That's for Me. Hepburn also gives Astaire a run for his dancing money in her dance of release in a café. Kay Thompson is a hoot as the sardonic, sandpapery magazine editor. Stanley Donen directs the proceedings with a sure hand--he and Hepburn would work together in Paris again a few years later on Charade.A delight. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Great Movie, Great fun. Miss Hepburns little dance scene in the Parisian café is for me one of the best dance scenes I've ever watched on film. So upbeat, so quirky, so modern. Fantastic. Great songs too. Kay Thompson is a power house singer and Miss Hepburn sings with so much feeling. They should have let her do her own singing in My Fair Lady. Fred Astaire didn't do too much for me in this film and although Audrey seems to have had huge respect for him and must have enjoyed dancing with him immensely in this one, I feel that it didn't translate to great chemistry on screen. It's Ironic that IMO the two actors with whom she had the greatest on screen chemistry, Bogart and George Peppard, were the ones she had such a difficult working relationship with. 1950s Paris is of course the other great star in the film, as well as of course the fashion which is a major element in the film. The Devil Wears Prada does echo this one especially in the characters played by Kay Thompson and Meryl Streep. It's sometimes amusing to see that the same types keep popping up again and again. The film has for me an endless replay value. "}{"Title":"Good and Interesting, But Not a Masterpiece","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There are a couple of show stoppers here. The dancing of Audrey Hepburn in a Paris club and a nice split screen dance when the leads arrive in Paris are exciting. A few scenes are wonderfully funny, like Hepburn's book shop being invaded for a photo-shoot and the unveiling of a new star turning into a catastrophe. The cinematography is excellent and the songs are quite good. However, everybody involved has done better work. The Astaire dance numbers would be fine for anybody else, but there is nothing anywhere near his greatest ones. Hepburn is good, but better in Roman Holiday, My Fair Lady, and Breakfast at Tiffany's to name a few. Even director Stanley Donen has done better musicals, On the Town and Damn Yankees. are two. He also made better movies with Audrey Hepburn, Charade and Two for the Road, are two. The main problem is casting. As mentioned by many reviewers, the love affair between Astaire and Hepburn doesn't really work because of the age different. Love in the Afternoon had the same problem. Gary Cooper was way too old for Hepburn in that one too. Actors in their late 50's really shouldn't be paired with actresses in their mid 20's. The movie Charade, made 8 years did work because Hepburn was 33 then, so being with a man like Cary Grant in his late 50's didn't seem so unnatural. The other major problem is that the film is satirical towards the fashion world and the philosophical world. This creates a problem in that the movie progressively warms up to the fashion world, but continues its attacks on the philosophical world. Somehow the fashion world has to go from being high-brow to being low-brow. It can't sustain the double role. Is the fashion world really less high-brow than the philosophical world?This is a movie for Fred Astaire, Audrey Hepburn, musical, and fashion fans, but don't approach it expecting it to be terrific and you might find it just fine. Note, there are several references to Audrey Hepburn acting like Anna Karenina, Audrey had just played in a movie version of Tolstoy's War and Peace. I'm wondering if anybody was considering her for Anna Karenina and this was an inside joke of some sort. She would have been great in the part. "},{"Title":"Looks good on paper, fails in the transferral to screen","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 'Funny Face' has impeccable credentials on paper- how could this not work with the teaming of master Astaire and gorgeous Hepburn? Yet, this fuzzy romantic confection does fall flat in quite a few places.For once, the standard practice of teaming a beautiful young female star with an older, established male superstar does not pay off. Astaure simply looks waaaay too old for Hepburn, the chemistry is not there. I much preferred his films with Ginger Rogers and Rita Hayworth. 'Funny Face' came at a time when Fred's career was slowly, but surely, in decline- and it shows here. This is not one of his best performances, but he's never woefully bad in anything and the production benefits from his great skill as a dancer.Hepburn was not a noted singer or dancer, yet she equips herself well against Astaire. This isn't one of her best roles either, but she's pretty and all the trademark Hepburn charm is there. The numbers are lively and fun, but nothing is really memorable, for me at least. Sets, costume design and visuals are all eye-catching, but this has the look of a film that has tried just a little too hard to be trend-setting and fresh.If you want reasonably good frothy entertainment for a couple of hours or a fan of musicals or the two stars, definitely watch this film. However, a 'Singin In The Rain' it simply ain't.6/10. "},{"Title":"Astaire, Hepburn, Gershwin, Donen, Paris&#133;Yet Something Feels Missing","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Hollywood confections don't come any sweeter than teaming a young, coltish Audrey Hepburn with an effortlessly debonair Fred Astaire in a classic Gershwin musical. The elegantly mounted numbers provide the ideal complement to the soufflé-light plot centered on Dick Avery, a world-renowned, Richard Avedon-like fashion photographer who discovers his next model in Jo Stockton, a bookshop clerk and aspiring philosopher, in time for a major event in Paris. The 1957 movie is stylish to the nth degree with a bold color palette that director Stanley Donen and cinematographer Ray June bring to vibrant life. It also adheres to the formula of studio-manufactured musical comedies with characters going through lightning-quick personality transformations to move the story along and allow them to break into song and dance at a moment's notice. This level of contrivance will not sit well with some film viewers, and the opposites-attract storyline seems particularly forced here by the thirty years that separate the co-stars.Regardless, several individual elements work well starting with Astaire who epitomizes class and artistic drive as Avery, and his dancing and singing remain undiminished by the years. Hepburn is certainly picture-perfect as Jo, looking particularly spectacular in the fashion shoot sequence. With a throaty voice, she sings the classic How Long Has This Been Going On? with an aching vulnerability and duets passably on three other numbers. With her ballet training, Hepburn moves well in the dance numbers, though she is not a natural and seems oddly flat-footed when paired with the lithe Astaire, especially on the pastoral He Loves and She Loves duet. She gets away with a frantic dance solo as a beatnik in a nightclub through sheer exuberance. As Avery's dictatorial magazine editor Maggie Prescott, the redoubtable Kay Thompson portrays a most irritating character, but her natural wit and good spirits manage to compensate. The film's most energetic number is Bonjour Paris, a split-screen exploration of the city by Avery, Maggie and Jo. Donen generally does a superb job guiding his movies, but this one ultimately feels a bit lackluster given the participants. The skimpy DVD package has a pristine print transfer plus one disposable extra about Paramount movies in the 1950's. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I thought it would be","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" You'd think with a superb cast like Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire this would be a very good movie. I suppose it is, but I feel it is a bit weak. It could have been very good, but it fails to deliver. The music is glorious and enchanting but the storyline is lacking. This can also be said for the chemistry, although they try their best, it just doesn't work. I really liked Audrey's dance scene, but apart from that I cannot really remember a distinctive thing about this movie, apart from the music of course. Not Audrey or Fred's best, but an OK movie. Happy, jolly, musical and fun. But it doesn't work ... sad, because it could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was directed by Stanley Donen, who had directed the great Singin' In The Rain a few years earlier and would go on to direct Audrey Hepburn in one more movie, Charade. When this movie was made Fred Astaire was 58 years old and Hepburn was only 28, But Hepburn was used to working with older men with Humphrey Bogart in Sabrina and Gary Cooper in Love In The Afternoon. Hepburn would have to wait two more years until Green Mansions in which she was actually older then her co-star, Anthony Perkins. There isn't much to the plot other then Hepburn is working in a bookstore in New York and really wants to go to Paris but can't afford it and agrees to be a model for Astaire even though she cares nothing about being a model. I don't know why they would let her sing her own songs in this movie but not in My Fair Lady a few years later, because she is actually good here. "},{"Title":"Oh what fun...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love old movies, but don't watch them all the time. I think that when a person is exposed to something frequently and at length, they become more critical; that is, they become more judgemental. When I happened across this movie last night, I got sucked in (thankfully, away from Fall programming). I thought the movie was quaint, and nicely captured Americans' fairy tale view of Paris when love was in the air (ah, those were the days...). I thoroughly enjoyed the musical numbers, and really wasn't concerned with everything else required to link them together. Fred was Fred, and Audrey was Audrey (I had forgotten how beautiful she was). It was a nostalgic evening (thanks, cable t.v.) that left me feeling good about people and the places they go. "},{"Title":"If they ever remade this movie","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Stanley Donen treatment to this picture is apparent, although the storyboards were already done when this film was in the Hopper over at MGM. When MGM fired its musical unit to cut cost, paramount purchased the movie lock, stock and barrel. The gloss of this movie has MGM brush strokes all over it, from opening to credits. The remake of this film must to homage to this international Cinderella story about a young optimistic waif who becomes the darling of the French fashion world. Those of us with any age can appreciate the Diana Vrelandesque character who is Quality Magazine, Maggie Prescott. Richard Avedon is Fashion and the Richard Avery character played by Fred Astaire is charming as well as technically perfect. These two characters move the story through as Audrey Hepburn's Jo Stockton becomes the bird of paradise. From the thoughtful introspection of How long has this been going on to On how to be lovely her performance is captivating. There are two other characters that are often overlooked. There is no film where the two cities of New York and Paris become vital players in this story. Should this film be recreated, the cast could be comprised of such luminaries as Bette Midler as Maggie Prescott. Would Streisand want this role? Midler has the comic genius of a Maggie Prescott. The original actress is of course Divine Kay Thompson. There is no other rhythmic technician that could play the part of Richard Avery than Harry Connick Jr. The dance could be transposed to piano with the Ringa Dim Bell's number a melding of the two art forms in a tour de force for the Prescott and Avery characters. This writer would hope that the studio that accepts the challenge of the remake would cast Halle Berry as Jo Stockton. There is no other actress that could make the jump from New York bookworm to Parisian runway model. Her existing body of work proves that she has the talent and ability, we can all see how beautiful she is. If Hepburn can speak a song, Halle can as well. If he would do it, Liam Nieson would be the perfect choice for the philosopher who has more in mind for Jo Stockton than intellectual studies. If he would do it, the musical direction would be another Quincy Jones triumph. The story line is as fresh today as it was back then. A meeting in a esoteric bookshop becomes a trip to romantic Paris in this boy meets girl, boy looses girl, boy gets girl. This writer thinks the Bonjour Paree number could use some updating but to film Paris in all her glory would be a visual feast. All of Paris, from the dimly lit bar, to the philosopher's salon, to the Opera, to the Eiffle Tower would glow again on film. Throw in a couple Super Models and you have a funny face that we can enjoy again. "},{"Title":"Paramount transfer on DVD stinks - film is great!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What a shame more of Fred Astaires films arent out on DVD.  Its actually a crime.  This is a great musical and a lot of fun.  What a shame Paramount has done such a shoddy job on the transfer.  Lets hope other Astaire films in color are given better treatment. "},{"Title":"My Second Big Screen Audrey Hepburn Experience","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  My mother worked for the local theaters in the area I grew up in (Four indoor, two outdoor theaters).  I was 11 at the time and already a musical fan.  I have been a fan of both stars, but Audrey was ALWAYS MY FAVORITE. I remember fantasizing that some day I'll own my own copy of this movie, some how, some way, no matter what it costs me.I would rearrange my schedule in my teen years and into my thirties whenever it was shown on television.  I was walking one day and passed a music store (as it was called in the '50s) and there in the window was Audrey's eyes, nose and lips looking at me from a 12 x 12 Pink square.  It turned out to be the soundtrack on a 12 album displayed in the window.  Thinking back I beleive I floated into the store all stary-eyed and muttering incoherently. I ended up convincing the man behind the counter to let me put it on lay-a-way, promising to bring in my allowance until it was paid for.That soundtrack was the first 33 1/3 album I ever bought.  I still have it and I still play it once in a while.  Even now when I view the movie I want Maggie to skip like my record has for many years when she sings, who cares (if the new look has no) bust?I recently (finally) bought a television that has closed captioning and I can't beleive how many song lyrics I had been singing wrong all these years (especially There's Something Missing , and Think Pink).Just this last week I noticed that in Fred and Audrey's dance behind the Church, they dance onto the raft cross over, dance a little more and suddenly are magically back on the original side of the water without dancing back onto the raft!  I couldn't beleive I hadn't noticed that before (and I notice EVERYTHING when I watch a movie)!  Then as if that wasn't enough, I noticed when Jo looks out the window backstage at the fashion show, she looks into a darkening sky as Dick's plane takes off.  We all know what happens next and how we end up back behind the Church again, but as they dance off into the horizon, aboard the raft, the sky is BLUE WITH WHITE, FLUFFY CLOUDS!  I even rewound back to the scene where Professor Flostra tells Dick that Jo's the one who wounded him, and the sky was dark there too!I just thought of something else, there are two phrases, lines of diaglogue from the film that have become standard lines used by me and my ex-wife, many, many times.  Take the picture, take the picture! and So sorry, was too late!At the time that Funny Face came out I had never heard of George and Ira Gershwin.  When I read the credits, for some reason I thought they were a husband and wife team.Since I have been a collecter of Gershwin trivia and music.  Getting Ella Fitzgerald singing The George and Ira Gershwin Songbook on CD was a dream come true.  I don't have the Funny Face soundtrack on CD yet, is it available?  I assume it is. "},{"Title":"Astaire at His Bes...Worst","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It disappoints me that Funny Face for many people will be their only encounter with Fred Astaire, due to the fact that it is an Audrey Hepburn film. I first watched Funny Face for the Hepburn factor (unfamiliar at the time with Fred Astaire), and was left unimpressed with the film. Later on I became infatuated with Astaire thanks to his partnership with Ginger Rogers and other films such as The Bandwagon. Due to this I revisited Funny Face in the hope that I would appreciate it more; unfortunately the opposite happened. Boy is this movie a waste of talentFirst and foremost, dancing, or should I say the lack of it. When I watch a Fred Astaire musical I expect to be memorised by his dancing moves. Yet every time a musical number began, Astaire does nothing. There are times when I expect him to bust a move, but nothing happens. Eventfully when he does start dancing, the choreography is about as basic as it gets. Secondly, comedy. I've always thought Fred Astaire is very undervalued as a comedic actor. In the films he did with Ginger Rogers, his timing and ability to come up with a witty comeback to everything is right up there with the likes of Groucho Marx. Typically in these films he would be playing of high society snobs, and in Funny Face these same snobs exist, but Astaire is now one of them! Whenever a character in this film is being superficial or snobbish, Astaire just stands there and does nothing! In the past he would have been all Groucho Marx on them.Next, chemistry. Being a huge fan of both these stars, perhaps just seeing them together could help elevate the film above its flaws? Nope! Astaire and Hepburn have no chemistry at all. While Hepburn does fair better in this film than Astaire, having one musical number which I quite liked, The Basal Metabolism. But that's enough lavishing praise on this movie.Finally, the plot. Granted many musicals have silly plots, that's part of their charm. But plot in Funny Face goes beyond silly, it's flat out insulting. Well ignoring the fact that in the reality of the film, Audrey Hepburn is considered unattractive, they take an intellectual girl who works at a book store and turn her into a superficial model. Also why can't Audrey not just call the police and tell them that the book store she works at was trespassed, used for unauthorised photography and vandalised, oh never mind, the plot just sucks. Also I'm so sick of Paris being used as a setting for romantic comedies. Choose a different city!If this is the only Fred Astaire film you've seen, please I beg of you, watch the films he did with Ginger Rogers or The Bandwagon in order to see what he is really like. "}{"Title":"Lessons in style from Fred Astaire, Kay Thompson, Audrey Hepburn and Richard Avedon","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" For the first not-quite-half of Stanley Donen's Funny Face we are in the midst of a stylish, high-fashion fairy tale, populated by the likes of Fred Astaire, Audrey Hepburn and Kay Thompson, and transported along by some fine George and Ira Gershwin songs. For the second half, some of the effervescence loses its fizz...all that boy-loses-girl, boy-wins-girl- back stuff, combined with some unfunny, dated riffs on beatniks and Hollywood's version of Sartre. Still, Funny Face has much in its favor, and to my way of thinking is the best of the Astaire movies he made following The Band Wagon. Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson), relentless force of nature and editor of the high fashion magazine Quality, is determined to find a new look. Her top fashion photographer Dick Avery (Fred Astaire) thinks he's found just the person, a mousy little bookseller they encountered during a fashion shoot in Greenwich Village. But Jo Stockton (Audrey Hepburn) is having none of it. Jo is a devotee of empathecalism, thinks fashion is ridiculous and wants nothing more than to read books, dress sensibly and go to Paris to meet her guru. It's not long before they're all in Paris...Maggie with her expansive ideas for the magazine with Jo as the new woman, Jo reluctantly agreeing to model so she can get to Paris, and Dick photographing Jo in some stunning creations (designed for Hepburn by Givenchy). After some songs, some dances, some arguments and some kisses, a reasonably believable Autumn/Spring romance between Astaire and Hepburn sends them dancing into the countryside to S'Wonderful. We exit smiling. Funny Face glows with style. The Avery character was based on high-fashion photographer Richard Avedon (who also is noted for serious photo collections). Avedon was a consultant on the movie, and his sense of color and composition, and how to present high fashion permeates the place. Style was also one of Astaire's noted gifts, as it was with Kay Thompson. And Hepburn isn't far behind. The three of them give a fine gloss to a simple story. Their skills as performers and personalities make the musical numbers, for the most part, special. Among the high points --Think Pink, a specialty number for Thompson by Roger Edens and Leonard Gershe. It's bright and funny, and introduces us to Maggie Prescott, the magazine and the world of high fashion. It sets the tone of the movie. --How Long Has This Been Going On is sung without ornamentation by Hepburn. She's a competent singer. --Funny Face, perhaps the highlight of the movie. Even though we've had to wait almost 30 minutes to get to Astaire doing his stuff, it's worth it. Astaire sings to Hepburn in a darkroom while he takes her picture, blows it up and develops it. Hepburn thinks her face is funny; Astaire thinks it's extraordinary. I love your funny face, Your sunny, funny face. For you're a cutie With more than beauty. You've got a lot of per-son-a-li-ty N.T. You fill the air with smiles For miles and miles and miles. Though you're no Mona Lisa, For worlds I'd not replace Your sunny, funny face. After we see the print, a tight, soft close-up of her features, we know Astaire's right. The song and its delivery has everything we expect of Astaire and includes a nice, not-too- demanding dance with Hepburn that's light and graceful. --Lets Kiss and Make Up. This clever Gershwin song sung by Astaire to Hepburn moves into an extended dance routine where he once again demonstrates he can make excellent dance partners of inanimate objects, in this case his umbrella and his topcoat. --He Loves and She Loves. A sweet and graceful declaration of love sung by Astaire and danced by the two of them outside a country church. It's filmed with a soft focus which some may appreciate and others find irritating. The only real stinker is a humorless send-up of beatniks sung and danced by Astaire and Thompson to the Gershwin's Clap Yo' Hands. The routine probably was dated when it was filmed. And even if you don't much care for high fashion (I'm one of those) and even if your heart doesn't beat all that faster for Audrey Hepburn (mine doesn't skip too many beats), the combination of Hepburn's face, Givenchy's gowns and Avedon's photography are in a different kind of reality. Hepburn taking a pose in a green silk gown with her hair pulled back and that neck as long and graceful as a swan's is stunning. Hepburn in a red gown with a long red scarf flowing behind her as she lightly runs down the stone steps in the Louvre with the Winged Victory of Samothrace framing her descent is unforgettable. And here's to Kay Thompson, one of the most vivid and stylish of creatures. She only made two or three movies but had a long career as vocal arranger, voice coach, singer, nightclub entertainer, songwriter and author (all those books about Eloise and the Plaza). She was a great and true friend of Judy Garland's and was Liza Minnelli's godmother. In Thompson's last years when she was frail and ill, Minnelli moved her into Minnelli's New York apartment and oversaw her care until Thompson died. "},{"Title":"In 1957 to think I'd someday own my own copy of Funny Face was absurd!","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" My mother worked for the local theaters in our town in the 1950's. As a result I got to see movies for free.Of course I got to see the movie at least twice a day every day it was shown as we lived near the theater. One Saturday as I was walking past one of the local record stores and saw Jo Stockton's face (the close-up) in the window. It was the 33 1/3 soundtrack album and the entire cover was her brows, eyes, nostrils and lips.I went into the store and placed my entire allowance down and put it on lay away. It was the FIRST 33 1/3 album I ever bought. I was just seven years old in 1957. I still have the album and it's framed and hangs on the wall in my living room.I don't have the CD yet but I do have the DVD (plus at least three TV copies on VHS). In reading the liner notes for the CD (my library has it)I was delighted to find that the songs for my favorite scenes, those where they dance behind the church, were recorded on MY BIRTHDAY, March 29th! A goof I never noticed before? During the final number they cross and re-cross the little brook, but the final scene as the float off to the horizon doesn't match the crossing shots.Another favorite line of mine? When Maggie calls his hotel and is connected to the front desk, the clerk tells her, So sorry, was too late. "},{"Title":"Really, really cute!","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm a big Audrey Hepburn fan and once again she plays her role as an innocent sweet girl, working in a bookshop, really good. She's believable, funny and so charming. But... The poor girl, i'm afraid, can't sing real good. Astaire does it, Thompson does it, but not her. Although, she did dance really good.Fred Astaire was really funny as Dick Avery, the photographer who's looking for a new supermodel. And when he finds her he just wont let go. I thought he was really good.Kay Thompson was just hilarious! I love it when she sings and she couldn't have played her role any better.This was a cute, funny and good movie, if you like old musicals (like I do) and just wants to sit back and watch a timeless classic.I recommend it to everybody who reads this.8/10 "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've always loved this movie and have considered it one of Hepburn's best, unlike the clunker Paris When It Sizzles. Now THAT movie I cannot sit through, it is so bad.Sure, we think Astaire is too old for her - but is he? Both Astaire and Kelly married much younger women when they got old, so who's to say? Hepburn is lovely, and it's fun to see Kaye Thompson (love the song she does with Astaire) perform in front of the cameras for a change. Most of her work was behind the scenes at MGM (she was voice coach to Judy Garland, Lena Horne, to name a few, and vocal arranger) or in nightclubs.This movie is normally considered one of the better musicals. "},{"Title":"Paris when it (really) sizzles.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you like Audrey Hepburn and if you like Paris,this is definitely the movie to choose.Hepburn ,who used to work in a books store ,becomes a model and flies to Paris with Fred Astaire .But her wildest dream is to meet professor Floster (Flostier in the French version) whose theory on empathy she finds fascinating.She will soon discover that it's easier in theory than in practice .The professor's part is played by Michel Auclair ,one of the best French actors of the era (la Belle et la Bete les Maudits  la Fete a Henriette) I love the scene where the three American actors sing bonjour Paris!AH loved Paris and the feeling was mutual.Many of her film were located therehow to steal a million dollars charade love in the afternoon Paris when it sizzles ,bits of Sabrina "},{"Title":"I think the word for this is 'surreal'...","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  So you've got two of the most famous, most classic film stars of ANY generation in one film--that would, of course, be Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn. You've also got the whole Gershwin songbook to pick from for your soundtrack. You even have the studio agreeing to ferry the whole company to Paris for location filming. Sounds promising?Yeah, it did to me too. Quite frankly, it's the script and basic plotline that let the rest of the enterprise down. Hepburn plays Jo Stockton, an intellectual (and we know this because of her less-than-gleaming pageboy cut and the drab shapeless grey potato sack she wears... and still looks fabulous in) who works in a bookstore. She tries very hard to get her shelves back in shape after Dick Avery (Astaire) and his entourage from Quality magazine (including a manic Kay Thompson as lady-in-charge Maggie Prescott) descend upon the store for a photoshoot... only for Dick to leave her floundering and singing How Long Has This Been Going On? when he surprises her with a kiss. Still, she clings to her empathicalism ideals and agrees to go to Paris for a Quality fashion shoot so that she can meet the father of empathicalism (her philosophy of choice, of course), Professor Emile Flostre (Michel Auclair). Dick's charming of Jo continues through the fashion shoot, and to the tune of He Loves And She Loves, he finally realises he loves her back. But as in all romantic comedies, the course of true love never did run smooth, and Jo gets upset when Dick tries to warn her off Professor Flostre (He's about as interested in your intellect as I am). The inevitable misunderstanding happens between two lovers when Jo refuses to turn up for the final unveiling, and Dick is set to take a plane back to New York alone.It's all pretty run-of-the-mill, sentimental pablum, with an attempt to pass poor writing off as profound themes. I never knew Hepburn was a dancer, and she acquits herself rather well in her solo prance through the (literally) underground French cafe. But really--the only word for moments like this is 'surreal'. The impetus for the dance doesn't ring true; the dance itself is technically accomplished but bewilderingly weird... and well, Hepburn may entrance her audience when she's acting, but she's not a magnetic dancer (not the way, say, Cyd Charisse is). That apart, Thompson and Astaire also suffer in their seriously eccentric duet to Clap Yo' Hands. Partly because Thompson's presence in the film is, to me, utterly mysterious. Of course she's *meant* to be the typical musical sidekick (see O'Connor, Donald, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN), but she falls far short of the mark. A successful sidekick would light the screen up during his or her solo--her Think Pink was, frankly, frightening, and she just wasn't very good in the rest of her numbers. (Even her duet with Hepburn, How To Be Lovely, was running on empty when it started.) As for Astaire--what a shame. His talent was put to waste in this film, even though he still looks pretty spry and his sense of rhythm is as impeccable as ever. But in Clap Yo' Hands, his dancing passes only for mugging (and sadly, not even intentionally so). Another one for the 'surreal' label--it's evidently TRYING to be witty and avant-garde. And failing miserably. Astaire's own solo number is perfectly executed as usual, and he pulls off his coat-swirling with great style, but one still feels as if some spark in him is still missing. Of all the good material the film had to work with, it's really a shame that it never used any of its three principals well.That's not to say the film was beyond all hope It's hard to come out of such a poorly-scripted and thought-out film on your feet, but it's also hard for Astaire and Hepburn to be truly horrifyingly bad... so they're just bland. They do go some way in lending their trademark class to the film, for example in the extremely poorly-lit darkroom courtship dance. It *seems* very good, from what little I can make out through all the murky black and red... it's a scene just crying out for digital re-enhancement so that we can actually see what's going on. But it's still quite nicely-executed. There's also a flash of the magic that this film could have had the two times Jo and Dick walk together behind the little Parisian church, with her in all her wedding finery. When he realises that she's fallen for him, for real, he sweetly serenades her with the song He Loves And She Loves, and the raft across the river is a very sweet, pretty touch.Given the pedigree of this film, I really had been expecting a lot more than I actually got. It's not horrible, but nor is it fantastic. Probably one to watch if you're a fan of Astaire's or Hepburn's, but I doubt I'll be pulling this one out for a re-viewing any time soon. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"I Love This Funny Face","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  1957 marked the last year of the great Hollywood musical,and saw three marvelous examples of what Hollywood use to do best. During the year, we saw three wonderful musicals come out of Hollywood, Funny Face, The Pajama Game & Les Girls which was the last original Hollywood musical and had a score written by Cole Porter no less. Funny Face was based on an old Broadway revue, but had a bright new 50's story attached to it to fit the large talents of Fred Astaire & Audrey Hepburn. Astaire plays a fashion photographer loosly based on Richard Avedon who works for a top fashion magazine,(think Vogue) whose editor played by the great Kay Thompson (think Diana Veerland)is looking for the perfect new face. They stumble across La Hepburn (never more beautiful) working in a dusty Greenwich Village bookstore while on a location shot, and before you can say Christian Dior, everyone is off to Paris, where Hepburn is touted as the new face and gets to model some swell de Givenchy gowns amid lovely Paris locals. Needless to say Hepburn falls for Astaire, which in the uptight 50's was pretty racy stuff, since Astaire was much older than Hepburn. That pretty much is the plot, not much to work with one would think, but the director Stanley Donen has taken this cotton candy of a storyline and fashioned one of the most enjoyable and best musicals of the 50's, and maybe ever. The marvelous score uses a lot of great Gershwin standards along with some terrific new songs by a trio of songwriters including Ira Gershwin. There are several set pieces most of which the great Kay Thompson takes part in, and she pretty much steals the show. The opening Think Pink number is snazzy and snappy and one wonders and is sadden that Thompson only made three films. Most of her Hollywood work was behind the scenes as a vocal arranger & lyricist for several M.G.M. musicals of the 1940's, and she is also the author of the everlasting children's book Eloise. Some of the stuff falls flat, especially Hepburn's on again off again infatuation with a phony Paris philospher who is more interested in Hepburn's body than her mind, but that's a minor fault, because this is a musical that offers so much in the way of its music,performances dancing, decor,costume & cinematography. The newly released DVD restores the beautiful color and full screen image that the video was lacking. One of the ten best films of 1957.  "},{"Title":"Audrey's best musical","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I know most Audrey Hepburn fans think My Fair Lady (1964) is her best musical, but my money is on Funny Face. For one thing, she does her own singing here. Just listen to her adorable version of How Long Has This Been Goin' On? for ample evidence of the poor decision made by the producers of Lady not to let Audrey sing her own songs. She also holds herself very well on the dance floor opposite the master, Fred Astaire -- and her beatnik dance is at once one of the funniest, and sexiest moments of her career. This film also marks one of the final appearances of the innocent Audrey, before maturity and motherhood took away the gamine quality she had in the 1950s. For those who want their Audrey Hepburn with a healthy dose of fantasy -- which for many is when Audrey is at her best (Roman Holiday, Breakfast at Tiffany's, My Fair Lady, etc.) then this film is a must see. Oh, and for those who think old guy-young girl romances are a recent trend (ie. Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta Jones in Entrapment), the Astaire-Hepburn pairing is a revelation.I can only mourn the fact that Audrey didn't get more opportunity to display her singing and dancing skills on film. The fact she didn't get cast for the film version of Gigi is as much a robbery as, well, Audrey Hepburn being cast in My Fair Lady instead of Julie Andrews.I'm less thrilled with the recent video transfer of the film, which I found too muddy of color. The dark room dance scene is, well, dark ... and at times you can't see Audrey through the haze during her cafe dance, which I found very frustrating. I can only hope the DVD will clean this up. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn sings and dances!!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn must have a special power because even though I'm not a romantic movie fan and hate musicals, she made me love Roman Holiday and Funny Face.  This movie reminded me a lot of Roman Holiday.  The cinematography shows the views of Paris specifically like it is a tour film as well as in Roman Holiday, which I enjoyed very much. Also, Audrey Hepburn's character, Jo, is similar to Princess Anne.  One moment, she is a innocent talkative girl next door and next moment she is a super elegant fashion model. Many of the scenes are remarkable.  Especially, I liked the scene Fred Astaire, Kay Thompson and Audrey Hepburn sing Bonjour Paris very much.  The three divided screen gave me a impression that it is a music video in 50's. Another memorable scene is when Hepburn dances with two other french guys in the bar. Her single expression on her face and movements were amiable.  Of course she does not sing and dance as mature as the profession musical actors, Astaire and Thompson, but her amateurism makes this movie more fresh and delightful.               "},{"Title":"Great Film!!!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of Audrey Hepburn's and Fred Astaire's, so I am a little one-sided.  The music and dance numbers are very entertaining.  I own the video and watch it all the time.  I would recommend this movie if you wanted to see it. "}{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn is unforgettable when falling in love","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Much of this movie is forgettable, though enjoyable fluff.  The characters are all cardboard cut-outs--the ditzy models, an ambitious fashion editor, a raffish photographer, and a bookish bookstore clerk (Audrey Hepburn), who will lose her bookishness as she falls in love with the photographer amid the gorgeous backdrops of Paris and rural France.  What makes the movie worth watching is what makes most of Audrey Hepburn's movies worth watching--a priceless, unforgettable scene in which Hepburn communicates that she has fallen utterly in love.  To see Audrey Hepburn in love is to see the face of Love itself.  "},{"Title":"Good Music, But No Chemistry","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The music is wonderful, the photography and sets marvelous, the dancing great... BUT... there is NO chemistry between Audrey and Fred! Sorry, but pairing a homely 59 year old (he looks like her grandfather!) with a petite pretty 28 year old just does not work. But hey, it was filmed in Paris, in the 1950's, and the clothing is amazing... too bad they didn't use a younger male lead! What else? I love Audrey Hepburn... my god she was beautiful! And Fred Astaire was an amazing dancer (but a lousy singer!). The producer should have dubbed both Hepburn and Astaire's voices... they just can't sing! The best scene when Fred and the magazine owner dance at the professor's house... yes! The worst scene(s) pretty much every romantic scene between Fred and Audrey. "},{"Title":"Singing and dancing with Fred and Audrey","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love your funny face, your sunny, funny face sings the marvelous Fred Astaire to the lovely Audrey Hepburn in this musical comedy from 50 years back.He plays a fashion photographer named Dick Avery.She plays a shy bookshop clerk named Jo Stockton.He wants to take her out of the book store, make her a model and take her to Paris.And so it happens.Soon there is romance in the air.Stanley Donen is the director of Funny Face (1957), a movie filled with wonderful music.The wonder brothers George and Ira Gershwin are behind the music, that they made to the 1927 Broadway musical production.Fred Astaire is unbeatable with his dance moves and smooth talks.Audrey Hepburn was just what she is in this movie; an intelligent woman with incredible beauty.And she could sing too! Together these two make an unforgettable pair- despite their 30 year age difference.It's magical to watch them singing and dancing in the dark room.I also have to mention the great work by Kay Thompson.She plays the magazine editor Maggie Prescott.It's fantastic to watch these three performing 'Bonjour Paris' in the streets of the French capital.Funny Face is a delight to your eyes and your ears.It's a delight to all your senses.A kind of movie that brings a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Great colorful musical with one big problem not enough close-ups","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" FUNNY FACE is a charming and breezy musical starring Audrey Hepburn, Fred Astaire and Kay Thompson. The story is almost inconsequential. The film is mainly a grand showcase of beautiful people doing fun things and singing songs. It's witty, it moves at a fast pace and it looks great.FUNNY FACE was directed by Stanley Donen, who also directed the classic SINGIN IN THE RAIN. He obviously had fun making this musical and from the looks of it, he had almost total creative control of the whole project, which is sorta unfortunate. Because if there's a problem with FUNNY FACE it's in part to do with the way it's directed there aren't enough close-ups. Everything is shot from a distance. It might work on a very big theater screen but on my big TV screen, the lack of close-ups was truly annoying.If there was one movie that needed close-ups, it's this one. Audrey's face was made for close-ups and unfortunately, we rarely see her face up close. There's something sorta lazy about this kind of direction. Examples of such scenes the one in the dark room or when they prepare for the fashion show. The witty banter the actors exchange between each other could have been punched up with sharp editing and such but instead we see static compositions of actors standing or sitting sideways in wide shots, creating a distance between us and the characters in the film. FUNNY FACE ends up being colder than it needed to be. Another annoying directing technique Donen overuses are the endless variety of filters. They really distract, certainly in and around the moments that take place around the church. Too much gauze.Aside from these problems, the rest of the film is great, even with the badly cast Fred Astaire playing Audrey's love interest. The pairing is a bit odd but the movie is so breezy and fun, the age difference between the two stars doesn't distract too much. Gene Kelly would have been a better choice though.The songs are memorable and hummable and the dancing is stylish. Kay Thompson has a couple of great show-stopping moments. I love the moment when Kay and Audrey sing together. Audrey was a great dancer and it's a shame she didn't do more musicals. The highlight of the film is the Bonjour Paris scene. The fact that they filmed FUNNY FACE on location is a major plus. Paris has never looked better, in colorful Technicolor.For fans of musicals and Audrey, FUNNY FACE is a definite must see. "},{"Title":"Sit Back, Relax, Don't Think Too Much - Just ENJOY!","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'll admit there are inconsistencies in Jo Stockton's character, and having Fred Astaire at his age as the paramour for Audrey at her age is a little absurd, but the movie is such a lot of fun that you get sucked into it and plot problems et cetera tend to recede into the distance. Besides the photographic SFX, my favorite part of this movie is Kay Thompson for two reasons 1) she helps prove once and for all that you don't have to be a soprano to be a smashing vocalist; 2) I know this was supposed to be Audrey Hepburn's picture but right at the outset Kay just marches in, clamps her teeth on a corner of the scenery, and all but drags it out from under the other two principals-- and does it so well that you can't help but admire her for it. (Oh, and while I'm thinking of it it's true Audrey Hepburn wasn't known for her singing, although she sounds just fine to me, but yes she WAS a professional dancer - if I remember right she earned her living during or shortly after WWII as a ballerina.) "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Having seen almost every other movie of Audrey and enjoyed thoroughly each one of it, I was left disappointed with this one. This is my-fair-lady-superlight.So the story is similar to most of Audrey movies. She is supposed to be a modest, bookish, intellectual librarian girl, who has a funny face. Now 2 things However hard they tried to convince me Audrey was not attractive as a librarian, they did a poor job. I wasn't convinced of it even in Sabrina, but at least they put some shoe polish on her face to make it dirty. Here, well she looks damn too beautiful to believe she is not a model material. ha ha! Second thing that hit me about this film is it's sexist. I am a male but I like to see intellectual women. This movie tells women should only think pink (what a cliché for modern age) and tries as many cheap tricks as possible to make fun of intellectualism by making Audrey say empathicasm (can't remember that word) zillion number of times. Poor taste! I don't know much about Fred Astaire honestly, only know that he is supposed to be a Gene Kelly twin. I however enjoyed Kelly's movies far better. Fred's dancing looks very childish and pointless and the chemistry between him and Audrey is average at best. However I understand it's not one of his better movies either, so no pun intended to him.In most of the Audrey's movies, she has similar themes transformations from caterpillar to a butterfly, helpless lady harassed by goons, only to be saved by her pampering hero, male leads of the age of her father...all the elements are here in this film as well, but even the gorgeous Audrey could not save me from yawning from time to time and completing this film in 3 rounds finally. The reason this film fails is because I see absolutely no transformation. She was an attractive Audrey in the beginning and she is an attractive Audrey in the end. No physical or emotional change has taken place. In movies like Sabrina, Roman Holiday, Breakfast at Tiffanys, My Fair Lady etc, you could see the transformation lucidly and empathize with Audrey a lot better. This movie just doesn't cut it.Unless you are a die hard Audrey fan like me, pass on this one and you won't miss anything (well OK, maybe you will miss Audrey's dance in the café...that 1 scene is unforgettable). "},{"Title":"Dullsville","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This begins as a promising musical with two classy stars. Unfortunately, it turns out to be an extremely lifeless, boring enterprise, with some classic Gershwin songs just thrown in (and wasted) in the mix. Audrey Hepburn is lovely as the leading lady. She alone is the only reason I could see anyone wanting to seek out this film. Fred Astaire is really flat in one of his most uninteresting roles. He's just too old for her. Even though he played opposite younger female leads in some of his other films (Easter Parade, The Band Wagon), here the romance just isn't believable. When he kisses Audrey for the first time, and she subsequently breaks into song (How Long Has This Been Going On), well...it's just not inspiring or emphatic at all. It just seems forced.In addition to this mismatched duo, there is Kay Thompson as the LOUD, brassy fashion head. She is just plain obnoxious, as can be evidenced from the very first scene (Think Pink). The set designs and costumes are very 1950s, which in some cases works to advantage. Other times not so much. The color photography in Technicolor and VistaVision is quite nice, and often lovely to look at.So, if there are any reasons to see this film, it's for Audrey and the pleasing color. Also worth noting is model Suzy Parker, who appears in some of the opening sequences. Other then that, a pretty forgettable film.  "},{"Title":"For Big Time Audrey Lovers ONLY...Overrated Movie.","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've read nearly all the posts for this movie because I've just seen it (after capturing bits and pieces of it over the years) and it confirmed what I felt all along  it's a strangely made  movie.  Parts of it are pretty OK and funny (Audrey Hepburn reacting to the model making strange modeling movements in the bookstore ...what on earth are you doing?)  Astaire is funny and Kay Thompson is bossy but OK in general.  She hits the mark for a woman boss right on the head...pushy but with a sincere side to her.  And you definately get the feeling that the year this was made (1957) was the pinnacle of the 50's era look and this movie has it in droves.  But a lot is off the mark.  Hepburn is fine to look at but she has a weak voice.  Not bad but you can see why Warner Brothers decided to dub her for My Fair Lady.  With a great score like that, are you going to trust a weak voice with it (the still should've cast Julie Andrews but that's an Old, old tale).  Astaire is too old to woo her or for her to fall in love with him UNLESS she has some strange, unresolved Daddy complex that didn't make it into the movie.  And some of the musical numbers are very oddly staged.  The Think Pink number is for one...can't exactly put my finger on it...the song isn't very good and the staging seems stilted.  Then there's that bizarre number (I forget the song...it was tuneless) where Kay Thompson and Audrey Hepburn put on bonnets (from table cloths) and sing a song about how to be pretty.  Huh?  The two of them look so awkward the scene made me nervous.  This movie and the praise it continues to get is the definition of OVERRATED.  Hepburn was/is was of the true Hollywood legends and deserves to be because of the diversity of her work especially Roman Holiday and The Nun's Story (her best).  But NOT for this.  Funny Face is for those who have a idol complex for Ms. Hepburn.  All others will be left scratching their heads. "},{"Title":"If Audrey weren't so cute, I'd punch someone.","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I rate Audrey a 10.I rate this movie a -8.Average them out and you still have a waste of time.I have no idea what people find appealing about this film. Imagine the thinnest plot & lamest script ever made (imagine Rollerball 2002). Now put your favourite actor in it (imagine George C. Scott in Rollerball 2002). Now think of a great composer, but consider his/her LAMEST work (imagine the Kiss disco album). Throw it all together, and there you have the Funny Face Experience.The plot is so weak that I can't say anything without ruining it. Suffice it to say that it's more predictable than a nursery rhyme, but not half as interesting. The song numbers come out of nowhere and have little relevance to the story; in fact they're quite distracting. And the humour is so weak that you feel there should've been a laugh track to indicate when the gags are.Incidentally, Fred was 60 years old when this movie was made. Audrey was in her late 20s. If you find it believable that she would fall for him love at first sight, then I cannot help you. Especially since her character was supposed to be the intelligent, sensible type (who conveniently has a total lapse of principles 15 minutes into the picture, otherwise there wouldn't be a picture).Now let's get to the worst part the music. I think the Gershwins must've been drunk when they wrote this. The songs are totally forgettable with the exception of 'Swonderful (a great tune if you ever hear the Ella Fitzgerald version) which sadly suffers from the worst, sappiest, most bombastic arrangement I've ever heard. And that accurately sums up the spirit of this film a simple theme buried beneath an avalanche of big budget Hollywood froufrou.Sure, the sets are magnificently large. And the colours are... heh... vivid, to say the least (at one point the camera throws it in your face with 20 mins of psychedelic camera tints, similar to a 60s acid rock video. Trippy stuff dad). And of course there are the obligatory postcard shots of Paris to fill in more dead space. But none of that can hide the fact that this film has no substance.I won't even get into the outdated, sexist attitudes. Read the other reviews if you want to know more about that.Skip this movie. I'm especially speaking to Hepburn fans. She's great to see in colour, but it's not worth it. Just skip this one. Despite what Turner Classic Movies would have you believe, they DID make bad movies in 1957! "},{"Title":"Audrey is able to turn it, if not into gold, at least into silver","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There is a stage musical entitled Funny Face, written by George and Ira Gershwin in 1927, but it has a totally different plot to that of the film, although several of its songs are included. Jo Stockton, an assistant in a Greenwich Village bookshop, is discovered as a fashion model by Maggie Prescott, the editor of a prestigious fashion magazine, and Dick Avery, a famous fashion photographer. Jo, however, is something of an amateur intellectual, has a low opinion of the fashion industry and only goes along with Maggie and Dick's plans because they offer her an assignment in Paris, a city she has always wanted to visit because her greatest ambition is to meet the great philosopher Professor Emile Flostre, founder of the doctrine of empathicalism. (Flostre was clearly based upon Jean-Paul Sartre and his doctrine of existentialism). A romance grows up between Jo and Dick in Paris, but Dick finds he has a rival for her affections in the form of the professor, younger and better-looking than his real-life counterpart but no less lecherous. The film was a box-office flop when first released in 1957; it only made a profit when it was re-released seven years later following the huge success of Audrey Hepburn's only other musical, My Fair Lady. It upset the film critic of The Times (aka The Thunderer) who thundered, There is that in the film's attitude towards the intellectual, whether in Greenwich Village or Paris, which offends. It is not amiable parody and it is not telling satire; it has its roots in the ill-based instinct to jeer, and its jeers are offensive. When we consider that these words were directed towards a light, frothy musical comedy, this looks like is a particularly po-faced example of a critic taking himself too seriously (although criticisms of the film's supposed anti-intellectualism still surface). The film's main target was not intellectuals but hypocrites (although it also sends up some of the inanities of the fashion industry). The point about Flostre is that he does not practise what he preaches; empathicalism is supposed to be all about putting oneself in the other person's shoes, but in his dealings with Jo he is only capable of thinking about himself. For all her book-learning, Jo's initial attitude towards Flostre is one of uncritical idol-worship and she still has to learn the important lesson that idols can have feet of clay. The funny face of the title is Jo herself, and the implication of the words of the title song is that, although she is not very attractive, Dick still loves her because she has got so much character and personality. So why, then, was, the Divine Audrey, the most luminously beautiful actress of her generation, cast in the role? Was this simply a piece of miscasting? The answer to that question is an emphatic no. There are a few things wrong with the film, but Audrey is not one of them. The main mistake is the miscasting of the fifty-eight year-old Fred Astaire as the male lead. Although he shows that his advancing years have done little to diminish his dancing skills, away from the dance-floor he looks embarrassingly out-of-place as the lover of the twenty-eight year-old Audrey. Sometimes the teaming of Audrey with an older man paid off, as with Bogart in Sabrina, but this is one case where it didn't. For all his faults I was rooting for Jo to end up with Flostre rather than Dick.The music is tuneful but not particularly memorable, apart from two songs, 'S Wonderful and the title song, and the plot is a fairly banal one. There is, however, a good performance from Kay Thompson as the autocratic Maggie. (I wonder if this was the inspiration for Meryl Streep's portrayal of a similar character in The Devil Wears Prada). This was Thompson's only film appearance; she was best known in her day as a singer and musician and is best remembered today as a children's author. The dance numbers are well choreographed and the visual look of the film is an attractive one. The film's biggest plus, however, is the presence of Audrey Hepburn. She was one of those rare actresses with true star quality, by which I mean the ability to take any film and make it quite different from what it would have been with anyone else in the leading role. Few will be surprised that Audrey was a great dancer- she did, after all, train as a ballerina- but those who know the story of how she was not allowed to do her own singing in My Fair Lady will be surprised by what a melodious voice she had. (Certainly better than Astaire's). Her main contribution here, however, is neither her singing nor her dancing but simply the force of her personality. Funny Face is not a great film; it is in nothing like the same class as My Fair Lady or its director Stanley Donen's masterpiece Singin' in the Rain. (Mind you, Donen seemed to spend most of the rest of his career trying to repeat the success of that great film without ever really pulling it off). It could have been a pretty dull musical, but Audrey transforms it into something memorable. Unlike King Midas she couldn't quite manage to turn everything she touched into gold. Paris When It Sizzles and Two for the Road, for example, obstinately remain base metal despite her presence. Funny Face might not be pure gold, however, but at least Audrey is able to turn it into silver. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Funny Face (1957 Paramount) Is One Of The Very Best Audrey Hepburn And Also Trip To Paris Movies Of All!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" April 4, 2012Funny Face (1957 Paramount) Is One Of The Very Best Audrey Hepburn And Also Trip To Paris Movies Of All! ----------------------This very interesting and technically well done movie is worth seeing for many reasons.Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire were the two main stars, and both were among the most important and talented movie stars in all of movie history.Audrey Hepburn was trained as a ballet dancer when she was a young girl in Europe before her USA movie star days (she got a well deserved Best Actress Academy Award in 1952 for Roman Holiday, followed by Sabrina in 1953 co-starring Humphrey Bogart, another top of the food chain movie star, one of the best of all time).Funny Face (1957 Paramount) shows off Hepburn's considerable dance abilities, and overall movie star presence.....she lights up the screen for the entire movie, which shows the range of her actor skills and dance skills in wonderful detail. Students of movie acting should see this movie. It's a chance to see one of the very best movie star actresses do her thing in a wonderful setting backed up by a great male co-star (she also had great male co-stars in Roman Holiday and Sabrina.....Gregory Peck and Humphrey Bogart...both Best Actor Academy Award Winners) and beautiful photography of famous places and lovely settings in Paris.Paris is often depicted in the movies, but seldom as well as was the case in Funny Face (1957 Paramount). The movie photography really does show off many of the famous locations in Paris, and works hard and successfully to idealize those settings. Interiors in the movie are also unusually well done....it really is an important set decorator's movie, as well as a good costume movie.The movie is filled with gimmicks, most quite charming and worthy, and not seen in other movies. The odd, off balanced angles and strange balancing acts of 1950's era high fashion cover girl models is shown off, and it's all worth seeing. The 1950's was a decade of outrageous style and self-confidence in the USA lost in the 1960's with all of it's celebrated protest and introspection.The color and style of the 1950's in the USA and the USA's idea of glamor are worth seeing and remembering, and this movie really delivers on all that.Audrey Hepburn was mostly a 1950's era movie star, almost always teamed up with a male co-star romantic interest lead much older than she was....Gregory Peck, Humphrey Bogart, Fred Astaire, and later Gary Cooper, Cary Grant, and Rex Harrison.Her very last film project was a wonderful documentary titled Gardens Of The World (1993) and Audrey in her early 60's was still lovely, elegant and riveting on screen. Sadly, her untimely death due to illness contracted during a charity tour to Africa at age 63 before Gardens Of The World (1993) was completed ended her career (the documentary titled Gardens Of The World was released with Michael York doing sound over commentary meant originally for Hepburn, but not done due her death in 1993). ----------------------Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor (see his WWW.IMDb.Com resume) in April of 2012. Tex Allen has written about 50 movie reviews posted on IMDb.ComEmail Tex Allen at TexAllen@Rocketmail.ComOther movie reviews Tex Allen has written include1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the Loving Couples (1969) 17 January 2011 4. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 5. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 6. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 7. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 8. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 9. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 10. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) 22 September 2010 11. Destination Moon (1950) 17 January 2011 12. Detour (1945) 19 November 2010 13. Die Hard 2 (1990) 23 December 2010 14. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl (1993) 19 November 2010 15. Funny Face (1957) 4 April 2012 16. King Solomon's Mines (1950) 1 December 2010 17. Knute Rockne All American (1940) 2 November 2010 18. Claire's Knee (1970) 15 August 2009 19. Melody Ranch (1940) 10 November 2010 20. Midnight in Paris (2011) 8 March 2012 21. Morning Glory (1933) 19 November 2010 22. Mush and Milk (1933) 17 January 2011 23. New Moon (1940) 3 November 2010 24. Pinocchio (1940) 6 November 2010 25. R2PC Road to Park City (2000) 19 November 2010 26. Salt (2010) 24 August 2010 27. Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1960) 21 January 2011 28. Sunset Blvd. (1950) 1 December 2010 29. The Antioch Adventure (1967) 8 February 2012 30. The Artist (2011) 29 February 2012 31. The Boys from Syracuse (1940) 18 February 2011 32. The Forgotten Village (1941) 21 January 2011 33. The Great Dictator (1940) 1 November 2010 34. The King's Speech (2010) 19 January 2011 35. The Last Emperor (1987) 20 January 2011 36. The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner (1962) 9 January 2011 37. The Lusty Men (1952) 16 March 2011 38. The Man in the White Suit (1951) 5 August 2009 39. The Philadelphia Story (1940) 5 November 2010 40. The Red Shoes (1948) 22 February 2011 41. The Social Network (2010) 19 January 2011 42. The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974) 1 August 2009 43. The Thomas Crown Affair (1999) 14 August 2009 44. The Witchmaker (1969) 21 July 2009 45. Thousands Cheer (1943) 3 December 2010 46. Till the Clouds Roll By (1946) 24 November 2010 47. Undersea Kingdom (1936) 10 September 2011 48. Wake Up and Live (1937) 27 July 2009 49. Witness for the Prosecution (1957) 1 August 2009....Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments "},{"Title":"Dick Avery, or an average dick?","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I still remember the first time I saw it at the Parisian Cinematheque back in the mid-90's, when I was 19 years old; I cherished the film for its fluffiness, and was excited witnessing the mostly french audience riot with laughter when a garrulous, fatal girl nagged her lover on screen outside a St-Germain-de-Pres (supposedly) bar, then being slapped in the face and instantly change to admitting melting love to her boyfriend.I congratulated back then the supposed self-sarcasm of the audience; but having seen it recently, I cannot but see even this as being drawn into a joke made in bad faith, whose crudeness is heightened by the supposedly elegant production values that surround the film.The love story between Astaire and Hepburn veers and writhes into condescending absurdity the more he tries to seem urban and pragmatic, but is actually lamely sexist, and at the same time is ridiculously irrelevant by constantly avoiding any reference to his age. I would wonder if his character was intended as a crude attack towards Avedon, but since he was actively involved in the film, supervising the good, sometimes excellent, but way too misty mostly, cinematography, I can't believe he would turn to such a self attack. For Dick (after Richard?) Avery, is a very average dick.At the point he confesses to Hepburn He is as interested to your brains as I am! for his rival, the film becomes excruciatingly commonplace, along with fountains exploding in a phallic way, supposedly aiming at laughters in good taste.It is all the more unsavory for Kay Thompson's agreeable character, and a weightless, almost mesmerizing number form Astaire, playing with his trench-coat and umbrella. But this and other random charities, are counter-played by the fake tastefulness, and when the screenplay gets the idea of a phony Sartre-like (my foot) intellectual as the rival, and the rescue, as Pauline Kael sums it up, from European sex-mad intellectualism by clean-minded, all-American-boy Astaire is so cheap and false a plot development that the picture's sophistication sinks into a very unphotogenic miasma. "},{"Title":"One for the Ages","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As with Gary Cooper in Love in the Afternoon, released a few months after this one, Hepburn is romantically involved with a screen legend twice her age. While Billy Wilder's film acknowledged the age gap and had ample charm to overcome the miscasting of Cooper, this one simply ignores the thirty-year age difference between the stars. Astaire looks like Hepburn's grandfather, making their romantic scenes rather icky. It's hard to believe that a kiss from Grandpa would send Audrey into a swoon. If one can get past the romantic mismatch, Paris looks beautiful and some of the musical numbers are pretty good, although Gershwin was better utilized in An American in Paris. "},{"Title":"Rather flowery....","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love Audrey Hepburn, in dramatic roles. I also, usually like Fred Astaire. But this film, for the present time, comes off as rather ornate and too fluffy, even considering the time period.Hepburn is very good as the reluctant model who is brought to Paris to create a new look. There are some lovely scenes with real models of that time, Dovima, and Suzy Parker, as well as Sunny Harnett. I enjoyed the pink dance scene.The wedding visuals and Hepburn's dress were visualized by the incomparable Richard Avedon, and the color schemes are indelible. For visuals, I give the film a 10, but the story is thin and challenging to keep interested. Especially for today's viewer. "},{"Title":"Think pink indeed !","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire plays fashion photographer Dick Avery who stumbles upon book shop assistant Jo Stockton Audrey Hepburn and proceeds to turn her into a beautiful top of the range Paris model.The End..............well not quite! The plot is as simple as you are likely to see, but it's the whole structure of the film that makes it a memorable and enjoyable piece. Director Stanley Donen beautifully realises the Paris locations as Audrey & Fred undertake their journey to the almost inevitable conclusion. The songs from Ira & George Gershwin are at the normally expected high standard, and the choreography is again a given standard of excellence. Yet to me the film's chief bonus point is the pairing of Hepburn & Astaire, because at first glance it looks like an odd coupling, but they feed off each other to bring very smart results. Hepburn whilst not shaking the earth, holds her own with her dancing & singing routines, whilst it's the fashion sequences that bring out the elegant beauty that Hepburn possessed. Some of them really are quite breathtaking. Astaire of course is dapper dancer supreme and in one umbrella raincoat routine as he confirms his status as a master of his craft. Both the lead stars are backed up by a very impressive and cheeky turn from Kay Thompson, and the visuals matched with the gorgeous costumes help to bring everything together for a hugely entertaining production.It's far from being one of my favourite Hepburn performances, and it's very astute with its satirical slant at fashion world operatives. But ultimately is comes down to the fact that there is no denying that it's certainly a feast on the eyes and ears. If that's your thing of course..... 7/10. "},{"Title":"enjoyable musical","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face is an enjoyable musical. The beautiful Audrey Hepburn is charming as a philosophical bookstore wallflower Jo Stockton who meets professional photographer Dick Avery (Fred Astaire). He believes she could be a model and convinces her to go to Paris, along with Maggie (Kay Thompson), a fashion magazine editor. The two unexpectedly fall in love.The film has some good musical numbers-Audrey sings all her own songs and performs a terrific dance number which she has now become famous for. Despite the fact that Fred Astaire is 30 years older than Audrey, they seem to somehow pull off their romance. The film, especially its musical numbers (like think pink), resembles the musicals MGM have made.A fun and entertaining musical that any Audrey Hepburn fan should see. "},{"Title":"A satire of MGM musicals!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" By adopting a symbiotic interpretation of the film, Funny Face it can be seen as Paramount's satirical take on MGM musicals, with their ostentatious, over-the -top sets, and gaudy colour schemes, as symbolised in the opening scenes. This along with MGM's tawdry costumes as symbolised in the fashions modelled by Hepburn's character.While Hepburn was no Ginger Roger's, she tried her best to achieve an 'empathy' with Astaire whilst dancing. Despite this Astair is full of his usual grace. His solo performance in the square is just magnificent to say the least.Meanwhile, there is an ambivalence in the film's story-line where women are told to Think pink', via the medium of a chick - magazine, which serves to empower their readership. In this sense the film has a post-feminist theme.In all, a nice cheery film, with the usual exquisite dance routines by the unique, and sublimely talented Fred Asaire! "},{"Title":"Astaire Minus Rogers Plus Hepburn","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This lighthearted musical soufflé doesn't make a bit of sense, but that's part of its charm.Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn didn't at first strike me as a likely pair before I saw this film, but Astaire had so much charisma and charm that he could make the oddest pairing seem perfectly natural, and as he's dancing with whatever partner he happens to be paired with at that moment, you can't imagine him dancing with anyone else.Directors always treated Audrey Hepburn like a china doll -- they required that she move her stately way through their films with the utmost grace and poise. It's a treat, therefore, to see Stanley Donen let her have some fun, and cut loose in some jazzy dance numbers, which she handles quite well, thank you very much.Kay Thompson, as a blowzy fashion editor, provides nearly all of the comedy, blaring her way through the movie in supreme Eve Arden mode.There's nothing especially memorable about this movie, but then again it's also a harmless enough way to spend a couple of hours.Grade B "},{"Title":"Tea And Empathy","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you put Fred Astaire in ANYTHING he's going to Style and Charm it to death; if you put Audrey Hepburn in ANYTHING she's going to Enchant it to death so together they should be unbeatable; and they almost are, BUT. One of the problems was that the original Broadway show Funny Face was part of an era where the 'Book' of a Show was just something to hang a series of hit songs on with the result that virtually all Broadway shows from the twenties and early thirties are unrevivable unless the Book is jettisoned and a new one commissioned. This, plus some 'additional' songs by the ubiquitous Roger Edens tends to unbalance a tasty score. It's slightly unbelievable that a film ostensibly about the world of haute couture brimming with elegant creations should crudely constrast this with the opposite end of the spectrum a la the hippy hang-outs the result jars rather than meshes. It's a bit like the early Woody Allen films in that there are great set-pieces, like Hepburn's lovely 'reading' of How Long has This Been Going On, as good in its (albeit totally different) way as Judy's The Man That Got Away in the definitive version of A Star Is Born or Astaire's take on the title song but as a whole it just misses. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" With energy, style and flashy camera-work going into it, this is an enjoyable enough musical, even if one with a dull screenplay and predictable romantic interest. Some of the lighting colour schemes are harsh on the eyes, the special effects are lame, and some of the events lack in credibility, but to compensate, the art direction and costumes are magnificent and Hepburn is as charming as ever in the leading role, playing an intellectual. Some of the dance routines are excessive, with movements that are mindless, but the original and the non-original songs are worked in rather well. There have been better musicals than this, however that does not stop the film from being fairly amusing stuff, even if very light in plot. "}{"Title":"The career of photographer Richard Avedon was the inspiration for Dick Avery.","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The character of Dick Avery was based on the early career of fashion andcelebrity portrait photographer Richard Avedon's early career.Fictionalized in the 1957 Hollywood musical 'Funny Face according to anobituary published, October 2, 2004, it reflected much of his lifestyle. (http// msnbc.msn.com/ID/6133569/)While the life of Avedon provided the backdrop for Avery, viewers not knowing about Avedon's life or the fact that it was used for this film might not appreciate the connection and will lose out on the interesting aspects portrayed in the film.Avedon was called the world's most famous photographer, a title he carried for decades. In 1958, about the time of this film, he was named one of the world's 10 finest photographers by Popular Photography magazine.Like Dick Avery, he lived a life photographing beautiful women and enjoying life to the fullest. "},{"Title":"Forever Audrey!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A triple-bill of Hepburn vehicles on TV last night moves me to pen an appreciation of the late A. H. Funny Face is one of the most enjoyable film musicals; the songs were great. I had completely forgotten what a fine dancer Hepburn was; not in the class of Cyd Charisse technically, but very agile nonetheless. Cyd could be relentless in her perfection, Audrey lets you smile with her.For those who are bothered by the age discrepancy between Astaire and Hepburn (30 years), I say, who cares? They are both talented, both eager to entertain us. The more pressing problem with the Astaire/Hepburn tandem is that both are ethereal presences on screen; the earthy Gene Kelly would have been a more suitable partner for the more delicate Audrey. What's more, Kelly was still in his prime in 1957, while Astaire had slowed noticeably.I will be looking for this on DVD. "},{"Title":"S'Marvelous Movie","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I think this is one of the top ten movies that I have ever seen. The only reason I gave it an 8 was because of the age difference between Astaire and Hepburn. Otherwise, I adored it! Taking place in Paris, this incredible movie about romance and fashion combining is hilarious, witty, and cute. The songs by Ira and George Gershwin are untoppable. Fred Astaire's character of Dick Avery and Audrey Hepburn's character portrayal of Jo Stockton are two of a kind! Terrific and rather funny scripts, and magnificent dancing and singing, this is a must see movie! "},{"Title":"Worthwhile Fluff","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I start this off telling you this is fluff, pure, unadulterated fluff. But then it is worhtwhile fluff, dears. Audrey Hepburn is great as always, her romance with a then elderly Fred Astaire was a strain to believe, but Hollywood has always done this and still does this today. The two reasons I watch this film a lot is for the performances of two of the non-star cast members. The first is the unforgettable Domiva as Marion the model we first behold in the bookstore doing the shoot. Domiva was so white she glowed and in the gauzy filming this movie was shot in she seems translucent. So beautiful, glowing, and such a swan-like neck. I can't think of anyone these days that has a look like that in the professional entertainment world. Just to catch this look, this movie is worth seeking out.  The second person worth watching this movie for is Kay Thompson as Maggie Prescott. In every scene she is in she literally takes control and steals it all away even from the likes of a Hepburn or Astaire. What a feat! She is brassy and boisterous and is always trailed by a retinue of assistants and note-takers. This was a woman on the move! Great Paris fashion world story, picture postal card scenery, could have been done by a tourism department. Overall, worth watching and let's call for equal treatment, if Fred Astaire could have a romance with a dish like Audrey Hepburn, in this movie why couldn't Kay Thompson have been having a fling with James Dean? "},{"Title":"Audrey charms both Fred and the viewer in this musical romance.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn wins the heart of yet another aging veteran Hollywood star. This time it's Fred Astaire who succumbs to her charms in this engaging musical featuring the songs of George and Ira Gershwin, including the famous title tune.  Astaire is the head photographer of a huge fashion magazine, Quality, that looks to name their new Quality Girl.  They discover the radical thinking Hepburn working in an avante-garde bookstore and convince her to be their girl.  She agrees only so that she might visit Paris, France for the big fashion show where she will be introduced.  Fred and Audrey fall for each other, but their philosophical differences might just be their ruin.  Audrey keeps up well with Fred in the dance numbers, though none of which are too fancy when compared to Fred's earlier film days with Ginger. "},{"Title":"I want to be Kay Thompson","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Forget the fact that Funny Face was originally a Gershwin review from 1932 -- this plot's no more hackneyed than that one was. If you want to see Liza Minelli's godmother in action, see this movie. It is the only easily available film record of the incomparable Kay Thompson that I know of. Do you love Arthur Freed musicals with all those fat, rich vocal arrangements? Then you love Kay Thompson; she virtually created that sound for the Freed Unit at MGM, which was borrowed by Paramount to make this film, because Paramount would not loan Audrey Hepburn to MGM. By the way, Kay arranged the vocals for this film, too.Do you love Eloise? She sprang fully formed from the mind of Kay Thompson. Do you want to know what it was like to see Kay's cabaret act? Clap Yo Hands with Fred Astaire is the closest you'll get to seeing the act was considered to be the gold standard of cabaret performances. All those slick, sophisticated lounge acts of the '50s and '60s? They were trying to out-Kay Thompson Kay Thompson, and they all came up short of the mark.For no other reason than to see what genuine joie de vivre looks and sounds like and to watch one of THE great entertainers of all time -- sung or unsung -- see Funny Face and keep your eyes on Kay. "},{"Title":"Offbeat musical with a quirky sort of charm...","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Stanley Donen's direction gives the whole film a very stylized sort of flair, as does Kay Thompson's song numbers beginning with the opening number, Think Pink. But what starts out as a stylish musical soon becomes bogged down in a routine April/December romance between Hepburn and Astaire.Astaire is at his most graceful and charming self, always completely in tune with the plot and circumstances. Audrey is a good match for him, age notwithstanding, and appears to be enjoying herself as the intellectual bookworm transformed into a fashion butterfly.The music by Gershwin is a bit of a letdown, none of the tunes given a smashing treatment they might have had in an MGM musical of that era. Hepburn's slight voice is pleasant but makes one realize why she was dubbed for MY FAIR LADY. Astaire, on the other hand, gives each tune that magical touch.Very lightweight and too much reliance on misty filtering to give some of the scenes a dreamlike atmosphere. All style and very little substance, but if you enjoy musicals of this kind it passes the time pleasantly and the Parisian locations certainly help. "},{"Title":"Delightful as a Sip of Champagne; Funny, Glowing and Different","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Movies with charm, movies that poke fun at oppressive or obnoxious institutions and corporations and offbeat romances are not the usual fare for movie makers to execute, I suggest. But Funny Face like Gigi and My Fair Lady is all three of these things. of course it starred Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn; but they and the lovely color cinematography were far from being this feature's only first-class assets. There are gowns by Givenchy, Nellie Manley's hairstyle, Wally Westmore's makeup, Stanley Donen's inspired directing, Loeonard Gershe's very humorous screenplay, Ray June's cinematography and Hal Pereira and George W. Davis's art direction, plus original songs and Ira Gershwin songs and much, much more. The storyline I find to be simple and straightforward. Jo Stockton is discovered in a bookstore by a photographer who sees in her a gamin-like cover girl. She has to accept his preposterous offer of a modeling career, the last thing she desires, because he promises her a trip to Paris for shooting; and it is there she can meet the founder of 'empathicalism, a beatnik philosophy that invites you to walk in someone else's mental bedroom slippers in order to create empathy. of course when Jo gets to Paris, nothing is as she expected. The film's choreography is by Astaire, and the songs such as Funny face and Think Pink are a delight. in the large and exuberant cast the delighted viewer finds Kay Thompson, Ruta Lee, Michel Auclair, Virginia Gibson, Iphigenie Castiglione, Robert Flemyng, Sue England, Dovima and Alex Gerry. The famous scenes include the Think Pink number, a photography session montage, the wooing of Hepburn by Astaire to get her to come along and the presentation number when her photograph appears on the front cover. Of course, all turns out romantically and professionally right in the end; the only trouble with the film is that it does end. This is an angst-ridden froth of a late-fifties movie that is about realism and pretenses; and it comes down on the side of keeping one's head above water beautifully. A Hepburn triumph. "},{"Title":"Solid , but derivative entertainment","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's an untroubling movie that looks derivative. The plot has parallels to >My Fair Lady< and even has Audrey Hepburn as an undiscovered gem who must meet a Svengali-like man and submit to authority figures to realize her potential. In a plot partially parallel to that in which the uncouth flowermonger Eliza Doolittle of >My Fair Lady< becomes a 'lady' through the polishing of her language, she is discovered as a frumpy bookseller in a Greenwich Village bookstore that a hard-charging female editor of a fashion magazine seeks to use as a backdrop for some fashion photography when the fashion photographer 'discovers' her.Add to this the setting of >An American in Paris<, complete with Gershwin tunes and much dancing by an actor (Fred Astaire versus Gene Kelly) who happens to have artistic tendencies (Kelly in >American in Paris< is a painter; Astaire in >Funny Face< is a fashion photographer). In >Funny Face<, the Gershwin tunes are bloated out of proportion as they aren't in >An American in Paris<. There's also >Gigi<, in which a young woman blossoms as does Audrey Hepburn as she is miraculously transformed from a highbrow poseur into a high-fashion model, a role for which she is more suited. If the movie is not itself derivative, then the plot is.You will not likely prefer this movie to either >My Fair Lady<, >An American in Paris<, or >Gigi<; it has less wit than >My Fair Lady<, less dance than >An American in Paris< (the latter containing the most spectacular dance number in cinema as its climax!), and less subtlety or humanity than >Gigi<. Still, we are discussing superlatives among movie musicals, and although >Funny Face< falls short of the greatest, it still offers considerable wit, some fine dance scenes (Fred Astaire could always make another dancer look good!), some attractive music, and a largely feel-good (if somewhat implausible) storyline.The casting is perfect.It falls short of greatness, but it is a suitable alternative to overexposing some other movie musicals. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn, Fred Astaire and music by the Gershwins-what more can you ask for?","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is an entertaining, enjoyable movie.  Good, but not great, it has audrey Hepburn *sigh*, Fred Astaire and some wonderful songs by the Gershwins.  A touch predictable in spots, but a charmer nonetheless and well worth seeing.  Decent script if a somewhat implausible plot and beautiful scenery are also a plus.  Did I mention Audrey? "}{"Title":"I love her funny face!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie is unforgettable like most Audrey Hepburn movies are... the best bit for me I think is when she danced with Fred Astaire (Fred Astaire!!) in the dark room and he twirled her about the  chair...Audrey Hepburn plays her characters so naturally you forget she is acting... the songs are infectious and I am trying to learn them by haert so I can sing along the next time I watch the movie.. brilliant.  brilliant. brilliant. "},{"Title":"He's about as interested in your intellect as I am","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Plenty of musicals have gossamer, trite screenplays, but this one (albeit Oscar-nominated) is actively offensive. It suggests that women who want to think thoughts are maladjusted, and their time would much better be spent posing for glossy magazines in expensive clothes. Further, it's terribly ugly-American, with the Astaire/Richard Avedon character correctly suspecting that his romantic rival for Audrey Hepburn, a Sartre-like philosopher, is actually a randy fraud. We're supposed to side with Astaire, but he's really a sexist, xenophobic creep. Once you get past all that, you have the myriad delights of Astaire and Hepburn singing and dancing together (and yes, their age difference is highly noticeable, but you'd have to be awfully literal-minded to take real offense), Paris at its loveliest, Audrey roaming around on location in Givenchy, splendid visual innovations by Avedon himself, Kay Thompson stealing everything that isn't nailed down, and some fine Gershwin standards (and less-fine songs by other hands). There's much to enjoy, but the script seems so darned pleased with itself. It shouldn't be. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn Classic Funny Face","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face (1957) Starring Audrey Hepburn, Fred Astaire, Kay Thompson, Michel Auclair, Robert Flemyng, Dovima, Suzy Parker, Sunny Hartnett, Virginia Gibson, Sue England, Alex Gerry, Ruta Lee, Fern Barry, Nesdon Booth, Genevieve Aumont, Iphigennie Castiglioni, Nina Borget, Peter Camlin, Jan Bradley, Jack Chefe, Jerry Chiat...Director Stanley Donen, Screenplay Leonard Gershe...From The George Gershwin Musical.Released in 1957, Funny Face was very much a musical of its time, meaning every single element represented an aspect of the nostalgic 50's. First, there is the pairing of Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire, whose chemistry carries the film and certainly drew the audiences back in the 50's. Astaire was an old Hollywood icon by this time, while Hepburn was enjoying her success in the best decade of her career. She had won her Oscar for Roman Holiday (1953) and starred in the popular Billy Wilder film Sabrina (1954). At first glance, Director Stanley Donen seems to be making his version of the more popular musical An American In Paris in which Fred Astaire was paired with Leslie Caron, but this is an entirely different animal. In Funny Face Hepburn portrays Jo Stockton, a timid, wallflower-ish, intellectual and unassuming book store employee who is discovered by fashion photographer Dick Avery (Astaire) and Quality magazine mogul Kay Thompson (Maggie Prescott) and turned into a glamorous super model. From a musical by George Gershwin, the script nevertheless reveals a movie that is both romantic, touching and comedic and a sure indication that the movie would be just as strong without the big, showy MGM-style singing and dance numbers. Astaire and Hepburn dance beautifully, in a semi-balletic, semi-Broadway, semi-modern dance sort of way against the rich, beautiful background of Paris. The love story in Funny Face is very moving and sentimental, coated with sugar and satiric bite at the same time, but few people know it's inspired by the professional relationship of 50's fashion photographer Richard Avedon and super model Dovima (who makes a brief cameo in the film) their collaborations was well known in magazines similar to Quality in the movie and their most famous work is Dovima With The Elephants. Photographer Dick Avery falls for Jo Stockton not only because she's beautiful physically, but intellectual, compassionate and a first-class human being. She greatly admires the philosophies of Professor Emile Flostre, a parody of Existentialist legend Jean Paul Sartre played by Michel Auclair. Flostre's concept of empathicalism - the ability to put yourself in another's shoes - is his solution to world problems and a way to promote world peace. Jo Stockton only accepts the modeling job so she can go to Paris to see Flostre lecture at a Montmartre café. Her experience as a model does not change her creative, intelligent and sensitive nature. Dick Avery and Jo fall for one another, despite some initial antagonism. Genuine comic moments include Kay Thompson and Dick Avery's impersonation of two Southern American tourists who must entertain the beat-nicks at the café and the witty, satirical jokes about the silliness of following fashion. Think pink! Pink toothbrushes, clothes, kitchen sinks, swim-wear, etc. When you see this movie and you're a modern viewer who was born after 1970 or '80 or '90, you're treated to a brief look at 50's counter-culture as it really was. By the late 50's, America was a place where, depending on who you were, you were following all the latest trends or reciting poetry and expressing your creativity and non-conformity with the bohemian intellectuals who preceded the hippies of the late 60's- the black-clad, bereted beat nicks. The portrayal of this free-thinking, forward-looking youth generation is well captured, Audrey Hepburn's characterization of Jo Stockton is right on the money as far as how the beat nicks were like. Perhaps her greatest scene in any of her films is her solo jazz dance Basil Metabolism she performs at the Montmatre cafe. This scene has of late appeared in a GAP commercial. Audrey expresses a kind of Simone De Bouvaire feminism and several humanistic liberal philosophies without overdoing it and furthermore, charming everyone around her. This film was yet another success for Miss Hepburn and it was great to see Fred Astaire do his thing even that much later in his life. This is a highly enjoyable film. Filmed in brilliant Technicolor, the movie is alive with rainbows of colors and shades. Especially enchanting is the Chantilly French Cathedral lawn scenes in which Jo dances in her wedding dress. The cinematography is by Ray June and it's splendid and Hepburn's French wardrobe is by her beloved Givenchy, a fashion label which is still number one and her American wardrobe is by the equally wonderful Edith Head, a long time wardrobe person for Hollywood. This is a wonderful film and a a signature 50's film. "},{"Title":"Think Pink","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson) is the head of a prestigious fashion magazine who's current edition seems as fresh as last month's milk. She needs a new face. She decides to look for someone who can embody her newfound motto -- Think Pink! -- and sends her entire staff like the fashion police to get this new face. Who do they find? Mousy Jo Stockton who presides over a used bookstore and would rather recite beatnik politics than preen and pose among the brainless models working for Ms. Prescott.However Ms. Prescott will not take no for an answer and alongside with fashion photographer (and right hand man) Dick Avery (Fred Astaire, playing a Pygmalion of sorts) they groom her until she is positively blooming under the Paris skies and ready for her red Givenchy dress (among a slew of others).And that's it. No suspense, no will they-won't they element, FUNNY FACE exists solely for the purpose of cashing in on Audrey Hepburn's ethereal beauty and ability to wear Givenchy. If one can look past the May-December romance (which renders Fred Astaire a little long in the tooth to be Hepburn's leading man), and can just sit back and enjoy the film for the fashion extravaganza that it is, FUNNY FACE is solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie has something for everyone. Fabulous costumes, great songs, wonderful locations, imaginative dancing and a truly talented cast. Even the opening credits are fun to watch. The only downside is poor Audrey's singing. She's just not up to par holding her own against powerhouse Kay Thompson who was truly spectacular, or with Fred Astaire. I can see now why she was dubbed in My Fair Lady. However she does quite well with dancing, and of course looking absolutely fabulous in those stunning Givenchy designs. Credit should also be given to Stanley Donen for wonderful directing and also to the lighting crew bathing walls and floors in Technicolor hues. "},{"Title":"Slight in plot and not nearly interesting enough","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Although it constitutes as enjoyable Sunday afternoon entertainment, Funny Face has hardly enough going on for it in terms of script and plot.  The film is something of a stretch at two hours, even though I never remember checking my watch, but I just never felt the relationship between Astaire and Hepburn was entirely believable, and the whole of the final act seemed rushed, as if the filmmakers were grabbing for straws.  Being directed by the great Stanley Donen, the visuals and the musical numbers, notably the bonjour Paris number had a required visual pop, and were a complete joy to watch.  I wouldn't rate Funny Face too high, perhaps a 5, maybe 6/10 at a push, and it is worth watching, just don't expect too much from it.   "},{"Title":"S' Wonderful, Marvelous","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Funny Face originally started out as a project at Arthur Freed's unit at MGM. The idea was to borrow Audrey Hepburn from Paramount, but as the pre-production was going, the negotiations for Audrey's services bogged down and the film was ready to start without her. Arthur Freed got inpatient with the whole thing and was ready to move on to something else. So the whole package, Fred Astaire and all, was sent to Paramount, even with the services of MGM house composer and arranger, Roger Edens. The something else that Freed was getting involved with was Gigi.So Funny Face has the unique distinction of the greatest Arthur Freed film made NOT by Arthur Freed. It certainly has the MGM stamp of professionalism about it.It's original score came from a show written by the Gershwin brothers way back in 1927 which starred Fred and Adele Astaire. The best songs in this film are of course from George and Ira, such classics as How Long Has This Been Going On, He Loves and She Loves, S'Wonderful, Clap Yo Hands, and the title song. The songs by Roger Edens and Leonard Gershe interpolated in the Gershwin score are serviceable, nothing more.I remember back in the day when all the controversy surrounding Audrey Hepburn and her dubbed voice for My Fair Lady was going on. Apparently Jack Warner had forgotten that Audrey had done her own singing and dancing in Funny Face. She does it quite well and of course with Fred Astaire to partner with, how could it be anything else, but marvelous.The plot of the original stage version of Funny Face has absolutely nothing to do with what you see on the screen. This version has Fred Astaire as a fashion photographer working for publisher Kay Thompson who has the idea to have a shoot at a bohemian type bookstore in Greenwich Village. Plain Audrey Hepburn manages the place and she gets discovered there. But her head is filled with meeting an influential French philosopher played by Michel Auclair. Of course it ain't philosophy Auclair has on his mind when he meets Audrey eventually.Meryl Streep for her performance in The Devil Wears Prada must have seen Kay Thompson who steals the film from both stars when she's on screen. My favorite moment in the film is when Thompson and the entire magazine entourage comes into Hepburn's sleepy bookstore and just takes the place over. Thompson was better known for nightclub and radio and she discovered and promoted the Williams Brothers Quartet which included youngest member Andy.For fans of Audrey, Fred, and the brothers Gershwin which combined must number in the billions. S'Wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Cheers you right up.","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If anyone is feeling down they should watch this movie. It's a cheerful, fun, lively musical about a girl who works in a bookstore and ends up being a model in Paris. There is plenty of singing and dancing. I liked the clothes too. The love story that is added to it is nice and the pink stuff isn't too overwhelming.It's like a fairy tale watching her go from a dusty bookstore to a model in Paris. She's smart too and she liked talking about smart things. She loved to dance and sing and she looked so pretty in all of her different clothes.So if you need a release, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Paris is the leading lady","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a fun movie and I like FUNNY FACE. We watch it whenever it's on TV. I've read that Audrey Hepburn couldn't do GIGI because she had committed to doing this movie or she passed on it. She had done GIGI on Broadway and the writer Collette hand picked her for the role. I'm sure she was very good but I think that Leslie Caron was the best choice anyway. FUNNY FACE shows Paris just ten years or so after the end of WWII at a time when just being an American could open doors. Although the city was still a bit sooty this is a perfect travelogue for French tourism. Paris is the most beautiful and exciting city in the world and is the real star of this film. Audrey burst on to the scene with a new look, heavy brows and a 98 pound frame. I shudder to think how this hot new look would have translated to GIGI. I believe I've read that Fred Astaire came out of retirement at age 59 to do this movie. I don't mean to be unkind but she was 29, I mean come on, a thirty year difference in their ages? He was never really a singer and neither was Audrey so I suppose they were well matched in this movie. The fashions for the most part were very good except for that blue bedspread the wore to see Flostre the night of the big show. Some of the music and dance numbers are overly long but all in all this is a pleasant movie that I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Another excellent film ruined by poor lighting.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The title song Funny Face, was shot in a photographer's darkroom, using heavy red lighting which made it almost impossible to enjoy the number. Several other numbers were really hampered by very dark and foggy lighting as well.One usually sees such poor lighting only in grade-B horror films where the monster is not well done, so they need to film it where you can't see it very well.Otherwise, a very good musical; and I appreciated the plug for my home town, Tallahassee, in one of the well-lit numbers. "}{"Title":"Another excellent film ruined by poor lighting.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The title song Funny Face, was shot in a photographer's darkroom, using heavy red lighting which made it almost impossible to enjoy the number. Several other numbers were really hampered by very dark and foggy lighting as well.One usually sees such poor lighting only in grade-B horror films where the monster is not well done, so they need to film it where you can't see it very well.Otherwise, a very good musical; and I appreciated the plug for my home town, Tallahassee, in one of the well-lit numbers. "},{"Title":"Nothing special.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Moderately enjoyable but unworthy of its reputation as one of the best musicals of the '50's. There are practically no memorable set-pieces and very few laughs. Some of the lyrics are (deliberately ?) inane (especially in the song Think Pink). And Stanley Donen directed in a strangely distanced style; the camera almost never approaches the actors and the romance between Astaire and Hepburn never becomes fully believable. The scenes where takes photos of her in various dresses and tries to get her portray various emotions are the cleverest in the film. (**1/2). "},{"Title":"Don't mean to offend anybody but...","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...not even Fred Astaire could save this movie.I will start by saying that I've only watched half of it and..my God!Audrey Hepburn was certainly a gracious,beautiful woman but she was no singer(or dancer,or actress,for that matter).They should've picked someone else for the female lead,like Judy Garland or Rita Hayworth(just watched You'll Never Get Rich the other day and she was marvelous!).Fred Astaire is and will always be one of my favorite actors/dancers/singers/you name it,so I was willing to sit through half the movie just for him,but I couldn't take it anymore. The songs are pretty catchy,but with awful lyrics(Think pink?Really?) and most importantly(and I may be wrong but..)..there's very little dancing and wasn't that why we were all watching the movie in the first place?All in all,this is not a very good movie for me(I would put up with the cheesy story,the silly music and little dancing if it wouldn't be for Audrey whose acting is cringe-worthy) and I ONLY recommend it for people who idolize Audrey Hepburn and/or Fred Astaire. "},{"Title":"Where Was Marni Nixon?","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Funny Face has just about everything going for it. Audrey Hepburn, Fred Astaire, Stanley Donen, great Gershwin tunes, a terrific rare glimpse of the incomparable Kay Thompson and above all some of the most exciting visuals and overall art direction ever caught on film. So what happened? The sad decision to let Hepburn do her own singing. That's not to say her voice is bad. It's very&#133; nice. But for a full blown musical of this scale, the audience is yearning for Hepburn's character to really give out with a great set of pipes. Perhaps not quite to the extent of Kay Thompson, an actress perhaps better suited for the stage than the intimacy of the screen. Yet while the movie does not fulfill its promise, it's still well worth seeing. The transformation of Hepburn from mousy bookstore clerk to haute couture model is as wonderful as her similar transformation in 'Sabrina'. The modeling sessions with Astaire directing Hepburn are delightful and above all the VistaVision presentation of late 50s gloss can not be matched, (the opening credits nearly make up for the entire movie). With Richard Avedon and Suzy Parker's influence the movie almost makes you forgive its failings. Still by the last frame the audience is left with only one thought 'Where's Marni Nixon when you need her?'.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious intellectual cotton candy...oh, yes with Kay Thompson","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" To an AWFUL LOT of us, the usually overpraised FUNNY FACE is boring, pretentious intellectual cotton candy with shallow romantic drivel substituting for the far more solid stage material that INSPIRED the film or even the possibly interesting real life story of Richard Avedon. (Think Pink? As much of a stunner as Kay Thompson is, heaven forfend!) It MIGHT have worked if they had worked out the kinks and given it some coherent PLOT on stage the way they did during the tryout and preview process of the stage production of THE PAJAMA GAME (the film of which, coincidentally, Stanley Donen worked on with George Abbott the same year). The latter succeeds as a marvelous film with solid construction and a score that actually MEANT something to the story telling.FUNNY FACE will always have its fans because of so much first rate Gershwin (who wouldn't love a Gershwin tune?) and the always marvelous Fred Astaire - even way below his best, as here - but for any but those with blind movie biases, THE PAJAMA GAME is the better film.Ultimately, this may be FUNNY FACE's chief lasting distinction. It is always one of the first exhibits trotted out by film fanatics arguing about the supposed superiority of FILM musicals over filmed stage musicals (all too often sabotaged by movie know-it-alls trying to reinvent the wheel in their own images - like the infamous BURT & DOLLY GO TO A WHOREHOUSE or the DISCO CHORUS LINE mongrelized by movie moguls). The argument only works, and then not well, if you value style over substance. FUNNY FACE is all style and precious little substance.Off hand, I can only think of five or six genuinely enjoyable film musicals that DIDN'T originate on stage. Yes, I will admit to a bit of a STAGE bias, but more or less in order of quality THE BANDWAGON - which arguably did start on stage, but the transfer is not remotely *faithfully* - SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, WHITE Christmas, THOROUGHILY MODERN MILLIE, VICTOR/VICTORIA and HOLIDAY INN. Even on those six however, it was the STAGE connections and elements which they depended on for their style and success. Most of them were merely the successful juke box musicals of an earlier generation! "},{"Title":"Two skinny people, with about 50 years age difference, fall in love - and sing a lot.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Or Anorexic Face. Astaire is the funny face. He's like Stan Laurel's uglier, skinnier brother. Anorexic face and bony face should get along splendidly, and they do. And while they get along, they dance and sing a series of enthralling numbers, one better than the next.The 1st song is a perky little ditty called This Song Mentions the Word 'Pink' A Lot And Should Put You To Sleep Soon. The 2nd one, sung by Anorexic Face, is I Just Kissed Someone's Great-grandfather So I Wanna Vomit My Last Week's Dinner. The 3rd one is a truly enchanting one, and goes by the name When The Two Of Us Dance You Can Hear Our Bones Rattle All The Way In Zimbabwe. We're In Paris, But We Remain A Dull Bunch is the vivaciously sung 4th song. The 5th one is memorable, a highlight Paris Can Be So Dull When I Sing To An Anorexic Librarian. But I really fell in love with the 6th song, a delightful little mood-killer called I'm In Love With My Best Friend's Great-granddaughter, So I Hope She Likes Wrinkles.Unfortunately, all glorious things must come to an end, and that goes for this thrilling musical, too the last song is a classic unrivaled by any other jaw-breaker, 'S Wonderful That This Movie Finally Ended, So Please Stop Snoring. Oh, and there is a dance number in a seedy French locale; the dance is entitled Can You Tell I'm Not Really Michael Jackson?.Astaire, aged 125 here, looks better than ever. It's a wonder he doesn't have all of gay Pari's fashion-models on his heels. But he could if he wanted to all he has to do is step all over them during one of his step-dancing numbers. Hepburn, around 17 here, isn't bothered by the fact that Astaire used to play chess with Lincoln's assassin. She wants children from Astaire, even if that means injecting his sperm with a life-serum.I think they look terrific together. What a pair.There is something unmistakably romantic about the way Fred's dry, shriveled-up lips suck the life out of Audrey's virginal young mouth. There is something unmistakably unique about a couple who can split a single pea for lunch and not be hungry. There is also something unmistakably remarkable about Astaire's discovery of Hepburn in the library; she is two-dimensional so it's almost science-fiction the way Astaire manages to even see her. The movie could be also called Funny Face As Seen With X-Ray Vision.The movie ridicules the moronic beatniks, and what a ridicule! I'm sure the beatniks, after having seen this movie, shoved their heads into the sand in embarrassment, having realized that their lives were a waste; for that is how powerful this movie's satire is. Monty Python, move over, Funny Face is the future of social satire.If you're interested in reading my biographies of Audrey Hepburn and other Hollywood people, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Would Have Been Better with Different Female Lead","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Apologies to the Hepburn fans, but the only thing marring this film was the awful miscasting of Audrey Hepburn in the lead role. She just didn't have enough personality to pull off the May/December thing with Astaire (it worked with Garland in Easter Parade) and since the crux of the movie was the musical numbers, it was a mistake to cast a non-singer. Audrey Hepburn was the Julia Roberts of her time Pretty, but boring and over-hyped, with no real acting talent or skill. She was exactly the same in every role she played. Her best scenes in Funny Face are the ones where she just stands there in pretty clothes. I kept wishing Dick would realize how insipid Jo was, and realize what a great couple he and Maggie would make! "}]