[{"Title":"Astonishing in my youth!","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" One of the nice things about being a little older is that I can remember the first time I saw movies like this and not think of them as schmaltzy or tacky. They were the state of the art in special effects (thanks to the likes of Ray Harreyhausen) and they were absolutely captivating. With computer generated creatures, we have gone so far beyond these things, but when I go to a Harry Potter movie or a Lord of the Rings movie (wonderful films), I look at the faces of the kids. There seems to be no wonderment at all. We have been fed such a constant diet that we don't look beyond the magic. This is a great story with wizards and heroes and mythical monsters and skeletons fighting. I know the Sinbad stories from the Arabian Nights and there is a lot of borrowing from every avenue of folklore and mythology. They really don't follow the book. But when I was in seventh grade, I couldn't care less. This is a quest and they made the getting there a real treat. "},{"Title":"If you have forgotten what being a child was like, watch this and unlock some of that magic.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  Arguably, Harryhausen's finest moment. I can't off the top of my head nominate one that was better! It had it all, adventure, fantasy, heroics, monsters, and Harryhausen's stop-frame wizardry that puts half the CGI effects right out of business.I too, saw it as a child and along with JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS, THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD and CLASH OF THE TITANS, bought it years later and played it to standing room only, in our lounge throughout the kids childhood. Lucky aren't they?The cyclops was the ultimate magic and I only wish my children could have seen the original theatrical screening with which television cannot compete. The film is still there but the sense of impending wonder (sitting there in a blackened theater) cannot be replicated on the small screen.What a legacy to leave the world! "},{"Title":"A Dazzling Odyssey!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  Captain Sinbad must save a miniature princess and the peace between two kingdoms in this monumental adventure film from producer Charles Schneer and director Nathan Juran.  Sinbad must get the shell of the legendary Roc's egg on Colossa Island as an ingredient for evil magician Sokurah's potion that will bring the princess back to size.  Along the way, we are treated to glimpses of cyclops, a dragon, a fighting skeleton, a snake woman, and some of the greatest stop-motion animation techniques to grace the screen.  Ray Harryhausen does a splendid job with his animation and makes this film a true joy to watch.  The acting is very good overall; Kerwin Matthews plays a very agile and affable Sinbad, Richard Eyer(from The Invisible Boy) plays a sad genie, and Torin Thatcher is superb as the villainous magician bent on supreme power.  A magical voyage indeed! "},{"Title":"Great family film","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad is one of my all time favourite movies. Great cast, great villain, great script and just the right balance of absolutely fantastic Ray Harryhausen special effects (without being excessive or absurd - as in the ridiculous and completely unbelievable baboon who appears to star in the deeply inferior 'Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger', 1977).Kerwyn Mathews stars as Sinbad minus the traditional beard, but compensates by showing off as much chest hair and his forearms as possible. Critics have describe him as a little wooden but I disagree. I thought he was just great for the part and plays it well. Its not Shakespeare after all. My three year old son still joins in shouting 'Parisa !' and 'Sakura !' whenever we watch this movie. The gorgeous Katherine Grant is a beautiful Princess named Parisa (and not in a slightly sleazy, ever so tartish fashion that we see foisted on Caroline Munro in the 1974 'Golden Voyage of Sinbad').Torin Thatcher, born in Bombay and therefore possibly the token 'Asian' in this flick, is absolutely marvelous as Sakura, the evil wizard or magician (it's never made quite clear what side of the fence he sits on, or why). He exudes evil even before it made clear that he's a resident baddie.This is a really great family movie above all else. Everyone except the eternally idle, the immature and clinically over-cynical teenagers can sit through this and find something enjoyable - even the music and scenery (the caption reads Bagdad, but in fact it's Granada, Spain). I might also add that it makes a very pleasant change to see a movie in English where the bloke who says 'Allah' in his sentences is not some dreadful caricatured half-mad terrorist looking to kill innocents. Its good to be able to sit down with the kids and watch a film that everyone likes for a change.My only, only complaint with this film is the silly voice they have given the child-genie. Very unnecassary and distracting from an otherwise excellent piece of cinema viewing. Five stars or ten, whichever is highest.  "},{"Title":"Harryhausen+Herrmann Magic","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" When I was a kid, the experience of watching The 7th Voyage of Sinbad started my admiration for the music of Bernard Herrmann, and confirmed my love for fantasy cinema (and stop-motion animation), in an unconscious way. Before this, I had seen It Came from Beneath the Sea (1955), a B&W movie in which an octopus created by Ray Harryhausen climbed the Golden Gate Bridge... But this time Harryhausen's creatures were in full color, the exotic story was inspired by tales from the Arabian Nights, and the magic was enhanced by Herrmann's score. The film had princess Parisa reduced to less than four inches, cyclops running crazy, a dragon, a bird with two heads, an evil magician called Sokura, a boy genie, and the celebrated skeleton duel, but I was mainly impressed by Sokura's act of magic during the Sultan's ball, crossing a snake with Parisa's aide (actress Nana de Herrera, who looked weird even before the transformation.) The Harryhausen-Herrmann collaboration originated two more Sinbad movies, and other favorites, as Mysterious Island, Jason and the Argonauts and The 3 Worlds of Gulliver, but The 7th Voyage of Sinbad is number one in my list of the collaborators' films. There is a moment in Star Wars, which is a direct quotation of the movie when Luke Skywalker and princess Leia cross above an abyss, as when Sinbad and Parisa escape from Sokura's lair. "},{"Title":"Age has hardly dimmed the excitement, spectacle and wonder of this fantasy classic","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  This truly action packed fantasy is as fun nearly 50 on from the time of it's making. Out of the films that were produced by Charles H. Schneer and featured special effects by Ray Harryhausen, Jason And The Argonauts is usually named as the best certainly that was the film where Harryhausen perfected his techniques,but Sinbad is not far behind. It's far simpler but provides just as much entertainment. Of course some of the dialogue is a little hokey, but who watches films like this for their dialogue? Dialogue here exists simply to help propel the plot forward at as fast a pace as possible. The amount of action scenes crammed into this less-then-90 min. film is astounding, and despite this the film still retains a delightful sense of wonder, as one wonders what fantastic creation will show up next. Yes, some of the matt work looks a bit poor ,and the creatures are a little jerky, but the design and execution of the snake woman, cyclopes, rocs, dragon etc. is still astounding for the time, and some sequences, such as the battle with the the first cyclops and the duel with the skeleton, are still very exciting. Criticisms of the acting may be partially justified, but Torin Thatcher is as menacing a villain as one can wish for, and of course there's also Bernard Herrmann's extremely inventive score. Schneer and Harryhausen would later make two further Sinbad films, and there was a semi- remake several years later, Jack The Giant Killer. All three are fun, but none have the simple purity of this classic adventure.  "},{"Title":"One of Harryhausen's finest","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  Most people have movies that they remember watching when they were infants and never forget them.  This is one of mine, along with King Kong (1933) and One Million Years BC.The stars of this movie are of course Ray's stop-motion monsters.  We get to see several cyclops, a dragon, a giant roc, a baby roc, a snake woman and, best of all, a skeleton.  The movie's cast includes Kerwin Mathews as Sinbad and Torin Thatcher as the mad magician, Sokurah.  These play great parts, as does Richard Eyer as the Genie.  The theme music and score by Bernard Herrmann is magnificent.  The movie was directed by Nathan Juran (The Deadly Mantis).This is the best of Harryhausen's Sinbad movies and one of his best movies overall, along with Jason and the Argonauts.If you haven't seen this, you are missing out.  Fantastic.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Adventure with Cyclops, Dragon, Magician, Magic Lamp and Jinni","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" While sailing with Princess Parisa (Kathryn Grant) to Baghdad to their wedding, Sinbad (Kerwin Mathews) finds the Colossa Island and anchors his vessel to get supplies for the starving crew. Sinbad and his men help the magician Sokurah (Torin Thatcher) to escape from a Cyclops that attacks them, and Sokurah uses a magic lamp with a boy jinni to help them; however, their boat sinks and he loses the lamp. Sokurah offers a small fortune to Sinbad to return to Colossa, but he does not accept and heads to Baghdad. The citizens and the Caliph of Baghdad (Alec Mango) are celebrating the peace with Chandra, and they offer a feast to the Sultan of Chandra (Harold Kasket). Sakurah requests a ship and crew to return to Colossa but the Caliph refuses to jeopardize his countrymen. However, the treacherous magician shrinks the princess and when the desperate Sinbad seeks him out, he tells that he needs to return to Colossa to get the ingredient necessary for the magic potion. But Sinbad has only his friend Harufa (Alfred Brown) to travel with him, and he decides to enlist a doubtful crew in the prison of Baghdad, in the beginning of his dangerous voyage to Colossa to save the princess and avoid the eminent war between Chandra and Baghdad. This is the first time that I have watched The 7th Voyage of Sinbad, a delightful adventure with Cyclops, dragon, magician, magic lamp and jinni. The special effects are fantastic for a 1958 film and I have really loved this movie. It is intriguing to see the magician foresee the destruction of Baghdad, with wrecked buildings and women and children murdered. In the end, I have had the sensation that I have lost something in my childhood missing this pleasant and entertaining movie when I was a child. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Simbad e a Princesa (Sinbad and the Princess) "},{"Title":"Harryhausen's BEST!","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  An adventure for the ages.  Forget that this film was done in 1958, it will still awe the most jaded viewer.  This is Ray Harryhausen's very best work. The stop-motion effects are awesome.  But, even with all of the eye candy, it's a great story brought to life by fine, serious performances by Kerwin Matthews, Kathryn Grant-Crosby, and especially by Torin Hatcher who has to be the creepiest and most evil villain there is on celluloid - including Darth Vader.   If you are an Adventure/Sci-Fi/Fantasy movie fan and you haven't seen this film...Shame On You!   Go out and buy it, rent it, whatever - Just see it! "},{"Title":"Classic fantasy adventure from the 50s.","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" After his wife-to-be, Princess Parisa (Kathryn Grant), is shrunk by an evil magician, Sinbad (Kerwin Mathews) undertakes a perilous journey to a mysterious monster inhabited island, in an attempt to restore her to full size (and who can blame him&#151;she's a total babe and wears the kind of outfit most red-blooded men wish they could get their woman into).Almost fifty years on, The 7th Voyage of Sinbad may seem dated (particularly for those only familiar with CGI monsters) but, in my opinion, it still has the power to captivate and amaze. With Ray Harryhausen's wonderful stop motion effects (which include a cyclops, a dragon, a snake-woman, a giant two-headed bird and an animated skeleton) and a timeless magical tale of swashbuckling heroics, director Nathan Juran delivers a classic slice of fantasy cinema.A cracking opening gets straight to the action with Sinbad and his men encountering bad-guy Sokurah when their ship is blown off course and ends up at the island of Colossa. The wicked magician is being chased by a cyclops, but is rescued by Sinbad and his men, who help him to safety aboard their vessel. Sokurah wishes to be returned to the island in order to get his hands on a magic lamp (now in the possession of the cyclops), but Sinbad is headed for Bagdad where he is to be married to the gorgeous Parisa, and ain't nothing going to stop him from tying the knot. Nothing, that is, 'cept for his woman being reduced to the size of a small doll.Not realising that Sokurah is to blame for her diminutive stature, Sinbad is conned into returning to Colossa, where the nasty magician says he can create a potion which will return Parisa to normal.Great fun from start to finish, The 7th Voyage is packed full of great scenes (my favourite being the Cyclops preparing a tasty snack&#151;spit-roasted sailor) and is perfect fare for fantasy-loving kids and adults alike. And, if you like this, seek out the Golden Voyage of Sinbad, which I think is even better. "}{"Title":"An exciting and hugely enjoyable fantasy adventure treat","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" Courageous sailor Sinbad (an appealingly earnest Kerwin Matthews) embarks on a perilous quest to break a spell put on his beloved fair maiden Princess Parisa (ravishing brunette beauty Kathryn Grant) by cunning and wicked powerful magician Sokurah (grandly played with lip-smacking aplomb by Torin Thatcher). Nathan Juron's strong, robust direction maintains a steady pace throughout and stages the action set pieces with considerable rip-snorting brio. Ray Harryhausen's marvelously vivid and lifelike stop-motion animation creatures include a ferocious gigantic Cyclops, a vicious two-headed giant bird beast, an angry fire-breathing dragon, an exotic four-armed snake woman, and, best of all, a lethal sword-wielding skeleton who fights Sinbad at the film's incredibly exciting conclusion. Kenneth Kolb's smart, colorful script has a few nice gritty touches (Sinbad's crew is largely made up of hardened criminals and the Cyclops puts a screaming man on a splint over a fire so he can cook and eat him). Richard Eyer delivers a charming performance as a sad imprisoned little boy genie. Bernard Herrmann's lively, rousing, flavorsome score, Wilkie Cooper's rich, vibrant color cinematography, and the engagingly sincere tone are likewise on the money excellent and impressive. A real delight. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" Awesome,first class fantasy adventure . After returning to Bagdad the evil magician Sakura has reduced princess Parisa to doll like porportions. Getting a crew together, Sinbad sets sail for the island of Colossa to get a piece of the eggshell from the giant 2 headed bird that Sakura needs to restore her to normal size. This great fantasy adventure features the brilliant stop-motion effects of Ray Harryhausen. The cobra woman, the Roc, the really nasty Cyclops, the dragon and the famous dueling skeleton are masterpieces of cinema FX that still have the power to amaze.Add the wonderful evocative score by Bernard Hermann to the movie and you have a film that is pretty hard to beat on any level. Matthews is fine as Sinbad as is Kathryn Grant as the princess. One look at Thorin Thacher as the evil Sakura and you know there will be trouble. The genie is not a giant purple creation like Robin Williams in the Disney flick, but a young 11 year old kid. Needless to say he comes through when he is needed. Watching this movie makes me feel like an 10 year old kid at a Saturday matinée.The best of its lot, even better than the similar Jason and the Argonauts,-a fine film in its own right -also done by the same team. One question- how does the traditional Middle Eastern dhow, the ship with the triangular sails in the opening shots turn into a square sailed 17th century galleon for the rest of the film? Did the magician do it? This movie kicks -ss,and the fine Ray Harryhausen FX are still better than any of today's CGI effect.This movie DEFINES fantasy-adventure!! "},{"Title":"Dynamic Dynamation.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" Captain Sindbad and his crew land on the island Colossa and come under attack from a Cyclops. Aided by the magician Sokurah and his magic lamp, they manage to escape back on board with their lives intact. However, the lamp which contains a helpful genie, is left behind in the Cyclops' hands. Once back in Bagdad, Sokurah sets about getting a crew together to reclaim the lamp off of Colossa, but the chiefs of Bagdad refuse to sanction such action. After failing to impress all with his magic tricks, Sokurah shrinks the princess of Bagdad to the size of a hand, then craftily offers to restore the princess to normal the next day. Only trouble being that the ingredients needed for the cure are of course on Colossa. So Sinbad and his men, and the dastardly magician, set sail for an adventure that is fraught with danger... Stop-motion maestro Ray Harryhausen, for his first film in colour, delves into the mythical legend of Sinbad The Sailor. Thus, along with director Nathan Juran, putting life into the Sinbad legacy that had been viewed as a no go area after less than favourable responses to prior attempts at the legend. Though not adhering to the Persian fable source, the 7th Voyage was nothing like this one and The Rocs for instance actually appear in the 5th voyage fable, Juran and Harryhausen turn the merchant seaman of the origin into a dashing hero figure. Someone that children and adults of both sexes can easily get on side with. Visually it's a treat, admire as Sinbad (in the form of a handsome sword swashing Kerwin Matthews) does battle with Cyclops', Rocs and a Harryhausen calling card, the Skeleton. Throw in a fire breathing Dragon, a genie of the lamp, a pretty princess (Kathryn Grant) and a devilishly creepy magician villain (the always great value Torin Thatcher) and the result is unadulterated joy. Some churlish folk will point to being able to see the lines between the real footage and Harryhausen's marvellous creatures. Quite frankly those people should be rounded up and sent to live on Colossa with all the other monsters. For to not appreciate the craft and genius on offer here is as sad as it is foolish. And with master composer Bernard Herrmann laying a brisk mystical flecked score over proceedings, it's a treat for the ears as well. This is brilliant considering the budget afforded it, and it's now, along with the two sequels that followed it, still being enjoyed by those of us who remember before computers controlled such magical things. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Legendary adventurer Sinbad must battle many monsters to get the ingredient that will restore his beloved princess  to normal size.","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" OK let's get this straight Sinbad is supposed to be an Arab and a Muslim. I bet many people didn't think that when they were cheering for him when they saw this movie as children. The Arabs have many cool stories, many even better than European ones collected and anthologized by the Brothers Grimm.As with many Arabian fantasy stories, this one involves a djinn or genie which according to Arabian myths are powerful spirits inhabiting the desert. They can be evil but sometimes benign or even helpful. The Graeco-Romans appropriated the word and became genius. Thus we had Nero appealing to his genius (his creative spirit guide) when he wanted to sing or compose a poem. But today we use the word to refer to the likes of Einstein.I saw this movie as an adolescent during Christmas season with all the wonderful memories of childhood Christmases -- festive atmosphere, good food, new clothes and presents. I did find the snake woman summoned by the sorcerer frightening though. But the sword and buckler wielding skeletons were great. The cyclops were coolly disgusting especially when they ate Sinbad's men. The giant roc whose eggshells were the magic ingredient needed to restore the enchanted princess back to normal size were just so-so as monsters. Harryhausen's Dynamation was a wondrous novelty then and it was years later during the movie's re-runs before people noticed the strange glow surrounding the monster figures that gave away the fact that they were somehow superimposed or inserted into the film frames. But seeing it today, with suspended disbelief, the film is still OK and fun to watch even with the current generation of children. It helps too that the genie is a cute little boy with whom youngsters can identify.My favorite line in the movie is the magical incantation to summon the genie From the land beyond, beyond. From the sea past hope and fear. I bid you genie now appear! "},{"Title":"Never fails to amaze","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" While not so keen on Kerwin Matthews this film never palls for me. I first saw it at about age 12 and made a point of sitting thru it 3 times (in the days when you could do that). I then saw it every time it came round our local cinemas (still 2/3 times). I just loved it. As I grew up I still remembered it fondly -particularly the fantastic score by the genius Bernard Herrmann.This score is second only to Psycho in my opinion. Ray Harryhausen should have been awarded many Oscars for many films but I think his work has always been underrated. Why I prefer his stuff to CGI escapes me-maybe it is the human touch (like real drummers as opposed to drum machines) . I could see the point of a remake, but it would be cool for the remake to be stop-motion too rather than CGI. Is there anyone who could do it? Maybe Aardman in serious mode would be up to the challenge? Suspend your disbelief and become a child again. Enjoy this movie for what it is and do not try to compare it with mega-budget blockbusters. A special mention for Richard Eyer-great child actor and Torin Thatcher who is the best villain ever-he terrified me as a kid!! As an addition to my original post I now own the DVD and you know I never watch it-whats that all about? Still watch it when it appears on TV though!! "},{"Title":"Epic masterpiece","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" This film is great. A real classic. It's an epic in every sense of the word, which means that it has the best of its time's epics (the authentic backgrounds and such) but successfully refrains from the worst in most of these epics the endless runtime from 3 to 4 hours. This one is nearly 90 minutes and that's just about enough. And it tells everything in this moderate runtime with success.This great little film has a great amount of adventure, nice visuals, amazing special effects (awesome for its time, beautiful even now) talented actors, one of the most gorgeous princesses ever and awesome creatures (such as a dragon, a roc and the cyclops). The idea of the skeleton swordsman is freaky yet cool in a very bizarre way. The idea of the snakewoman is interesting too, although I'd pass on that.Certain scenes, however, are hard for me because of their cruelty. Such is the case of the baby roc birds getting killed and the permanent suffering of the dragon. That dragon is always chained up and when it finally gets free it gets into a vicious fight with a cyclop &#x96; in which it gets seriously wounded and then the men brutally kill it, leaving it dying in great agony. I love dragons and that makes it sadder to me to watch those parts. I understand the reasons in both cases, but still it's harsh...Kerwin Matthews is great as Sinbad. Kathryn Grant was a very beautiful woman and she makes a very charismatic Princess Parisa. Richard Eyer is wonderful as Barani, the young genie. As for Torin Thatcher, he certainly convinces as the evil magician Sokurah. Title in Portugal A 7ª. Viagem de Sinbad. "},{"Title":"Magical adventure that makes your imagination work again!","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" Those were the days! I loved these kind of movies when I was a kid. These kind of movies remind you that you have imagination and that means a world where anything is possible.There's plenty of action, cool animations, extremely cool characters and settings.There's no problem with this one. Heck I was even scared by the beasts from the caves!To be honest, this is in my opinion the best Sinbad movie. Makes you feel powerful because of Sinbad's hero attitude. He even has time to save the ladies! ;)This kind of cinema reminds you that the simple things are the best ones. "},{"Title":"Stop-Motion F/X Rule!","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  Remember the genre-defining stop-motion animation in the original 'King Kong'? The filmmakers of 'The 7th Voyage Of Sinbad' did. This film has some of the coolest stop-motion F/X you'll see in any movie. It also has some of the very worst dialogue ever spoken into a microphone. This is not the DVD to rent if you want good acting (there is very little of that) or snappy banter (there is absolutely none of that). Torin Thatcher---as the wicked magician, Sokurah---is the only actor to escape this swashbuckler with any thespianic dignity. Kerwin Mathews' approach to Sinbad is an absolutely unremarkable effort, but you won't want to see this movie for the title character anyway.The man who SHOULD have been given headlining status was the immortal Ray Harryhausen. A maestro of the obsolete stop-motion technique, Harryhausen was most acclaimed for 'Jason And The Argonauts' (with its epic multi-character skeleton/man sword fight), which came out 5 years later. In 'The 7th Voyage Of Sinbad', he treats us to the sight of a cyclops, a dragon, a giant 2-headed bird, an evil skeleton, and other elaborate creatures. It's the details that count when you're animating figurines one frame at a time. I'd swear the cyclops is grinning & licking his lips when he lashes a hapless intruder to a spit and attempts to roast him over a fire. And you can feel the awesome power at work when the cyclops battles the dragon during the film's exciting climax. Great stuff!But don't go hunting for this DVD unless you understand that the still-impressive F/X are (along with Bernard Herrmann's oft-imitated score) about the only pluses in this movie. But what pluses! Who cares if Nathan Juran's direction of his actors and the Ken Kolb screenplay made me laugh out loud? The crazy creatures make up for that silliness. If you want to see how Harryhausen paved the way for 'Jurassic Park', 'Star Wars', and 'LOTR', rent this DVD. You'll even get to see a series of documentaries on the disc, with a lengthy piece highlighting most of the F/X master's work. "},{"Title":"What must the other six have been like?","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":"  Moviegoers who saw this on its original release in 1958 must have had their socks blown off and it still has the ability to threaten footwear now. This wonderful fantasy adventure saw everyone involved at something approaching the peak of their powers. Ray Harryhausen brought a feast of magical creatures to life and each of these is superbly realised by this meticulous master of his craft. The score by Bernard Herrmann conjures up a world of arabian knights and fantastical swashbuckling adventure.As in all his work in this genre,Kerwin Mathews does sterling work here and is the best of all cinematic Sinbads although he is surpassed(though marginally) by Zen Gesner who brought athletic intensity and superb fencing skills to the sadly short-lived t.v. series THE ADVENTURES OF SINBAD. Torin Thatcher brings much effective menace to the role of the villain Sokurah and lays the groundwork for an even more impressive incarnation of evil in the later and even better Mathews fantasy vehicle JACK THE GIANT KILLER.To have both these great fantasy tales on one video as I have allows for three hours of escape into a land beyond beyond which rewards repeated viewing.If this was Sinbad's seventh voyage,what must the previous six have been like? Hopefully as action packed and full of wonder as this great classic of its kind. "},{"Title":"The Greatest of Them All !!!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Action","Review":" If you looking for Adventure,Thrills, and a Sword Fighting Skeleton...then you've come to the right place . The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad is ALL that and MORE !!! Kerwin Mathews battles Black Magic, Gigantic Creatures, and Evils of the World as Sinbad ! Parisa,(Kathryn Grant) , the intended bride of Sinbad, is shrunk down to miniature proportions, and Sinbad must Battle the Creatures of Colassa to restore her. Sokurah(Torin Thatcher), is the Evil Magician, who will stop at nothing to possess the Magic Lamp of the Cyclops,so in order to leverage his position, he shrinks the Princess of Bagdad , and if their is no marriage, there will be war between the two kingdoms, and he lets everyone know only a trip to his home island, have the ingredients to change her to her previous size .In doing so , he attempts to over power the Cyclops,do in Sinbad and his men and become all powerful with the Magic Lamp that contains the Genie Baronni(Richard Eyer) .The Genie suffers from the Pinnochio syndrome, he wants to be a real boy . Wonderfully scored by Bernard Herrman,(the movie soundtrack became a sensational album ), carries the movie with Dynamic Tempo, that completes the Triumph of Ray Harryhousens' Artistic Achievements in Dynamation !!!Truly an American CLASSIC, and work of Art .I highly recommend The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad, as a trip you will never forget, and want to relive, over and over again .Some violence, may not be suitable for viewers younger than ten.By the way, Bagdad is spelled without an H, no relation to the other city.Great casting with Kerwin Mathews as Sinbad, and Torin Thatcher as Sokurah the Evil Magician .The PERFECT Fantasy Movie . Get the STEREO VERSION if you can find one! Mono is a Ripoff!! Not a fan of 5.1 either.This Movie is a TEN ! What a GREAT ending , talk about Riding into the Sunset ! "}]