[{"Title":"My Fair Lady it ain't...","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"59 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...and thank goodness. Despite the good songs, the movie version of My Fair Lady hits a dull thud. In the words of Gaston Lachaille, it's a bore!But this review isn't about My Fair Lady. It's about one of the greatest musicals ever to be placed on cellulod - Gigi, exquisite and as light as air!Where do you start? The score and musical direction by Conrad Salinger and Andre Previn is one of the best. Vincente Minelli's direction frames Leslie Caron and Louis Jourdan wonderously and builds the chemistry between the two photogenic stars. Great support is provided by Hermione Gingold and the redoubtable Maurice Chevalier. Paris has never looked as glorious on film as this - amazing costume design, art direction, and set pieces.And the songs - absolute classics! Lerner and Loewe really hit their stride with this - Thank Heaven for Little Girls, I Remember It Well, The Night They Invented Champagne, and the beautiful title tune.This movie has often served as an introduction to Maurice Chevalier for movie watchers, and he illuminates the screen. If you want to see him in another of the greatest musicals, watch Love Me Tonight with Jeanette MacDonald.Thank heaven for this movie - it's a world that I would love to inhabit! I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A delightful pastiche of sumptuous music,  and enchantingly memorable characters...","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Admired by novelists as diverse as Jean Cocteau and François Mauriac, Colette was arguably the finest French writer of her sex in the 20th century... Her main themes were joys and pains of love and female sexuality in the male-dominated world... All her provocative works (sometimes scandalous) were written with extraordinary insight, sensitivity, and sensuality...Gigi was made into a modest French film in 1948 by Jacqueline Audry, and ten years later, was brought to the screen as an Oscar-winning musical film dancing off with no fewer than nine Academy Awards including Best Picture...'Gigi' is the delightful story of a young French girl raised and lavished by her grandmother, and her great-aunt, to follow the family tradition by becoming a courtesan... The film opens in the City of Lights, in a period that had its own visual style, the early 1900s, where Honoré Lachaille (Maurice Chevalier), standing in the lovely park of 'The Bois De Boulogne,' announces himself as 'a lover and collector of beautiful things.' He sings Thank Heaven for Little girls with all the captivating smile and enduring charm that kept him an international super star for four decades... Honoré's ravenous appetite for life is contrasted with the world-weariness of his suave aristocrat nephew Gaston (Louis Jourdan), who, in the song 'It's a Bore!,' express his total indifference to absolutely everything...Soon we are swept into the private world of Gigi, the adorable Parisian schoolgirl trained to follow the family tradition... Gigi is a potential coquette who steals everyone's heart... She knows how to test the quality of a cigar, and learns the refinements and graces of her family's exalted profession along with some of Aunt Alicia's basic recommendations...Gigi progress from a Parisian gamine of the belle époque, to 'a definite allure.' Gaston, a longtime friend of the family, regards Gigi as a silly child, until he realizes that there has been a breathless change... Gigi shocks and upsets everyone by refusing to become Gaston's latest conquest... To her, the glory of romance and the music of love are not quite enough...Leslie Caron is an absolute delight as the irrepressible Gigi... With her fleeting facial expressions, she captures brilliantly the transformation of a teasing tomboy into the hesitant, uncertain blooming of adult sexuality... Louis Jourdan behaves like a perfect Gaston Lachaille... He makes his offer in good faith before any emotional advance... His character is a harmonious mixture of worldly cynicism and romantic idealism... His manners and behavior, and even his singing voice, are perfectly suited to the character...Gaston is a high-living Parisian lover, a bon vivant, rich and famous... A very elegant bachelor bored with the high society life... The only woman he enjoys is one of his uncle's old girlfriends, Madame Alvarez, whose granddaughter, Gigi, strikes him as particularly irreverent... He brings to Gigi her caramels, licorice and champagne... He lets her cheat at cards... He is captivated by her boyish enthusiasm, even when he is refused, rejected, rebuffed, and repudiated...Maurice Chevalier is outstanding as Gaston's elderly charming uncle... Honoré hasn't let his advancing age interfere with his exuberant enjoyment of chasing beautiful women... For him love is all... He is the 'Prince of Love,' with all the exuberance, the impudence and the occasional awkwardness of youth...Isabel Jeans is perfect as Aunt Alicia, the ancient rich courtesan... She trains Gigi in securing a lineup of wealthy lovers... At one point, she instructs Gigi on the relative values of the exquisite stones in her jewel box, ticking off the particular merits of diamonds, rubies, sapphires and emeralds... Gigi listens to her aunt's artistic feat, inspiring the same delighted admiration for the large square-cut emerald her aunt got from a King, and which she slips onto Gigi's finger with the observation that 'only the most beautiful emeralds contain that miracle of elusive blue.'The songs are perfect reflections of the characters who sing them...At Maxim's, Gaston sings knowingly of his waning romance with the 'pretty but common' Liane (Eva Gabor) in 'She Is Not Thinking of Me.' In an outdoor café, Honoré sings of the relaxed and comfortable feelings that come with old age in 'I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore.' In Trouville, Honoré and the deliciously bizarre Madame Alvarez (Hermione Gingold) recall their past romance with 'I Remember It Well.' And, most of all, Louis Jourdan sings 'Gigi' sweeping the movie audience in its words and music..Minnelli's exquisite 'Gigi' brought together all the best elements of musical movies into a delightful pastiche of sumptuous music, elegant dancing, and enchantingly memorable characters... He simply hit the jackpot with his choices in actors, guiding flawlessly their interpretations...This exquisite musical had a total of nine nominations and nine Oscars and awards in almost every category... It was highly unusual that none of the excellent cast received acting nominations... However, Maurice Chevalier was presented with a Special Oscar. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Charming","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"45 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this film several times, I definitely have to rate Gigi as one of the most charming musicals ever made.  The delightful score, by Lerner & Loewe, includes songs such as I Remember it Well, The Night They Invented Champagne, Thank Heaven For Little Girls, as well as the title track, Gigi, sung with surprising candor and earnestness by Louis Jourdan. Although reminiscent of their work on My Fair Lady, this score not only stands beautifully on its own but also grows in depth with each viewing.The three principals, Leslie Caron, Louis Jourdan, and Maurice Chevalier, along with the Paris locales helps maintain a distinctively French flavor, especially in the way the characters relate and interact.For everyone who has commented on the political incorrectness of the story, a closer look will actually reveal the true feminist perspective of Colette's work which was groundbreaking for its time  1)  the story is a commentary and observation of the limited social and economic options for women outside of marriage during the turn of the century Paris, 2) Although Gigi (Caron) never fully masters her lessons and grooming, she is able to capture Gaston's (Jourdan) heart precisely because of her imperfections, and 3) most importantly, it is Gaston rather than Gigi who is forced to truly transform himself and defy the social conventions of the time to bring the story to its resolution.Compare this to My Fair Lady, which offers similar social commentary but resolves itself in a more standard way  For example  1)  Eliza Dolittle only becomes noticeable and lovable after transforming her outward appearance and speech patterns 2)  Although Professor Higgins finally realizes his love for Eliza at the end, it is Eliza who is forced to submit her will by effecting a reconciliation that does nothing to resolve any of the issues raised in the scenes leading up to that point.Definitely see Gigi and judge for yourself.  (By the way, the widescreen version is sooooo much better.  This is especially apparent in numbers such as I Remember It Well where entire characters are forced to be cut out of the screen.) "},{"Title":"Simply delightful","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Directed by Vincente Minnelli and starring Leslie Caron as the title character, Gigi (1958) is nothing short of sweet and delightful. Gigi is a coltish teen in 1900's Paris who lives with her grandmother Madame Alvarez (Hermione Gingold) and who loves to hang out with family friend Gaston Lachaille (Louis Jourdan), an international jet-setter and playboy whose every relationship is documented in the papers. The pseudo-narrator of the film is Henri Lachaille (Maurice Chevalier), Gaston's uncle and a notorious playboy in his own right, who loves to give his nephew relationship advice, solicited or not. Gigi is being bred by her grandmother and aunt to become a refined woman so she can become a mistress for rich and powerful men, so it comes as both a surprise and delight to the women to discover that Gaston may be a suitable candidate. However, Gigi's innocence may not allow this to happen, as she struggles with making the transition between carefree girl to a refined lady with social responsibilities.Musicals are a rare genre on my films I adore list, but Gigi has long been a favorite film of mine, despite its sappy moments and sometimes corny jokes. What makes Gigi such a good film is its unmitigated Charm with a capital C; one can't help but grin a little when Chevalier sings Thank Heaven for Little Girls because he doesn't stop flashing that high voltage smile himself. And I cannot get through the scene between Chevalier and Gingold when they sing I Remember it Well by the seaside without tearing up because it is just so damn cute. Sure, the revelations and epiphanies are pretty easy and kind of out of nowhere, but considering it is an MGM musical from the 1950's, I would be surprised if there weren't these kinds of things. Everyone in the film looks like they are having a good time (particularly Chevalier), and the great Lerner-Loewe music against the Parisian backdrop is enough to sell me.Gigi, while being a 10-time Oscar winner (including Best Picture) has unfortunately been marginalized by some as a typical MGM fluff piece, could be a hard sell, particularly to the jaded Generation Y - and - younger audience. However, since I myself am probably one of the most cynical film-viewers I personally know of, take my word for it &#150; Gigi is a lot of fun, and a good way to spend two hours. 8/10 --Shelly "},{"Title":"One of the best film musicals ever made.","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is undoubtedly as good as it is because it was a musical written expressly for the screen (it had been an enormously popular Broadway play starring Audrey Hepburn). Lerner and Loewe were coming off their huge success with My Fair Lady on Broadway, and were at the height of their powers when they created the classic songs and screenplay for this film. And although Leslie Caron's vocals were dubbed (thankfully not by Marni Nixon), the rest of the cast acquits themselves with aplomb and a good deal of style, particularly the heartstoppingly suave and beautiful Louis Jourdan (who was much older than he looked at the time, as was Caron -- he was 38, she was 27). The breathtaking Art Nouveau sets and fin de siecle costumes were all designed by Cecil Beaton and are even more gorgeous than those he did for the film version of My Fair Lady a few years later.This film is very faithful to Colette's original short story in both humor and spirit, and while I have no illusions that it is a completely truthful portrait of life in early 20th century Paris, it is a delightful, romantic story, one that is as lovely now as it was in the 1950s, or indeed, at the turn of the century. It really did deserve the Best Picture Oscar. "},{"Title":"I rediscovered this great, perfect musical.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The ability to do fine musicals was one of Hollywood's endearing traits. However, in Gigi they produced a GREAT musical that is in a class by itself. The score, the libretto, the costumes, photography et al won Oscars and deserved them.However, the cast led by Caron and Chevalier all deserved a special Oscar. They were cast perfectly and performed to perfection. Could there be a better Gigi than Caron? Her ability to go from a charming child to a beautiful women is overwhelming. The songs that Chevalier has made into classics, appear to have been written especially for him. Could one visualize any other personality performing these songs?Jourdan is perfect in his role and so is Gingold. Thank heaven!!! Lastly, I must pay homage to that city on the Seine. It is the ultimate star and should have gotten a special award.I agree with those readers that have called Gigi the best Hollywood musical; it is really the perfect musical. Thank heaven!!!     "},{"Title":"The Last of the Golden Age Musicals","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Although MGM and other studios would continue in the genre for several more years, GIGI is the last great musical of Hollywood's golden age. It is also one of the few titles consistently mentioned when critics dispute which film should be considered the single finest musical ever created by Hollywood, a film that rivals the likes of SINGIN' IN THE RAIN and MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS.Based on a novella by Colette, GIGI tells the story of a French family of the belle epoch--a family, it seems, of women who have made their living from the favors of famous men. Still something of a gawky schoolgirl, Gigi (Leslie Caron) is being trained to become a courtesan, and when she suddenly blossoms she captures the heart of Paris sophisticate Gaston Lachaille (Louis Jourdan.) But much to her family's horror, when the arrangements are completed Gigi suddenly declines! The cast is absolutely flawless. Caron was born to play Gigi, and is as charming as the awkward youth as she is as the suddenly beautiful young woman; Jordan's appeal as the worldly and world weary Gaston is tremendous. But the real joy of the cast is in its supporting cast, which includes Maurice Chevalier as Gaston's uncle; Hermione Gingold and Isabel Jeans as Gigi's grandmother and great aunt; and Eva Gabor as Gaston's current mistress. Chevalier and Gingold play their roles with precisely the right mixture of charm and severity, and their duet I Remember It Well is among the highlights of the film, while Jeans and Gabor give such great comic turns that their small roles become as memorable as the leads.The Learner & Lowe score is equal their great Broadway success MY FAIR LADY, and offers such enjoyable and memorable songs as Gigi and The Night They Invented Champagne; the script equals and merges with the music to considerable effect. Filmed largely on location in Paris, the look of the film is incredibly rich, and director Vincent Minnelli maintains a sprightly sense of humor with just enough darkness behind the bubbles to make us aware of the seriousness of the tale. Mixing intimacy with tremendous surface splash, GIGI is a cultural treasure, a film to enjoy and cherish forever and certainly a worthy contender for that disputed title of Hollywood's finest musical. A personal favorite and highly, highly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Ever since my sister and I were leetle gerls as sung by thewonderful Maurice in the movie we have simply adored this film. There are so few treasures such as this one. Leslie Caron is nothing short of perfection in this role so young, and so beautiful. And too, I must mention the dashing young Louis Jordan as the much desired by all women, Gaston. I cannot tell you how many times I have heard that beautiful song in my head as he has discovered his Gigi is a woman now and not a child. My sister and I will forever keep this movie close to our hearts. I suggest anyone who is a romantic or loves musicals to go and rent this one right away!! "},{"Title":"A perfect musical","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  My Fair Lady is certainly Lerner and Loewe's crowning glory, but in my  mind, this is their most perfect creation.  Anyone who thinks that Alan Jay  Lerner was not able to write and/or adapt a strong book without the help of  a G.B. Shaw needs to take in this gem of a musical based on the novel by  Colette.Although the creators were American, it is so effervescently French in  spirit and tone.  Lerner insisted that he and Loewe actually live  temporarily in Paris while writing the score and screenplay so that they  could incorporate the mood and feel of the city into their collaboration.   This move paid off in spades.  Paris is as much a character in this story  as any of the protagonists, and it is displayed beautifully here.  There is  such color, joy, and romance in this musical.  I also happen to think that  it's extremely funny to boot.  It is perfectly cast (the three main  characters are all French, including the legendary Maurice Chevalier), the  Cecil Beaton costumes are incredible, and the score is scintillating.  The  pace never lags for a second.This musical is a must. "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  That was the year I fell in love again, and what a gloriously entertaining musical with Chevalier singing Thank Heaven For Little Girls referring to the young girl played by Leslie Caron,etc. who is wooed by Louis Jordan until she grows up to be a lady of fashion in Gay Paree.  The music is great, the settings are beautiful, and I remember Hermione Gingold and Chevalier singing together a funny song I Remember It Well.  In my book after seeing it for the umpteenth time, it's still a 9/10.  Pure enjoyment! "}{"Title":"Lerner & Lowe competing with Lerner & Lowe...but still a charming musical...","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's almost as if Lerner & Lowe were competing with themselves when they decided to write the music for Gigi -- once again, a story about a girl being transformed into a young woman of charm (a Parisian courtesan) just as Eliza was being molded into another creature by Professor Higgins. And that's not the only similarity. The songs all have a My Fair Lady similarity -- from 'The Night They Invented Champagne' to 'Gigi' to 'The Parisiennes' -- all bear the flavor of their previous work in sound and content. And yet they work beautifully for this story set in the city of love and starring Leslie Caron, Louis Jourdan, Herminone Gingold and Maurice Chevalier.Production-wise, it's almost too lavish for its own good. Vincente Minnelli wrings every bit of artistic decor in the trappings, giving the viewer an almost claustrophobic feeling for the interior scenes. The outdoor shots are just as lavish--Louis Jourdan singing the title song among the fountains and architecture of French landmarks. The cast is perfect. Leslie Caron makes an enchanting Gigi, Louis Jourdan is impossibly handsome as Gaston, and all of the other players were cast with a discerning eye.But there is no denying that no matter how distasteful some will find the story of training a girl to become a courtesan to be (or how politically incorrect by today's standards), the score is as sparkling as the champagne they sing about. While, in my opinion, the score does not surpass My Fair Lady in range and cleverness, it certainly did well enough in winning nine Oscars, including the one for Best Picture of 1958. By all means, it has to be considered one of the last great musicals from the MGM period.Only drawback it's a bit overlong and could have used some editing for the slow moments. "},{"Title":"Wretched Piece of Instantly Disposable Crap","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I hate this movie. I hate the way it looks. I hate the way the actors (especially Leslie Caron) sound. I hate the way it's dubbed. I hate how irrelevant it is.Is it just me, or is there something incredibly distasteful (not to mention creepy) to see an 80-something Maurice Chevalier singing Thank Heaven for Little Girls while ogling them in a park? Maybe pedophilia didn't exist in turn-of-the-century Paris. I can't believe this gloopy piece of cotton eye candy came out in the same year as Orson Welles' Touch of Evil. And don't even get me started on the fact that it won what was then a record number of Oscars (including Best Picture). If nothing else in its dubious history convinces one to ignore the Motion Picture Academy, that should.Can anyone honestly tell me they cared at all about how this movie ended? If you can, I never want to meet you.Grade F "},{"Title":"Ah, I remember it well (unfortunately)","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love musicals, I really do! I've seen Fiddler, Fair Lady, Hello Dolly, Tommy, Little Shop of Horrors and many more a million times over. So, I just had to check out GIGI - apparently one of the greatest, if not the greatest musical of our time(s). I'm sorry, people... but this has to be, without a doubt - one of the all time WORST musicals I've laid my ears and eyes on. The songs, the story, the characters... are so trite, sickeningly sweet and grating that their combined characteristics served to make my VHS display tick backwards! And for a movie titled GIGI, the film is 90% focussed on Gaston Lachaille. And Maurice... and that song - Ah, I remember it well. It's all so... so... overly-sugarised (if such a term exists). Don't get me wrong - I love a feel good film! I love happy endings, happy beginnings and middles. Bright colours and vivid imagery can be done quite pleasantly as in Allen's EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU. But this film is like a sugar-coated neon-pastel-over-exposed load of worthless film! And the songs themselves just reek of FAIR LADY. I'm not bagging Fair Lady, but the fact that the songs don't have their own 100% flavour seems to serve purely as a reflection on the limitations of the writers and if ever they re-make this film again, I suggest calling it GASTON. But then again... that's all just my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Most distasteful movie I have ever watched","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie was stunning. I bought 36 classic movies a few months ago, and this was the first one I completely disliked. I hated it.I thought this movie was supposed to be a delightful musical. That is what numerous reviews I read said.This movie was beyond despicable. It was about two elderly women training an innocent teenager to be a hooker and a 40-year-old man pursuing her. I'm not kidding. There were five main characters in the movie, and Gigi, the would-be hooker, was by far the most appealing.Halfway through the movie, I found myself rooting for Gigi to pull out a rifle and kill her aunt, grandmother, suitor, and Maurice Chevalier, the suitor's uncle. I thought this kind of character conflict could save the movie. Unfortunately, Gigi marries her suitor, who starts conversations by insulting her clothes, manners, etc.I wish Gigi had been a strong character.I can't believe that no one commented on the low point of the movie. Eva Gabor kills herself after Gigi's eventual suitor (Louis Jourdan) dumps her and 1900 Paris celebrates. Chevalier says to his nephew while smiling broadly Congratulations. Your first suicide. What an achievement....May this be the first of many. Later, Chevalier pours champagne to celebrate the suicide and labels it a victory for Jourdan.I realize that there are lots of horrible characters in movies. I like many of those movies. However, those movies are not supposed to be delightful musicals and are not cheery and optimistic.What were IMDb's reviewers thinking? By the way, the music wasn't particularly good either. I give Gigi a 1.ZWrite "},{"Title":"Never understood how this one got 9 Oscars!","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I can't really accept the fact that a movie like this which is complete rubbish; no story, no good songs, no funny scenes, and no nothing, get all this crowd around it and on top of everything, 9 Oscars! For heaven's sake, movies like Gigi (9 Oscars), Titanic (11 Oscars), and Ben Hur, how come movies like these get so many Oscars! Who are the critics and evaluators behind such cinematic crimes! Someone sane please tell me what's so good about this movie to get 9 Oscars and viewers describe it a gem that has been rediscovered! Please explain to me as if I am a 3 years old kid who doesn't know a thing about anything though I have seen thousands of movies! A story of an ugly girl who has a rich cousin wants to marry her and then later they fall in love with each others. And bear in mind that the fillings of this boring story have no comedy or mystery or anything for that matter. "},{"Title":"Oh What Miracle Has Made You The Way You Are","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The capstone of Arthur Freed's brilliant career as producer of some of the best musicals around was this film which sadly marked the end of the musical era on film. You could never produce something like Gigi directly for the screen because the talent wasn't under contract to any one studio. Nor would any studio take a chance on something original for the screen. Musicals would continue to be made, but they would be 90% adaptations from Broadway.Though the only thing original about Gigi was the musical score. The novel by Colette had been filmed twice before, the first time a silent film from Brazil, the second a dramatic version by the French in 1949. One of these days maybe TCM will broadcast that one and we could compare them.Just the fact that Gigi was done at all shows a cracking of Hollywood's all abiding Code. Let's face it, we're talking here about a family that raises their daughters to be courtesans. They pray for daughters and at a last resort marry.Leslie Caron as Gigi is the last survivor and she's being raised by her grandmother Hermione Gingold and her great aunt Isabel Jeans to be the best Madame DuBarry she can be. They have a family friend in Louis Jourdan and the story of Gigi is the story of how Jourdan slowly, but surely starts seeing Gigi in a different light as she grows up and kind of grows on you.Of course the French quality seal on this Hollywood, but shot on location in Paris, production is provided by that grandest boulevardier of all, Maurice Chevalier. He plays Jourdan's aging roué of an uncle who gets from Lerner and Loewe three numbers that are now permanently identified with him. Chevalier thanks the Deity for the blessings of young nubile females in Thank Heaven For Little Girls, he reminisces or attempts to reminisce about old times with Hermione Gingold in I Remember It Well, and thanks the Deity once again for not having to go through the angst of youthful passion in I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore. Anyone who sees Gigi and sees Chevalier perform these numbers will be an instant fan of his the way I became when I saw Gigi on screen way back in the day.But the best song of the score is Louis Jourdan's title song which is the climax of a long musical soliloquy in which Jourdan analyzes his feelings for the audience. I'm sure that one of the reasons that Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe were attracted to the Gigi project was the fact that they saw an opportunity to write another soliloquy capped off with a hit song the way they did in My Fair Lady. The similarities between what Jourdan does in Gigi and what Rex Harrison does in I've Grown Accustomed To Her Face are readily apparent. I half expect Jourdan to end the film with 'Gigi, where the devil are my slippers.'Gigi was nominated and won in 9 separate Oscar categories which might be a record in terms of percentage of Oscars nominated for and won. Even though the following year Ben-Hur won a few more and has a record of most Oscars still standing after almost 50 years. Gigi won for Best Picture, for Best Director for Vincente Minnelli, and for the Best Song from a film for the title song. Amazingly enough none of the players got an Oscar nomination in any of the acting categories.That shouldn't have worried Minnelli though because in his Some Came Running which also was out that year, Shirley MacLaine, Arthur Kennedy, and Martha Hyer all got nominations in those categories. 1958 would have to be the high point in the career of Vincente Minnelli.One ironic thing I always found with Gigi. It's set at the turn of the last century in Paris and unlike that other MGM Parisian classic, An American in Paris, Gigi was shot entirely on location in the City of Light. The Paris of the height of the Third Republic is captured beautifully, at least our conception of it in the English speaking world. Maurice Chevalier was an adolescent growing up there at this time, but this was hardly his world then. Chevalier grew up in dire poverty in a single parent household with a mother who sacrificed everything so her son could be taught the rudiments of show business where he became an immortal. I'm sure the irony never escaped Chevalier as he was filming Gigi.What's not to like about Gigi, a wonderful musical score, a magical setting, and some fine performances in a perfectly cast company of players. Thank heaven indeed. "},{"Title":"visually pleasing, but disappointing ending","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I actually quite enjoyed the first half of the movie. The Child Gigi was lovable and funny. The songs and the costumes were wonderful. I was quite disappointed by how the movie turned out though. In the end, she was no more different than the type she had snuffed at. She became a bore. So much for her special trainings.   "},{"Title":"Exhausting but great","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Movie musical takes place in France in 1900. Teenage tomboy Gigi (Leslie Caron) is madly in love with an adult man (Louis Jourdan) but he just sees her as a little girl. Her aunt (Hermione Gingold) is trying to bring her up to be a proper lady. Jourdan does start to realize Gigi is a woman...but doesn't want to marry her.Very colorful and energetic MGM musical--easily one of the best musicals of the 1950s. The costumes and settings are wonderful (and won Academy Awards) and makes you believe that you are in 1900! In fact it received nine (I believe) Academy Awards--among them best director and best picture. The songs are great--there's not really a bad one among them (although the title song is kind of dull).The acting is great too--Caron is full of life and her transformation from teenager to woman is totally believable. Gingold is great as her aunt and Jourdan is tall and VERY handsome. Also Maurice Chevalier pops up to instruct Jourdan every once in a while.I do have a few minor quibbles--Chevalier (who was 70 at the time) singing Thank Heaven For Little Girls while leering at some teenage girls--I realize this was done in a more innocent era but it comes across as pretty unsettling today. There's totally dreadful back projection when Jourdan and Chevalier are talking (and singing) in a carriage. And the RED walls of Gingold's apartment really were getting to me. Also this movie gets too lively at times--I was exhausted just watching some of the numbers! Still, this is a lively fun movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven for this great film","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Lerner and Lowe were geniuses.  Who else could take stories that don't readily lend themselves to musicals and not only turn them into one, but to something with substance and depth.  I Thank Heaven that God saw fit to bring Lerner and Lowe together.Colette's Gigi is a young woman who bucks the trend in her family and makes the decision to be her own person rather than the woman that some might argue that she was born to be.  So does the Gigi of this movie. Just because Lerner adds to the story that Collette wrote, he doesn't take away the essential spirit.  Lerner's Gigi is a woman who wants to be her own person.  The writing is wonderful and the performances that Minnelli was able to get out of the actors shows that he understood the script very well.Leslie Caron was 27 when she appeared in this movie, but she was able to play a teen-ager and play it well.  Casting in this film is perfect, down to the men that played Honore's valet and Aunt Alicia's butler. there is no performance that is wanting in this show.  This film has a timeless appeal.  Even though it is dated to the turn of the 20th century, the dilemia that Gigi faces, do I do what is expected of me or what I want with my life, is one that others, both male and female, have faced at other times and other places.  Even now, today. "},{"Title":"It's a Bore","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A tedious musical about Parisian society around 1900. At the age of 27, Caron was a bit long in the tooth to be playing a teenager. Speaking of young women, Chevalier's appreciation of leetle gails is kind of creepy. At least Jordan is honest when he sings, It's a Bore. Minnelli's Oscar seems to be a belated one for An American in Paris. Here he does nothing to keep the film from dragging. The songs, in the ludicrous Lerner-Lowe style of half-talking and half-singing, are not particularly good. It's unbelievable that this film won the Best Picture Oscar for a year in which such masterpieces as Vertigo and Touch of Evil were released. "}{"Title":"A simple love story in a lush presentation","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The art decoration and sumptuous costuming designed by Cecil Beaton are truly striking in every respect.  The storyline what there is of it is rather weak.  The presentation is reminiscent of My Fair Lady but lacking in a good story is not half as great.Maurice Chevalier as Gaston's Uncle Honore steals the show and gives the best performance due mainly to his special French charm and charisma. He lifts every scene.  His singing of Thank Heaven for little girls sets the spirit of the film as he advises Gaston on the importance of enjoying life. The main ingredients appear to be Paris, Springtime and girls, preferably young ones.Gigi (Leslie Caron) is taught the social graces and niceties of life by her grandmama and friends such as how to drink a glass of wine and how to choose a good cigar.  These scenes I found not particularly funny. Perhaps it was unconvincing because the actor was trying to be very naive and young and inexperienced.  Louis Jordan as Gaston the bored millionaire playboy was OK in a romantic role which was relatively undemanding.  I particularly liked his rendition of the song Gigi when his attitude to life is suddenly changed.  Gigi happens to be my favourite tune in the whole film.Paris life is captured in glorious technicolour.  Note that it is devoid of all shabbiness and poverty.  The film opens near the Bois de Boulogne in 1900 and wanders amongst the skating rink and places of great entertainment where money seems to be the least of their worries. This is escapism de luxe.Not a great film but quite pleasant to watch. I'll be singing Gigi a long time after the film has been forgotten. "},{"Title":"its a gay romantic fling, if you like that sort of thing","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Enchanting and captivating are two words to describe this wonderful lerner-lowe collaboration.  A musical in every sense of the word its happy, charming, emotional and contains some truly brilliant performances, none more so that the wonderful Mr Chevailier who steals this seem with his charming lechery.  Although the singing of Miss Caron is dubbed she puts in the performance of a lifetime to be Gigi.  I feel those who thought a Certain Miss Hepburn would be better in the role are badly mistaken, for she is sweet and charming, everything the immortal Gigi should be.Herimone Gingold is wonderful as Grandma and Jourdan is terribly handsome and suave as Gaston.  Even a Gabor, the more talented Eva shines in this because there simply is not a bad moment, as for Jaques Bergerac (Mr Ginger Rogers) his role may be small, but he sure is handsome.The score is 100 percent, The parisians is my personal favourite number, the title number is beautiful, thank heavens for little girls has become a standard, she is not thinking of me is a knockout and the night they invented champagne is wonderful, my only regret?  So little dancing for the greatly talented Miss Caron. "},{"Title":"Distinctly mediocre","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Gigi is a tedious, far too stately film. The almost completely static camera positioning really doesn't work here; it positively adds to the cold, aloof feel of the film. It certainly doesn't pass muster as a good social commentary or musical, with only hints of cleverness in the dialogue, and repetitive music. Maurice Chevalier really is underused; he seems irrelevant to the main, boring Pygmalion plot. The only songs which truly work are those where Chevalier sings; Vhank 'Evv-en For Litt-el gels! and I Ree-mem-burr 'eet vell! have a kind of absurd, dandyish swagger to them that works due to Chevalier's charisma; he plays up the lecherous old extravagant Frenchman role to perfection. Sadly, after a decent early entrance with Chevalier, Louis Jourdan is very bland and unengaging. He should have been played with vigour as a cynical cad, of the George Sanders school. Leslie Caron, a good decade too old for the role she is supposed to be playing, isn't very impressive as Gigi herself. The distance of the camerawork leads to a certain distance from characters who are at best, competently played. The surplus of talk, the lack of dancing and of memorable music all contribute to Gigi being a very dull, talky film, that struggled to keep my attention. Rating- ** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Ugliness has never looked so beautiful","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Ah, GIGI...those sumptuous Lerner and Loewe songs, the lovely Leslie Caron, the charming Maurice Chevalier, the fantasy-perfect designs...ah, yes, I remember it well.Problem is, the story makes it one of the most distateful films ever made. A little girl being raised to be a courtesan...gosh, nothing wrong with that.  The present-day controversy over the latest Lolita film makes me laugh.  Compare the ATTITUDE of _Lolita_ with the approving, even beamingly salacious attitude of _Gigi_.  You can dress it up all you want to, but the film still gives a good name to child abuse and near-slavery.  And that ruins all the songs, performances, and designs for me. "},{"Title":"Not one of the better musicals I've seen.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When compared to other film musicals such as FIDDLER ON THE ROOF and WEST SIDE STORY, you can see how poor this film actually is. The fact that the stage musical the film is based on is weak to begin with, there isn't much hope left for the film itself. There are no catchy tunes, and the big number of the piece, THE NIGHT THEY INVENTED CHAMPAGNE, is uninteresting and lacks the charisma of other showstoppers in other musicals such as IF I WERE A RICH MAN, MARIA, or FOOD GLORIOUS FOOD. I cannot say anything good about Leslie Caron. She is flat, dull, and does not evoke any kind of caring for her from the audience. Audrey Hepburn played the role of Gigi on the stage, and although I was not alive at the time to see this, I am sure that she could run circles around Caron.Louis Jourdan is not much of an actor and he seems to old to be in this role. Maurice Chevalier's character is annoying and only pops in when the characters have nothing else to do. If he sang LITTLE GIRLS one more time, I was going to turn off the movie! Vincente Minelli's direction was nothing special. How he won the Academy Award for this piece is mindboggling. If he didn't win for the superior AN AMERICAN IN PARIS, why this?The cinematography is somewhat nice, however, and at times even pleasant to look at. This is probably one of the only good aspects of this film.I just couldn't get into this film, and far better examples of films from 1958 are VERTIGO, SEPARATE TABLES, and RUN SILENT RUN DEEP.Highligths (of which there are few) the cinematography, seeing the end credits come up at last!Maybe if Hepburn were cast instead of Caron, this could be a much better film. 3/10. "},{"Title":"worth the price of admission","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I read some pretty negative reviews about this movie so I had to speak up. What this movie is, simply, is fun. It's fun to watch, the characters are enjoying their lives, there are songs to sing along to; why, there isn't even a villainous character to be seen. The use of turn-of-the-century Paris as a backdrop almost makes the movie feel like a fantasy. And where else are you going to see a James Bond villain wrestle with a donkey. The director may never be famous for this movie, but put it in perspective. Have you heard of James Cameron? How about Piranha 2 the spawning? Or Peter Jackson with his Bad Taste (which I recommend)? I will be adding this movie to my personal collection because it is a movie that anyone can watch.  "},{"Title":"Astonished this film is rated so low(ly)","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've recently gone back to watch some classic films from the 50s (of which Gigi is certainly one).  It's an era that will never be repeated -- of innocence, grandeur, and a stilted civilization just ready to awaken to the glories of American hegemony.  Such is Gigi.  A lovely film with fine acting everywhere, superb singing (well, lip synching), and a fun screen play.  How can anyone complain about Maurice Chevalier?  Or Leslie Caron?  Such Lerner/Lowe perfection in composition -- Thank Heaven for Little Girls and The Night They Invented Champagne and even the title song, sung with insight and perfect French insouciance by Louis Jordan.  The costumes dazzle as does Paris in all its gaiety (one of the last big movies to use the term gay in the traditional way).  Enjoy this classic. "},{"Title":"Good movie. *** out of ****","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Now, I wouldn't call Gigi a great musical. I cannot bring myself to compare it to My Fair Lady or West Side Story. But it hits the mark very well in it's own way. Leslie Caron is excellent, but I really enjoyed Maurice Chevalier the best of all. He stole every scene that he was in. I suppose the highlight of this movie was the scene where the people are gossiping at the dinner table and pretending to whisper. Very clever. If you're a musical junkie, I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Paris beauty, youth, love and romance. This is the setting for the magnificent Gigi.After having had a flamboyant way of life for quite some years, Gaston is bored with the predictability of it all, and is desperate for a change of pace. So he starts spending more and more time with an eccentric lower-class family(having said that, they're not exactly poor, more so is Gaston a very wealthy man), and the young daughter in this family is the only one who can make him smile and laugh.But children grow quickly, and before long Gigi is a young lady, trained by her aunt to please men. This leads to the drama and great comedy in this film. Because funny it is, and enchantingly beautiful.They couldn't have done better with the casting, the best thing being that most roles are portrayed by French actors, which gives it an authenticity that wouldn't have been there otherwise. And not only that, but they're all wonderful actors.Love is in the air... the sugary Parisian air.9/10 "},{"Title":"Gigi... reeks of the '50s.","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I despise this movie. I watched an American in Paris, and I loved it but hated that girl (Leslie Caron) and her timid, passive, uncertain personality! Then I became aware of Gigi and thought I'd give her a second chance. No dice, people. All I kept thinking is it's no wonder it was followed by a gigantic feminist movement. Also- the music is quite often the same. They've got this style of singing that's pretty lame, in my opinion, for a lot of the songs. This half-singing/half-talking, with two characters usually contradicting each other. Not cute, Gigi. Not cute. So, yes, maybe other people enjoy it but I've had enough of these weak, sniveling girls and the general '50s vibes this movie gives off. I'll give it a three because I feel creative efforts should always be respected, and it's not like the way it was made was sloppy or anything. "}{"Title":"Didn't really care for it","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's the darndest thing with old movies in some you can see the greatness (from The Great Dictator via Citizen Kane to The Sound Of Music), and some you don't care for at all. 'Gigi' got 9 academy awards, but I'm seriously puzzled why...Gigi is a young woman living in Paris. She's living with some old woman and is befriended with, what apparently is the most desirable bachelor in France. It comes to no surprise that they hook up, even though the ways of those Parisians are quite different than what we expect today.Visually, there's nothing wrong with Gigi, and the actors are well cast (Leslie Caron is gorgeous). But the story drags on a bit and the songs aren't the best (to say the least). Comparable to My Fair Lady (which I didn't care for either). Just not my cup of tea I guess...5/10. "},{"Title":"ENORMOUSLY disappointing 4/10","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Ugh, what an awful film. How could Vincente Minnelli have directed such a film? There are a couple of good points. The cinematography is pretty good, as well as the costume design and sets. Basically, the technical side is fine. And Leslie Caron, whom I hardly recognized (An American in Paris, in my humble opinion, is the greatest movie musical ever made), is marvelous. Her character, Gigi, is wonderful, and I wish, oh, God, how I wish that she was in a different story with different characters played by different actors! She has nothing to work with here. EVERYTHING is awful. The story just meanders. I could describe it in just a short sentence (MAJOR SPOILERS, if you give a care, IN THE NEXT SENTENCE) a Parisian aristocrat falls in love with a strong-minded young girl and then marries her. That's ALL there is. END SPOILERS None of the actors besides Caron is worth their weight in feces. This is the type of film where I hope like heck that the heroine doesn't end up with the hero. To boot, the songs are AWFUL. Most of them, anyhow. There are a couple of songs that are decent, one in the form of the people's gossip and the other where Gastone, Gigi's suitor, sings, with his mouth shut (for the most part), She's Not Thinking of Me. That one is the highlight of this otherwise dismal film. Take the song It's a Bore, which Gastone sings with another man. In it, he basically expresses that everything in life, every part of Paris and all the world, is boring. Finally, he finds a girl who does not bore him. At least now she doesn't, but I feel mighty sorry for her in the future. No woman can be entertaining til death does them part!Gigi won the Best Picture Oscar in 1959, and, in my opinion, it's the worst Best Picture winner I've ever seen, even worse than Titanic. I almost want to cry! What happened to the Vincente Minnelli who directed the absolute masterpiece An American in Paris? I'd rather watch that film back to back from here to eternity than experience this dreck once more.  "},{"Title":"Unintentionally creepy, with only one standout song","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A musical with only two memorable songs (Thank Heaven for Little Girls and It's a Bore), only one of which is good (It's a Bore), is not likely to be a good musical. Indeed, this is one of the most boring and poorly-acted in the history of the genre. The story ostensibly takes place in France, but it seems to unfold mainly in bland, claustrophobic drawing rooms. The title character's naive, youthful waifishness makes the relationship aspect of the film feel vaguely inappropriate, and this is only underscored by the aforementioned song about little girls, which is sung by a quintessentially creepy old man. This is a contender for worst Best Picture winner. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie musical","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I can watch Gigi more than Singin In The Rain, The Bandwagon, or My Fair Lady , and The Sound of Music... Its original, maybe similar to Lerner & Loewe's My Fair Lady... but it stands on its own,  what a production, what a score, what a cast...beautifully done... more than deserved the Oscars garnered in 1958/  such a joy !  saw this in tne theatre in 1958, Lowes' Newark, came out singing the score, so happy so enjoyable !  Chevalier almost steals the show, but the entire cast is perfect.  Leslie Caron, wherever you are, I love you...your films made me so happy....Its a gem;  Thank Heaven For Little Girls, The Night They Invented Champagne, I Remember It Well ( I'll never forget how beautifully this scene was photographed,  Chevalier, and Hermoine Gingold reminiscing in the dimming sunset, wow!!! ) This film more than any other musical got me hooked on the movie musical, and eventually the  Broadway Musical/   My 3 favorite musicals  Gigi, Funny Girl, Star Is Born (54)/  you can argue all you want but these 3 give me consistent pleasure and joy !!!!  Singin in The Rain is more comedy than musical... love it also, but get a wee bored with it after awhile!  Thanks for your time... buy Gigi... its more than worth it !!! "},{"Title":"Collette, Americanized","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love it - Leslie Caron and the whole cast. And the songs are superb. But let's face it, this is Americanized Collette. She celebrated the deals and compromises within a sexist order that allowed a lucky few high-class prostitutes to become well-to-do, independent women in fin-de-siecle Paris (and a lot of others to at least make some kind of living). She empowered women, at a time when there just weren't many other opportunities for them to establish real independence (our current categories of PC and non-PC wouldn't have meant much then). It wasn't always pretty, but there was reality in her writing about relations between the sexes that hasn't lost its relevance. Of course, this had to be soft-pedalled for the American audience - hence the ending, which conforms nicely with middle-class morality on this side of the Atlantic. This is the only politically unsatisfactory thing about the movie, however. And it remains superior - both politically and as a film - to My Fair Lady, where Eliza is implied to return and submit herself to Rex Harrison at the end, whereas Gigi at least implies that it's Gaston rather than Gigi who is going to have to change his ways.My only other gripe Why no dancing from Leslie - and from Vincente Minelli, that peerless director of dance sequences? I guess Lerner and Lowe must have been more in control of this one, and weren't of a mind for rug-cutting. Too bad - there really isn't nearly enough of Leslie dancing on film as it is! "},{"Title":"A perfect movie musical as only M-G-M could deliver!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The studios of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, long the king of the Hollywood musicals, produced this classic musical treat in 1958.  Probably the most perfect musical ever made, it will live forever. "},{"Title":"Gigi The Creepiest Film of the 1950s?","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Some films considered great years ago age rather poorly. Witness Gigi, the insert proper musical adjective here enchanting!!!; delightful!!!!! musical about a French girl's transformation from spirited teen to soulless married woman. Some of the tunes are amusing (I Remember It Well is particularly charming), but changes in our society render the film's plot rather anachronistic Rich and famous older man courts teenager; they tie the knot. The End. Thank Heaven for Little Girls? Ewwwww. There are several moments in the film that will chill the modern viewer. Stripped of these outdated charms, the remainder is a vapid piece of fluff. It wasn't even made with its heart in the right place; MGM couldn't wait for the movie rights to My Fair Lady so they sought a similar plot (Colette's 1948 story) and made this Frenchified version instead-cash in! Another sub-good Best Picture to add to the lengthy list. See An American in Paris instead. "},{"Title":"Preposterous Tripe From a Vapid Generation of Meaninglessness","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I clicked the contains spoiler button as a goof. Anyone who puts this movie on the DVD for seven minutes and is unable to tell you EXACTLY how it will end is more or less a moron.Often times I read critics or hear people of my parents generation complain about the corrosive nature of Hollywood entertainment in the 21st century. But what could possibly be more corrosive to the mind and soul than two hours spent watching characters you don't care about in a world that never existed pretending to be excited about the most predictable and obvious things? NOTHING, that's what. And this movie won Best Picture at the Oscars! And eight more Oscars! That's insane. Thank god I didn't have to live through this decade. I would have never went to the theater. "},{"Title":"Gallic Culture","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Both of Leslie Caron's biggest hits, Lili and Gigi have always left a bit of a sour taste in my mouth.These acclaimed romantic musicals, while tuneful and pleasant enough on the surface, have a rather sour under-taste that of virgin seduction, exploitation and compromise.In the case of Lili, it's the unsavory and primitive advances of Paul and Marc to waif Lili that's distastesful.  In the case of Gigi, it's Gaston's callous attitude towards seeking to make a young innocent his mistress. Perhaps there's something in the French (or for that matter, general European) culture that I don't quite understand or appreciate.  It does seem pretty plain that these beautiful surface tales cover somewhat animalistic and chauvinistic male proclivities.  When, for example when Madame Alvarez confronts Gaston about Lili's reputation being labelled by her going out with him, Gaston becomes infuriated.  Is he (and the Gallic male libido) so inflated that he can't even begin to see the error of his ways? Try as I can to smile and enjoy the lovely productions, enchanting music and lyrics, and delightful performances, I'm left horrified at the base ethics in operation.  Perhaps it's the stark dichotomy of the two contrasting planes which make each so grating.  In any event, these are not my favorite musicals.  I simply leave it to those cultures in question to savor, relish and hopefully understand these presentations.   "},{"Title":"6.9?!?!","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi won more Oscars than almost any other film in history. Yet, very oddly, it currently has an IMDb score of only 6.9! This makes no sense--especially since the film is magnificent throughout.The film is based on the story by Colette. It's about a sweet young lady, Gigi, and her family's insane intention of turning her into a very high-priced mistress to the rich and famous. However, because Gigi is so sweet, she just can't allow herself to have such a life and she insists on more--which causes problems with the man she loves (Louis Jourdan).While the plot is very simple (as it often is with musicals), the film works magnificently for several reasons. Most importantly, the Lerner and Lowe songs are among the best of any musical and are very memorable. In addition, the acting is so nice--and Leslie Caron is radiant and at her very best. Additionally, the film is just gorgeous--and replicates the grandeur of Paris circa 1900. Why this film has such a current mediocre score is beyond me. "}{"Title":"Fin-de-siecle Paris at its glamorous best!!","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" From hiring French actors to portray French people, to Cecil Beaton's costumes, to the lyrically lilting score and words of Lerner and Lowe, musicals cannot get better than this.The script is sophisticated, witty, adult and satirical (Congratulations, my boy!! Your first suicide!!) - surely an amazing accomplishment in the days of tight-lipped, red-hunting, sexually-repressed Hollywood in the 1950s.The story is from Collette's novella and adapted from Anita Loos' stage play a young girl (Gigi) is being groomed by her courtesan grandmother and great-aunt (Madame Alvarez and Aunt Alicia, respectively) for life in the family tradition of courtesanship. She has a family acquaintance with the Lachaille men, Honore' and Gaston (Maurice Chevalier and Louis Jordan, respectively). Honore' and Madame Alvarez have had a *past* alliance, as spotlighted in the musical number Yes, I Remember It Well. The younger Gaston is bored (It's a Bore!) with life, with his brigades of easy women, lavish parties, and languid trips to the watering holes of Europe. He passes some of his time with Gigi and her grandmother, showing a yearning for a different kind of life.Gigi is simply adorable, as performed by the lovely, talented Leslie Caron. It's quite a stretch to see Leslie Caron as a young girl, but it works if you think of her as 16 verging on 17 and ready to come out of her chrysalis into womanhood.This movie is charmant from beginning to end. It is impossible for me to pick one musical number from the other; they're all magnifique! When I was a young girl, The Night They Invented Champagne was my favorite, spotlighting as it did the yearning to learn what life was about. Listen to the verse at the beginning with all of Gigi's questions about the adventures yet to unfold. Now that I'm much older and more experienced, Yes, I Remember It Well is my anthem.The recreation of Fin-de-siecle France is wonderful, from the proper use of horses purebloods pulling aristocratic carriages, jobbers pulling swimming cabins, burros on the beach - amazingly well done! Aunt Alicia's lovely Louis Quinze apartment, the Bois de Boulogne, Maxims - ah, Paris!!The prominent roles are all acted by French natives, except for Madame Alvarez and Aunt Alicia, who are British. But it all works because they sound literate, cultured and there are no nasal American accents to intrude. Don't get me wrong, I love America but our regional accents don't belong in Gigi.Have I gushed anywhere nearly enough? I love musicals, full stop. All musicals, but mostly MGM's. But among them all, Gigi is bright, funny, wistful, delightful, enchanting, sweet, and, most of all, it succeeds!!!Two funny highlights In Aunt Alicia's apartment for the fashion show, the mannikin's style of walking, on her toes and pitched forward and, when Gigi is being groomed by Aunt Alicia in the beginning, and the task is eating ortolons, tiny songbirds, by slicing the whole bird in one stroke and eating it, bones and all.It's very sad the Oscars*tm* do not award for ensemble performance, because Gigi would have received 10 awards, instead of 9. "},{"Title":"Gaston's search for domestic contentment","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Although several of Vincent Minelli's films can be given consideration for being his best, particularly An American In Paris, Meet Me In St. Louis, Some Came Running, and The Bandwagon, a solid case can be made that Gigi is the best one. Based (or developed) from a novella by Colette, Gigi boasted a score by Learner and Loewe that sparkled with hits like The Night They Invented Champaign, Say A Prayer For Me Tonight, I Remember It Well, and I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore. The cast was impeccable, with Leslie Caron as the gamin girl who blossomed like a flower, Hermoine Gingold as her sensible (but practical grandmother), Isobel Jean as her too practical aunt, Eva Gabor as the mistress/lover whose little heart was crooked to the core, the great Maurice Chevallier (in what is his signature role) as the lovable aging roué Honore, and Louis Jourdan as the bored Gaston Lachaille. All the elements, including an impeccable sense for the time, decor, and color of 1900 Paris, came together under Minelli's direction, so that the film nearly half-a-century later remains excellent. I imagine that everything about this film has been mentioned in these reviews, so I will just comment on one odd point. Gaston, the son of a very rich sugar refiner millionaire, is a public figure of great importance in the 1900 Paris social scene. He is acute in terms of business (witness how he buys a French railway at one point, correctly guessing it's stock would go up a certain level of points), yet he is unable to win a simple card game. He has entry to every posh event in that poshest and showiest of world capitals, but he is bored by it all. He has apparently had it ladled down his throat so much it does not excite him anymore. All this sets up the ironic twist of the story this man who is a known regular at Maxim's, who can rent the Eiffel Tower for a special party at any time, finds his best contentment with the simple apartment of Madame Alverez and her granddaughter Gigi. Instead of guzzling sparkling wines and vintages of Château Rothschild, he likes Madame Alverez's chamomile tea. He finds joy in domesticity, and one senses that (at the end) he finds a perfect mate in this in Gigi (except for their occasional visits to the casinos at Deauville, as Gigi likes gambling). On the other hand, his uncle Honore (a character who was only mentioned in passing in the original novella) is totally different. Honore tells Madame Alverez that he actually was so seriously in love with her when they lived together years earlier that he considered marriage, but panicked and decided to have a fling with an opera singer. While this story does not placate Madame Alverez (who feels it is one of the oddest reasons ever given for infidelity), it suggests that domesticity did attract the Lachaille family members (we are informed by Honore that Gaston's father and mother are boring), but that Honore rejected it out of fear - probably for his freedom. Honore's song, I'm glad I'm not young anymore shows that he is not in need of constant companionship, and looks forward to a lack of responsibility towards the opposite sex as he gets older. It's the total reverse of Gaston's rushing for it. It does suggest that it takes all types to make up society. "},{"Title":"ONe of the best musicals of all time","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is a delightful dish full of ironic humor, frustrated romance, sophisticated music and surprising psychological insight, served up by Hollywood's greatest master of the adult musical comedy, Vincente Minnelli. It's probably not a dish that's going to be to everyone's taste, or to each individual at every point in his or her life. But it represents both the pinnacle of the Hollywood musical of the 1950s and a charming homage to the lost Paris of the 1880s and 90s.Gigi (Leslie Caron) is a young coquette growing up in that rarified environment &#150; we first see her frolicking carelessly in the park as distinguished playboy Honore (Maurice Chevalier, in his best late-career role) extols the virtues of little girls, but soon she is thoroughly enmeshed in salon society as her high-strung aunties attempt to prepare her for the life of a courtesan for Paris' wealthy gentlemen. One gentleman in particular, sugar-baron Gaston (Louis Jourdan) enjoys the company of Gigi and her caretaker (Hermione Gingold) so much that he takes them on a seaside vacation, but he sees her only as a child. That gradually changes as Gigi grows into womanhood and Gaston becomes increasingly bored by society life and the kind of relationship he has with shallow courtesan Liane (Eva Gabor). Gaston decides to make Gigi his paramour, but when he takes her out to Maxim's nightclub and finds that in her attempt to please him she is simply mimicking her auntie (and bearing more than a slight resemblance to Liane, too), he storms out of the joint with a confused Gigi in tow. Gaston knows that he loves Gigi and he must decide between his freedom and his love, because he's realized that Gigi can't simply be another courtesan, another toy whose only purpose is to please the man she is with. Gigi is a spontaneous and willfull person, and Gaston doesn't want to destroy her freedom just to keep what's left of his.My personal opinion, as the above hints, is that Gigi is often a misunderstood film. Like its somewhat more famous predecessor My Fair Lady, the film is actually a polemical examination of gender power relationships &#150; in other words it can be seen as a feminist work of art, but it's one that's designed to make the viewer draw his/her own conclusions. Interpretations abound regarding such elements as Honore's exhortation thank heaven for little girls &#150; mine is that the song is intended as satire, drawing Honore's and Gaston's chauvinism and fixation on youth to such an extreme as to make it ridiculous. Those who are offended by the song aren't thinking about it enough, and those who think its humor is unintentional (or politically incorrect) aren't giving enough credit to the sophistication of Minnelli and Lerner/Loewe and their intended audience.Speaking of Lerner/Loewe, they have here contributed one of the best original scores in the history of film. As far as I know only Say a Prayer is recycled (from Lady). It's a Bore is anything but; a fantastic way to introduce Gaston's character and the contrast between his attitude and Honore's. The Night They Invented Champagne is pure joy, and it's hard to doubt Gaston's sincerity as he flies around Paris exclaiming Gigi! While you were trembling on the brink, was I somewhere out there wink-ing at a star?. There's plenty of humor in the songs too, and we get a touching moment of rare introspection from Honore as he recalls (vaguely) his love for Gingold's character in a long-ago time in I Remember It Well. The songs really do a good job of advancing the story and representing the interior life of the characters, which is Minnelli's favorite thing to get into.This is one of Minnelli's masterpieces, and as such naturally one of the most psychologically complex of all romantic musicals. Every character wears a mask at some point or another. Honore seems to be completely carefree but finally reveals his softer side when confronted with the still-burning embers of his lost love. Gaston has more than one mask &#150; to begin with he often uses money and parties to hide his existential boredom, and in the end that ennui itself is exposed as a mask that he's built to protect HIMSELF from the realization of how much he needs love; it's the last vestige of his masculine pride. Gaston's resigned attitude comes to a head when he discovers his lover is cheating on him &#150; he becomes very angry and emotional, yet he doesn't want to confront the couple until Honore insists that it's his duty as a man. This is crucial &#150; I'm not suggesting that Gaston's boredom with social conventions is a fraud &#150; indeed it's far more sincere that Honore's concern with his honor (note the pun), but rather that he is using it to shield himself from deep or meaningful human contact. In other words, from recognizing the extent of his own powerlessness to control his fate. Even Gigi eventually wears a mask of sorts when she adopts the behavior and attitude that her aunt (Isabel Jeans) has convinced her will please Gaston. A lot of people I've talked to about the film seem confused as to why Gaston is so angry and emotional when he takes her away from Maxim's. I think that Gaston isn't angry at Gigi in any way, but rather that her behavior in this case has caused him to reflect on his OWN dupliciousness, the way that he's allowed himself to sacrifice what he really wants &#150; Gigi's unconditional love &#150; for what he believes is expected of him by the male-dominated society he lives in. His proposal not only paves the way for the consummation of Gigi and Garcon's love affair, but frees them from the oppressive weight of social conventions that threatened to poison their love and ultimately turn them against each other. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous cinematography, lovely score","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  MGM's last great film musical in 1958 (before the breakup of the old studio system), featuring an engaging score by Lerner and Loewe that brings out the characters' private thoughts and feelings, charismatic performances by all the principals, and gorgeous cinematography. Gigi remains one of my favorite films to watch. The humor is also an endearing element to this film, i.e. the banter between Maurice Chevalier and Louis Jourdan in several scenes, the great lines from Gigi's Aunt Alicia about her past love life, and her attitudes towards courting men, the silliness of Gabor's character committing suicide....again!, etc. True love conquers the courtesan world at film's end, and we all breathe a sigh of relief that Gigi was not consigned to that artificial, aberrant lifestyle. One point I would like to make is that the earliest VHS versions of this great musical contained a sound dysfunction, where the dialogue and music was just a fraction delayed from the action. If you are in the market to purchase this film, go with the latest releases and/or the DVD version, which corrected this problem.  "},{"Title":"It's a bore!","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I can understand why this film won most of its 9 Oscars; it's a grand, lavish musical with beautiful sets and exquisite costumes, and we all know how the Academy goes ga-ga for production value. But how it managed to snag Best Picture and Screenplay from far more engrossing and honest films like Cat On a Hot Tin Roof and The Defiant Ones is simply beyond me.The acting in Gigi is fine, and Maurice Chevalier is particularly delightful as the perverted old Frenchman Honore Lachaille. But almost every song in the film is terrible and out-of-place. These boring tunes add another 30 minutes to a snobbish film that already overstays its welcome. The long, drawn out story continues on an meandering and frustrating path until an illogical and anticlimactic ending. Gigi could have been a great movie if it weren't a musical.I do not recommend Gigi to anyone unless you are trying to learn the history of the Academy Awards or have a soft spot for MGM's hollow, gaudy musicals.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, charming, delightful, but really nothing more than that","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The above summary pretty much sums it up.  There is much to appreciate in this film the lavish, sumptuous costumes and sets, the beautiful Paris scenery, the good performances, the great Lerner and Loewe songs, and the occasional witty line or two.  You will definitly be entertained and charmed for two hours, but you may also be bored in some parts.  Many scenes, most, ironically, involving Louis Jourdan, are overlong and drag.  The story, though handled cleverly by Lerner in his script, isn't very involving and is, of course, terribly un-P.C. today.  But if you can get through those hurdles, there will be plenty to enjoy.  Maurice Chevalier is clearly having the time of his life and is wonderful in all his songs, espicially the classic Thank Heaven for Little Girls, the charming I Remember It Well, and 'I'm Glad That I'm Not Young Anymore.  Leslie Caron is good and strikingly beautiful, as well, though she only sings three songs and doesn't even dance.  Hermoine Gingold and Isabel Jeans, who plays Aunt Alyssia, also turn in good performances.  But, as I said, Louis Jourdan, as the man who thinks everything's a bore, is often a bore himself, though at least he sings the song Gigi beautifully.  This is quite an enjoyable, memorable, often charming and delightful film, but is it great?  Is it perfect?  I think not.  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A flashy production, boasting colourful sets and costumes, it also provides a very good feel for the period, setting and appropriate mannerisms, however overall it is not all that great. The songs at times fit rather awkwardly into the story, but it not even a very good story at that. Hardly anything happens, especially for the first hour of the film, and the casting could have been better. It is no mistake that in spite of winning the Best Picture Oscar, the film received no acting nominations. Like Minnelli's fellow Best Picture winning musical 'An American in Paris', the lavish nature of the film overrides the quality of the acting and the story. But from those two, I certainly prefer 'Gigi'. It is far from being a great film, but it still is an enjoyable production, with, if nothing else, a great atmosphere of the era. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautifully presented Musicals of all time","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The first time i watched the movie, i felt it was a bore. The movie hardly has any running time of the character Gigi. The characters were melodramatic and their language was a butchered version of English. I never found the most vital element of Humor missing in the movie and was totally let down after having watched musicals like Singin' in the Rain and Wizard of Oz.Well, it was quite a long time back. I must agree i matured as a person who understands movie and appreciates it and not merely judge a movie based on its efficacy in entertaining. The movie is undoubtedly an entertainer.As the movie progressed, i started to understand the uniqueness of the movie and was enthralled by the songs and art setting. The movie is set in Paris at the turn of the century and the lifestyle, sartorial, marital and tonsorial preferences of the inhabitants is discreetly presented.The songs are brilliantly written and set to euphonious background music and when i paid heed to the lyrics, i realized what i greatly missed the first time i watched it- Humor.The movie also brings forth a message that no matter how rich and famous a man is, his heart remains vacant for a woman who remains herself and not be camouflaged with book-learned principles on satisfying a man. "},{"Title":"Curiously, no dancing...","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Big Hollywood Musical genre in the 1950s was paved with ever more elaborate dance production numbers due to the popularity of stars like Gene Kelly, Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse and yet rather curiously the ballet-trained Leslie Caron does not dance in this one and neither does anybody else. Still, 19th century Paris (the parks, the boulevards, Maxim's, the Follies etc.) is lavishly re-created, the costume designs are marvelous and the Lerner and Lowe songs are very good, if somewhat static in their presentation. The story is almost lighter than air, something about Caron reluctantly being groomed as a chic courtesan, but there is only enough to plot the keep things moving ahead as the camera tracks through or peeks into one gorgeously designed Parisian backdrop after another. The picture remains an old fashioned charmer thanks to million pretty things to look at and winning performances by Caron and especially Maurice Chevalier as an older rogue tutoring younger Louis Jourdan. "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven for this little girl!!!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I totally adore this movie. Leslie Caron plays the adorable character of Gigi who is learning to be a lady and is still trying to figure herself out. Louis Jourdan plays Gaston who falls for Gigi and wants to make her happy. Their relationship starts out rocky but it gets good in the end. Maurice Chevalier is perfect as Honore and the rest of the cast is very helpful to this movie. I highly suggest this movie to anyone who enjoys any kind of old movies.  "}{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 'Gigi' is one of my all-time favourite movies, and I consider to it to be a true masterpiece. Everything about this movie is stunning - the music, the costuming (the precision is fantastic), the story, the cinematography, the performances... everything. For me, 'Gigi' is a perfect example of a movie that just 'works'. Leslie Caron is effervescent as 'Gigi', a role she was simply born to play. Interestingly, I don't like many of her other performances - they seem a bit 'same-y' to me. But her performance as Gigi stands out. I love the moment when she sings 'Say a prayer for me tonight', and she manages to convey the fact that her character is more concerned with surviving the impending heartbreak that may accompany her choice, than with impressing Parisian socialites. You immediately identify with her and (for a young romantic girl like me), even want to be her by the end of the movie. Much has been said about Maurice Chevalier's performance as 'Honore', and it's all true. Even though you almost want to, you can't quite see him as an irresponsible dirty old man. He wins you over. Louis Jourdan as 'Gaston' captures the essence of his character perfectly, and with great style. Again, a role he was born to play. I love the song 'Gigi' when he goes for a stroll around Paris, and the look in his eyes - breathtaking. You can feel his character coming alive. Paris is stunning in this movie, and the filmmakers do a great job of making it look like the stuff of all our romantic fairy tales (which, sad cliché though it may be, it is). The story behind 'Gigi' deserves a mention too - it is sweet and romantic but also manages to be realistic and true to the time and social milieu in which it's set. For me, the story is timeless and universal. There is no glossing over of the harsh realities of the time (particularly for attractive young women, often consigned to a life of quasi-servitude to a string of wealthy men), but the story of Gigi and Gaston makes you believe one or two people may have risen above it. That's the most seductive thing about this movie, and by the time you're also seduced by the lovely(brilliant) music, the excellent acting and the awesome visual detail....what else could you ask for? "},{"Title":"similar to MFL but still great","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Being an enormous fan of My Fair Lady, I felt obliged to watch this film. I was at first frustrated by the seeming lack of plot; the first half of the film just seems engaged with establishing character and not driving the story forward.However, this film is rewardingly worthwhile, if just for the songs alone. I Remember It Well, Gigi, The Parisians and It's A Bore are all as eloquently, wordily witty as their MFL counterparts. The characters are all well-established within the film and Leslie Caron has all the beauty and naivete necessary for the innocent Gigi.Unfortunately, this film comes across as a paler My Fair Lady with a paler Eliza and a paler Higgins. The plot echoes that of MFL, as do many of the scenes (compare The Night They Invented Champagne sequence with The Rain in Spain.) It would be wrong, though, to deny that Gigi has any individuality; it's an undeniably charming piece of cinema and the luscious Parisian scenes, the humorous twitterings of Gigi's aunt and grandmother and Gaston's romantic realisation all conspire to make this a glittering movie worth repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"A movie that sweeps me thru the demi-belle monde of Paris","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...and deposits me breathless in my Brooklyn living room.This movie is like a time machine. I visit the Art Nouveau boudoir of Maurice Chevalier...attend instructions on seduction by the jaded Aunt Alicia...leap along with Louis Jourdan as he awakens to love...am part of the crowd during the cavalcade of decadence at Maxim's...decadence and beauty and Paris...ok, the singing is either adequate or, in Leslie Caron's case, dubbed poorly...and the lyrics can cloy more firmly than the hero's sugar fortune...but the professionalism of the older actors (there should be a special place in cinema heaven for Isobel Jeans)...and the simple joy of witnessing the transformation of GIGI...well, I guess I check this movie out every other year or so to see if I'm so jaded I should be put in Aunt Alicia's collection...and no, not yet...just wish I could don one of those pearl-gray suits with cravats and join Maurice for a plate of cheese! "},{"Title":"Good songs, suitable performances but a narrative that cannot fill the long running time","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gaston Lachaille is a wealthy playboy but, unlike his Uncle Honore, he is fed up with Parisian society with the pressure to marry and to be seen. Meanwhile Gigi is a fresh-faced young girl who's family want her to fit into this same society and have her in ongoing training to be an eligible young lady around town; even if she doesn't understand the Parisians one little bit and can't bring herself to care about the many society rules and pieces of etiquette. While Gaston tries to rejoin the society of women and whimsy, he develops a platonic friendship with Gigi &#150; but is that all it will ever be? Following the success of My Fair Lady comes a film that has a great deal in common with it visually and in regards the songs; you could nearly blend the two together and, plot aside, at times it wouldn't seem that strange a mix. Of course, for those who loved the former then this will be a good thing and indeed, the film is pretty good if not what I had hoped for. I think it may be because I have heard the songs and have heard good things about Gigi that I maybe expected it to be more than a colourful musical &#150; but that is really all it is. The plot is very thin and it didn't engage or interest me very much at all; the songs are memorable and well written and it is they that kept me interested. The story relies heavily on the lead characters of Gaston and Gigi, which is a problem because, although they have the usual pluck required by musicals, they were never real people that I cared about.Of course the whole film looks great &#150; colourful and lavish with a nice sense of humour and I did quite enjoy it, but I couldn't shake the feeling that it didn't have much substances behind all the tunes, colour and humour. The cast try hard and mainly provide the sort of performances you would expect from the genre at the time. Caron is quite charming as the title character and does well, delivering a tomboy while also being feminine and a possible romantic interest. Jourdan is a bit flat and didn't impress me that much &#150; although that may have been part of his character rather than performance. Of course Chevalier pretty much steals every scene he is in with a delightfully comic performance and many of the best songs.Overall, fans of musicals (specifically My Fair Lady) will find much to enjoy here. I'm fairly indifferent to the whole genre but I did find it reasonably enjoyable. The songs are good and the performances are as required but it is hard to shake the feeling that a very thin plot is stretched out to a running time that it cannot comfortably fill. A good musical but not a great film. "},{"Title":"I have just one question...","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...how is this MY FAIR LADY? Over and over again, like a herd, everyone is writing that it's a copy, or a remake, or very similar to. This is an adaptation of a Colette novel, not a Bernard Shaw play. While both stories have a central female character, one is being groomed in elocution while the other is being groomed as a hook-- that is, as a coquette. Is your suspense of imagination so narrow that the same musical team cannot create more than one score without crucifixions for similarities? (Lerner & Lowe also wrote BRIGADOON and PAINT YOUR WAGON...are they also rip-offs of MFL?) Anyway, the film- resplendent in set pieces, cinematography, and especially costumes, is an execution in contradictions it takes a group of less-than-respectable characters and makes them respectable. The lovely Leslie Caron shines as the title character who reveals to her already shocked family that she's not as naive as they seem to think in the ways of courtship and will not give herself to a man that she doesn't actually love. (Remarkably ahead of its time, when you think about it.) There is also something of an enigma in Maurice Chevalier, who, while being a favorite with audiences, is- let's face it- a dirty old man. After more than an hour of boasting about conquering girls young enough to be his granddaughters, he does a kind of about-face when he begins a twilight terrace scene with 'grandmama' Hermoine Gingold. As they reminisce about their own love affair in their white suits (was she the love of his life?) they contribute the film's finest moment the duet I Remember It Well (visually breathtaking against a sky which changes from pastel blue to coral to a flaming orange sunset). The DVD, set to wide-screen, is the only way to enjoy something like this. "},{"Title":"Colorful & Usually Entertaining, Though Somewhat Shallow","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Worth seeing for the colorful settings and some entertaining sequences, Gigi is enjoyable enough to watch that most of the time you don't notice how shallow it actually is. The characters are interesting personalities, and the cast does a very good job of making them believable. The glossy production is appropriate for the story line, which implicitly portrays the main characters as rather superficial, if often engaging, individuals.Maurice Chevalier seems quite at home both in the setting and in the story. Hermione Gingold also gets some good moments, and the musical number that she has with Chevalier might be the highlight of the whole picture. Leslie Caron is engaging, although there are times when her character does not get to do much, other than react to the other characters. Louis Jourdan is solid, though perhaps a little over-earnest at times.There is enough to make it worth watching despite the frothy nature of everything, but it probably would have been more satisfying with a little less padding and a little more substance. "},{"Title":"Classic&sweet","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A Parisian set classic...Gigi learns how to become a lady in early 21st century Paris. Living without wealth of their own, Gigi and her family are treated with kindness by a rich young gentleman.Some excellent performances by some fabulous actors, some of whom Paris can boast as true residents past.The story becomes endearing as Gigi's young age and the gentleman's affections clash until they are both ready for each other, much to the delight of her grandmother and aunt.Wonderful  "},{"Title":"Cute little musical.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Such a lovely film! Leslie Caron is a doll, and though there is a part of me that would've loved to see Audrey Hepburn reprise her roll as Gigi after playing it on Broadway, I think Miss Caron did a fine job, and her authentic French accent is certainly a plus. She really does a great job of playing an impish teenager, impatiently waiting for her adult life to begin.Maurice Chevalier, is, as always, a delight, and the songs are unforgettable. Great coming of age story, told with a twist!9/10 "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven for little girls. Without them, what would little boys do?","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" My summary is from both the opening and closing scenes of Gigi, as sung by the legendary Maurice Chevalier on the streets of Paris as couples ride by in horse-drawn carriages. Leslie Caron, 27, plays Gigi, and Louis Jourdan, 39, fine French actor, plays her eventual suitor, Gaston. It came on the heels of My Fair Lady, and considered a knock-off with lyrics by the same Lerner and Lowe team. Gigi was nominated for, and won, 9 Oscars for 1958, including best picture. However, none were for acting. Although very well done, and Caron is one of my all-time favorites, the story is rather simple and predictable, but fun.Gigi is a joyous but poor young lady, almost a tomboy, cared for by her grandmother, who, along with the old aunt, are trying to refine Gigi, teaching her manners, how to sit and stand lady-like, how to pour coffee, how to select a cigar for her beau, how to recognize fine jewelry. All material things, hoping to help her find a gentleman to marry.Meanwhile Gaston, who is handsome and rich, has a reputation in Paris with the beautiful ladies, but he finds all that boring, boring, boring. After he finds his current lady, played by Eva Gabor, locked in an embrace with her dance instructor, Gaston dumps her and finds him later playing a friendly game of cards with Gigi. She wins, and Gaston has to take Gigi and her aunt to the sea, where Gaston and Gigi have a great time together.At first she resists, then he resists, but as the film ends they decide to get married. Thank Heaven for little girls! Gigi is your typical 1950s and 1960s musical comedy, with bright costumes, light acting, mandatory songs by each character, but no large production numbers. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.  Joyous.  Romantic.  Delightful.","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What costumes!  What music!  What actors!  Everyone should see this movie to lift their spirits. Louis Jourdan is to die for and Leslie Caron is elfin, not to forget Chevalier. "}{"Title":"Me and Mom finally got to watch Gigi after leading man Louis Jourdan died recently","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" When I read that Louis Jourdan died several weeks ago, I suddenly felt a jones to watch Gigi, having previously watched him in Octopussy and Swamp Thing. He's quite dashing here as Gaston especially when singing. Leslie Caron is convincing playing the title role both as a young girl and then when she matures in social graces. And then there's the legendary Maurice Chevalier as the experienced uncle. Certainly he added to his iconic status when warbling both Thank Heaven for Little Girls and I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore. Those and other tunes by Alan Jay Lerner & Frederick Loewe are pretty enjoyable and reminiscent of their songs for their Broadway success of My Fair Lady which would eventually be adapted intact for the movies several years later. Mom and me enjoyed this very much so on that note, Gigi is highly recommended. P.S. The version I watched on DVD also had an alternate commentary track narrated by movie historian Jeanine Basinger with some choice remarks by star Leslie Caron. "},{"Title":"A movie that charmed me over.","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minnelli was a director who just always kept on doing what he was best at; making charming, happy, romantic, musical comedies, even at the time the genre was already beginning to get very outdated. But he really had the last laugh with this movie. It was his most successful one and it even won 9 Oscar's.And yes, I also was quite taken by this movie. It's far from the best or most original one within its genre but I just can't help liking about every bit of it. It's being brought all as such pleasant light entertainment that you just can't help enjoying it, no matter how sappy and ridicules the movie and its story can all get at times. It's still of course also a movie with a serious story in it but even that gets brought in a very colorful way. I even couldn't get bothered with the rather odd concept of having an older guy fall for a young teenage girl and everybody thinking that it's a completely normal and acceptable thing in this movie. Guess that it also still was, not only at the time period this movie got set in but also at the time that this movie got made.The movie is a musical but it's a well concealed one. The musical numbers don't come and go at its predictable moments and they are also simply quite good numbers, performed by the movie its main cast. All of these moments aren't as distracting from the movie and its story as often is the case with these sort of movies. Musical numbers often tend to slow the movie down a bit. In this movie they actually help to make the movie a charming and irresistible one.It's still being a movie that got completely done in the style of the movies from the golden era of the genre. So yes, the movie is an old fashioned one but it simply still all works well for the movie. No big surprise, considering that it had Vincente Minnelli at the helm. He's perhaps still the biggest and best known name with the musical movie genre.Also refreshing to not see Judy Garland as the main lead for his movie for a change. They were already divorced at the time and even though he made quite a few genre movies without her, people still known the both of them for their collaborative works. But just like he had previously done with his movie An American in Paris, he picked Leslie Caron as the main lead. And she was absolutely great and real charming. Also a great accomplishment from her that she managed to play and look like a young teenager very convincingly, even though she was already close to her 30's at the time. But even better was Louis Jourdan, who basically is always great to watch in any sort of role. Still it's surprising to see him perform and even sing in a musical movie such as this one.Simply one charmingly entertaining movie to watch.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Gay Paris dans La Belle Epoque","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The real attraction of this movie is the visual beauty of it, and the look of Paris circa 1900 which it shows.That and the musical numbers, particularly with Maurice Chevalier.The plot is incidental. Some of the people who have written reviews here have not watched this movie closely.Some commented that it was Honore who introduced Gigi to Gaston as a potential mistress.But it is clear that Gaston had known Gigi and her grandmother for years,just how they met was not explained.And Honore is surprised when Gaston mentions that the grandmother had mentioned that she was once Honore's lover. The irony is that Gaston became a playboy apparently because he admired Honore and wanted to follow in his footsteps. But even from the beginning he is bored with that life.What he really enjoys is spending time with Gigi and her grandmother, sharing their simple domestic pleasures.Gaston is at heart a homebody, but refuses to admit it even to himself. Gigi, even though she knows what she is being trained for, never really takes it seriously until she is faced with becoming Gaston's mistress.Up to then, it was all a game.The reality was something in the distant, uncertain future which she could ignore. Her great aunt was blasé about all of this, as she had enjoyed the life.Her grandmother was, like Gigi,putting facing up to reality till the future. Gaston was rather shocked when told that his relationship with Gigi had to change. Obviously, up to that time he had looked upon her as a little sister;they acted like two children who were playmates at the beach.Ironically, first Gigi was squeamish about becoming his lover, then after she reconciles herself to that,HE gets cold feet. No surprise,all of his other lovers he had encountered after they had become veteran courtesans.But having seen Gigi as an innocent child,he revolted at the thought of defiling her. After all,who wants to turn his sister into that?So he becomes more and more uncomfortable until he finally drags her out of Maxim's and returns her home.Finally after walking by himself and thinking, he admits to himself what kind of life he really wants, the kind he has vicariously enjoyed with Gigi and her grandmother all of those years,and the answer is simple,marry Gigi and settle down. "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven for a Film called Gigi","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A wonderful gay musical feature filled with delightful numbers, for example the opening song Thank Heaven for Little Girls as Maurice Chevalier sings about the uniqueness of Gigi among the other girls. And Louis Jourdan and Chevalier's brilliant rhythm and rhyme duet while arguing whether the world is boring or too happy that you can't live without it. The amusing and funny recollection of the past memories in I Remember it Well and in Chevalier's last number I'm Glad, I'm Not Young Anymore. Leslie Caron is back again in Paris with director Vincente Minnelli after celebrating the best picture winning musical An American in Paris. She's so adorable in this film and for the second time in the 50s, she's a part of another and much bigger Oscar winning musical which won every single award which it was nominated for, breaking the record of Gone with the Wind, and surprisingly in the following year the record was broke by an incredible epic, Ben-Hur. Singin' in the Rain and Gigi are among my favorite musicals. The setting, the costume designs and everything in it is wonderful. This is so lively and lovely! "},{"Title":"Thank heaven for not-so-little girls like Gigi!","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love musicals, and I bought Gigi last weekend. After seeing it last night, I found it a truly delightful film with a fine breath of bittersweet air about it, and also an entertaining and sophisticated treat. The story about a young girl training to be a courtesan has been done before and is hardly usual for a big screen musical, but you know what, it is intelligently handled. The real joys are in the production values, the music and the performances though.The film is lavish and just amazing to look at. The costumes are ravishing, the sets are lavish and the scenery is breathtaking. And I have to say the music from Lerner and Loewe is outstanding; the score is enchanting and conducted with precision by Andre Previn and the songs are marvellous especially I Remember it Well and Gaston's soliloquy. The performances are great too, Leslie Caron is really captivating here as the playful-turned-sophisticated Gigi and Maurice Chevalier really brings a twinkle to the eye as Honore. Louis Jourdan looks handsome and is likable as Gaston, Hermione Gingold is brilliant as Mme Alvarez and while lovely Hungarian actress Eva Gabor has little to do she is good as Liane. Vincente Minelli directs impeccably, and Arthur Freed produces just as well. Overall, I loved this film and hope to watch it again, the sheer beauty of the score and the costumes ensures many rewatches. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Gigi A Positive Review","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Minnelli's wonderful film Gigi seems to receive a lot of hate today. It won 10 Oscars, yet it only attracts an IMDb viewing of 6.9 with a host of negative reviews. Why? Well, I think it is a combination of two things. The Oscar backlash was unfortunate but inevitable, as it scooped the pool in a year where Vertigo should have been nominated and won. However, at the time Hitchcock's brilliant film met mixed reviews. A glossy MGM musical over auteur Hitchcock leaves a bad taste in the mouths of film snobs. But why should we blame Gigi? The other element that may have lead to Gigi's nosedive in popularity is the perception that it contains disturbing, sexist elements. Those who make that comment obviously don't know Minnelli very well! As I said, its a wonderful musical. The Lerner and Loewe numbers are extremely strong, with not a bad one in the bunch. The title song, I Don't Understand The Parisians, Waltz at Maxim's (She Is Not Thinking Of Me), The Night They Invented Champagne, I'm Bored and I Remember It Well are all absolutely delicious tunes. The contentious number, the one that aggravates the PC brigade, is of course, Thank Heavens For Little Girls. A delightful tune, in my opinion, and not at all 'suggesting pedophilia', as most audience members would say today.Minnelli was perhaps the true master of the musical, and he was also one of the masters of Technicolour too. The colour palette of Gigi looks just gorgeous. However, the red used in Gigi and her grandmother's apartment, as Louis B Mayer would say, hurts the eyes. An extremely minor complaint, but the red background is distracting.As for the cast, Leslie Caron is utterly charming as Gigi and Louis Jourdan, lively and handsome, easily matches her as Gaston. Chevalier, if a bit leery (hey, he was leery back in the 30's, too!) adds further true Gallic flavour. Hermoine Gingold is also delightful.The script is witty, ironic and not at all sexist. Yes, Gigi is being trained to be a courtesan. Gaston is a man about town who sleeps with various women. But the point is Gigi and Gaston's relationship is different! He treats her as a person, is never bored of her and acknowledges her feelings. Society pressures him into taking Gigi into his bed as a courtesan, and he almost submits, yet he is not happy with the arrangement, or compromising the woman he loves. Gigi assumes her role as courtesan with charm but equal unease, and Gaston rightfully sees through both her mask and his. Gaston shocks society and actually has the guts to marry Gigi! The film is very forward in its sexual politics and not sexist at all.Anyone else notice that the teen film Clueless (1995) references Gigi? Platonic friends who are like brother and sister fall in love, and Hecklerling uses the Gigi theme when Cher descends the stairs in her dress, with Josh looking up at her. And Cher's realisation Oh my god...I love Josh! by the fountain is an obvious tribute to the wondrous Minnelli musical. "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven for little girls.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It has to be unprecedented. Like the 1972 Miami Dolphins. Nine Oscar nominations and nine wins Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Black-and-White or Color; Best Cinematography, Color; Best Costume Design, Black-and-White or Color; Best Director - Vincente Minnelli; Best Film Editing; Best Music, Original Song for the song Gigi; Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture - André Previn; Best Picture; and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium - Alan Jay Lerner.One of the greatest musicals of all time with incomparable stars like Leslie Caron (The L-Shaped Room, Lili), Maurice Chevalier (The Big Pond, The Love Parade), and Louis Jourdan (The First Olympics Athens 1896, Octopussy).The sights and sounds of this film will stay forever, and the songs we all know are repeated here Thank Heaven for Little Girls, It's a Bore, and I Remember It Well.What a show! "},{"Title":"Louis Jourdan and Hermione Gingold are at their best in the film Gigi.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" With deference to Leslie Caron and Maurice Chevalier,Louis Jourdan was given the part of his life in the film Gigi. As a fan of good movies and the MGM type musical,I celebrate an actor who never shined brighter as a star. It is a mark of excellence that the material in this film gave Louis Jourdan the chance to be remembered as long as this film exists. If only every actor who had the ability was given such a script. Equally delightful,the music is a natural part of the story.For example,Maurice Chevalier's rendition of the song Thank Heaven for Little Girls in the finale is magic. Brilliant in a supporting role is Hermione Gingold. With her English accent she shines in a film painted in a French scenario. She also supported superbly in the musical Music Man. Many years have passed since I watched Gigi the first time. The emotion of the story drew me in again as if I had never seen it before. It was even better because I have matured. The French background in that time period gave me the ability to appreciate the atmosphere even more. The French painters Renoir,Monet,and the other impressionists have seasoned my mind with the beauty they created in that time. I continually return to the Turner Classic Movie channel to see such film gems. "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Appearing at the end of the era of great Hollywood musicals,Gigi stands out for a number of reasons and I recall trying for years to put my finger on the main one after seeing this film in its debut in the theaters in 1958. Reacquainting myself with it over the years on TV, a few re releases in art theaters and eventually on Video and DVD, I've finally come to the conclusion that below the pomp and fluff of the turn-of-the-Century Parisian upper class, there beats the heart of a real Cinderella story. The film is great from every angle. The photography is gorgeous, the costumes are fantastic, the music is exquisite, the performances are stellar. Indeed, can you name another musical besides Rogers and Hammerstein's Oklahoma where every damn song is a memorable hit? But, seeing it again last night for the nth time, it struck me that the Gallic flavor is brought home because damn near all the main roles, Gigi, Honore and Gaston are French. The great Hermione Gingold and Isabel Jeans, Grandmama and La Tante were English and Laine, the two-timing mistress,Eva Gabor was Hungarian, but culturally, they all add the necessary spice to give this magnificent film that added flavor to take it to the great heights in the realm of classics. Everything works! Minelli orchestrated the entire cast along with Lerner and Lowe's superb score into a true classic, the test of which is measured by the number of times you can stand to see it again and again. For me, I've lost count at least two dozen times ago; it was my late wife's favorite film and I'm already looking forward to seeing it again! "},{"Title":"Fairer Lady!","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is one of the most beautiful movies ever made. Every aspect is stunningly gorgeous! I get shivers every time I hear the title song. This is one of those movies that makes me wish I was born in another time and place. Leslie Caron is beautiful in every scene (I remember asking Santa one Christmas to make me look like her when I grew up!), and she steals every single one, with a little flutter of her eyelids or an enormous comedic pose. I really couldn't imagine anyone else playing Gigi. Louis Jourdan is handsome and a lovely leading man (there goes another Santa wish). There would be no movie without Maurice Chevalier, how could there be such a thoroughly french (though perhaps stereotypical french) film without him? And Hermione Gingold is warm and adds an elegant feel. Their scenes together are an absolute joy as they take trips down (not so good) memory lane. This is one movie that I would happily watch back to back, everyday, for the rest of my life! "}{"Title":"A lively film for all ages!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a lively film full of fun and colour. Caron is fabulous in the title role, young enough to play a teenager but old enough to play a woman with real emotions. The music is fabulous from all the parts, particularly Chevalier.This is a movie from simpler times, with Gigi a naive girl being raised by her grandmother who is being prepared to be the kind of young lady whose sole purpose in life is to entertain rich men. Gaston's shock at his developing feelings for this child is wonderfully portrayed, and Gigi's resentment at society for imposing upon her behaviours which do not suit her lively nature is sensitively done. This is a wonderful film for all ages, although the singing can get a bit much at times! "},{"Title":"MGM has its own MY FAIR LADY","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a classic. One of the most romantic, tuneful and lush of all musicals, it remains fresh due to the material, director Vincente Minnelli's unerring good taste, Lerner and Lowe's magnificent contribution, Cecil Beaton's production designs, and of course, the cast. Maurice Chevalier appears now as the distant past, but his delivery of this role is so charming, so current, he was robbed of an Oscar nomination. In fact, GIGI is one of the few best Pictures not to have any acting nominations. No matter, they will last forever. The picture looks to be a series of lovely, almost delicate paintings, a series of Monet's work seen through Minnelli's and Beaton's ever artistic eyes. "},{"Title":"When Did Your Heart Turn to Desire?","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Hollywood rarely has chosen musicals as its best picture Oscar winners.In 1958, they did, honoring Gigi with 9 Academy Awards. How well deserved this picture was.The great musical numbers by such an appealing, endearing cast can never be forgotten.From the title song, that also copped the Oscar to The Night they Invented Champagne, the film literally sparkles with such performances from Leslie Caron in the title role, to Louis Jourdan, surprisingly very appealing in a musical, for this veteran dramatic actor.Of course, there is the unforgettable Maurice Chevalier as the man about town again courting his true love, a wonderful Hermione Gingold. Ah yes, he may not have remembered it that well, but are those twosome great.Gigi matures to our very eyes and what a pleasure it is to see this view.Gay Paris was never lovelier. O to return to those times. Magnifique! **** "},{"Title":"Gigi!","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I absolutely adored this movie. Not only because my mother named me after it, but because the movie and the storyline are above and beyond. Gigi, who is a tomboy in Paris, is being trained by her grandmother and aunt to become a type of golddigger woman. While Gigi's mother is Opera singing, Gigi spends her days after school learning how to pick out fine jewels and smell fine cigars. Although Gigi rather not be what it is her relatives are making her, she decides to go through with it all because of a slight crush she has on Paris's most famous bachelor, Gaston. Gaston has been a friend of Gigi's family for a long time, and once Gigi starts growing out of all of her girlish charms and into a sexy woman, Gaston takes an interest in her. The wonderful music and delightful cast make this movie worth wild. I could watch it over and over again. 5/5 stars for Gigi! "},{"Title":"boost on your moral!!!","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was ten years old. At first I thought what great music, and then what a great girl, and last but not least what a fantastic woman. It made me realize the glamor that movies can produce in your life, and I was only ten. As years went by I got to love this movie even more. That's rare. What can keep up with you until your twenties, when you saw it as a little girl. So if you are low, without any patience for the million dollar productions, same story movies of today, I highly recommend that call someone you can laugh with ,or prepare a cozy spot, because you are in for a treat. I sadly have to say that this is one of those days, I need to see Gigi again, and I'm afraid it won't be the last one. But that's the greatness of the movie, no matter how many times you've seen it, or if it's your first, you will never forget, and it can bounce you of your lows. "},{"Title":"Visually Beautiful; a Difficult-to-Do and Very-Appealing Musical Indeed","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Not many films manage to be swift-paced, interesting, appealing to a broad range of viewers and stylish as well. The elusive term style I suggest, as well as the other qualities just mentioned, probably refer in large degree to Gigi. Adapted from a slender novel, Gigi tells the story of a turn-of-the century girl turning into a woman in France, and being offered the career of courtesan to a wealthy patron--for which she has been groomed carefully by female relatives for years. What happens when she approaches, accepts and then rejects this conventional Gallic prospect becomes the catalyst for a merry, touching and utterly memorable film experience. Vincente Minnelli's masterly direction keeps the storyline moving everywhere, not the easiest task in a musical. Alan Jay Lerner and Frederic Loewe's last and lovely score, presents such by-now-classic numbers as I'm Glad I'm Not Young Any More, She's Not Thinking of Me, I Remember It Well, The Night They Invented Champagne, It's a Bore and Gigi. And Cecil Beaton's costumes plus every other creative and technical aspect of the film are stunning. it could not have been easy to mount as a production either, since Gigi has exteriors, interiors, small rooms, large rooms, crowd scenes and outdoor forays as well.. Among the large cast, Hermione Gingold and Maurice Chevalier are standouts; as the lovers, Leslie Caron and Louis Jourdan have their finest roles ever and make the most of them. Isabel Jeans, Jacques Bergerac, Eva Gabor and John Abbot also do very well. This film was something of a last hurrah for the MGM team that had given us so many musical delights in the past, under the supervision of Arthur Freeed. For this film and so many others, they have earned the eternal gratitude of filmgoers everywhere. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST movie musicals of all time!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film is undoubtedly one of the best movie musicals ever made.The sumptuous costumes & sets and the gorgeous scenery & cinematography would have to be among the best ever in a film/musical. Even the screenplay has to be one of the best ever written for a film/musical. Bravo, Alan Jay Lerner! Maurice Chevalier(Honore), Louis Jordan(Gaston), Leslie Caron(Gigi), Hermione Gingold(Mamita), Isabel Jeans(Aunt Alicia) & Eva Gabor(Liane) are all absolutely EXCELLENT in their roles - This is one film where 'all' the actors play their parts to the fullest, and should all have won Oscars for their marvelous performances. Each of them convince you that they *are* whoever they're playing, by totally 'becoming' the character.And then you get the *marvelous* Lerner & Loewe score. This score ranks right up there with their MY FAIR LADY score if not even superior, and is undoubtedly one of the best scores ever written for a musical. I just cannot pick a fav. song. Do make it a point to get the soundtrack, because you can properly experience, taste & enjoy all the instrumental numbers etc(for instance, if you take the 'gorgeous' A Tojours waltz, that is played during the Ice Skating Sequence, you can barely listen to it here because the focus is on the dialogue. It's right up there with the Embassy Waltz in MFL and the Carousel Waltz by Richard Rodgers) You can also read *all* about the Making of the film, in the liner notes of the soundtrack, which are extremely detailed & interesting to read. I can understand why some people find certain scenes to be over-long & boring, and why they don't particularly care for the plot, although none of these have bothered me one *bit*. Also, Lerner & Loewe turned this into a Broadway Musical in 1973, starring Alfred Drake, Daniel Massey & Agnes Moorehead. They made several changes, and also added several new songs, among them The Earth and Other Minor Things Paris Is Paris Again In This Wide Wide World I Never Want To Go Home Again The Contract, and also expanded other songs by adding new verses(unfortunately, they had to drop The Parisians and Say A Prayer For Me Tonight which is an *absolute* shame - although the new songs they added were all really great & also among the best L & L have composed). You can hear these songs on the Original Broadway Cast Album, and also in the Original London Cast Recording, both which I really recommend for fans of this movie. One thing that I would like to have seen was some good dancing, which seems to be lacking(especially with the delightful Leslie Caron). Ah well, everything else is so perfect, one can easily forget about that. Anyhow, all in all, I positively *adore* this musical; it's SO beautiful. Thank *HEAVEN* for Lerner & Loewe, and for MGM.  "},{"Title":"Why can't a woman be more like a man?","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have just been reading Vincente's autobiography I remember it well which is really fun even though I may never know many of his movies, some of them I like a lot some of them I don't get. Anyway, I've been learning he was way into production design and usually the gaga reviews he got were over sets which he always modeled after some artist related to the milieu of the picture which probably helped the critics to feel very intelligent about their opinions on the matter. Anyway hotly anticipated GIGI's supposed to be one of his triumphs. A triumph of the embalmer's art is more like it!Gigi seemed to me 45 minutes in or so to be about the LAZIEST film I've ever seen. Say, why don't we just have Leslie sitting here now we cut to her walking there, then she sits down and finishes the song! I'm watching this thinking Excuse me!? There's like, no choreography! And what are you left with. I think some of the lyrics are fun but the songs are blah maybe they would grow on you if you could stand to listen to them more but in any case the orchestrations are a Drrrag!. They should have just made them more modern or used a MUCH smaller orchestra thank you very much! Anyway one song is heard in someone's head while people just sort of vamp it up doing nothing in particular the entire time. Now Eva Gabor *is* great at it, she shines here (and looks more like a young Joan Rivers than herself which is all the more fun for audience of today), but the entire 'number' should not rest on a single Gabor just mugging her perky little pasties off. Another song dazzles us with visuals of two guys riding in a carriage with this incredibly el cheapo unnatural looking rear projection of crappy footage in the background of the Paris streets (minus cars cause the camera is pointed upwards). Watching this I'm like Are you kidding me? I'm sorry moviegoers and the academy and most of all I'm so so sorry Liza, and if y' can hear, me, hon, Judy, but this is pathetic!!! This doesn't look like a Hollywood production it looks more like public access TV. Bad Vincente!One red hot bright light is Eva's evil beau who was in real life married to Dorothy Malone and Ginger Rogers Jacques Bergerac's the name. Ooh la la! He left show biz to run Revlon's Paris offices. Now that's my idea of lipstick! Just goes to show the good lord knew how to make them back then even if Hollywood producers rarely allowed them to appear on screen.Anyway this ain't Paris, this is Dullsville and after 45 minutes I said La vie est trop courte! (Life's too short.)Something really could have been done with the script after some editing. Bad Vincente! "},{"Title":"Thank Heaven for the end of this film","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" What an odd film; an even odder Best Picture winner. Mental note, I need to see the rest of the nominees from 1958's Academy Awards to see if it was just a slow year for film or if Gigi has simply lost its luster. Directed by Vincente Minnelli, starring Leslie Caron in the titular role, Gigi tells the story of family conformity and growing up while already having your life planned out for you. The curve ball with this film is that this family is grooming Gigi to be a mistress; I told you this was an odd film.Gigi opens in a park in Paris, with a character named Honoré Lachaille (Maurice Chevalier) breaking the 4th wall right down and conversing directly with the audience. This man proved to be the uncle of Gaston Lachaille (Louis Jourdan), a wealthy aristocrat who provides Gigi with some respite from her lessons to play cards and enjoy her youth. It is not only Gigi who is being granted a respite when Gaston visits, for he is also weary of the life of a wealthy Parisian. Gaston is quite bored with the high society life and the women he I supposed to be dating. Gigi, though she is being raised by her strict Grandmother and enduring lessons in becoming a cultured woman to better be a mistress to men, Gigi is youthful and maintains a fun, playful relationship with Gaston. As Gigi matures and Gaston finds himself increasingly more dissatisfied with his life and relationships, a love starts to blossom. Guided all throughout the film by Gaston's fun-loving uncle, Honoré Lachaille; Gigi is a fun movie despite its oddities.Of course, the most blatantly obvious oddity is the fact that Gaston is an older friend of Gigi's in the beginning of the film. An older man; Gaston sees Gigi mature, and when this platonic friendship evolves into a sexual attraction, it is a little unsettling. What is also bizarre about this film is that the audience watches Gigi take her lessons from her mature Aunt, lessons Gigi dreads and despises, all the while made clear that the women in her family are not women that marry. It was difficult for me to watch an innocent young girl be bred for a life of male servitude, when all she wanted to do was be among her friends and the trees, enjoying life like a young girl of her age should have been. It's always a little tough to watch someone's life be so strictly planned out for them, the all too common occurrence that this is. The tone of the movie was just off; we were given the wonderful jovial uncle, singing such songs as Thank Heaven for Little Girls, coupled with a former lover committing suicide and a girl getting primed for life as a mistress. Also, with the interesting camera devices used; freeze frames and breaking the fourth wall, to name a few, I got the feeling that this musical couldn't decide if it wanted to be a comedy or a tragedy.I'm not sure what type of audience to recommend this film to. Perhaps, only the most devout fans of musicals are the ones that will appreciate this film. Aside from the fun unconventional film uses in the film, Gigi fell flat. I can only surmise after viewing this film, that 1958 must have been an incredibly meager year for great films, in the Academy's view, anyway. "},{"Title":"Leslie Caron Shines!","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is a coming of age story involving a girl (Leslie Caron) and the man (Louis Jourdan as Gaston) whose affections for her become romantic when she becomes a young woman.It won the Oscar for Best Film and all eight others it was nominated for after its release in 1958. On every level it was successful, but was it really the best film released that year? Probably not. However the film is charming and it does possess great production values (e.g. costuming, set design). Each scene is like a Renoir or Cassatt come alive. Filmed in France, it captures a joie de vivre that is perfectly personified by Miss Caron. Though her voice is dubbed, she embodies a spirit that infuses every scene of the film. The Night They Invented Champagne is the number I most enjoy, and she gives the scene the boundless energy of the cancan.But this is a victory of style over substance, because the story of Gigi is very simple. It lacks the depth of My Fair Lady, for example, which followed six years later and bore striking similarities.Maurice Chevalier (as Honore Lachaille, the uncle of Gaston) and Mr. Jourdan use the same talk-singing style employed by Rex Harrison in My Fair Lady. It does not detract from Gigi, but it is noticeable.Some viewers might find the storyline, which deals with the education of a courtesan, less than romantic. And the film--like many others--focuses on the lifestyles of the rich. But Gigi is charming nonetheless. It is best to surrender to its charms and appreciate the performance of Miss Caron, whose transformation from girl to woman is flawless. "}{"Title":"If only I could separate the artistic and musical elements from the story","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The musical performances and art direction and most of all Maurice Chevalier make this watchable and even worthwhile. However, I can just not get over a young teenage girl who does not get the ramifications of what she is doing, being groomed for being and advised to be the mistress of a wealthy powerful man. Even the girl's grandmother, great aunt, and the wealthy man's uncle get into the act as in being pro teen mistress. I realize this was 1958, and thus this sort of thing did not seem so creepy at the time, but Maurice Chevalier singing Thank Heaven for Little Girls while ogling little girls on a playground, in the way that he did rather creeped me out too. I think if we didn't have the public spectacle of what happened to a young Monica Lewinsky, discarded by an older powerful man, unmarriageable and unemployable by reputation due to the scandal, whose name will be a joke long after she is in the grave, and now well into her forties alone, maybe I wouldn't feel this way so much, but I digress.This was still the fifties however, and this film chickens out in the end and manages to have a production code approved ending. Somehow not having the courage of its convictions makes it even worse for me. "},{"Title":"A New Fair Lady","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's the start of 20th century Paris. Honoré Lachaille (Maurice Chevalier) is an old cynical playboy. His nephew Gaston (Louis Jourdan) is a famous womanizer and bored with everything except his friendship with Madame Alvarez (Hermione Gingold) and her young fun-loving granddaughter Gigi (Leslie Caron). Gigi is sent to her Great Aunt Alicia (Isabel Jeans) to be groomed as a courtesan. Gaston and Gigi wish to have their old relationship but are forced to change.Alan Jay Lerner delivers a 'My Fair Lady'-like script. In fact, it's sold based on Lerner-Loewe's Broadway success. The visual is a brightly-colored over-the-top extravaganza. There are great catchy tunes like I Remember It Well and Thank Heaven for Little Girls. However, this is too broad. It's too stage-like in its execution at times. This is a big French meal that is too rich for my taste. "},{"Title":"Strange Minnelli Musical","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Weary of the conventions of Parisian society, a rich playboy (Louis Jourdan) and a youthful courtesan-in-training enjoy a platonic friendship, but it may not stay platonic for long.This is apparently a film about fashion, because Gigi is all about fancy clothes. When bundled up, she looks very much like Madeleine (which, for all I know, is normal in France). But underneath? Some bold, wild patterns! Gigi is a role that seemed tailor-made for Audrey Hepburn, and I guess that some people wanted her to have it, though Leslie Caron nails it. Is Caron as big a name as Audrey? Goodness, no. But perhaps she ought to be. "},{"Title":"Gee its grand to watch Gigi over and over, a film my sisters and I have adored from childhood","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In Paris, during the middle of the 19th century, handsome Gaston (Louis Jordan) is a sugar empire heir with a great deal of money. Like his father, Honore (Maurice Chevalier), he has shunned marriage in favor of having a succession of beautiful women. His present love, Lianne (Eva Gabor) is certainly pretty. But, as Gaston relates in song, he is truly bored with his lofty position in society, with women, and with parties. The only place he feels comfortable is at the home of an old friend (and former flame of Honore's), Mamita (Hermione Gingold). Odd it is, because the dear lady is rather poor and lives in an unfashionable neighborhood with her opera singing daughter AND her vivacious granddaughter, Gigi (Leslie Caron). Although she is in her middle teen years, Gigi is still treated by Gaston and her grandmama as a little girl and, in truth, she still acts as one, being very innocent and wide-eyed. Gaston loves eating Mamita's great cooking and playing cards with Gigi, away from the social scene. Unhappily, the sugar king soon finds that his lady love has been unfaithful and he makes a very publicized break with Lianne. To boost his spirits and pay off a card game debt to Gigi, Gaston, Mamita, and Gigi all go to the seashore for a vacation. They have a great time. But, Mamita's sister, also a former courtesan, wishes to change things when the trio returns to Paris. She sees that Gigi is really a young woman and, perhaps, they have a chance to offer her up as Gaston's next courtesan? She'd be well taken care of that's for certain. The only problem is that Gigi may not want to become the kind of woman who gets passed around but, rather, might want to be married and have children. What will the next season bring? Gee willikers is Gigi a pleasure to watch, as I and my sisters have done since our sixties' childhood. A musical, it nevertheless has enough non-musical action to satisfy those who don't particularly care for the genre. However, the songs are lovely and integral to the plot. Then, the acting is great, with Caron, Jordan, Chevalier, Ginggold and all of the others being near perfect in their respective roles. Also, the Paris setting, the terrific costumes, the lovely photography, and the superb direction by Vincente Minelli all contribute to the movie's enjoyment. It was awarded an Academy Award as best picture in 1958 and deservedly so. With that fact in mind, why not seek out Gigi ASAP? "},{"Title":"Minnelli Waves a Magic Wand","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In 1900 Paris, charming teenager Leslie Caron (as Gigi) is raised to be a potential mistress for rich and handsome Louis Jourdan (as Gaston Lachaille). Instead - wouldn't you know it - the two fall in love. While it has a flimsy, predictable storyline that does not support its running time, there are exquisite sets, gorgeous Cecil Beaton costumes, breathtaking locations, and award-winning Joseph Ruttenberg cinematography. Masterfully, Gigi won all nine of the nine Academy Awards for which it was nominated, including Best Picture of the year and Best Director Vincente Minnelli...As Mr. Jordan's uncle, Maurice Chevalier (Honoré Lachaille) memorably sings the sly Thank Heaven for Little Girls and, with Ms. Caron's grandmother Hermione Gingold (Madame Alvarez), the classic I Remember it Well. Betty Wand dubs the singing for Ms. Caron on the bubbly The Night They Invented Champagne and others. And, Mr. Jourdan's own French-accented Gigi is another Alan Jay Lerner & Frederick Loewe highlight. The otherwise lightweight and derivative MGM soundtrack LP received saturation play, and was #1 for ten weeks of its over two year chart run.******* Gigi (5/15/58) Vincente Minnelli ~ Leslie Caron, Louis Jourdan, Maurice Chevalier, Hermione Gingold "},{"Title":"Charming Romantic Confection","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Everyone makes so much of the politically incorrect plot line of Gigi. Since the film takes place in 1900, and the suffragette movement was in its infancy; in the Republican political climate of France; Gigi's class and women like her were cultivated to be different; not courtesans as such but the consorts of political men in high office, the ruling elite and the intelligentsia. Aunt Alicia says as much when she explains that Gigi and others like her; do not marry at once but marry at last. By keeping her from accepting invitations from her friends at school she maintains her exclusivity and separateness; hardly a courtesan or a prostitute. And Alicia emphasizes over and over again; it's not the size of the gemstone; it's the quality. Do not settle for second rate, she implies. This is not the ideology of the bourgeoisie one would expect. Alicia is cultivating her niece to become a consort to a king or a shah or an emperor. Such women had incredible power politically (and still do) and influenced the Arts, the Literature of the time; they were power brokers. It's this construct that I love. What more can a woman rise to in this time and age other than bearing children and risking the hardship attached to this? Much has been said about the music and costumes and scenery. Her fabulous dress for her coming out at Maxim's was a knock out. I adore Gaston Lechaille singing Gigi with incredible ardour at the close of the film. "},{"Title":"Thank heavens, for musicals.","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Based on Anita Loos' play, out of the novel written by Colette, Gigi snatched a ream of Academy Awards and promptly became the course of much debate and criticism for ever and a day it seems. The problem, as most musical aficionados will attest too, is that Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe rehashed their previous stage hit My Fair Lady. Which to an extent is true, hell they even slotted in one of My Fair Lady's thrown away songs, Say A Prayer For Me Tonight, into Gigi's bubbly mix. But on its own terms, Gigi is still a vibrant and rewarding picture that holds up well with each passing year.The story had already been done as a French film directed by Jacqueline Audry in 1950, and a year later it had been played dramatically straight on Broadway with Audrey Hepburn in the title role. So for sure it was already a well formed story. Lerner & Loewe merely added their Fair Lady formula, got the talented Vincente Minnelli to direct it and broke out from the studio to utilise the Parisian locations. A touch heavy at almost two hours long, one still can't help getting wrapped up in some wonderful tunes and Cecil Beaton's gorgeous period costumes. The cast may be a mixed bunch, with it at times feeling like a competition to see who can be the most French, but with the spiky dialogue being wry and tart, and one of those finales, it's a winner and highly recommended to fans of the musical genre. 7/10 "},{"Title":"French dressing","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pleasant, mostly charming Lerner & Loewe musical engaging the cream of French talent (Chevalier, Jourdain, Caron and more), prettily placed in front of the camera by maestro musical director Vincente Minelli. Apart from some ugly (in hindsight) travelling process shots early on, Paris is caught in all its effervescent beauty. There's not much to the story, in fact more of the narrative is told in the multitudinous songs which pleasingly pepper the whole, where it must be said, Lerner's lyrics match Lorenz Hart in terms of rhyming invention and Cole Porter for urbanity and cool. The melodies are mostly memorable too combining to deliver a number of standards, well remembered today. The acting is mostly good, Jourdain particularly pleasing in his rich dilettante role, playing his clothes well and much the same can be said for Leslie Caron in the title role, although she does seem to go from girlish games at the start to womanly wiles rather quickly. Maurice Chevalier, I guess, plays a love him or hate him role, as the sly old bachelor uncle forever winking and shrugging his shoulders as he mugs directly to camera (to what end I'm not quite sure) - I tend to the latter view, myself, finding him a bit of an unbearable nuisance. Of course the revolutionary West Side Story was waiting just around the corner to blow away this old-fashioned type of musical (excepting the last hurrah that was The Sound of Music) and I know which style I prefer, but there's little wrong with this overlong but nonetheless attractive and frothy feature. "},{"Title":"My French Lady","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In 1956 Lerner and Loewe's My Fair Lady was a memorable hit on Broadway and for a while all the studios in Hollywood struggled to get the rights for the film version. Two years later, having lost the rights to Jack Warner, MGM hired Lerner and Loewe to work on a similar story, trying to repeat that incredible success. Their bet was won Gigi did well and got 9 Oscars, including Best Picture, over Hitchcock's Vertigo (!) Now it is a bit forgotten - since 1964 it has been overshadowed by Fair Lady and, I must say, with some good reasons. The plot, if similar, is not as interesting as Fair Lady's, and it deals with somewhat scandalous matters (Gigi being trained by her aunt to be a first class hooker) in a very veiled, prudish way, so that it's not always easy to understand what's going on. A.J.Lerner's script, which follows very closely the original play by Colette, has none of the wit or the cleverness of the one he wrote for Fair Lady, closely following Shaw. As for the actors, Leslie Caron, whose singing was dubbed by Betty Wand, is a nice little thing, but on the whole, she's not more than the poor man's Audrey, and Louis Jourdan as the male lead can't hold a candle to Harrison. Gigi is still a pleasant film, though. Maurice Chevalier's performance is for sure one of its high points, even if he now looks a bit creepy singing Thank heaven for little girls. Its glorious Technicolor is still gorgeous to look at and Cecil Beaton's costumes are wonderful. It has some very nice songs too, especially the bittersweet, nostalgic I remember it well, sung by Gingold and Chevalier in one of the best scene of the movie. Other nice songs are Say a Prayer for Me Tonight -originally written to be sung by Eliza in My Fair Lady and The Night They Invented Champagne, a kind of French Rain in Spain. On the whole, a light, graceful film - 7/10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Musical Films Of The 50's Gigi","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi (1958) Starring Leslie Caron, Louis Jourdan, Maurice Chevalier, Hermione Gingold, Isabel Jeans, Eva Gabor, Edwin Jerome, Jacques Bergerac, John Abot, Jack Ary....Director Vincente Minelli, Screenplay Alan Jay Lerner, Based On The French Novel By Colette.I realized I'd rather be miserable with you than without you......The 50's saw many gorgeous color musicals on film, as would the subsequent early to mid 60's. Gigi is based on the French female writer Colette's short novel and was previously a Broadway stage musical by Frederic Loewe, several successful early 50's productions starring Audrey Hepburn before she had ever made an American film. Although Colette favored Audrey in the role of Gigi for a film version, she was contractually unavailable filming the musical Funny Face with Fred Astaire. Most likely she would have also committed to making this film, for the role of Gigi was one she coveted. But the part went to none other than the beautiful French-born actress Leslie Caron. Caron had made several successful films throughout the 50's (An American In Paris, Lili) and was an actress whose transition to American film mirrored the career of Audrey Hepburn, whom she resembled. Here, Caron portrays Gigi, a high-spirited, charming young French girl who lives with her mother (never seen on film) a lousy opera singer and her grandmother Grandmama Madame Alvarez (Hermione Gingold) who is stern but loving. Louis Jourdan portrays the care-free, laid-back playboy Gaston. Maurice Chevalier portrays Honore Lachalle, a former romantic partner of Madame Alvarez, an elderly playboy and narrator of the film. Gigi is groomed by her Aunt Alicia (Isabel Jeans in a great role) to learn the ways of a courtesan a sort of glorified, high-class prostitute/mistress. This sordid truth, drawn from the historic fact that there were such courtesans in Paris during the 19th century and the turn-of-the-century Belle Epoque (the time of this film), is tactfully and safely delivered so that it doesn't offend and is hardly vulgar, though admittedly the innuendo and the overall spirit of this film is oriented to mature audiences, especially in the fact that there is a much older man and young girl relationship at the core. Louis Jourdan and Leslie Caron have terrific chemistry. Their relationship, even if conveyed through a degree of acting when they are not belting out songs like Gigi and The Night They Invented Champagne, is beautifully and naturally rendered on screen. We see the first stage of their relationship, that of friends, blossom into a romantic one in which Gaston recognizes that this once childish girl has grown into an independent and loving woman who, rather than bending to the materialistic and self-centered life of the courtesan, rejects it and prefers to find happiness in a truly loving relationship. Look for Eva Gabor in a cameo role as one of Gaston's lovers Liane D'Exelmans. The stunning cinematography and costumes by the often used Hollywood costume designer Cecil Beaton (who would work on the costumes for 1964's My Fair Lady) are exquisite. The soft pastel colors resemble French Impressionism and the gorgeous shots of Paris, both in broad daylight and in evening darkness, are lovely and true to the French-ness of Colette's novel. Francophiles should eat it up, as the scenes of the tree-lined boulevards of Haussman, the Bois De Boulogne, The Arc De Triomphe, Eiffel Tower, outdoor restaurants and cafés, ice-skating ring, the beach scenes, the nightlife at such restaurant/dance clubs as Maxim's, are all wonderfully evocative of 19th century and turn of the century France and quite honestly makes one want to go to France. This is a good film overall but I think it's best enjoyed in its context. It's a document of 50's cinema-musicals, it's of interest to fans of the Colette novel and fans of musicals in general. "}{"Title":"It's a Bore all right...","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I saw this after having already seen the 1949 non-musical film of the same name, which I disliked (5/10).I liked this one slightly more, but not enough to recommend it. I remain stunned that this actually won any award for its year.Two differences between the 1949 and 1958 versions (1) The 1949 version makes it very clear what is going on, and I prefer the honesty of that version, if nothing else. The child is entirely dependent on grandmother, who is intent on turning her into a whore for rich men who like adolescent girls. I don't recall exactly, but I doubt it ended with a marriage. In 1958, it's not entirely clear until late in the film that the adults in Gigi's life are grooming her to be a teen mistress, and the grandmother seems to have doubts. (2) The subject matter in 1958 is pushed to the back with happy-sounding songs, over-saturated colour, and a ridiculous happy ending marriage. Frankly, audiences of this sort of film don't seem to care at all about plot, as long as there's a faux-happy ending and some razzle dazzle.Regarding the ending, keep in mind that Gigi is marrying a man-slut, who is almost certainly going to cheat on her in a few months (as Honoré says) when he gets bored and finds someone younger.Thank Heaven for Little Girls is just creepy, and it's not the only song about old men lusting after teenage girls in the film. In the discussion area people describe this character as sweet and grandfatherly, ignoring the obvious truth that these are exactly the men who are likely to commit abuse, because they can get away with it. Did the last 20 years happen, or did I just imagine it? I thought we learned this. And by the way, how many grandchildren does this man have, and by how many women? Do his grandchildren even know him?The Say A Prayer For Me Tonight scene reminded me of The Boondocks Hunger Strike episode where the BET CEO has what appears to be a dead cat in her arms (meant to be a spoof of Dr. Evil and Mr. Bigglesworth, but unintentionally also spoofs Gigi and her cat) I found most of the songs lacklustre and dull and instantly forgettable. And for a musical, there was too much talking, not enough music.I have not seen many films from 1958, and most of them were at least as bad as this one. But I would recommend The Defiant Ones over this. "},{"Title":"As Louis Jordan comments, It's a bore.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  For the SECOND time, I forced myself to sit through Gigi, only because it won so many Academy Awards, including Best Picture of 1958.  This was the SECOND time because the first time, I fell asleep after the first half-hour. This time, I made it all the way to the 130 mark before picking up a magazine and doing some minor errands in my living room.Yes, the sets and costumes are excellent. The songs are passable (excepting the classics Thank Heaven for Little Girls and I Remember It Well) but the STORY, the screenplay, lacks the momentum to keep modern viewers (anyone born after 1950) interested.Another reviewer asked who else but Maurice Chevalier could sing such great songs? and the answer became clear to me in the middle of this movie - Rex Harrison could. In fact, the speak-singing that seems to characterize Lerner and Lowe's songs is incredibly repetitive and done much better in My Fair Lady. In fact, Leslie Caron didn't impress me much here-- she's merely doing her best Audrey Hepburn imitation (though she does it well), and instead of a male lead grooming a young female as in My Fair Lady, we have two elder women doing the same thing, right down to instructing her how to pour tea.Still think you want to see Gigi? Do yourself a favor and watch My Fair Lady again. "},{"Title":"Rich allegory for something that never happens...","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Did anybody ever live like this?  Probably not.  At the turn of the 19th century a sugar tycoon is torn between bachelorhood and an attractive, brash girl who has turned into a young lady right under his nose.  This is no girl-next-door story.  Neither is there any mistaking of roles.  Men do what men do and women do what women do.  Everything is overdrawn, garish, brash, lush, beautiful.  Several classic Lerner-Loewe songs help remind us this is allegory.  My personal favorite, perhaps a reflection of my own advancing years, is I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore.  All in all, a good, but not perfect, film. "},{"Title":"A Politically Incorrect Plot With Non-Charismatic Characters","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In Paris in 1900, Gigi (Leslie Caron) is raised by her grand-mother and grand-mother 's sister to be a whore. Gaston Lachaille (Louis Jourdan) is a futile playboy that is contributing for the 'formation' of Gigi. Honore Lachaille (the boring and grinner Maurice Chevalier) is the futile grand-father of Gaston. This politically incorrect story may be a great success in the past, for the values of 1958, but now-a-days it is a shame. With the exception of the lovely Gigi, all the characters are not charismatic (actually they are repulsive). The grand-mother and her sister are caftan, Gaston and his grand-father are futile, and the poor Gigi in the end indeed can not resist and becomes a whore! Even the songs are old-fashionable and boring. The splendid photography makes the movie worthwhile. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Gigi "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about?","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  While visually spectacular, I found myself rather uninvolved with the whole. The plot is rather distasteful, and for a musical, it's pretty darn dull - not too many memorable songs and no large dance numbers.I'll keep My Fair Lady as my vote for the best of the Lerner & Lowe musicals.  "},{"Title":"the derp is strong on this one","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you've read any of my reviews of musicals, then you'll know that I watch them so that I can heckle them like Mike, Servo and Crow do to the crummy movies that Dr. Forrester and TV's Frank send them on Mystery Science Theater 3000. Gigi was no exception. Most of my comments were stuff that I won't be allowed to repeat here, but I can repeat some of it (when Gigi turns her neck for Alicia) Looks like a vampire bit you.(when Gaston asks Gigi if she's ever seen an ice rink) I've never seen a nice rink but I've seen a lot of mean ones.Basically, musicals are among my least favorite movies (except for South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut). As far as I can tell, Gigi is about bored rich people doing bored rich people things (although I will say that Alicia reminded me of Mrs. Howell on Gilligan's Island). To crown everything, Thank Heaven for Little Girls sounds pedophilic.A strange irony here is that the US glamorizes France with this movie, and in later years Donald Rumsfeld called France old Europe for refusing to participate in the invasion of Iraq. Just in case anyone was looking for a reason to say negative things about France, I direct you to the brutal war that France waged in its quest to hold on to Algeria (which included the torture of Algerian prisoners).Long story short, this is a VERY dated movie. You're probably going to be hard-pressed to find anyone born after World War II who considers this one of the greatest movies ever. Sure as hell didn't deserve Best Picture in a year that gave us Touch of Evil, Separate Tables and The Defiant Ones.In conclusion, Gigi needs to get riffed on MST3K. Either that or Elvira should present it. Maybe there should be a mashup of Gigi and The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"I Remembered It Wrong....","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" When I first saw Gigi as a teenager, I was bewitched by its lavish costumes, sumptuous sets and delightful score, but in repeat viewings of it, I had to rank it as an overrated disappointment. Now some 25 years later, I watched it again, and while I don't consider it a perfect film (one worthy of a Best Picture Oscar), I do see it in a different light and appreciated it a bit more, taking my rating up from a 5 to an 8, **1/2 to ***1/2 on the Maltin scale.The days of living like Paris in the early 1900's are long gone, but it is certainly nice to re-visit them and the sweet duet between the aging Maurice Chevalier and Hermoine Gingold, the two scene-stealers of this film. Chevalier isn't the leading man he once was; In fact, Louis Jourdan, playing a part that Chevalier might have portrayed at Paramount during the early 1930's, doesn't seem quite up to the assignment, even if he is handsome, charming and well to do. Leslie Caron, however, does win in the title role, replacing Audrey Hepburn (from the stage productions) and being totally likable, especially when she sings I Don't Understand the Parisians. Watching her grow from somewhat innocent teen to sophisticated young lady isn't quite like Hepburn going from guttersnipe to sophisticate in My Fair Lady, even if the stories have a lot in common.The musical score has some bright moments, but some of the songs aren't as memorable as Lerner and Lowe's stage songs. The title song, in particular, suffers from some weak lyrics, and that defuses the dramatic impact of what it is trying to do. But when Chevalier and Gingold get together to reminisce in I Remember It Well and Gingold dances around with Jordan and Caron to The Night They Invented Champagne, magic is made. Chevalier has a sly wink as the aging Honore, and in his relatively few scenes is the glue which holds the movie together.In smaller roles, Eva Gabor (as a two-timing lover of Jordan's) and Isabel Jeans (as the courtesan sister of Gingold) offer sophisticated bitchery. Gingold, a magic performer in everything she does, could be funny just looking around, and you wonder if her much later Broadway character of Madame Armfeldt in A Little Night Music could be a distant cousin of the family's.Superbly put together by the master of art in MGM musicals (Vincent Minnelli), Gigi can be appreciated more in repeat viewings as you get older, but some slow dramatic spots really cause it to drag a bit. That is minor, however, as this French creme pastry is lovely to look at, even though it may not entirely fill you up. "},{"Title":"Colourful character study which does remarkably well with two people crashing head first into a newfound state of thinking in regards to a chauvinistic lifestyle.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is a film about a young female protagonist asked to fall in with a highly specific male crowd; a crowd of whom carry with them the idea that something called gender patriotism consists of the wrecking of a woman's life, if she should ever leave you, by using your deep pockets of filthy wealth to buy off the man for whom she left you and convince him to leave town so that she is thus rendered totally heartbroken. If they suffer, why should't she? The men within this clique celebrate such an ideology, laughing and joking with one another; even taking time to indulge in speaking of the living by such rules with their barber, whom appears equally as enthused by such behaviour. On one occasion, it even led to the attempted suicide of one of those women &#x96; ah, well. But the film is not as it sounds, and will go on to cover this young female protagonist as well as her consequent frustrations out of trying to reject, or steer clear of, such an ill-gotten series of men and their livelihoods; the film eventually forming a piece about character we pray can find some sort of common-ground amidst what they exist - the film eventually an exuberant; careful piece treading along a fine line of bourgeoises indulgence and materialistic exploitation that comes together and actually works.The film unfolds in Paris; the year-clock in the French capital registering 1900. Leslie Caron plays the titular Gigi and that young protagonist slowly but surely being taught and groomed into falling in with a man to whom she may be able to act politely; overtly eloquently and essentially become the drone-wife that speaks when spoken to and laughs at her husband and his rich friend's anecdotes on prompt &#x96; after having brought out the tea for them, of course. But Gigi has an edge to her; a certain 'bite' and she is a faster and looser girl to that of what her contemporaries would like. In spite of being born into a fairly rich family, Gigi wishes not to head down a route of snobbery and such; instead, draws on inspiration from her mother - someone whom wanted more than what was offered, although someone, as her grandmother points out, whom chased a dream and failed to amount to what it was she desired when menial work at an opera house was the end product. In spite of this warning, as well as her grandmother's dismissive or hopeful tone that she will fail, we find it easy to get behind her.The man with whom she will come to interact a great deal more throughout is Louis Jourdan's Gaston Lachaille, the nephew of an elderly man named Honoré (Chevalier), whose attitudes towards women both now and throughout his life have been false and somewhat hate-filled although distilled through a filter of deft tones and extravagance. When we begin with him, he speaks to us on how he classifies his life profession as lover and we are drawn into a romanticised tone complimenting the sort of lifestyle in which a man like Honoré may waltz down a public street harbouring the opinions he has on the opposite sex. If we react as strongly as we ought to, our alignment with Gigi slips even easier into happening as she herself attempts to reject a kind of coercement director Vincente Minnelli attempts to relate onto that of the audience during the opening beats.Like Gigi, Gaston faces a seeping influence agonisingly trickling down from his peers and relations in regards to lifestyle choices and attitudes towards the other gender. Unlike most of his ilk, Gaston is fed up with the predominant items available and desires a change from socialite holidays to nations such as Italy and Spain, as well as the finer things on offer in Paris in the form of wines and such; something established through one of the film's many delightful musical numbers and a reoccurring quote throughout of it's a bore confirming this. Life for Gigi has reached a point in which honing skills in acting the socialite-come-snob for interactions should be the norm; the girl ambitious, and rather well off before this transitional phase, but her statements reiterating that she doesn't understand Parisians and that there must be more to life than this firmly establish her alienation to not only where she is, but the sorts of people with which she bonds.Primarily, these two characters coming together after seeking immense change from the patriarchal norm drives the film; Gaston's fondness for Gigi not equalled by her still prejudiced thinking when she deems him just as bad as anyone else in this messy cesspit of socialisation. One of the subtler moments of Jourdan's performance, going on neatly to project how he feels on what surrounds him, lies in the scene during which he loiters with his fellow men in that fatuous circle of elitism; a champagne toast to what they believe is carried out with a profound sense of glee evident on the faces of most of those present, but a wry peek at Gaston's facial expression amidst the extravagance and so-forth as everyone takes a sip reveals someone in deeper thought about this way of life than any of the others. In a film rich in colour; set decoration and faux-romanticism, best surmised when that wily rouge Honoré keeps getting his recollections shot down as he recalls decades-ago interludes with women now of his age, the film is deathly efficient in targeting people wanting out and away or something else anew. Many of the musical numbers work well, with one in which Gaston struggles with the coming to terms on how he feels for Gigi particularly standing out in memory, and the film generally pulls us in with its overlying juxtaposition of mise-en-scene with interior thematics; a deconstructing and retelling of stories of those within consummately seeing it home. "},{"Title":"A gigantic, romantic cliché","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There was a wave of stage-to-screen adaptations of hit musicals in the mid-1950s, translating the work of the two celebrated theatrical duos Rodgers and Hammerstein and Lerner and Loewe for a new audience. However this Arthur Freed production moves the other way, as Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe were hired by MGM to create a musical directly for the cinema, a sign perhaps that Broadway was beginning to take its rival more seriously. The result is in many ways an elaborately cinematic affair.Gigi takes advantage of the medium, having for example Maurice Chevalier break that pesky fourth wall and address the audience eye-to-eye, in reference to his screen musicals of the early 30s. We also have, in She Is Not Thinking of Me, a song done in voice-over as an internal monologue &#x96; not, I believe, an original idea but certainly one that would be impossible (or at least very awkward) on the stage. As in their recent stage success My Fair Lady, Lerner and Loewe's songwriting is led by the lyrics, with a number like It's a Bore playing out like a musical conversation, with Loewe's melody skittering along to Lerner's vibrant wordplay. Their songs often serve to define character and relationships between characters. It's a Bore and I Don't Understand the Parisians are companion pieces as it were, and their similarities set up Gigi and Gaston as kindred spirits. Still, there are only a handful of really great numbers here (The Night they Invented Champagne being the standout), and one can't help getting the impression that Gigi is made up of cast-offs from the perfect My Fair Lady score.The lavishness of an Arthur Freed production ensured that his musicals were as much about look as they were sound. Gigi represents an astounding collaboration between cinematographer Joseph Ruttenberg, production designer Cecil Beaton and director Vincente Minnelli to reproduce the quality of fin-de-siecle painting, especially that of Auguste Renoir. The deliberate use of unfocused backgrounds in the opening scene is one of the best ever recreations of the impressionist style on screen. Minnelli (himself a keen painter) has a fine handling of perspective. Take the scene where Leslie Caron and Louis Jourdan are shelling peas. There is a chair in the foreground on the left-hand side, while on the right there is an open doorway into the kitchen. This contrast between closeness on one side and distance on the other not only adds real definition to the space, it allows the eye to be easily drawn from one end of the frame to the other, keeping Hermione Gingold highlighted even though she is in the background without having to resort to lots of obtrusive cutting. This is just one example, but it's a trick Minnelli pulls in almost every shot.The production is extremely lucky to have three genuine French stars for its principle parts, especially ones who were familiar enough with Hollywood to give an acceptable impression of Frenchness. Leslie Caron does a very credible job of playing a young girl on the verge of womanhood (she was in reality twenty-six) in a comically playful turn. Louis Jourdan is a little bland but by all means likable, and besides it suits him to look a little flat to all the better show off co-stars Caron and Chevalier. Ah oui, monsieur Chevalier, a man who is to an authentic portrayal of France what a crate of absinthe is to a light soiree. But for all his over-the-topness, he is great fun, slipping on the character of the ageing Lothario like an old glove. And those Lerner and Loewe songs like I Remember It Well, where normal speech dovetails into singing, suit him very well.But while Gigi contains much to delight, as a whole it is lacking something. There just doesn't seem to be the heart or substance to the telling of the story that other Oscar-winning musicals have. Loewe in particular was reportedly reluctant to work in cinema, and both he and Lerner were overruled on a few decisions such as casting and inclusion of certain songs, so perhaps this explains the below-par score. Unsurprisingly it was a flop when adapted for the stage fifteen years later. Such is the care that has gone into those wonderful images, Gigi is far more a treat for the eyes than the ears, a coup were this purely a purely visual medium, but it falls some way short of being a superlative musical. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is forever in my Top 10 - right along with The Sound of Music, Pillow Talk, Room with a View, Pride & Prejudice (the BBC/A&E TV series), Brideshead Revisited and other greats! Indeed, Gigi may well be the most perfect film ever made! It does not have one sour or off note and the cast is sublime. In fact, I fell in love with Aunt Alicia played by Isabel Jeans who was a stage star in the 20's and 30's! She practically steals the film in her few scenes and has some of the best lines too. Louis Jordan was never more handsome and dashing - in fact - he is so far and away better in Gigi than anything else he ever did that I can't even remember another film he was in - he along with everyone else is immortalized in Gigi. Maurice Chevalier is wonderful as always but it is Leslie Caron's film from beginning to end. In fact according to the famous interview she did with Robert Osborne of TCM fame, it was she who suggested Gigi to Arthur Freed when they discussed what project they would do next. It could not have been a more perfect choice for her and I absolutely fell in love with her all over again. It first happened when I was a kid and I saw Lili - but as an adult Gigi cemented in my mind just how incredible Leslie Caron is and what a great star she is as well. In fact because of my recent viewing of Gigi I order Leslie Caron's memoir which is being released in November 2009. "}{"Title":"Gorgeous","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minelli again proves his abilities as a director with Gigi, a glorious Hollywood musical starring Leslie Caron, Louis Jourdan, Maurice Chevalier, and Hermoine Gingold, with screenplay by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Lerner and Lowe.Gigi is the story of a young girl (Caron) in the France of the 1900s. She is being educated to become a courtesan, though she seems blissfully unaware of this, being a tomboy. Her mother is the member of an opera chorus and can only be heard vocalizing; she is basically raised by her grandmother (Gingold) and aunt (Isabel Jeans). Gaston (Jourdan) is a wealthy family friend, the nephew of a former lover (Chevalier) of Gigi's grandmother. He loves to come by the overstuffed apartment and spend time with Gigi and her grandmother, eating and playing cards. When he invites the enthusiastic Gigi somewhere, he doesn't realize the scandal it will cause and that Gigi is, in fact, not a little girl anymore. It's time for an arrangement to be made for her, and her grandmother approaches Gaston, who agrees to take care of her. Gigi, however, has fallen for Gaston, and this isn't her idea of love.With eye-popping set and costume design by Cecil Beaton, delightful performances and lovely songs, Gigi is a sure winner. This film revived the career of Maurice Chevalier, who sings Thank Heaven for Little Girls as well as the haunting I Remember it Well with Gingold, It's a Bore with Jourdan, and the charming I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore. Jourdan does his own singing and has the title song and a Soliloquey which is similar to Why Can't a Woman Be More Like a Man? from My Fair Lady. (In fact, Say A Prayer for Me Tonight, sung by Gigi (Caron is dubbed by Betty Wand) is cut from My Fair Lady.) There are many comparisons to My Fair Lady - certainly the scene at Maxim's is similar to the Ascot Gavotte, and Gigi's transformation can be compared to Eliza's.Caron is a delightful Gigi, a childlike and playful young girl who blossoms into a beautiful, sophisticated woman. Jourdan makes a handsome and likable playboy, and Gingold is great as Gigi's down to earth grandmother and protector.A beautiful, warm film, guided by Minelli's delicate direction, Gigi is a must-see and is one of the all-time great Hollywood musicals. "},{"Title":"Gigi","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" From Oscar and Golden Globe winning director Vincente Minnelli (Meet Me in St. Louis, An American in Paris), and producer Arthur Freed (Singin' in the Rain), I look forward to seeing this musical that featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically the story is set in 1900's Paris, where wealthy Gaston Lachaille (Golden Globe nominated Louis Jourdan) gets away from his upper class lifestyle and superficial society spending time with the former mistress of his uncle, Madame Alvarez (Golden Globe nominated Hermione Gingold) and her outgoing, energetic granddaughter Gigi (Golden Globe nominated Leslie Caron). Gaston and Gigi are good friends, and enjoy many games of cards, where Gigi always wins, and knowing that she is matured, her grandmother and Aunt Alicia (Isabel Jeans) start educating her in manners and movement to be a wealthy man's mistress (kind of like My Fair Lady). Gaston realises his love for Gigi is turning into more than just friendship, and his good friend Honoré Lachaille (Golden Globe nominated Maurice Chevalier, won an Honorary Oscar) is the one he turns to for advice on what to do about it. Also starring The Aristocats' Eva Gabor as Liane d'Exelmans, Jacques Bergerac as Sandomir and John Abbott as Manuel. The sets and costumes are colourful, the characters and actors playing them are great fun, the songs that I most remember are Thank Heaven for Little Girls (number 56 on 100 Years, 100 Songs), It's a Bore and I Remember It Well, it is a good fun musical classic that is one to see. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing, Best Song for the title song, Best Music for André Previn, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical. It was number 70 on The 100 Greatest Musicals, and it was number 35 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good! "},{"Title":"Ornate though overrated...","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yes, Gigi was the winner of nine Academy Awards, and is often referred to as the jewel in director Vincente Minnelli's crown, yet the picture is more pomp and circumstance than delicious musical entertainment. This was actually the second filming of the novel by Colette, one more in keeping with the (non-musical) Broadway success which starred Audrey Hepburn. It gets the stylish MGM treatment while telling slim story of a scruffy French lass in 1890s Paris groomed to be a mistress by her grandmother. Leslie Caron and charming Louis Jourdan are in constant peril of being swallowed up by the over-production--and by the hammy supporting cast (Maurice Chevalier, Hermione Gingold, Eva Gabor), none of whom seems to know the meaning of subtlety. The songs by Frederick Loewe and Alan Jay Lerner contain the clipped wit of Broadway's best--a very good thing, since those musical numbers are really the only instances in which the picture gains a bit of bounce. Heavy with 'prestige', though the glossy trimmings do ensure exuberant moments. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Your are kidding me; how is this film not ranked higher on IMDb??","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gigi is a wonderful movie! It's one of the very few films I can watch again and again, and still love. My 21-month-old daughter loves it too, and is currently dancing to one of the tunes with her doll. That alone is reason to own the DVD. However, other reasons abound. The music is *adorable* (The Night They Invented Champagne is definitely one of those can't-get-it-out-of-your-head songs), the characters are truly memorable, and the costumes are super sweet. I think it's a great family film too, although the theme is preparing a young girl for life as a courtesan. That aspect of the film alone makes it intriguing a film about life as a Parisian courtesan that manages to qualify as a family film. I love it! Anyway, Gigi is a classic gem and I highly recommend it to anyone who loves fun movies and pretty music! "},{"Title":"La Belle Epoque","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" La Belle Epoque,just before WW1 is just a cliché.Was it so beautiful?Was it the lost paradise?Certainly not.When he depicted France (it was not the first time  see also Madame Bovary feat also Louis Jourdan as Rodolphe Boulanger ;An American in Paris  lust for life and the four horsemen of the Apocalypse was yet to come),Minnelli gave a par excellence Hollywoodian  sanitized depiction.It 's not necessarily pejorative Madame Bovary  had the best Emma I know (Jennifer Jones),AN American in Paris is dazzling ,lust for life  beats hands down the FRench Van Gogh version with Jacques Dutronc.Gigi is a different matter.A musical remake of feminist Jacqueline Audry's adaptation of Colette's novel in 1948.That was actually a trilogy ,featuring the same actress,Danièle Delorme ,of which Gigi  was the first volet.Visually,Gigi is a splendor ,all red and gold, except for the scene when Gaston wanders aimlessly in the night and where black becomes a true color.But except for Gigi herself I can't find an endearing character in the story.La Belle Epoque was certainly the good old time,but only for rich bourgeois selfish bon vivant such as Gaston ,his uncle et al.Gigi's grandma and aunt ,like it or not, are making a Cocotte (courtezan) of their protégée.But ,and Colette's feminist side takes the upper hand,Gigi (played by French Leslie Caron this is the only Minnelli movie feat three FRench leads) strikes back....even if what the FRench used to call (still do) un Beau Marriage is par excellence the bourgeois dream.I do not go much for Gigi's score;compared with those of brigadoon ,the songs are not very tuneful,never really exciting ;and as for the words,well thank you Heaven! But the lyrics are often spoken (anyway if Chevalier was primarily a singer,Jourdan was not),or sung like a dialog,which probably had a strong influence on French Jacques Demy who made the first all-musical film ever with les Parapluies de Cherbourg ,a work where every line of dialog was sung.Minnelli's vision of Paris would certainly influence Demy too as far as his depictions of Cherbourg and (Les Demoiselles de) Rochefort are concerned. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  After seeing past reviews I thought I should give this movie a try.I was really disappointed... I don't care that the movie is old, but it is very boring, the songs are horrible and there are almost no good scenes of Paris!I DON'T recommend it. "},{"Title":"At least I got 15 min sleep near the end","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I had seen this before years ago, but only could remember that it didn't impress me much. My wife selected the DVD via Netflix and 20 minutes into the film, all I could say to her was, When is this movie going to start? Slow moving hardly describes it. And Gaston repeating endlessly how boring things were for him hardly seems a way to entertain. I have never been much of a Maurice Chevalier fan and seeing him, as others have noted, oogling young girls in this flick is definitely weird now. Reading through reviews here, I was reminded how many Academy Awards it won - yikes! The Academy BS I can almost understand, but why IMDb reviewers found this leaden clunker so terrific is beyond me. Thank gawd I did get some shuteye toward the end. "},{"Title":"A 1858 love story (musical) set in France...","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The film/musical was released in 1958 and directed by Vincente Minnelli but who cares. I don't like to many old films and I don't know a damn thing about Vincente Minnelli so let me move on.The film is set in Paris, France and is about a girl named Gigi (Leslie Caron.) Or at least we're led to believe that by the title. Gigi doesn't really play much of a role in the story, most of it is centered around the love life of famous millionaire playboy, Gaston Lachaille (Louis Jourdan.) Gaston has just broken up with another one of his many love interests, and has become bored with the dating scene in its entirety. In between his carousing, he occasionally stops to visit the house of longtime friend Madame Alvarez (Hermione Gingold) who lives with her granddaughter Gigi. Quite obviously at some point Gigi will become the object of Gaston's affection, but at the beginning of the film it is clear she is too young for him as she skips and prances around the house in schoolgirl clothing. Gaston isn't forced to realize that she could become a possible love interest until one day she is seen parading around in what I would call a nice lookin' dress. He offers to take her out for tea, and her grandmother refuses to allow it saying that if Gigi is seen in public having tea with him everyone would assume that she is just another one of his flings and would report it in the papers as such. Although this would seem to push the two further apart, it is all part of Gigi's grandmother and her Aunt Alicia's (Isabel Jeans) plan to get Gigi and Gaston together. This prevention forces Gaston to realize that since Gigi could be mistaken for one of his girls, that she could in fact be one of his girls. It is at this point that the story changes and Gaston's interest in Gigi begins.Throughout the duration of the movie we are lead to believe that Gigi grows from an immature school girl, into a stunningly beautiful woman. The only problem is that upon closer examination, this doesn't really seem believable. No time frame is given for the change to occur, and we are never told Gigi's true age. One day she is dressed as a school girl playing in the dirt, and then all of a sudden she is wearing a beautiful dress and looks of age. But we never really know if she is of age. (I'm sure X-Man could inform us) for all we know she could easily be 14 years old. Gaston is obviously much older. If this film were to be made by today's standards Gaston would be considered a dirty pedophile. All the more discomforting is the fact that Gigi doesn't seem to have much of a say in all of this. Her grandmother, aunt, and Gaston are the ones collaborating for Gigi as a love interest, and although this is explained to Gigi, it was never her idea nor her initial intention. Basically we're talking about an arranged situation for Gigi to become a so-called 'kept' woman as Gaston is seen referring to the subject as business. The only funny part of the movie is the character of Gaston's uncle, Honore Lachaille (Maurice Chevalier) who is not only the narrator for the story, but also plays a small part in it. He is a player to the fullest extent of the word, and although is in his elder years, he hasn't turned in his player's club card as of yet. He even at one point claimed to be in love with Gigi's grandmother, but quoted, I was so much in love with you I wanted to marry you. Yes, it's true. I was beginning to think of marriage. Imagine marriage, me! Oh no, I was really desperate! I had to do somethin, and what I did was the soprano! That's right, you heard correct, he was so in love he didn't know what to do so he cheated. He also let's loose with other mind numbing comments such as when he remarks to Gaston that, Gigi will keep you entertained for months!! I also enjoyed watching Gigi parade around in in variety of sexy outfits, Leslie Caron was hot. Her character may not have been of age, but I'm sure she was. We are also treated to some fine moments of what I would call, the snotty rich madame complex. Isabele Jeans does a fabulous job of portraying the stuck-up old bitch complete with nose in the air and 'proper' tea pouring action. And since the movie is set in France, it's french accents galore. Nothing adds to the beauty of a young woman than a french accent, and nothing makes a man sound funnier. The music in the film, since the film is a musical, seems to take a way from the story. I suppose if you like musicals than you will enjoy this one. I don't like musicals, nor do I find it realistic when a character suddenly breaks into song. It distracts me from the initial point of the story. Thank Heaven for little girls, is one of the more famous tunes heard playing throughout the movie, and is performed by Maurice Chevalier to boot. It is, however, apprapoe to close the film with a line from the song, ...without them what would little boys do. What would little boys do without little girls? Wither away and die I suppose, or maybe actually get some work done. Work sucks, so I'm okay with it. "},{"Title":"Somewhat delightful musical with simple theme...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 11/10/2002- 6 out of 10(Dir - Vincenti Minnelli) Somewhat delightful musical with simple theme(Love, Paris style - of course).  This musical has some memorable songs mostly sang by Maurice Chevalier in a perfect role for him as the womanizing debonair French voice of experience for Louis Jourdan's Gaston & Leslie Caron's Gigi as they waddle from being young ducklings at play to being on the brink of Paris-style love that is not for the weak at heart.  The road is not that simple though, because Gigi starts out as a young immature child and Gaston is the rich man about town bachelor whom every parent wants for a son-in-law.  There's not much more to the story than this.  For a movie from 1958, they are able to scoot around the theme of being turned-on by a child because she is like a child and about half-way thru the movie they hurriedly make her into a woman so as not to cause too much scuffle. Oscar winner for Best Picture despite the simplicity of story but I guess this was a sign of the times. "},{"Title":"Pedophilia or not pedophilia","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  GIGI (1958) 8.5/10Vincente Minnelli's GIGI (or should I say Loewe & Lerner's GIGI?) won all the major Academy Awards in 1959, defeating CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF and AUNTIE MAME (in my opinion, better films, but I love all of them). It's been made into a classic over the years, but nowadays it's a bit overlooked. Not that it matters even losing in comparison with other Vincente Minnelli films (AN AMERICAN IN PARIS, FATHER OF THE BRIDE) and other Loewe & Lerner musicals put on screen (MY FAIR LADY), GIGI is a real charmer, with very fine songs, gorgeous visuals and the presence of Leslie Caron, Maurice Chevalier, Louis Jordan and Hermione Gingold (THE MUSIC MAN). It's one of the better looking and enchanting musical of the '50s, one of those movies that hypnotize you without a spectacular story or landmark performances (courtesy of Vincente Minnelli). There's only one thing is it a story about pedophilia? If someone decided to sing Thank Heaven for Little Girls on screen nowadays, he would be considered a sick pedophile. But not Maurice Chevalier. The audiences of the '50s didn't have a dirty mind like us, but in my opinion it's clear that Gigi, a teenager, starts a semi-promiscuous relationship with Jordan's character, a thirty-some. Well, it's better to forget this, and you are probably thinking that I am a sick teenager that has nothing else to do. The relationship consists in pedophilia, but the innocence and sweetness of GIGI makes us, audiences of the 21st century, forget that. "}{"Title":"Highly overrated.","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I had to check this out, since it is considered by many to be one of the last great musicals of the MGM era, as well as being directed by Vincente Minnelli. Unfortunately, this musical adaptation does not live up to the hype nor can it be compared to such classics as Singin' in the Rain or Brigadoon. The story itself loses interest about half way through and the songs are dull and uninspiring. The acting is pretty good, with Leslie Caron doing an adequate job of the title role and Louis Jordan even better as Gaston. The rest of the characters are either terribly annoying (Maurice Chevalier) or incredibly snobbish and arrogant (The grandmother and aunt). Simply put, this movie is not worth my time or anyone else interested in watching a charming, sweet moving musical. All this has a bunch of snobby French upper-class twits filled with preconceived notions about the opposite gender and marriage. I can't begin to describe how disappointing this one is. "},{"Title":"I'd rather give myself a root canal than sit through this again.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Collette thought she had found her perfect Gigi in Audrey Hepburn, so it makes perfect sense that Hollywood casts the inferior, bland, and ultimately unlikeable Leslie Caron in the film version of Gigi. She whines, she snivels, she wails, and her portrayal of Gigi completely wrecks the film. Maurice Chevalier has never been creepier than when he sings Thank Heaven For Little Girls. However, he and Hermione Gingold light up this dire film for a brief moment with their duet I Remember It Well. As delightful as that moment is, it's not good enough to make me sit through this film again.  "},{"Title":"How did it win 9 Oscars","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've just seen Gigi for the first time.Musically the arrangements of Andre Previn were wonderful.  Though some of the minor songs sounded like they had just been recycled from My Fair Lady.Most of the cast was fine - except Louis Jourdan was very wooden but sounded OK.It was done very well - but the story was unsatisfactory - particularly the ending.  Gigi would have been better off dumping Gaston and finding a plumber - or someone not so totally conceited.What amazes me is how did this movie win nine Academy Awards when South Pacific (the same year) only won one?South Pacific had a far better score, was visually more spectacular, and had much more drama and comedy, plus a satisfactory ending.  And Alfred Newman's orchestrations were outstanding.Gigi - 7/10South Pacific - 10/10  "},{"Title":"Gee. Gee.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  One of those annoying musicals that found a commercial audience and was a big enough commercial success to dominate come Oscar time. Gigi won nine Oscars after being nominated for nine, a rare feat in the Academy's history. However, the film is little more than a curiosity today and becomes a bit trivial as the years come and go. It is early-20th century France and aristocrat Louis Jourdan is getting tired of the same dull, boring women. He learns from uncle Maurice Chevalier about an elderly former courtesan (Hermione Gingold) and her young, vivacious niece (Leslie Caron in the titled role). Soon Jourdan enjoys the company of the much younger Caron more than he does the other women who want desperately to be a part of his life. The shortcomings associated with the over-rated An American in Paris are full-blown once again with Gigi. Oscar-winning director Vincente Minnelli does a fine job with the technical aspects of the film (art direction, cinematography, makeup, costume design, etc.), but struggles with a sometimes crazed screenplay that goes all over the place. Jourdan does the best work of his career and Caron plays her part for what it is worth, but she is not really believable at times (mainly due to the fact that she plays younger than she was). When all is said and done Gigi is one of the lesser Best Picture Oscar victors. 4 stars out of 5. "}]