[{"Title":"How Many Times Does A Man Have To Win You?","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"101 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country is one big and fun western with concurrent plot lines. The first is the struggle between two implacable enemies, Charles Bickford and Burl Ives. The second is a four sided romantic triangle involving Gregory Peck, Jean Simmons, Charlton Heston, and Carroll Baker with Chuck Connors trying to horn in.William Wyler directed the almost three hour western with a sure hand and your interest does not wane for one minute in this film. Gregory Peck also was a co-producer on this film as well as the first billed. He had a hand in casting a lot of the film, specifically Burl Ives in his Academy Award winning performance as Rufus Hannessy.It's the Terrills versus the Hannessys. Charles Bickford is the local Ponderosa owner Major Terrill. Presumably the title comes from the Civil War. Bickford does play Terrill with a military bearing. My guess is that he was a Yankee soldier.The Hannessys would now be called white trash. They look like hillbilly folk who also came west for fame and fortune. They've also got a big spread in a place called Blanco Canyon. They hate the Yankee Major as much as he hates them.Sitting between them is Jean Simmons who has inherited a modest piece of land that sits across a river that both outfits water their cattle on as per an agreement with her late grandfather. She doesn't work the land herself any more, she teaches school in town. Simmons tries to keep above the feud. She is friends with Carroll Baker, Charles Bickford's daughter. She's been east and is bringing home a prospective bridegroom who is a former sea captain played by Gregory Peck. That doesn't sit well with Charlton Heston who is the Terrill foreman. He's got eyes on Baker himself and Chuck Connors who is Burl Ives eldest son has eyes for Simmons when he's not in the local bordello.A lot of started and broken relationships and a few of the cast members being killed occurs in The Big Country. My favorite scene and line in the film is when Burl Ives gives some advice to Chuck Connors on how to woo and win Jean Simmons. His big advice is to show her how much you care by taking a bath occasionally.Charlton Heston took a role that was fourth billed because he wanted the opportunity to work with William Wyler. That was one great career move because Wyler and he hit it off so well that Wyler signed him for the lead in his next film which turned out to be Ben-Hur. Heston in his memoirs, conservative as he became, says he also got along very well with Gregory Peck who he called a thinking man's liberal.Peck and Wyler had worked together previously on Roman Holiday and had done good work there and also hit it off. However with Peck as a co-producer as well as star they had some clashes on the set. One notable one involved Peck wanting to retake the carriage scene where the Hannessy brothers attack Peck and Baker on the way to the Bickford ranch. Peck wasn't satisfied and wanted a retake. Wyler who was legendary for doing scenes dozens of times until he got what he wanted refused. Later when shown the finished film, Wyler had edited out and around what Peck didn't like and it came out OK. They remained friends, but never worked together again.Simmons as the independent minded school teacher and Baker as the spoiled daddy's little girl acquit themselves well in their roles. Baker is disappointed in Peck not seeing him as her ideal western man and Simmons upbraids her with the quote I put in the review title.This is also the final film of Alfonso Bedoya who never did get a role in an American film as good as the one he had as Gold Hat in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. Still this is a fine farewell performance to a very colorful and talented player.When he's on the screen Burl Ives dominates and fills it and not just physically either. Rufus Hannessy may not be to the manor born, but he has his own sense of integrity and fair play. All that Burl Ives captured in Rufus and The Big Country is worth watching just for him alone.And that Jerome Moross score; simply one of the best ever done in the history of film. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"94 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" As a rule, I don't like westerns. This isn't because I'm a city slicker (though now, I do live in a city). I grew up in rural Eastern Oregon where real cowboys still herd their cattle through the center of town in John Day, Oregon. My stepfather owned a 10,170 acre cattle ranch. After being raised among real cowboys, the Hollywood versions tend to leave me flat. The Big Country was an exception.Jim McKay (Gregory Peck) introduced us to a different kind of man, far different than most stereotypical men of the Wild West. If I were to compare McKay's character to any other film character, it would be Ghandi. He's a man who doesn't feel obliged to seek the approval of others ... a man who believes that violence doesn't need to be used to solve problems. His secret ride of Old Thunder, making Ramon (Alfonso Bedoya) swear to keep quiet regardless of the outcome, set the tone for McKay's character. His later secret fight with Steve Leech (Charleton Heston), making him swear to keep quiet regardless of the outcome, cemented that tone. This was a REAL man whose opinion of himself was not dependent upon anyone else's opinion ... in stark contrast to anyone else in the film outside of Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons). As Ramon said, Such a man is very rare.Outside of McKay, my #2 favorite character in the film was Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives). I found nothing about him distasteful considering he was a character whose back was against the wall ... whose livelihood was threatened. The things he did make perfect sense in such a situation. His only flaw was his obvious poor parenthood. He really blew it with Buck (Chuck Connors) and Buck's siblings were of the same ilk.I'm so glad that MGM/UA finally released the widescreen version in 2001. This is a film that deserves such a presence. It may not be playing in theaters anymore but seeing it in any other display size takes so much away from it. I've seen the pan/scan version before and will never go back.One note. The full listing of writing credits for the film adaptation is lacking. Ambush In Blanco Canyon, originally serialized in a magazine, was later novelized into The Big Country by Donald Hamilton ... and Hamilton also worked on the adaptation as well as Leon Uris (Topaz, Exodus, Gunfight At the OK Corral, etc.).This epic film was not lacking for anything. It had the best writers, the best actors, the best musical score, and the best scenery of any other film of its time ... western or otherwise. And the film remains one of my favorite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the most underrated movies of all-time.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"100 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  I've read all of the comments about Wyler's The Big Country.  I don't even remember the first time I saw this movie but I have never tired of watching it. William Wyler went to the vault and pulled out the often used theme, the showdown on main street at high noon genre that many directors had tired of and felt was the kiss of death to western movies of the day and he pulled it off in grand fashion. Why this movie has never received it's just due has mystified me for years. Maybe the late '50's became the time of the brat pak movie genre, (Rebel Without A Cause), but the performances in this movie are classic. Jean Simmons was absolutely intriguing. As a man watching this movie, I soon realized what Mr. Peck would begin to see in this woman as the movie progressed. Just that little glimpse from Ms. Simmons as she measured up the man she would soon fall in love with had more sexual power than most flicks today that try to thrive on the sexual theme to sell theatre tickets.This is not just a western. It is pure greatness from William Wyler and a cast that added strength to the film. Burl Ives and Charles Bickford played their respective roles with the intenseness and professionalism of a classic Shakespearean play and Charlton Heston was perfect as the antagonist to Gregory Peck. This film has no weakness and has gotten better with time.  "},{"Title":"Big entertainment, bigger music.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"67 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" As several characters state in the film, This is a big country and THIS is a BIG MOVIE. It screams out for widescreen viewing. Many of the characters are largely and broadly drawn with big strokes (stubborn Peck, fiery Baker, resentful Heston, righteous Simmons, imperious Bickford, cantankerous Ives and slithering Connors) yet they all are dwarfed by the huge landscape. Tall men, horses, trees and houses are all presented as so many ants on an ant hill in many of the images. The film has a compelling story and intriguing interpersonal relationships and rivalries which are all enhanced by this larger than life approach. The landscape is sometimes awe-inspiring, notably in the Blanco Canyon scenes near the end of the film. Peck is appropriately straight-laced and uncomfortable in this rough & tumble setting, lovely Simmons is a likable heroine and Baker is an effective daddy's girl with misplaced affections. Connors acquits himself very nicely as a thoroughly detestable punk. Heston comes off extremely strong in this film. He's completely at home and was probably never more handsome (check out the scene in which he's roused from his bed by Peck!) He makes the most out of this secondary role. Bickford and Oscar-winning Ives make a great pair of adversaries...almost makes one wish for a prequel to see what got these two so riled up (but today's filmmakers couldn't be counted upon to do it in a tasteful, classy way.) Memorable scenes include the taunting of Peck by Connors and his brothers, Ives grand entrance into Bickford's house and an almost legendary fight scene between Heston and Peck. All of the above are raised to an even higher plane of excellence by what must be one of the greatest musical scores in film history (western or otherwise.) Jerome Moross composed several themes (the opening title is the best known) which put this film into a whole new category of enjoyment. The score stands alone as a beautiful listening experience and paired with the images in this film, it is amazing. It occasionally seems intrusive, yet knows when to keep quiet as well. The Oscar that year went to Tiompkin's Old Man and the Sea, but it seems astonishing that anything could have bested this score. The film's only real flaw is slight overlength, but nothing really stands out as aching to be cut! Maybe just bits and pieces....but, really, the story just takes it's time and builds to some stirring moments. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable ranch-war Western with an outstanding Oscar-Nominated Musical Score...","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"60 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" When Jim McKay (Gregory Peck) stepped off the stagecoach in the open range of the West, Steve Leech (Charlton Heston) was already his excellent rival and adversary...Steve - Major Terrill's strong right arm - was in love with the beautiful Pat (Carroll Baker) daughter of his boss, who intends to marry the innocent handsome Captain...Soon than expected, McKay discovered a bitter blood feud between the Terrills, owner of a huge ranch, and the Hannasseys, simple mountain men..Extreme hatred united the two families, the two cattlemen Major Terrill (Charles Bickford) and Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives).Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons) was a strategic factor in the conflict... She was the key to supply water... Both, Terrill and Hannassey wanted her part of land to have their cattle watered, but she always said 'no' to either... Why not to say 'yes' now to Jim McKay! Julie was touched by his honesty, a quality she admired in a man...Jim, a perfect gentleman - suffering humiliation since his arrival to the big country - grew to unlike Pat's ideas and manners which were in a primitive set of values... He became aware of Julie as a sensitive woman, an understanding human being with great heart...When Julie is kidnapped by the Hannassey, McKay goes to meet Rifus... He wins esteem and consideration from the old man but fails to refrain a hostile confrontation between the two selfish, inflexible old barons...The Big Country is distinguished by its magnificent landscapes... The high, wide and impressive buggy ride spread out a lavish, sumptuous scale of the State of Texas as never has been carried to the silver screen..The film is about land and its influence and power over people... A story that can occur everyday in every country, zone and family... The love, the hatred, the war for land, for power, for water rights... always for an asset!Gregory Peck is outstanding as the calm anti-traditional hero, balancing a deed of bravery, strength and endurance...Jean Simmons is a big leading lady at that time, big enough to the 'Big Country.'Carroll Baker, famous as the thumb-sucking child-wife in Baby Doll, is Charles Bickford's willful daughter, acting according to his law and dictate...Charlton Heston confirms a favorable impression by giving an excellent account as the grinning, menacing rival in love with the land and with McKay's attractive fiancée...Burl Ives - Winner of the Academy Award as Best Supporting Actor in the film - is impeccably cast as the gray-haired patriarch of a shameful, indecent, discourteous clan...Charles Bickford (1891-1967) could play as easily the sincere man of virtue (Duel in the Sun) as the dishonest villain... His generous character and his stubborn face fitted him perfectly to such roles as the proud misguided patriarch led by false and mistaken ideas in the range against Burl Ives...Chuck Connors (1921-92) is always remembered for his success on T.V. notably in The Rifleman series (58-63). Here he plays the heavy coward, the rude and vulgar, the hypocrite impolite noisy disorderly son...Directed by William Wyler, The Big Country is a spectacular Western featuring a brilliant cast at top shape...If you like big action, big fights, big love, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Big Fued, Big Romance, Big musical Score","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"49 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The Big Country was passed over by the professional critics as being empty, ernest, and not enough sweep to be called a true epic. Well, I remember seeing The Big Country and was properly swept off my feet by the grand scale of the Big Country, the death feud between Burl Ives and Charles Bickford, the shaky and doomed romance between Gregory Peck and the spoiled Carroll Baker and the quiet understanding between Peck and the lovely Jean Simmons, but most of all, the thing that propelled me to see The Big Country over and over was the magnificant score by Jerome Moross. Sure, I could site many scores that have aided films to glory, Max Steiner for The Letter, Maurice Jarre for Lawrence of Arabia, Miklos Roza for an excellent score for a weak epic Land of the Pharaohs, and Hans Zimmer for an excellent score for a great epic Gladiator but I still say that for a western you can't get any better than the magnificant score for The Big Country. The sweep and majesty and the quiet moments of Jerome Moross's music sets the tone for this truly underated movie. United Artist released the music on LP and I wore mine out along with my neighbors complaints, I now own an excellent CD produced by SILVA SCREEN which I can't wear out. All in all see The Big Country on your big screen in Widescreen and give yourself a real treat. Who needs Giant? "},{"Title":"A Big Film","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  There are many things to enjoy in 'The Big Country'. The landscape itself is a character that seems overwhelming. There are many panoramic shots of it, sweeping out to a misty horizon. All beautifully photographed. This big country seems to glow and the film gets an appropriate music score, sweeping and colourful. It must be one of the most perfect film scores written.In this breathtaking landscape the story of the characters unfold with their prides, jealousies, fears, loves, pretensions, hopes, disappointments. The actors are first rate and convey lots of feeling not just in dialogue but in looks. It is worth seeing more than once to catch the emotional nuances. This is a film with space in lots of senses and it gives the cast time to flesh out their characters. In all the splendid acting I have a particular admiration for Chuck Connors in a performance of a lifetime.  His Buck Hennassey is a coward and a bully yet you can't help feeling sorry for him in the end.There is also the political undertones, the oft quoted Cold War parallels, embodied in the confrontation between Bickford and Ives of mutually assured destruction, that was an ever present issue in the late fifties. Bickford and Ives have narrow self interested vision that portends destruction, while the Peck character has a wider view of co-operation and fairness. (In an illuminating exchange at the engagement party a guest asks Peck if he has seen anything bigger than the 'big country' and Peck replies to the guest's astonishment that he has, a couple of oceans!) It is the outsider who sees clearest.William Wyler was a great director and made a great film to be enjoyed on many levels. It is an aural and visual treat but the film also has believable characters performed by a superior cast. And I can't stop humming that theme tune.... "},{"Title":"Perfect movie, Perfect music.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"53 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  There's just not one thing wrong with this movie.  The casting is perfect, as is the direction, cinematography, script, and music.  The score by Jerome Moross is perfection, and my personal favorite of all the great western movie scores.  All the actors/actresses are a perfect fit for their roles, and the male cast of Gregory Peck, Charlton Heston, Charles Bickford, Burl Ives, and Chuck Connors (who shines as the thoroughly bad Buck Hannassey) is ensemble acting at it's best.  Carol Baker and Jean Simmons are luminous, compelling, and strangely powerful.  "},{"Title":"Spectacular underrated Western epic with an all star cast.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"46 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The strength of this movie is its great cast, an excellent script and Jerome Moross' memorable score.  Critics bombed it when it was released, but moviegoers loved it.  I did, too.It's a big country, one of the characters in the movie says.  This is obvious in the opening credits as a stagecoach crosses the treeless plain carrying Gregory Peck, who plays Jim McKay, to a meeting with his fiance (played by Carol Baker) in San Rafael.  The fist fight with the foreman of Ladder Ranch, played by Charlton Heston, is original in its staging.  There have been much better fight scenes.  Pittsburgh and North to Alaska come to mind.  This fight scene is memorable because the camera emphasizes the vastness of the country by showing the fight from long range.  It works.The emphasis in this film is on the complex personal relationships between the characters.  Peck and Baker are engaged to be married, but their relationship seems doomed from the start.  In the opening scenes they are harassed by the Hannassey's, mortal enemies of the Terrell's.  Peck and Baker are fundamentally incompatible.  He doesn't measure up to her father (played by Charles Bickford), and she is upset that he doesn't ride Old Thunder or accept Steve Leach's challenge.  McKay does both, but he does these things on his own terms.  He is not a show off.  He may be a little unsure of himself, but he does not give up easily.  His efforts to ride Old Thunder demonstrate this.  He is also modest. I had a little trouble with a horse, he later tells Julie Maragon in a classic understatement.  Pat Terrell is disappointed in her fiance and dumps him.  Later, when she tries to make peace, McKay rejects her overtures.  It goes much deeper than that, he tells her, referring to her comment that the estrangement was a simple misunderstanding.  In a pique she compares him unfavorably to her father and walks out of his life.  McKay's courage shows at the end when he rides into Blanco Canyon to rescue Julie Maragon (played by Jean Simmons).  Why did he do it?  He did it for love.  He loves Julie Maragon.The relationship between Rufus Hannassey (played by Burl Ives) and Henry Terrell sets the tone for the movie.  Terrell is a gentleman living in a mansion.  The Hannassey clan lives in rough shacks in Blanco Canyon.  Rufus is not as uncultured as the Terrell's make him out.  Indeed, he appreciates the fine dueling pistols he finds in McKay's saddlebags.  Gentlemen's weapons, he derisively tells his definitely uncouth son (played by Chuck Connors).  In one scene Rufus publicly questions Henry Terrell's qualifications as a gentleman.  Gentlemen or not the two old men hate each other.  The movie never tells you how it started.  Perhaps no one remembers.  Perhaps it is simple economics.  Both the Terrells and the Hannasseys covet the Big Muddy, Julie Maragon's ranch.  Water is more than life in the West.  In one scene Terrell's cowboys shoot holes in the water tower at Rufus' ranch.  Steve Leach questions the ethics of this.  Do you really want this Major?, he asks.  Let the boys have their fun, he replies.  Later, Rufus returns the favor by barging uninvited into Terrell's party.  It is not unexpected that they kill each other at the end.The relationship between McKay and Steve Leach begins on a bad note.  Leach seems to have a romantic interest in McKay's fiance.  He offers a fight, which McKay refuses.  Later, when they do fight, the relationship seems to change.  You take a long time to say good by, he tells McKay.  I'm just about finished, McKay replies.  It is apparent at the end that Leach respects McKay's courage.The script is refreshingly original.  The familiar dialogue from other Westerns is missing here.  This is a frosty Friday, Rufus says at one point.  Teach your mother to suck eggs, he suggests to his McKay at another point.  If anything, there may be too much dialogue in this film.  A little more action might have helped.The action is also different from your typical Western.  The big screen approach to the fist fight is a good example.  The long-expected gun fight between Steve Leach and Buck Hannassey never happens.  Instead Hannassey and McKay face off with dueling pistols.  McKay wins, because Hannassey shows his coward's colors.  He grabs a six gun from one of the cow hands and tries to kill McKay.  It is Rufus who shoots his son. Jerome Moross' music is fantastic.  My favorite cue is The Welcoming, which underscores the scene in which Buck Hannassey and three ranch hands harass McKay and his fiance.  Variations of the musical themes in this film appear in the Jayhawkers and The Proud Rebel.  The title tune was recently reprised in Varsity Blues.This movie is best watched on the big screen.  Unfortunately, I don't believe there is a wide screen version of this film available on video.  Hopefully, that omission will soon be corrected.  However, the great script and wonderful characterizations can be enjoyed on the small screen, too. "},{"Title":"With Peck went the last true gentleman","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Spoilers (as there will always be people watching it for the first time)The word gentleman has probably been terribly abused in all these years. For an icon of a true gentleman, absolutely no one can surpass Gregory Peck, on and off screen. In The Big Country, Peck's performance best portrayed what a gentleman is. Before going into this theme, let me make one interesting diversion, in observing that movie makers around that time were rather fond of big casts, led by undisputed heavyweights and supported by some who were lesser in stature but still stars in their own right. Without even thinking hard, I can quote a few examples. Obviously The Big Country (1958) is one, with Peck, Jean Simmons, Carroll Baker, Charlton Heston, Burl Ives and Charles Bickford. Even more impressive is Spartacus (1960), with Kirk Douglas, Sir Laurence Olivier, Jean Simmons (again), Charles Laughton, Peter Ustinov, John Gavin and Tony Curtis. Another is Judgement at Nuremberg (1961) Spencer Tracy, Burt Lancaster, Richard Widmark, Marlene Dietrich, Maximilian Schell, Judy Garland and Montgomery Cliff. I used to try to line up the roster, weighting one against another in a hopeless quest of deciding which one has the final edge. Such pursuit invariably ended up in my throwing up my arms in despair.So much for side tracking. The essence of Big Country is in its hero James McKay, who is one notch above Will Kane in High Noon, a rather passive `hero' forced into heroism by circumstances. McKay is all positive, never wavering ever so slightly in his belief. Neither provocation nor insult can force him into violence. While he steadfastly resists the temptation of being a flashy, show-off type of `hero', he is the farthest away from being a dodger. He takes up every challenge that Patricia Terrill (Carroll Baker) scorns him for dodging. It's just that he does not need to prove himself to her, or to anybody, for that matter. It takes a real woman, Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons), to recognise a real man.  The most remarkable (and daring) thing about Big Country is the view it takes about fast draws, which is the most important factor (if not the only factor) behind every single successful western. Big Country dares to treat it as utterly worthless, or even more, as a sign of cowardice. In the final showdown, adversary Buck Hannassey the fast draw is portrayed as a coward at heart when his advantage is taken away, and eventually shot down by his own father in scorn when he tried to shoot McKay in the back.Some say that Big Country is not even a western and I do not disagree. To me, it's enjoying and admiring the performance of two of the greatest stars that ever graced the screen, Gregory Peck and Jean Simmons. "}{"Title":"It's A Big Wonderful Country ****","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country is a rousing great western with a fabulous all-star cast. As always, Gregory Peck shines in still another film attesting to his social conscientiousness depicted on the screen during his long career.Carol Baker brings her usual sexy ways as the woman who meets Peck in the east and has him come home to the west to wed. It soon appears that Peck was not meant to be a westerner. Naturally, he meets ranch foreman Charlton Heston, a macho guy who is jealous of Baker's love for James (Peck). Still another fine performance by Charles Bickford as her crusty father, who appears to be a fine gentleman but in reality is a bitter person locked in a dispute with a lower class Burl Ives. It is Ives who steals the film in his portrayal. He was awarded the Oscar for best supporting actor and it was well deserved. Jean Simmons is the western school marm, yet we never see her in a classroom setting.Seems that Peck has walked into the beginning of a range war between Bickford and Ives over water rights for cattle.Chuck Connors, who plays Ives' son, sets things in motion by assaulting Peck. Bickford uses this as a pretext to declare war on the Hennessey's (Ives and his sons.) Things really start to escalate. In the meantime, Peck does prove his masculinity but it is too late for Baker, who has come to believe that he is a coward.The final showdown is obvious but handled very well.Another great asset to the film is the rousing musical score. Its upbeat tempo tells you that you're in for a grand western. It is a big country and wonderful one at that. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorites","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I love movies, and this is as close to perfect, as it gets. First of all can, you imagine a movie with such a cast. Heston, Peck, Ives, Bickford, Connor, Baker, and Jean Simmons ( one of my favorite actors ). Throw in the scenery, the incredible musical score, and a plot with romance, and minimal violence, and you have a classic. On a home widescreen with the volume high, I am sure even compared to todays movies it is entertaining and ageless. As a footnote, I saw this movie years ago and it stuck in my mind. One day while listening to CBC radio on a call in request segment someone called in and asked for the theme from Big Country. It stirred me to track down a copy of the movie. I also like the story about Heston thinking of turning it down ( An Actor's Life ) since his part was secondary. His agent said are you nuts to turn down Willy Wyler. This movie led Wyler to cast him in Ben Hur. "},{"Title":"One of the great movies","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Whether or not you care a hoot about westerns or western scenery, whether or not you like Gregory Peck or Jean Simmons, whether or not you like movies with action - this is a powerful moving experience.The movie has so many Shakespearean tones - the father-son relationship, the rival families, the mismatched romantic couple - it will remind you of so many of his plays. It was also said to be Wyler's comment on the Cold War - and probably also reflects the feelings of a director who grew up in Alsace-Lorraine and felt from birth the enmity between the French and Germans before World War I.One of the things I most enjoyed was the way in which the viewer had some sympathies with every single one of the seven main characters.The least sympathetic is probably the Chuck Connors role -- yet even with him, one feels right from the start his dynamism, his love of life, his all-too-human pleasure in things. He's not a simple bully - in some respects he could easily fit in with the trio of Gunga Din who burst from windows, enjoy women to the fullest if they aren't tied down, play tricks, and live life to the fullest. The director makes us FEEL the joy of Connors and his brothers in showing off, in their daring, their vivacity when we see them on horseback early in the movie.The most sympathetic are Peck and Simmons - and wow, what a combination. They were born to play opposite each other - and it's terribly sad that this is their only pairing.Charles Bickford, Burl Ives, Carroll Baker, Charlton Heston, we feel with each one. For example, Baker is given a wonderful scene in which she pleads that she will do whatever it takes to get Peck back, apologizes for her behavior, insists it will never happen again. She is shallow, too young for Peck, concerned enormously with appearances - yet Wyler shows us a warm creature easily capable of love and affection.We feel with Heston - who has grown up loving a woman who has put him in his place and who has now tied herself to a stranger - who will presumably in time became his boss even though Heston was raised as practically a stepson to Bickford. We see Heston subtly change over the course of the film - to an independence of Bickford that is wonderfully done.The astonishing courage of Bickford's character, his stamina, his truly rugged independence, his native refinement, and his outrage at the coarseness of the Hennessys, is so well-drawn.Ives' character is brilliantly drawn too - a great sense of fair play, an admiration for gentlemen - which he is decidedly not and knows - a feeling that he has never gotten much of what he wanted, his disappointment in his son - these are fascinating to see.This is really a great movie - with great characters who themselves cause the plot to go the only way it could.My only objection is the too neat ending - but Simmons and Peck just looking at each other is SO right.Don't miss this. It is both powerful and subtle - it is never rushed and devotes time to the development of all the seven characters which I find quite rate in movies generally.Thus, we see Simmons and Baker together alone - and Baker's comment, You always think you know everything to Simmons gives us a pretty strong idea of their characters' relation before the movie ever began.We see Heston alone with Baker - his barely suppressed desire breaking out - and her feeling that he is beneath her.We see wonderful scenes of Bickford and Heston alone together - and the great scene where we realize that the men hold with Heston far more than with their nominal boss when they refuse to go where Heston won't go.This is monumental - fascinating - very American - and wonderful. "},{"Title":"Majestic western with much to admire.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Westerns, by their very nature, are mostly quite simplistic films. That's not to say they're bad &#150; some of the simplest westerns of all are actually cinematic masterpieces because they've been pared to the bone for maximum impact. Stagecoach and High Noon, for example. But every now and then a western comes along that adds layers to the basic concept of the genre and becomes something more. This might be layers of psychology, layers of philosophy, layers of brutality &#150; anything, really, that goes beyond the simple western framework and lends a more profound subtext to the film. Notable genre entries that have done this include The Searchers, The Wild Bunch and The Big Country, the latter of which is a 1958 epic made by William Wyler just a year before his incredible remake of Ben Hur.Sea captain Jim Mackay (Gregory Peck) travels to the Wild West to reunite with a lady he met back east, the beautiful Pat Terrill (Carroll Baker). However, Jim finds nothing but hostility and danger in the west, and is quickly taunted by some the locals who find him effeminate and cowardly because of his belief that violence doesn't solve anything. Pat's father Major Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford) is a wealthy rancher, but Jim is troubled when he discovers that the Major is locked in a long-standing feud over water rights with a rival family, the Hannasseys. It doesn't take Jim long to figure out that Pat is not the woman for him &#150; she may have seemed the perfect match back in the polite society of the East, but in her home region of the West she is dedicated to her father's aggressive attitudes and treats Jim differently, belittling him almost, because of his pacifist views. Worse still, the ranch foreman Steve Leech (Charlton Heston) has designs of his own on Pat and wants to fight Jim for her affection. In the end, Jim switches his attention to school teacher Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons), who owns the patch of land that provides both the Terrills and the Hannasseys with their water. Violence erupts between the two warring families, with Jim and Julie getting caught literally in the middle of their fatal battle for supremacy.There's much to admire about The Big Country. Jerome Moross's amazing score is perhaps the most memorable thing of all, a wonderful piece of dramatic scoring that is now a classic and known by people who haven't even seen the film. It's good to see Peck in such fine form too &#150; often criticised for being too wooden, his acting style here lends perfect credibility to the pacifist hero role. The entire cast in is excellent form if the truth be told, with Burl Ives the choice of the bunch as the fiercely proud leader of the Hannassey clan (an Oscar-winning role, and thoroughly deserving of it). Franz Planer's cinematography is quite majestic and helps the film to live up to its rather grand title. And Wyler directs the film exceptionally well, holding our attention over almost three hours and presenting characters and a back story that are totally convincing and involving. Critics have occasionally accused the film of being overblown, and there is an element of truth in that, and the ending rather unfairly asks us to care about the fate of Bickford and Ives when they've been portrayed as very unsympathetic characters up to that point. On the whole, though, The Big Country is definitely a western worth recommending. "},{"Title":"A Big Country, A Big Western, and Big Burl's Oscar","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" THE BIG COUNTRY fits two types of movies that were big in the 1950s One was the modern western (a western where the characters behaved with modern sensibilities), and the other was the huge blockbuster movies made to attract the audience being lost to early television (ironically, mostly to westerns as programs). Directed by William Wyler, he takes a leaf from John Ford's movies, such as the cavalry trilogy and THE SEARCHERS, to let the audience see for themselves the immensity of the American west (more properly the southwest). In fact, a kind of mild running gag in the film is how when Gregory Peck arrives everyone from his future father-in-law Charles Bickford, and his fiancé Carol Baker, and even Charlton Heston mentions that it is a big country (and that he can get lost in it). At the party thrown by Bickford, one of the guests asks Peck if he's ever been impressed by anything larger than the country. Peck says he has. He was a sea captain, and he's seen the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans! Ironically, at one point, he is believed lost and scouting parties are sent for him. He is never lost - he had a map and a compass all the time!Peck seems an eastern dude out of water when he arrives with his derby style hat (exciting the hoots of laughter from Chuck Connors and his men (the Hannasey white trash)). Actually he is simply not a man to demonstrate his emotions as readily as Bickford, Heston, Connors, or Burl Ives. They are always ready to defend their honor - as Bickford points out they are two hundred miles from the closest government seat, so they have to be their own policemen. But Peck keeps confounding them all. He conquers the horse that throws all the strangers - but he does it quietly when only Alfonso Bedoya is around to help. He won't stand up against Connors, whom he considers a drunken bully. He won't publicly fight Heston when the latter calls him a liar. But when alone they fight to a draw, and Heston realizes Peck is not a weakling or coward.Peck also sees the tensions in the country as due to the antagonisms of two men Bickford's Major Henry Terrill and Ives' Rufus Hannassay. It is a clash of class (on the surface), although Peck eventually says it is a confrontation between two selfish old men. He tries to find a happy medium out of the mess by buying Jean Simmons' land, but that is not as successful an idea as he hoped. Peck, somewhat simplistically, thinks that by promising open watering rights to everyone he is settling the main issue. But the hatred is too strong.All the characters are well drawn. Baker, at first a loving girlfriend, turns out to be too deeply committed to her father's point of view on everything. Simmons, who owns the coveted watering area, the big muddy, thinks in a similar way to Peck, but she underestimates her being a woman alone in a range war. Connors is determined to bully and grab what he can from everyone, but he doesn't fool his father (whom considers him a great disappointment), and can't prevent the world from seeing he's a coward. Heston is loyal to Bickford (who picked him out of the dust literally) but he does have as sense of right and wrong, and a sense of shame, that causes a break in their relationship in the end. Bedoya proves to be loyal to Peck, and the only one to accompany him on his last mission in the film. Bickford has striven to appear classy and a defender of Christian values, but he is a ruthless cattle baron for all that who sees the silly attack on Peck as a comment on himself by his enemy Ives (who knew nothing about it).But Ives is wonderful - and deserved his Oscar. His best remembered performance (of course) will always be Big Daddy in CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF - one of the best written roles in modern American theater. Rufus Hannassy is white trash (note his advise of taking an occasional bath when dating a woman). But in comparison to the more hypocritical Bickford/Terrill, he does not push his men to confront anyone, nor does he get uptight about trivialities. He confronts Terrill at the latter's home during a party after Terrill had led his own men to raid Ives' ranch and destroy his water tower. He does understand what Terrill would never understand a real gentleman is a good neighbor and a man of his word (two things Terrill can barely be). And finally there is the involved issue of Ives' relationship with his son Connors. Ives' has a sense of morality, and he beats up Connors when the latter tries to commit rape. Up to their last moments on screen together Connors is consistently disappointing him. It is only after the latter's death that Ives' comes to his senses, and agrees with Peck as to what he must do to stop the range war from continuing. Of the two selfish old men, Ives keeps the audience's sympathy. "},{"Title":"A Big Movie","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Definitely a big movie. Some great performances here as well as stunning photography and interesting direction. Wyler frames so much of the action in huge sweeping vistas, to evoke the film's title. A good job by Peck, playing the sea captain gone west. All the other characters seemed to have him pegged as a pantywaist city slicker from back East, rather than someone who would have to be quite tough to survive in that unknown milieu. His fiancee, was such a spoiled brat type that one wonders what McKay ever saw in her back in Baltimore. There was some strange connection between her and her father, played adequately by Charles Bickford. (They called one another Darling) Jean Simmons as Julie Maragon lit up the screen with her charm whenever she appeared. The supporting cast, however, stole the show. Chuck Connors, as the sniveling, evil Buck Hennessey. Burl Ives, as the Hennessey patriarch. (Oscar winner for this role) And Charlton Heston, as the Ladder Ranch foreman, Steve Leach. An interesting role for Heston to accept, a fairly unlikeable character. The plot and dialogue were thoroughly engaging. I definitely recommend this film. Grade A "},{"Title":"Unsurpassable - at least in this millennium!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Probably one of the ten best films ever made - and let's NOT go there! This genuine epic is less of a Western and more of a tribute to honor and decent human values, none held more dear than by Rufus Hannassey himself.Everything came together in this masterful and sprawling work. William Wyler director, arguably without peer in his field (BEN HUR), maintained an iron grip on his story, never losing focus of what THE BIG COUNTRY was all about. With actors such as Heston, Peck, Baker, Simmons, Ives and Bickford pretty much at the apex of their careers, the characters were imbued with more than life. They will live forever now, long beyond our deaths and perhaps even rebirth. The film is all about honor. Pushy though self-made landowner Major Terrill wanting simply the best for his daughter (Baker) and his refusal to consider the plight and livelihood of his backwoods neighbors the Hannasseys.  Peck himself as upstanding paragon of decency Jim Mackay who has wooed and has now come to marry Terrill's high-spirited, overly protected and ultimately short-sighted daughter Patricia. Heston as Terrill's 2 IC who has carried a torch for Patricia all these years but would never betray his boss, one that he freely admits he would Follow into Hell if necessary.  Simmons as beautiful, uncluttered and still single Julie Maragon whose property the Hannasseys would dearly love to acquire ostensibly for the Big Muddy water rights. These peoples' interactions set to the dusty but beautiful western backdrop are what makes this simply unforgettable and unrepeatable viewing. I had the good fortune to see this film in its original 70mm format at its London premiere in '58. It hasn't aged a day! It does however lose just so much on a television screen. Powerful doesn't adequately cover this masterpiece which is heightened even more by the never-equalled musical score from Jerome Moross. How this film might be received by a new audience in 2002 and with such different values I wouldn't care to say, but I like to think there will always be people around that will stand up for the essence of what this great film promotes in terms of searing human endeavours, strengths and integrities. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of all time","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I always tell anyone who listens that Gregory Peck never made a bad film. The Big Country is one of his best and one I have watched over and over. As of this writing it is being run by WETA in the widescreen version and I have watched it twice in the last 2 daze . . .I read a lot of the comments of my fellow admirers and there seems to be a consensus that this movie has few if any weaknesses. Nearly every comment mentions the musical score and the great cast. The unforgettable Burl Ives in his Oscar winning role, Charleton Heston, Carol Baker, Charles Bickford, Chuck Conners and Jean Simmons . . . what a beauty! Until this go 'round I had never given much thought to the location of the story. I figured The Big Country was an obvious reference to The Big Sky country of Montana or at least Wyoming. Since I have been to Texas it would be easy to assume the location was there, especially the cattle ranches and dry canyons. Thanx to IMDb I now know the film was shot in California, another place I have lived and noticed the ranches.The one overriding thing about this movie that I always felt was that it should have been a mini-series and should have gone on and on. It was a story you could put yourself into and who wouldn't have wanted to be James McKay falling in love with Julie Maragon played by the great Jean Simmons. Bravo! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Westerns; one of the greatest movies","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A masterpiece, pure and simple. I saw The Big Country when It came out and I was in my very early teens. I thought it was over at the one hour thirty-nine minute mark; it was the longest motion picture I had ever seen. And I could not appreciate it at the time. Oh, I liked Peck's character very much but missed all the amazing nuances of the complex characters, for this is not only a Western but also a capital R Romance, a study in loyalties (most clearly seen in Heston's role. Is this his finest performance? Ives won the Oscar, and deservedly so, but Conners never again came close to the talent he showed as Buck, and Bickford crowned his long career in this triumphant human drama of love, family, power, blood, money and land. The true star of this wonderful motion picture is actually the title character it is about The Big Country. It is the West. It does not matter if it be Texas or Alberta; it could as easily have been oil rather than cattle (as was attempted not nearly so well in Giant); or it could have been gold (as in the inferior Pale Rider) Wyler here captures the essence of the West in a pre-Leone Shakespearean human epic of the West. "},{"Title":"Big country, people and emotions","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Big describes not only the country, but also the people in it and their emotions, which are often expressed nonverbally. We see love, understanding, excitement, fear, rage, jealousy, shame, disapproval and more through facial expression. One of the highlights is the look two major characters exchange showing the love each has for the other, never before expressed. Neither of them speaks a word, but they understand clearly enough. I won't get into a detailed summary of the plot as that can be found elsewhere. Instead I would like to focus on a few of the lesser scenes, non-essential but adding to the overall flavor as, for example, the cowboy rousted out of his sleep and being so disoriented that he nearly climbs on his horse backwards. Or the cowboy who puts on a display of terrific horsemanship trailing behind his horse at full gallop holding on only by the tail. Or the father encouraging his son's romantic aspirations with the words, Treat her right. Take a bath sometimes. One of the major criticisms is that the movie is too long, but it is difficult for me to find even a line that could be cut without losing something. As for the characters, Gregory Peck's sea captain Jim McKay is my second favorite of his roles, behind only Atticus Finch of To Kill a Mockingbird. He is a man of great inner peace and strength, uncaring about what others think of him. He desires peace, but he will not back down from a fight if no other choice is left to him. Equally impressive is Jean Simmons as schoolteacher Julie Maragon. Also peace loving, she refuses to sell her land, which contains the only water for miles around, to either one of two feuding families who would cut water off from the other should they get their hands on that land. Other major characters include ranch owner Major Terrell (Charles Bickford), bent on the destruction of his rival Rufus Hannassey, his daughter Pat (Carroll Baker), engaged to McKay but in reality in love with her father, and foreman Steve Leech (Charlton Heston), fiercely loyal to his boss, in love with his daughter and intensely jealous of her fancy fiancé from back east. Alfonso Bedoya, in his final role, stands out, as does Chuck Conners as Rufus' cowardly son, Buck. However, it is Burl Ives as the blunt, coarse, but principled head of the Hannassey clan who towers over everyone else. He got the Academy Award and deservedly so. One final note the music score by Jerome Moross is nothing short of magnificent. The movie critics got it all wrong on this one. It is neither too long in running time nor too short on action. It is as it should be, an American epic. "}{"Title":" I'm not responsible for what people think, I'm only responsible for what I am","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Across the motion picture screen where actors and actresses can be seen as bigger than life, is this incredible feature. It's the story of an Eastern sea Captain James McKay (Gregory Peck) who's decided to leave his ship's travels behind, take a Western wife and move West to meet her wealthy father. Arriving, McKay admires the grand scope and scenery of the open West, but is unimpressed with its size. To western observers, he is treated with indifference and his quiet peaceful demeanor is seen as lacking in manhood. One individual laughingly taunts him with the West's immense grandeur with 'Did you ever see anything so big? Yes, answers McKay, two Oceans.' From then on its a test of wills between East and West. There amid the vast open range lies the great plains ranch called 'Ladder' with it's rough, tough square-jaw Foreman named Steve Leech (Charlton Heston). Its Leech who doesn't believe McKay is much of a man and challenges the Captain again and again, only to be denied. Charles Bickford plays Maj. Henry Terrill a self-proclaimed gentleman who's twenty year old feud with his one time rival Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives) and his son Buck (Chuck Connors) aim to settle their quarrel with guns. In addition, both powerful men struggle to obtain the major source of water in the region called  Big Muddy  which is owned by Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons). Her friend, Patricia (Carroll Baker) is the daughter of Henry Terrill and is as bigoted and blind as her father. With a supporting cast which includes Alfonso Bedoya as Ramón Guiteras, the film is filled with Grand scenes, majestic landscapes and western action. The story is straight forward and definitely a must for anyone who likes a good old fashion Cowboy movie. All in all, nothing short of a grand Classic. Easilly recommended to all. **** "},{"Title":"Male and Female styles and values","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Alec West said spoke well in his post about the movie. It is one of my favorite movies for similar reasons. I would only add that I have used the film to illustrate different male and female values and styles. In Jim and Leech, and Buck as well, we see quite different versions of maleness their world-views and how they present themselves to others. The contrast between Terrill and Hannassay is another interesting study. Pat and Julie offer a couple wonderful contrasts of female ways of being in the world. As a therapist, I have seen present day versions of these characters' values and behaviors time and again. My favorite character is Jim, but the character of greatest interest to me is Steve Leech. I admire his loyalty and find his transformation through his interactions with McKay well drawn. "},{"Title":"A man like him is very rare","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Alfonso Bedoya is rightly remembered for his line in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre - Badges? We don't need no stinkin' badges. Just as telling is the way Alfonso articulated the key concept of The Big Country when he says of Jim McKay A man like him is very rare. There is a sense of respect in Alfonso's delivery and a need to relate to others what he has seen in McKay. There is great irony in the fact that everyone else except for Julie as played by Jean Simmons fails to see McKay's qualities. And they assume superiority in all things related to life in the west. This is a film about prejudice on a number of levels. The Mexican ranch hand, Ramon, is disregarded and even called an idiot by the ranch's owner, Henry Terrill, when he tells him and daughter, Pat, not to worry about McKay going off on his own to explore the ranch. I don't think he'll get lost. He's a very smart man. And he's got a funny watch. Ramon didn't know that the watch was a compass but he knew McKay well enough to be confident that McKay's confidence in the funny watch would not be misplaced - even in country that looks all the same. The Hannassey boys mistook McKay's forbearance for cowardice. This was to be expected of them because they were young and foolish so McKay is understanding of it. However, when the woman who has declared her love for him construes his forbearance as cowardice, it is another matter. Julie asks Pat, How many times does a man have to win you? Exactly! McKay does not need to live out a lifetime of proving himself to others and a man like that is very rare. For most of us, we live lives in which what we own or what we do just have to be acknowledged over and over. Worse still, we often forget that people like Ramon are not idiots simply because they are uneducated ranch hands or express views that don't coincide with our own. The messages so skilfully hidden within a film about a grudge match between two old tyrants in the wild west are a testament to the screenwriter's craft. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This film has a stunning opening sequence with credits by the great Saul Bass and one of the most beautiful scores ever composed. The performances a outstanding and William Wyler's direction is simply first rate. It is one of the most underrated movies from the 1950's and is a perfect example of why Gregory Peck was one of the biggest stars of his time. The story may be far-fetched at the end but overall this is a western that should not be missed by anyone serious about film. The credits alone are worth the viewers time and the visuals are unforgettable. Even Chuck Connors does a fine job and Charlton Heston is excellent. The fight sequence between Peck and Heston truly shows the futility of violence and the scenes of humanity dwarfed by the natural environment are superb. "},{"Title":"George Washington in a Western","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This is undoubtedly the best western that I have ever seen. It has all the characteristics that make up a great drama. Burl Ives surely deserved his best supporting actor award. For that matter, all the acting was exceptional and should have been noted for posterity. In all fairness, if you were going to give the Oscar to Burl, it should have been also awarded to Gregory Peck. His portrayal of Jim Mckay was sure genius. He played a unique character that has not been reproduced since this late 1950's western. Mckay was a very friendly, educated and established Easterner who wasn't impressed with himself. He never wore his medals on his sleeve and was always trying to do the right thing. His character is the kind of person that we all strive to be like in our everyday lives. If only more men emulated the actions of Jim Mckay, this surely would be a better world. Jim's honesty, truthfulness, integrity, sincerity, strength and courage stand up to the bigness of the Big Country. The scenery and music make this a pure masterpiece by the great director, William Wyler. The Big Country deserved more than it got from Hollywood and over time, people have been re-introducing themselves to a classic. I seen this movie years ago and fell in love with it right away. I usually watch it once or twice a year when it comes on TV or when I get the hankering and pull the DVD out. If you love westerns and have not seen the Big Country, you are in for a big surprise. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Liberal Western","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Just watched this for the first time and was blown away by it. What John Wayne did for Republicans, Gregory Peck does for liberal Democrats. This man makes pacifism look sexy. Peck's strong, stoic and manly performance really holds this movie and he gets the girl too (a school teacher no less).The movie really works because of the genius casting of Charlton Heston. When Peck decides to duke it out with Moses you are sure he is not a coward.And this movie looks big, I mean big, Lawrence of Arabia big. Surprisingly this was made in the 50's, but it looks and feels like a 60's movie. But I imagine the theme of old men getting young men into war, was very relevant especially after Korea. This is a cold war movie to be sure, but it still works. I am amazed that Liberal Hollywood can't make such a powerful picture today. Well I suppose two cowboys bumming each other is more their thing.Did I mention that it had a fantastic score? "},{"Title":"One of the best FILMS of all time","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I will have to agree with the majority of people here, and I must say I am pleased to see how well received this film is for so many. It is truly deserving. I am at a bit of a loss as to how this film has gotten lost among many other so-called great westerns. This film makes a very strong case for my top western (along with The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, The Shootist, and The Searchers), and certainly top 10 movie of all time!There are so many rare and great things about this film -- let me just point to a few. First, the movie, at almost 3 hrs long, has no dull, lagging spots! There is not a scene or a section which you want to fast-forward through to get to the good parts. This is very unusual for a film of this length.Second, the character development in this film is amazing. Not because the protagonist and the antagonist are developed so well (although they are), but because there are so MANY characters developed to such a great extent. This may well be the reason for the fact in the previous point. Peck, Heston, Conners, Ives, Bickford, Baker, Simmons, and Bedoya, and even Ol' Thunder the horse (!) are interesting, and more than watchable. By the time the film is through, you feel as if you've known each and every one very well!Thirdly, this film effectively does what many try to do and fail (but at which Wyler was very good), and many marginal movies never even attempt. Simply put, half of the dialogue in this movie, isn't. You learn every bit as much about all the characters by their expressions and their actions as by their lines. Brilliant acting, and even more brilliant directing.Fourth, there are many great scenes in this movie! It is not full of non-stop, shoot-em-up, action -- it is so much better than that! The scene at the beginning as Peck gets off the stage is good -- his (eventful) trip to the ranch with his fiancé, the Ol' Thunder showdown, Burl Ives entry (which is AMAZING and powerful!), Peck's trip to the old ranch house and Big Muddy, the fight between Heston and Peck (which some have criticized for the slow pacing, outcome, and distant camera-work, but which I think is poignant, rare, and a turning point in the film), and the list goes on and on...Fifth, as so many have said -- the music is absolutely wonderful! It is powerful, uplifting, and very, very hummable! -)There are so many things which I love about this film, which are to many to continually elaborate upon. Wyler's treatment of the story and its characters is suburb. Each and every character is true to form throughout without inconsistencies, and each one is powerful in his or her own way. This is a magnificent western for everyone. See it!! "},{"Title":"Big Country, Great film","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A beautiful, eloquent and thoughtful epic that is perhaps an anti-western. Gregory Peck is perfectly cast as the newly-arrived pacifist who is reluctantly cast into the battle between two powerful families in the Old West, one respected and one considered outcasts. William Wyler directs and probes plenty of questions as to justice, as Charles Bickford's family, for all their position and respect, treat the rough Hannassey clan (headed by bullish Burl Ives) no better than they treat them. In a terrific cast, Carroll Baker is Bickford's spoiled daughter who is engaged to Peck yet doesn't understand him. She's been bred to the ways of the Old West, and she can't understand the sort of man Peck is, and why he won't seem to fight. But her best friend and schoolmarm Jean Simmons (her lovely, down-to-earth quality makes her character very believable)does, and she and Peck fall in love. Charlton Heston smolders in the background as the Bickford's foreman who wants Carroll Baker badly (and these two seem to be made for each other). Aside from the convincing acting, and interesting plot, this is beautifully filmed and has a great musical score. Perhaps it lags in places, and even if it does run for 2 and a half hours some points aren't as fleshed out as I would have liked (I would have liked to have seen more of Heston's character, and Baker just disappears from the film at times). But it's still an excellent film, thoughtful and thought-provoking as the best movies should be. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I have always had a soft spot for The Big Country, which questioned the mythology of the Western. I had been brought up on the films of John Wayne and Clint Eastwood where the heroes behaved almost like medieval knights with a code of chivalry and superhuman fighting skills. On the other hand The Big Country has some similarities to Pleasantville. Jim McKay (Gregory Peck) is a 20th century man who stumbles into a fantasy macho world with a code of behavior and wardrobe invented by Hollywood. Men are men and apart from a small number of Mexicans there are no immigrants. The Little House on the Prairie on the Prairie probably provides a more accurate depiction life on the frontier than the typical Hollywood Western. Despite the limitations of this genre, it is still an entertaining movie.McKay arrives in the West to marry Pat Terrill (Carroll Baker). Pat is the daughter of the Major Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford) a successful rancher. The Major is involved in a feud, over watering rights, with a white-trash clan led by Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives). The major and Hannassey behave like ruthless mafia dons. McKay meets his fiancé in the East, but discovers she is spoiled. He becomes troubled by her devotion to the Major, who McKay concludes is more thug than gentleman. The Terrill's ranch foreman Steve Leech (Charlton Heston) takes an immediate dislike to McKay and tries to provoke him into fisticuffs. McKay doesn't like the Terrills and bolts.Pat's best friend is Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons) a local schoolteacher. Maragon owns a stretch of land which provides the water to the Terrill and Hannassey ranches and because of this she is kidnapped and nearly raped. McKay doesn't feel obliged to live by the values of the Hollywood Western. He doesn't carry a gun and has strange pacifist notions. He dresses like the actual Wyatt Earp and Butch Cassidy rather than their film versions. Despite being a former ship's captain he is suspected of being effeminate and a coward. Maragon and McKay are the only main characters who are admirable or likable. McKay eventually proves that he is a real man. He has a secret fight with Steve Leech and rides a rodeo horse called Old Thunder. He makes Leech and the stable-hand swear to keep both events quiet regardless of the outcome. He later fights a duel with Hannassey's son (Chuck Connors). The screenplay is based on a novel by Donald Hamilton. The movie was directed by William Wyler, who won three Best Director Oscars. Wyler was a great director but he is out of favor with the critics despite having a good track record with intellectual source material (e.g., Somerset Maugham, Emily Bronte, John Fowles, Lillian Hellman and Henry James). The movie has an excellent cast, with Ives winning the Academy Award as Best Supporting Actor for his performance. The film was also nominated for an Oscar for Jerome Moross's brilliant and memorable musical score. The movie was released in 1958 and lasts 166 minutes. Although many films from the 1950s seem dated, this is still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Epic , breathtaking Western dealing with feuding families headed by two rival patriarchs cowmen","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A New Englander (Gregory Peck) arrives in the Old West to marry a beautiful young (Carroll Baker) , there he becomes embroiled in feuding families with rival patriarchs (Burl Ives , Charles Bickford) over a valuable patch of land and water rights on a river . Furthermore , this exciting Western pits stubborn Gregory Peck and tough ranch foreman , Charlton Heston, as ongoing adversaries , both of whom carry out a marathon fist-fight .Impressive and big-budgeted Western with action , adventure , thrills , energetic drama , spectacular scenarios and interesting message about peace and no violence. Outstanding acting from Gregory Peck as obstinate ex-sea captain forced to take sides in familiar battle and Charlton Heston stands out as quick-tempered cowboy . Two beauties as Jean Simmons and Carroll Baker give splendid performances . Special mention to Burl Ives who deservedly won Academy Award as burly pater families. Brief appearance , almost extra , of Roddy McDowall as watchman . Wonderful camera work by Franz Planer who photographs marvelously the colorful outdoors and interior . Classic musical score by Jerome Moross , one of the best from cinema's history . This marvelous Western , as long as epic , has become a classic , being stunningly and finely crafted directed by the maestro William Wyler . Wyler was an expert on Western as proved in ¨The Westener , Friendly persuasion, Big Country¨, but his specialty were dramas as ¨Jezebel, Best years of our lives , Dodsworth , The heiress, The letter , Wuthering heights , Dead , These three ,The collector ¨ , his biggest hit was ,of course, ¨Ben Hur¨. Rating  Very good but overlong as the runtime is approx three hours . This famous Western will appeal to Peck and Heston fans . Worthwhile watching and above average . "}{"Title":"The best western ever, with one of the most important characters in ANY film.","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The best western ever, with one of the most important characters in ANY film. Gregory Peck's McKay was an ideal role model for any boy or youth, showing what it really is to be a man. In our culture so much machismo and swagger have passed for manhood, which they simply aren't. There's more man to McKay than in all the John Wayne films laid end to end. And that's just one aspect of this great film. Jerome Meross's score SHOULD have won the Academy Award by a huge margin over the actual winner, Dmitri Tiompkin's score for The Old Man and the Sea.And more cast, performances, scenery, writing, editing, directing, . . . . . . just everything about this film. Simply wonderful. I understand that critics regarded the film as rather lightweight. Maybe they just didn't get it. Perhaps that is true even of people associated with the film. I once heard Gregory Peck - my all-time favorite actor - speaking rather dismissively of the film. I was disappointed. But he's still my all-time favorite actor.Finally, what a delight Alfonso Bedoya was in this, his final film! HIS character got it, as demonstrated with his assessment of McKay He is a very rare man. "},{"Title":"A big western, with big ideals","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A big western, with big ideals.The story of a former sea captain (played by Gregory Peck) who settles in a western town, only to discover a bitter feud exists between the two main families in the area.Decent plot. Starts off looking like a standard good guys vs bad guys drama, but the further you go the more you discover that things aren't anywhere near as simple as that. A bit idealistic though. Gregory Peck's character is overly goody- two-shoesy and the movie does feel quite sappy from time to time. Incredibly long too, at nearly three hours. Some scenes weren't entirely necessary, or could have been edited to a shorter length.Overall, a good western, with a good message. Just takes some time to deliver the message.. "},{"Title":"Great subversive Western, one of the greatest scores for a film ever.","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I'm always appalled at how little William Wyler I've seen. I adore The Best Years of Our Lives and Roman Holiday, but Ben-Hur is underwhelming. Now with The Big Country winning my heart, he really deserves better. I'm a sucker for a good subversive Western. The myth of the American frontier in cinema is fascinating to me and any film that develops the ideas inherently has my attention. The Big Country is credited as the first pacifist Western as Gregory Peck refuses to fight until the last moment or acknowledge the seriousness of any conflict. He's an unconventional hero. One who teeters a line of cowardice. But this just makes him all the more endearing as a three dimensional character. Granted, the film has its caricature characters on the side, but the script has such a dry wit. Burt Ives won an Oscar for his role and coming in an hour into the film, there wasn't much spotlight left to share, but he certainly has his moments. It's a grand epic in visuals and length that I easily sunk into. It's a big country alright. Also boasts one of the best scores I've ever heard. Can't believe it's not considered a greater classic.8/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best westerns ever,fantastic plot,and characters","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Saw this film at age ten (1958),it was so impressive. James McKAY (Gregory Peck) was so strong that I decided while watching this movie,That's the kind of man I want to be when I grow up. He cares not a whit what others think,only that he lives up to his own values ,and standards.The theme is so perfect I own the CD ,EVEN NOW. A superb cast,Alfonso Bedoya,et al. I don't think Chuck Conners ever played or had a better role as the cowardly bully he played here.Everyone in the sterling cast gave outstanding performances. Much as I love Ben Hur ,I believe William Wyler made a more engrossing story/movie with greater pathos in The Big Country. "},{"Title":"Yes...very big!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A well acted and executed western from the brilliant William Wyler. I will not delve into the intricacies of the plot except to say that, western though it is, it speaks much more about what it is, truly, to be a gentleman.The acting from Gregory Peck, Charlton Heston, Jean Simons (and a special mention for the irrepressible Alfonso Bedoya)et al is of the highest standard, with Peck very much at the helm in this epic of the west.The music soundtrack must rate as one of the most memorable and well-written scores ever created for a western motion picture. Written with skill and care by Jerome Moross it is at once evocative and descriptive and the opening theme is surely one of the most whistled tunes out west.The DVD print is optically quite good. The widescreen photography is superb. Disappointingly the soundtrack has not been re-mixed into 5.1 and has been left in single-track Dolby 1.1. Hopefully there will be a special release' version in the future that will address this minor shortcoming. "},{"Title":"A Movie Full of Old Fashioned Charm","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" James McKay (Peck), a refined man, comes to a lawless town in the Old West and makes it a better place. It is a very common premise in the Westerns over the decades (Destry Rides Again, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, A Fistful of Dollars). But what make this movie unique are the characters and the way we perceive them over the course of the movie. General Henry Terrill (Bickford)and Rufus Hannassey (Ives) are the heads of two rival families in town. Terrill is rich, well-spoken and has a beautiful daughter, Patricia (Baker), who is engaged to McKay. Hannassey is poor and rough and has three ruffians for sons. But, we soon discover that appearances are deceptive. General Terrill, Rufus Hannassey, Patricia and Steve Leech (Heston), the General's foreman, are all products of their environment and have their own good and bad qualities. Even McKay is not perfect; though his is more of a weakness (he is not very good at judging) his feelings for women. The spectrum of characters also include Julie Maragon (Simmons), a young lady caught in the feud and yet managed to stay strong and keep her values, and Buck Hannassey (Connors), Rufus's slithery elder son with no redeemable qualities. A couple of characters alter their way of seeing things after their interaction with McKay but they never go out of their personalities. And, the romance has a modern day touch to it.A description of the movie would not be complete without mentioning its three excellent fight scenes. They are entirely different from one another in style, context and purpose and add depth to the movie.The cast could not be better. The locations are well chosen and convey the idea that we are indeed in a big country. And, there is not a dull moment in spite of its length. A must watch for fans of Westerns. "},{"Title":"Charlton Heston's nuanced performance...","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I've always liked Gregory Peck, and I think he's great here, but it's Charlton Heston's nuanced performance that prompts these comments. I've stated elsewhere (in my comments for TREASURE ISLAND, for instance) that Charlton Heston was more than capable of playing a believable Bad Guy and that he could've made a career out of doing just that had he so chosen; and one of his finest turns came in THE BIG COUNTRY. Shakespearean in scope, THE BIG COUNTRY features Heston as the ranch foreman Steve Leech. It's a nuanced performance, with Leech at first coming off as little more than a hard-driving b****** with a thing for the woman who would become Peck's girl- but the character goes through a very dramatic change that showcases Heston's range the Bad Guy morphs into a Not So Bad Guy After All. The times Heston impresses on screen are about as numerous as the films he starred in (or even co-starred in, or had what amounted to a bit part in). The man was a consummate professional and it's always a pleasure to watch him work. There'll never be another like him. "},{"Title":"Devoted friends...dedicated enemies","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Gregory Peck is ideally cast as a peaceable sea captain from the East who comes to Texas in 1886 to claim as his bride the somewhat-spoiled daughter of a rancher; Peck is almost immediately labeled a greenhorn and coward after failing to stand up to a scurrilous brood involved with his prospective in-laws in a fight over rights to a watering hole for cattle. Long-winded western treatise on the definitions of manhood and the prevalence of violence, how it starts and what it ultimately solves. Adapted from a slim novel by Donald Hamilton, William Wyler's film is expansive without being pointed, with an intentionally casual, languorous pace that works against the mounting tensions (bringing attention to the relatively poor editing). The large cast (including Charlton Heston as a cowhand vying for Peck's intended, Carroll Baker, and Burl Ives in an Oscar-winning supporting turn as the patriarch of the Hannassey gang) is solid, though the interior sets are ungainly and the plot is puffed-up with more bluster than it is ultimately worth. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This movie should be required viewing for all high school students. There are so many good lessons about life that can be learned by watching this film that would result in better citizens of the USA. Some people are not smart enough to add 2 and 2. A sea Captain, who sails the oceans of the world for a living getting lost on a cross country horse ride in the 'Big Country' and they can't figure out on their own that he can find his way anywhere he wants to with his compass. When he won't fight in front of everyone he's deemed a coward, But he'll fight when it suits him. He won't ride a horse when he knows they'll make a laughing spectacle of him, but he'll do it on his own and in is own time. The line delivered by Jean Simmons to Carroll Baker, 'How many times does he have to win your love?', is classic and telling. Burl Ives being trod upon by the so called socialite, big shot, Charles Bickford. More class conscious than considerate to another human being. When Burl Ives is more honorable to a fault and shoots and kills his own son for not being an honest honorable person himself. That's character to a fault. But he warned him. 'Be the man I always wanted you to be'. It is just so full of life's lessons it's just the best movie in my list of over 6600 movies that I have viewed. "},{"Title":"that frontier life was something else","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Usually, when movie characters utter their movie's title, it's deliberately campy; or if it's not, then the movie's pretty idiotic. Not so with The Big Country. It is actually an epic masterpiece. James McKay (Gregory Peck) is a sailor who moves to a Texas ranch in the late 1800s. This is a totally different environment for him, and so not only does he have sort of a hard time adjusting, but his very presence may be turning some people against each other.Some big movies were epic to the point of being leaden, but not this one. The Big Country always has something good to say about whatever aspect. And Carroll Baker, Burl Ives, Jean Simmons and Charlton Heston all provide some good support, with near perfect direction by William Wyler. This may have been Wyler's best movie ever (Ben-Hur actually was epic to the point of being leaden). "}{"Title":"Big Allegorical Dramatic Western; Characters Plus Story","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This is a spacious film, with very-wide vistas, the distant horizons of a Southwestern landscape tall skies and copper-colored air. The spare and very straight-line novel by Matt Helm creator Donald Hamilton suggested these qualities, but fundamentally it was the interposing of a strangely-whole personality, a self-asserting sea captain, into a long-standing feud between two allegorical and implacable western rivals. One was the hard-bitten owner of Ladder ranch, a self-made touchy New England type with a stuck-up family and proud ranch hands; the other was the intelligent patriarch of a brawling clan of Soiuthern-style culturally-backward lower-class types. The narrative that Hamilton developed from this set of elements was not voluminous either. The captain comes to marry the girl he had met, the ranch-owner's daughter. He is kidnapped by the Southerner's boys and hoorahed. The ranch owner is furious about this and takes his revenge on those responsible. While th captain and the girl, who expects him to act like a westerner and take his licks publicly, have their own misunderstanding, the Southerner warns the ranch owner never to intrude in his area, Blanco Canyon, again, on pain of starting a war. The captain ignores advice about how big the land is and, using a compass, he tames an unbreakable horse by dint of falling off over and over again, but with no one to see except a Mexican hostler. He then rides bent on discovery but meets Julie Maragon, who owns the Big Muddy section, once a worthwhile ranch; and on his return has to fight the foreman who calls him a liar when he says he had not been lost--he what been heading back to the ranch when they found him. The fight is a respectful draw; it turns out the foreman wants to marry the daughter. Then the remainder of the film involves three actions. The ranch owner attacks the Blanco Canyon gang on a pretext, and he and the Southertner kill each other in a duel to the death. The girl refuses the captain; and he has already decided to marry Julie, daughter of the former owner of the strategic Big Muddy section, and allow water rights to both sides, ending the pretext for their long quarrel; this leaves the daughter free to marry the foreman. Jerome Moross did intelligent and spacious-sounding music to accompany this long and interesting character drama on horseback. William Wyler directed lyrically with a real sense of space, from a script adapted by Jessamyn West and Robert Wyler, with the script being finished by veteran writers Sy Bartlett and Robert Wilder and James R. Webb. Franz. F. Planer did the crystal-clear cinematography, with art direction by Frank Hotaling. The set decoration was done very opulently by Edward G. Boyle with costumes being designed by Emile Santiago and Yvonne Wood. This was a feature produced for himself by Gregory Peck with Wyler. He is excellent in the lead as James McKay, sea captain. The rival heads of he outfits were played by Charles Bickford and Burl Ives, both giving award caliber performances. Jean Simmons and Carroll Baker played Julie Maragon and the fiancée-daughter,respectively, with Charlton Heston as the foreman Steve Leach, Chuck Connors' as the Southerner's rebellious son, and veteran Alfonso Bedoya as the Mexican who befriends McKay. No one else in this very clear and ruthlessly-developed film is given very much to do. Some of the sense of a fatal conflict stems from this portrayal of opposing forces moving toward a confrontation neither admits they want but which they do too little to avoid. The director makes a strange choice as Peck discovers the old house on the Maragon property; he suddenly shoots the scene from Julie's point of view; I believe this to have been an tactical weakening of the film's progress, but the viewer must judge whether it serves Julie's introduction better than conventional point of view would have done. But there are a great many virtues to this consistently-stylish production. Some are the dialogue scenes between Peck and Carroll Baker, the arguments between Ives and Bickford, and the pacing of the entire film, which is deliberate where it is made to be deliberate and is caused to proceed swiftly where it must. This is a very good drama masquerading as a western; and it seems to me clearly to be an allegory of what caused the civil War, played out on the Texas plains with the addition of a man of Lincolnesque un-common sense set into the middle of the tense situation. It is also the last film Wyler directed before the mammoth mounting of Ben-Hur. Highly recommended.     "},{"Title":"A Classic Western","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" When James McKay, a former sea-captain and the son of a wealthy Eastern ship-owning family, gets engaged to Patricia Terrell, a rancher's daughter, and moves out West to meet her family, he finds himself in the middle of a violent feud. Patricia's father, Major Henry Terrell, is the biggest landowner in the area and appears at first sight to be a man of culture and breeding, living a life of luxury and elegance in an elegant mansion. Beneath his urbane exterior, however, Major Terrell is a man of strong passions, and has conceived a violent dislike for the Hannasseys, a neighbouring family. Exactly how the feud started is not clear, but an important factor in the Major's dislike seems to be that he regards the Hannasseys, whom he refers to as local trash, as his social inferiors.Shortly after his arrival, McKay is subjected to some rough-housing by three of the Hanassey clan. The incident was motivated more by drunken bravado than by any malicious intent, and McKay, who is a peaceable man by nature, does not want to retaliate. Terrell, however, is outraged by the insult offered to his prospective son-in-law, and takes the opportunity to teach the Hanasseys a lesson by organising an armed raid on their ranch. The feud worsens, and McKay's attempts to keep the peace are unsuccessful. By advocating a policy of turning the other cheek, McKay alienates the Major, and makes an open enemy of his foreman, Steve Leech, both of whom regard pacifism as dishonourable and cowardly. Worse still, McKay becomes estranged from Patricia herself, who shares her father's view that a man should fight in order to defend his honour.The feud comes to a head over the Big Muddy. Whoever owns this piece of land, will control access to the river, vitally important for watering cattle in this arid landscape. The land is currently owned by Julie Maragon, the local schoolmistress and the last descendant of a once-powerful family. Julie, who shares McKay's peaceable nature, is happy to allow both families to water their cattle, but Terrill and Rufus, the patriarch of the Hannassey clan, both covet the land in order to prevent their enemies from watering their cattle. McKay himself also wants the land, as he is thinking of becoming a rancher in his own right. The film's violent, but emotionally powerful, climax comes after a group of Terrills drive some of the Hannassey's cattle away from the water and the Hannasseys, in retaliation, kidnap Julie in an attempt to force her to sell the land.The Big Country is a good example of the new type of Western that was becoming popular in the 1950s, making good use of the spectacular scenery of the West and concentrating as much upon character development as upon action. Like most of the great Westerns (High Noon, The Naked Spur, Lawman, The Shootist and Unforgiven are all examples), it is not just an adventure story but also an exploration of moral issues. It can perhaps be seen as an early example of a revisionist Western in that it calls into question the code of honour and revenge that governed the West. The characters can be arranged in a moral spectrum according to their values. At one end of the spectrum are McKay and Julie, both of whom reject the idea that violence in defence of one's honour or in pursuit of revenge is morally justified. It is noteworthy that neither was born into the dominant Anglophone culture of the West; McKay is from the East, whereas Julie's family are of Mexican origin.At the other moral extreme is Rufus's son Buck, a vicious and cowardly thug. Terrill, Pat, Leech, and Rufus himself come somewhere in the middle. Terrill is not as bad as Buck (he is not, for example, a physical coward), but for all his gentlemanly pretensions he is capable of most ungentlemanly behaviour. His code is one of upholding his honour at all costs and of seeking to avenge all injuries done to him, often exacting a revenge quite disproportionate to the original offence. The great tragedy is that he has passed his false system of values on to the next generation in the shape of his daughter. Leech is loyal to his employer, whose values he largely shares, but is pragmatic enough to appreciate that there are times when violence can be counter-productive. Rufus is a rough diamond, with none of Terrill's social airs and graces, but retains a certain sense of right and wrong lacking in his neighbour. There is a sense that Rufus has at times been reluctantly pushed into violence by Terrill's campaign against him.All the main actors are superb. Burl Ives well deserved his Best Supporting Actor award for his performance as Rufus, and McKay is a typical example of the intelligent, thoughtful man of integrity that Gregory Peck excelled at portraying. They are well supported by Charles Bickford, Charlton Heston (cast against type as the largely unsympathetic Leech), Jean Simmons and Carroll Baker. With some magnificent shots of the Western scenery, and one of the finest of all Western musical scores, this film is a true classic. In my view this was the Best Picture of 1958; unfortunately the Academy preferred the frothy trivia of Gigi. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The big country","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Western films are not all about quick shooting. There are love, generosity, and conciliation. And you can find them all in The Big Country.The story starts with a bourgeois named McKay under strange looks on him upon his first step in an western area. He came to see his fiancée, and appeared to be out-of-tune in the rugged western civilization. In the area, there is a tension between his fiancée's father, the Major and his long time rival. And there stays a beautiful lady who tries her best to keep the local civil war from happening. The bourgeois is seen by many as a coward when he refuses some challenges on him. But is he? And are all rugged men brave? There are shootings, duel shootings, since we are in the West. But after all, love, generosity, and conciliation prevail.That's my second favourite western film, after High Noon.Nguyen Pham. "},{"Title":"William Wyler's 'Anti-Western' Long, but Rewarding...","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  THE BIG COUNTRY, the rocky collaboration of co-producers William Wyler and Gregory Peck, is a big, expensive deconstruction of the 'classic' western genre and values, placing an Eastern intellectual (Peck) in the midst of them, questioning their validity. The film's sheer size ultimately defeats director Wyler's goal, but what emerges is still a rip-roaring drama, with terrific performances by Oscar-winner Burl Ives, Chuck Connors, Charlton Heston, and Charles Bickford.Eastern ship captain James McKay (Peck) arrives in a GIANT-like Western town to marry Patricia Terrill (Carroll Baker), whose father (Bickford) is a major landowner in the area. He immediately draws the ire of top hand Steve Leech (Heston) when he refuses to discard an Eastern-style hat (Leech obviously is Patricia's jilted lover, as well, setting the stage for an eventual physical confrontation between the two men). Patricia is beautiful, but shallow and temperamental, unlike her more mature, sensitive friend, schoolteacher Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons), and one wonders what McKay saw in her to make him propose!En route to the Terrill ranch, McKay and Patricia are intercepted by a wild, acrobatic gang of cowboys, led by Buck Hannassey (Connors), son of the Terrill's mortal enemy and biggest rival, Rufus Hannassey (Ives). After a long chase/trick riding demonstration (punctuated by one of the film's many great musical themes, by composer Jerome Moross), Patricia's venomous reaction to Buck's escapades leads to McKay's being manhandled, roped, and roughed up, a bit. While McKay is forgiving, Col. Terrill (Bickford) uses the incident to invade the Hannassey ranch in force, and then ride into town, pistol-whipping Hannassey men (Buck hides to protect himself).Thus begins McKay's education of 'The Way of the West', and his rebellion against it's traditions. He refuses to ride a wild old mustang in front of all the ranch hands and humiliate himself (the 'initiation' of the ranch), later breaking the stallion on his own. He navigates the huge Terrill estate with a compass, then refuses to publicly fight the disbelieving Leech, who'd led a search party to find him (McKay later takes Leech on, before dawn, when there would be no audience, then questions what purpose the fistfight served...an act that forces Leech to consider how trivial and out-of-kilter his way of life is). He refuses to endorse the Terrill/Hannassey feud, but buys the 'Big Muddy', a water-rich property, owned by Julie, which both sides covet, offering the water to everyone (which costs him Patricia's hand). McKay's intellect and compassion reveals just how petty and bigoted both Col. Terrill and Rufus Hannassey are, but like two aging bulls, the pair inevitably march towards a deadly showdown by the film's climax, as futile and meaningless as McKay and Leech's earlier brawl. A 'Blood Feud' must be settled in blood, even when common sense proves it ridiculous.Epic in scope, with the Wyler 'style' clearly evident in pacing and characterization, THE BIG COUNTRY may have misfired as an 'Anti-Western', but is still an entertaining, engaging production, and certainly deserves a place in any film fan's collection. "},{"Title":"In my view, this is the most underrated Western of all Time","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  In my view, this is the most underrated Western of all time.  When the question of what's the greatest Western? comes up, the contenders always include High Noon, Shane, The Searchers, The Wild Bunch, Red River, and Unforgiven--all of which are truly great films--but I think it's a shame the The Big Country is never mentioned, when in fact it's every bit as eligible as any of the aforementioned.  It's actually three stories intertwined Jim McKay's efforts to adjust to his new life at Ladder Ranch; the developing triangle between McKay,his fiancee, and Julie Maragon; and the water feud between the Terrills and the Hannesseys. The theme is very interesting the meaning of true courage versus empty braggadocio and foolhardy posing. Besides a great story, the movie has everything else a good  Western should have magnificent scenery, one of the most rousing scores ever, and a terrific cast. Speaking of the cast, everyone does a great job, but I think the two most interesting characters are Steve Leach (Charlton Heston) and Rufus Hannessey (Burl Ives). It's interesting to see Heston playing against type in this movie.  He's not really a villain, but he's certainly not the sympathetic good guy we usually see him as.  And Burl Ives is riveting; he received an Oscar for his performance. I've always thought that if David Lean had ever made a Western, it would have looked like this.  "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Westerns","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Alongside The Magnificent Seven, I regard this movie as the greatest of the Western genre. It is a definitive Western, but it is much more than just a Western.A definitive Western All the elements are here. Gunfights, fistfights, horseriding, a posse, cattle herding, wide plains and narrow canyons, the frontier town and the wealthy ranch. None of the set-pieces descend into cliché, however, as the rhythm and flow of the narrative carry us from scene to scene without a suggestion of contrivance.Not just a Western The outback feud over water rights is not a story than can be moved to another setting; nevertheless, in this movie it sets up strong characters played by strong actors. Indeed, The Big Country is an ironic title, because the movie is about its characters and not the big country itself. Time after time, the story and the Director's touch show us the smallness of the characters in relation to the country - not just the physical size, but the fact that the country controls the people and not vice-versa. Then, in close-set scenes between two or more characters, the story draws out the depth and feeling of the people, and the big country around them is merely incidental to their personality-driven conflict. Naturally, this is the essence of great drama and storytelling, so it is no surprise that the movie earns such admiration.A wonderful element of this film is the musical score, by Jerome Moross, who developed a musical tapestry which perfectly backed up the scene, the characters and the action.For those two or three of you who have not seen this movie, I cannot recommend it highly enough and give you this advice It will surprise you before the end. "},{"Title":"Big Movie.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Gregory Peck is a ship's captain who moves to the Old West to marry his girl friend, Carol Baker, and is swept up in a family feud -- Burl Ives versus Charles Bickford -- over water rights for the cattle.Baker is Bickford's daughter, and Bickford's Stud Duck is Charlton Heston. Peck's arrival immediately generates a strong loathing in Heston, who believes Peck to have one foot in fairydom because he turns down an opportunity to mount an enraged horse and because he claims to have navigated the vast prairie with a compass, while everyone at the ranch believes the newcomer to have been lost. The lostest thing I ever saw, says Heston.The name of Peck's character is James McKay. Heston is Steve Leech. I ask you, the discerning viewer, which are we to consider the good guy in this rivalry -- the character named McKay or the character named Leech? Someone wrote a ludicrous scene in which Burl Ives forces his fast-draw son, Chuck Connors, to shoot it out with Peck using a pair of old-fashioned dueling pistols. It ends with the discomfiture of one of the contestants.There are a lot of insults flung around, particularly aimed at masculinity. There is an epic fist fight that observes all the conventions of the Western movie of the 50s -- no blood and no bruises afterward. Curiously, Peck and Heston became good friends and remained so over the years, although Peck was a card-carrying member of the ACLU and Heston was the poster boy for the National Rifle Association.There is the requisite shoot out at the end. It's dramatic and nicely shot. The ending is sad but peaceful. We must assume that some sort of compromise is going to be reached because both gangs ride off into the sunset together.The photography and location shooting are marvelous. If it's not a vista of endless short-grass prairie, it's milk-white buttes and wadis veined with lavender. Very nicely directed by Anthony Mann. Peck had an argument with him during the shooting and the two didn't speak together for years. I'm inclined to think that the conflict was precipitated by the director. In his memoirs, Charlton Heston refers to Mann as an intransigent wild man. "},{"Title":"In which Mr Gregory Peck plays a very rare man.....","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Moving West to marry his much younger fiancée(indeed she seems like a petulant teenager),retired sea captain(Mr G.Peck)is a rare man indeed in those parts.Cosmopolitan,erudite,articulate,thoughtful,self - contained and of course damnably handsome,he soon ruffles feathers on his prospective father - in - law's ranch with his absolute refusal to conform to the locals' perception of true manhood i.e.the Fordian concept of starting a fight at the drop of a hat(literally in his first encounter with the Hannasseys)and the endless need to prove himself in order to meet with their approval. His affianced Patricia Terrill makes the mistake of taking his patrician reluctance to fight for an inability to do so and accuses him of cowardice,an opinion shared by her father Major Terrill( Mr C.Bickford) and his foreman(Mr C.Heston). During the course of The Big Country they all have cause to regret their rush to judgement. Major Terrill whilst displaying the outward signs of a benign patriarchal figure is in fact a ruthless bully engaged in an endless series of confrontations with neighbouring 19th century trailer trash family the Hannasseys led by the very great Mr Burl Ives,a man who has no illusions about anybody,not even himself. He hates Terrill not only for his intransigence but also for his pretensions.The Major is bent on denying the Hannasseys' cattle access to the only water for hundreds of miles,the so - called Big Muddy,owned by Miss J.Simmons,friend and confidante of his daughter. Mr Peck proposes to buy the Big Muddy as a wedding present for his fiancée,but as her ardour cools he decides to put down roots,buy the water for himself and allow both the Terrills and the Hannaseys access to it.But he hasn't counted on the bloody - minded hatred that exists between the two men. The Big Country - not much critically fancied in it's day - may well be one of the best westerns of the golden era,offering as it does an alternative view from the Hawks/Ford axis of what it actually takes to be a man. It is blessed with a wonderful musical score and sumptuous photography. I have seen it many times since sitting with my friend June in 1959 and it never ceases to involve me from the magnificent opening to the rather muted ending.It may be possible to find fault with it,but I have yet to do so. "},{"Title":"A Positive vote for The Big Country","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" All of the above are far more eloquent than I , so I simply submit that The Big Country goes into the top five of my favorite westerns. And, may I submit that in that top five are Shane, High Noon, and The Searchers. The story was good the acting impeccable and the cinematography outstanding. And, may I say that after fifty three years I still enjoy Jerome Moross' theme music.I do regret that it was not filmed in Texas where I believe the story took place. Blanco Canyon looked suspiciously like the stage on which many budget westerns were filmed. Westerns that featured Gene Autry, Roy Rodgers, Johnny Mack Brown, etc. Nevertheless, the scenery minus Blanco Canyon was outstanding and the scene where Gregory Peck is leaving Jean Simmons' home while in the background you can see the three Hennessey's who are on a mission to kidnap Jean Simmons was a piece of cinematic excellence.Only the scenes in Blanco Canyon deviated from the theme of a big country. The fight scene between Peck and Heston did a lot to promote the theme that they were indeed in a big country.I will watch this movie over and over again as I will Shane, High Noon, and The Searchers.Doufus t "},{"Title":"excellent super western","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I saw 'The Big Country' when it was released in the U.S. and I remember being told it was a 'Giant' type of film. The similarities it has with 'Giant' are that both films are big productions, last longer than usual and take place in the West. Apart from that they are totally different. But the fact that it was compared with 'Giant' , even though it might have helped at the box office, made people underestimate this great western. It is a quite an experience seeing it again. The music is outstanding, specially at the beginning when they are showing the titles. Gregory Peck is a ship captain from the east, that goes west to marry Carrol Baker. He is continuously challenged by the local people, to prove that he is not a coward. But Peck refuses to accept it, because he is a man who likes to do things at his own timing and his own way. As the film goes along, he will answer those challenges. Peck,Charlton Heston,Carrol Baker, Jean Simmons, Charles Bickford, Burl Ives and Chuck Connors are excellent, also William Wyler's direction, and the 2 ½ hours of the film seem to fly. "}{"Title":"A Wonderful film!","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" First of all, it stars two really good looking brunettes Gregory Peck and Jean Simmons. Blondes are fine but they get an awful lot of attention.I am not crazy about Charlton Heston or Chuck Connors so it is lovely to see them playing less than admirable characters. I am hard put to say what I like best about this film but I guess it would have to be the music. The music is just gorgeous and fits the production perfectly. Burl Ives, who won the Supporting Actor Oscar for this role, is splendid! He has some great lines I love it when Chuck Connors enters the house (Ives plays his father) and asks You wanted me paw and Ives answers Before you was born I did! I could watch this movie over and over! "},{"Title":"Great Western Classic","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Whenever William Wyler directs a picture, you know the film is going to be good along with great actors. Gregory Peck, (James McKay),Pork Chop Hill, plays the role of a retired Sea Captain who is rich and travels two thousand miles to marry Carroll Baker,(Patricia Terrill),Harlow who is a spoiled brat and does not really know what she wants in life. There is a very long fist fight between Charlton Heston,(Steve Leech) The Last Hard Men and James McKay way out in the desert with no one around for miles and they don't seem to even let up for air. Jean Simmoms,(Julie Maragon),Dominique plays a sweet young gal who gets herself in a brutal sexual attack and takes sides with the wrong people. Those wrong people are the Hannassey family, ruled by Burl Ives, (Rufus Hannassey),The Spiral Road who gives an outstanding performance an even rides a horse. Charles Bickford,(Maj Henry Terrill) The Devil's Children gave a great supporting role. Great Classic '58 film which fantastic photography and lots of action and some romance. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Western","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I have always had a soft spot for The Big Country. I had been brought up on the films of John Wayne and Clint Eastwood where Western heroes had their own macho code and amazing fighting skills. This movie was a bit subversive, and subtly questions the mythology of the old Western. Despite its age The Big Country is still an entertaining movie.Jim McKay (Gregory Peck) arrives in the West to marry Pat Terrill (Carroll Baker). Pat is the daughter of Major Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford) a successful rancher. The major is involved in a feud, over watering rights, with a white-trash clan led by Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives). Terrill and Hannassey behave like ruthless mafia dons. McKay met his fiancé in the East, but becomes troubled by her devotion to the major and his values. The Terrill's ranch foreman Steve Leech (Charlton Heston)takes an immediate dislike to McKay and tries to provoke him into fisticuffs. Leech is the major's chief thug. McKay soon decides the major is not a gentleman and ends the engagement. He quickly falls in love with Pat's best friend Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons) a local schoolteacher. Maragon owns a stretch of land which provides the water to the Terrill and Hannassey ranches and because of this she is kidnapped and nearly raped by the Hannasseys. McKay doesn't feel obliged to live by the values of the Hollywood Western. He doesn't carry a gun, has strange pacifist notions and wears fancy clothes. Despite being a former ship's captain he is suspected of being effeminate and a coward. The Big Country has some similarities to Pleasantville. McKay is a man with 20th century attitudes who stumbles into a world culturally different. Maragon and McKay are the only main characters who are admirable or likable. Inevitably, McKay eventually proves that he is a real man. He has a secret fight with Steve Leech and tames a wild horse called Old Thunder. He makes Leech and the stable-hand swear to keep both events quiet regardless of the outcome. He later fights a duel with Hannassey's son (Chuck Connors). The screenplay is based on a novel by Donald Hamilton. The movie was directed by William Wyler, who won three Best Director Oscars. Wyler was regarded as a great director in his day, but is now out of fashion.The movie has an excellent cast, with Ives winning the Academy Award as Best Supporting Actor for his performance. The film was also nominated for an Oscar for Jerome Moross's brilliant and memorable musical score. Although many films from the 1950s now seem dated, this is still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Wide screen version even better","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I always enjoyed this movie when it came on TV the magnificent score -one of the very best ever written, the great performances by Gregory Peck, Burl Ives, and Chuck Connors. Heck, Charlton Heston actually bothers to act in this movie and is quite good. And Jean Simmons is lovely beyond words. But I never realized how outstanding the direction was until I saw it in wide-screen. It looked like a whole new movie. The shot composition, the camera movement -- it is simply awesome. And William Wyler is smart enough to keep a pace that is very deliberate and never, ever hurried. I wish a lot of today's film makers would watch this movie and see how effective it can be to hold shots and let emotion develop, instead of incessantly cutting for frenetic effect. "},{"Title":"One of the best Westerns ever","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I love Westerns. Even so, most of them are weak to terrible, and most of the rest are fair to middlin' at best. I watch most of those that are fair or better anyway because they are fun. Most of them stop there. Few have a deeper element than pure fun. Some, though, really stand out in that regard, and The Big Country is one of them. It is fun but also thoughtful and interesting.The Big Country isn't an action movie. There is action in several places, but action is neither the strength nor the point of the film. If an action flick is what you want, this isn't a movie you will like much. Instead, this movie is about character and plot development. The characters are interesting, and the plot is good. Both the characters and the plot take unexpected turns, which I will leave unexplained here so you can discover them for yourself. The cast is outstanding. Even the secondary characters are portrayed by first-rate actors, all of whom turn in strong performances. The directing is equally outstanding. The Western setting provides a good excuse to add enjoyable action to the movie. It's a fine package.I have watched The Big Country several times. I'm sure I will watch it again one of these days. Even though I know what is coming in all the important scenes, I still find them entertaining and captivating. That's a testament to the directing, acting, and writing.The ending is slightly weak (just a little too predictable). It's the only part of the movie with any hint of weakness, though, and it detracts little from the film. I recommend this movie most highly. "},{"Title":"Excellent and highly entertaining western.","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" If you say it's a big country I'm going to be disappointed.Gregory Peck plays mild mannered pacifist Jim McKay in William Wyler's excellent western. The epic story of the feud between two elderly ranchers is beautifully played out by a terrific cast, and the big country is beautifully photographed. Gregory Peck is excellent as the gentleman who gets the country folk gawking upon arrival with his fancy hat. He arrives in a small old west town to marry Pat Terrill, a clingy, proud daddy's girl played by Carroll Baker. However when confronted by jealous ranch hand Steve (Charlton Heston), he backs down and finds that he has no intention of supporting Pat's reputation, so he decides to start out on his own having purchased the Big Muddy ranch from Julie Maragon, a tougher, more independent woman played by Jean Simmons. The Big Muddy river, the water of which the cattle of two feuding ranches need to survive, is part of a vicious power struggle between two stubborn ranched, Major Henry Terrill, a well to-do aristocrat, and Rufus Hannassey, a well-worn man roughing it in a canyon with his ruffian sons. Simple story told well. The cast is excellent, especially Peck as the easy going gentleman. Charles Bickford and Burl Ives are excellent as the feuding ranchers, making venomous speeches and threats and daring each other to take a shot. I liked Jean Simmons as the down-to-earth school teacher caught in the middle of the feud. The music is memorable and excellent, really fitting the sweeping backdrops of the old west, and the film is nicely paced despite it's length I enjoyed every minute and never felt it drag.Highly recommended from me, excellent western. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Westerns","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country is an epic Western from 1958. It tells the story of New Englander James McKay (Gregory Peck), who goes out West to meet up with his fiancé, Patricia (Caroll Baker), on her father's huge ranch. McKay stirs up rivalry in the stud foreman of the ranch, Leech (Charleton Heston), and finds himself in the middle of a feud over water rights.Also on hand are Charles Bickford as Patricia's father, Major Terrill, Burl Ives as the patriarch of the Hannessey clan and Chuck Conners as his brutish son.Shot in remote areas of California and running 2 hours and 46 minutes, The Big Country is engrossing from beginning to end. As with all great films, it has excellent character development. These people seem real. They have good points and bad. For instance, Patricia and her father are introduced as protagonists, but we slowly discover that they're selfish and immature in some ways. Rufus Hannessey starts out as somewhat of a villain but the viewer can't help but respect him as the story unfolds. Conners is excellent as the loathsome Buck Hannessey and Jean Simmons is perfect as the angelic owner of the watering hole.I like how McKay refuses to take Leech's bait and handles him on his own terms. Also his refusal to try to prove his manhood to anyone other than himself. Despite his conditional pacifism (which is different than absolute pacifism), McKay proves he's ten times the man Major Terrill is. Note how he treats the Hispanic stableman and his family with respect and appreciation while Terrill speaks down to them like they're his slaves.It's inexplicable why The Big Country isn't normally cited with the best Westerns. It definitely ranks with my favorite Westerns.GRADE A "},{"Title":"One heck of a Western","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This movie suffers only from having the color being a little washed out in some scenes, and from a slow and somewhat sweet (not quite syrupy) beginning. It is also a little slow and ponderous, but like a good play, it builds well and speaks volumes about the human condition. As I write this review in the late summer of 2012, I kind of wish it were possible to return to 1958. The issues of life were no more or less compelling back then; however, there was to them a certain sincerity, and even a hopefulness to life that makes the 21st Century seem like a complete fraud. Strange how little changes over time. This movie was made before the '60s and '70s, and yet it speaks to me (dob 1951) in a soft and somber voice, and reminds me that what we do, we to for God and ourselves. If we imagine anyone else to be watching, we are wasting our time and energy. Some great actors. Mr. Ives deserved his Oscar. Almost a 9. "},{"Title":"Love this film!","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country (1958) is one of my favorite films. William Wyler knew how to make the country look big indeed, and the production quality is unparalleled for the time. It is a beautiful sweeping western epic. It doesn't quite fit the mold of the classic gritty westerns that were common for the time. The plot involves water rights and feuding families, which seems like a commonplace theme. However, the film isn't commonplace at all and stands head and shoulders above weaker films with similar plots.I also like having some romance in a film, and I think there is just enough without detracting from the overall drama. I will say that I prefer my heroes to be more...well,... heroic. At first, Gregory Peck seems a bit of a sissy, but if the setting was on a ship at sea, then I'm sure he'd be quite the commanding hero. Having seen the film several times now, this doesn't bother me anymore. He proves his point to himself and the audience in the bucking bronco scene. That scene really works for me.I have a bit of sass and spitfire in me, so Peck's pacifist approach to life also took some getting used to initially. However, due to multiple connective and genetic immune diseases, I've learned to tone down myself and am now inspired by his pacifism. I also know that Peck is a fine actor with a wide range, and I've been a fan for decades. I was never a Jean Simmons fan until this film. Carroll Baker is ho-hum to me, but Simmons' magic shines through. I actually have made a point to watch more of her delightful films after seeing her in this one. I was blown away by Burl Ives' performance. Wow!! One tough cookie and so glad he won the Oscar.I could go on, but I think it's clear that I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite westerns - and the music!","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I have learned a bit more about The Big Country since the recent death of Jean Simmons, who played Julie Maragon. Gregory Peck was also a producer in addition to director Wm Wyler, and they had a big falling out over one of the opening scenes, where the buckboard is shown coming up to the Terrill house against the huge backdrop of - The Big Country.Peck stormed off back to Los Angeles from the set,filmed up in Stockton, CA - 300 miles north. He didn't come back on the set for 3 days.20 years later Wyler was receiving an award and Peck came up to congratulate him - whereupon Wyler said I'm still not redoing that scene! But of course all that is neither here nor there as to why I like the movie.The music is still played 52 years after the premier - when these days Best Music is won by such titles as It's Hard Being A Pimp or something similar, Jerome Moross wrote music that not only fit the movie but will be remembered long after I and you, the reader, are gone.The cinematography is beautiful as is the plot and the subplots. There's the main plot of Peck and Carrol Baker, the subplots of Burl Ives and Bickford, Simmons and Baker, Peck and Simmons...This was one of Wyler's masterpieces.The Big Country is on my short list of Best Westerns.... "}{"Title":"Should have been called the Big Cliché but....","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I'm old enough to have seen it first time around but didn't until tonight! Always been a fan of the music and with such a strong cast (and nothing better to do) I gave it a whirl.Said to my wife after about 30 minutes Should have been called The Big Cliché because just about everything that had happened was predictable (and almost everything that followed was as well) but this doesn't detract from what is an excellent film. The music is stunning (as I mentioned at the beginning), the photography is out of this World (as I said to my wife - sorry, but we do comment during films we're watching - You don't see scenery and colour like that in today's films, and this is over 50 years old), the actors could teach today's lot a few things (Burl Ives, especially, steals the show), the action is top draw (no cinematic tricks here). The only minus is the predictability. No spoilers needed, write your own script! "},{"Title":"A Magnificently Filmed Classic Western","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country is cinematically one of the most beautiful films ever made. Filmed in parts of California and Arizona, it has some absolutely breathtaking landscapes, and terrific use of Technicolor. It is beyond me how Franz F. Planer was overlooked for an Academy Award nomination.The story revolves around Jim McKay (Gregory Peck), who comes west in order to marry the daughter (Carroll Baker) of one of the area's largest ranchers(Charles Bickford). Being from the East, he is not familiar with the ways of the West. Almost from the beginning he steps into the middle of a classic western feud over land rights(between Bickford and Burl Ives). But McKay, being from the East is a pacifist. He refuses to fight unless he feels a need to and will do so only on his terms.Obviously this sets him up for much ridicule among the cattlemen, including the main ranch hand( Charleton Heston) who is in love with McKay's fiancé.All of the actors mentioned above, along with Jean Simmons who plays another key role in the land dispute, give top notch performances. Top honors go to Burl Ives as the leader of one of the families, and Charleton Heston, who in a smaller than usual role, excels as the ranch hand Steve Leech.The one peculiar part of the story however is the part of Jim McKay. While Gregory Peck is excellent in the role, the role itself seems to be there solely for the use of getting the pacifist view across. It has nothing to do with the final resolution in the land dispute. I believe if the McKay character were omitted, there would still be a good movie here, albeit, more of a formula, standard western.But that is of small consideration. In the end, The Big Country is a wonderful film that is loaded with excellent performances and told in a sweeping, cinematic way. "},{"Title":"A man with enough self-confidence to bear hunt with a BB gun.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Burl Ives has all the best lines and he doesn't waste a one. Chuck Connors plays a slimy weasel and makes you believe he IS one. All the cast is strong except Carroll Baker. Poor girl never did learn how to act, but she tries. Gregory Peck is his usual no-nonsense character, from the steel spine school of Frank Lovejoy and George C. Scott. His soft talk and quiet demeanor leads Charlton Heston's character to believe him weak and timid. Peck adroitly side steps all the challenges until he picks the time and the place for a showdown. What can one say about Jean Simmons? One could watch that beauty and grace with the sound off. AND she's a great actress. A story of a man who steps into what is to him a totally alien world and decides not to become a part of it. Instead he forces it to come to his terms by proving nothing to anyone except to himself. When the people who have damned him for a pantie waist realize he is stronger than all of them, they clamor for his favor. He smiles in amusement and walks away. What a story. If you love westerns and you haven't seen this one I envy you. I'd like to see it again for the first time. "},{"Title":"A Good  Western Indeed","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" ++++++++ THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SOPILERS ++++++++No one can say that The Big Country is not a good piece of cinema. It has beautiful photography in great open wide sceneries, outstanding music that goes perfectly along with the sense of spectacle the film transmits, an interesting story, good action scenes and a really competent cast.Gregory Peck is very good as the strange man that comes from the east and feels he doesn't have to proof his courage to anyone. Jean Simmons as his romantic alternative is as good as usual and so is Carol Baker as Peck's bride who can't understand his man's behaviour. Charlton Heston is fine too as the tough top man in the ranch. And Burl Ives surely deserved his supporting actor's Oscar as the not so mean but rather reasonable cattle man that fights for survival against Baker's wealthy and selfish father.But nonetheless a film that has so many highlights sort of lacks something for me and I'm not sure what it is. Perhaps the finale with Ives and Bickford killing each other is too conventional and convenient to put all things straight; or perhaps there are too many romantic mixed emotions among the main characters Peck, Baker, Simmons and Heston (you could include Chuck Connors too). I really can't figure it out yet.But I insist, the Big Country is a good piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Big Movie!  Great Cast!  Don't Miss!","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" If you like Westerns and have managed to miss The Big Country, do yourself a massive favor and pick out a night to watch it. It is a longer film than usual, plan on 2+ hours. The story is basically two large ranches on the verge of outright warfare get entangled with an ex-sea captain who arrives to marry a girl that he met back East. Neither of the ranch operations are prepared for him, nor is the girl. I won't go any farther, except to say that this is one of those movies that really should be brought forward. Remade? No, I can't imagine anyone being the Captian other than Gregory Peck. But I suppose that it would have to be remade to be brought forward. Just make sure that the Captain is a middle aged guy--a young guy won't work. (It took years to become a Captain, right?) Anyway, this is one film that is always a pleasure to watch. One thing that does annoy me about this film is the end. No words are said for about five minutes...and there really should be something said by somebody! But I'm not saying who or what! "},{"Title":"Gregory Pecks movie roles","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This movie has some of the greatest actors that were in Hollywood at that time...Look at the movie The Magnificent Seven and you'll see another movie with so many great actors, so The Big Country ranks right up with some of the greatest westerns and the musical score fits right in with the theme of the show...Gregory Peck has been and always will be one of my favorite actors in the history of Hollywood....he was above reproach in his private life, even thought certain events in his family touched him and caused him anguish...But, his characters on the screen were most certainly played by him to the extent that they were believable and bordered on being actual people that we could relate to regarding the movie and the script..His good looks, and the way he carried himself on and off the screen, could only lead one to think that he was truly a fine actor and an equally great human being..we'll miss him, but we still have his movies to enjoy and treasure..thank for letting me comment on Gregory Peck... "},{"Title":"A classic western with a great music score","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This classic western is one of the all-time greats and has a wonderful cast and a classic music score. All the elements for an excellent film are here and everyone delivers in grand style. The story is has a basic western plot of a water dispute between ranchers that has festered for years and has developed into a blood feud between the two families. Gregory Peck is the main figure and his polished, urbane demeanor doesn't sit well with rugged western types. Peck is betrothed to a spoiled, selfish young lady but he is involved in another romantic angle that plays out later in the film. Charlton Heston expertly essays the part of a tough, quick tempered foreman and he and Peck engage in a memorable punch out. Charles Bickford and Burl Ives are the tough old patriarchs who are determined to destroy each other more out of principle than for water. Carroll Baker and Jean Simmons are great as young women who bring very different attributes to the the picture, both being quite the opposite of the other. The golden western landscapes are shown to wonderful advantage and Jerome Moross' memorable music score is a superb accompaniment to a great film. "},{"Title":"Reel to Real .... There are plenty of feuds on and off the screen in this western classic!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The film itself deals with two rival cattle barons (Charles Bickford and Burl Ives)and their fight over land and water rights. Gregory Peck portrays a humble, sensitive yet proud retired sea captain who is journeying west to meet his future bride (Carroll Baker). Peck soon finds himself in an unpleasant situation. Everyone including his bride to be expects him to prove something, and live up to their expectations of being a man and fit into the macho western landscape. Peck, on the other hand, believes that the only person he has something to prove ...is himself. Peck soon finds that his bride to be (Baker)is vain, spoiled, selfish, and not the women he thought she was. While all this is taking place a range war is about to break out between the Ives and Bickford clans. Adding to the conflict, Baker's jealous former disenfranchised boyfriend and Bickford's right hand man (Charlton Heston)continuously tries to goad Peck into a senseless fight to somehow prove his worth to Baker. Baker's best friend (Jean Simmons) inadvertently falls for Peck and does her best not to interfere in the Baker/Peck relationship. Add a dirty, seedy, lustful, lying Chuck Connors to the script as Burl Ives rowdy son ...... and you know it's just a matter of time before the sparks are going to fly. The explosive climax is accompanied by a Jerome Moross score that will have you rocking in your seat as though you too were riding into the valley of death to meet the enemy. I give this film high marks for acting, plot, cinematography. Hey, I would have gone to see this movie if it were a bomb...just to look at Jean Simmons. What a dish! Best friends Gregory Peck and William Wyler co-produced this Western Classic, and it nearly cost them a friendship. In 1996 Gregory Peck came to Louisville, Kentucky and appeared in a An Evening With Gregory Peck, a question and answer type of stage show. I had the opportunity to ask Mr. Peck about the film The Big Country, and his fall out with Director William Wyler. Mr. Peck said he had bought a ranch after filming The Bravados, and he and close friend Wyler had agreed to co-produce and film The Big Country in that area. During the filming Peck became concerned with the vastness and emptiness of the land, and told Wyler that they needed more cattle to get the idea across of how big the country really was. Consequently, Peck recruited an number of his rancher neighbors to help him with the film shoot in supplying the needed cattle. Wyler balked at the idea, refusing to put out the money for the expenses to film the cattle. He told Peck that if he wanted more cattle in the scene to supply his own cattle. Peck agreed, but became frustrated when he had to move the cattle from one spot to the next to create the concept that the herd of cattle was bigger than it really was. A short time later while filming a buckboard scene with Carroll Baker, Peck and Wyler argued about the need for more cattle once again. Peck apparently walked off the set, refusing to finish the film. Later when approached that people would lose their jobs, etc. Peck returned to complete the film. At the end of the shooting Peck pleaded with William Wyler to re-shoot the buckboard scene as he didn't think it was done right. Wyler refused. The two close friends became cool to one another, and it was said that they would attend Hollywood parties and never speak to one another. A year or so later William Wyler won an Oscar for Ben Hur, and as he approached the stage to accept his award, Peck extended his hand in a let by gones be by gone fashion and said, Congradulations, Bill. Ben Hurr is a great movie, and you deserved the award. Wyler merely nodded and reiterated, I'm still not going to re-shoot that scene! I have often wondered what would have happened if Peck and Wyler would not have had their falling out during the Big Country. Charlton Heston was given the lead in Ben Hur and won the Oscar the next year. Would Peck have been offered the role instead? Gregory Peck also mentioned during this question and answer session that he turned down the role of Will Kane in High Noon. Gary Cooper won the Oscar for that role in 1952. "},{"Title":"This is a refreshingly atypical western/drama/romance with a legendary musical score.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The Big Country has been one of my all time favorite movies for over 40 years. The story is unique, exciting, and unpredictable. The romance is a satisfying twist. Gregory Peck is perfectly cast as the Brains over Braun leading man. Other giants in the film are Charlton Heston, who pours his heart into an impressively acted supporting role; Chuck Connors, who gives a superb performance as a character that perfect contrasts to his later role in The Rifleman; and Burl Ives, who gives depth and startling believability to a tenacious villain. You'll be shocked and thrilled at his acting ability. All roles are ideally cast. The plot, direction, acting, scenery, and character of this movie are all fantastic. And the music deserves special praise. You'll want the soundtrack and you'll want to turn the surround sound on LOUD! The themes are grand yet hummable and will echo through your days luring you back to a wide open country with an endless sky.By the way, a certain salad dressing advertisement has stolen notes from the main theme. Hear the original!  "},{"Title":"Another good work from Mr. Wyler","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  It's a real great scale western, indeed. Stupendous stars, production values and a kind of epic sense hard to find actually in american films. Despite some old fashioned way in the structure of the screenplay, including a superficial introduction of the main characters, you can follow all the way a work of quality.Maybe overlong, and this impression grows in a tiny television screen, but the tasteful direction of William Wyler is the key of the pleasure. It was his artistic mature one year later he was filming BEN-HUR and two years before he released the marvelous FRIENDLY PERSUASION.The great cast helps a lot, of course. Heston is a good surprise playing the bad one, Ives really deserved his Oscar for supporting actor, Jean Simmons is charming as usual. Only Peck is not completely natural. He never found the correct timing of a civilized man trying to have respect in a savage country and his performance is highly focused in ancient dignity portrayals as the Captain Ahab in MOBY DICK (1956) or the journalist in GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT (1947).Finally, the score is a classic piece of film music and it will take you in this adventure.  "}{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  I agree with most of the preceding opinions relative to this great movie.  It is a classic!  My favorite genre is Western, but it qualifies as a classic movie...period!  The actors are superb.  Peck, Heston, Ives, Bickford, Connors, Simmons, etc. stand out in their characterizions and, as a previous writer mentioned, were at the apex of their careers.  The dialogue, scenery, and story are first rate.  The musical score by Jerome Moross is as memorable as the the theme of the Magnificent Seven.  And I believe both of them of them along with Max Steiner's Gone with the Wind theme are the best  of all musical scores... western or any other.  The Big Country is a movie that is timeless.    "},{"Title":"Great film, however, is most under rated that has drama, action , adventure and a great message.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie is in class by itself.  I saw it first time in 1962 in India and has been fan of it ever since.  The movie has a strong message of non-violence, fair play and justice.  The performances of all the actors are flawless.  Every time I see this movie it appears to get better.  This is probably the best Western movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Most previous commentators have noted how underrated this film was (and it was), but I think of all the outstanding performances in this movie, that of Chuck Connors was most underrated. For the role he played, he was perfect. "},{"Title":"Anti-western in the tradition of High Noon","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The previous comments describe the virtues of this movie, which certainly bears repeat viewing, widescreen if possible (it has been shown on TCM in widescreen).  I wanted to add that this movie is really not a traditional western.  Unlike the typical western hero, (Gregory Peck) abhors gratuitous displays of violence or braggadocio, but is willing to take up challenges to prove things to himself, not others.  Some view him as a coward, but others realize that he is truly the bravest man standing.  The distinctions between the Hannassays and the Terrills are not that clear, either.  In the last analysis, both are really after the same thing and will do whatever it takes to get it -- and keep it from the other.  This movie is a re-examination of the genre that began with High Noon and the Searchers, and was continued in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and Unforgiven.  This is not just a great movie, but an important one as well. "},{"Title":"Big - and subtle","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The outlines of this film have been gone over elsewhere. I'll simply mention that The Big Country is also surprisingly subtle and patient, much like its protagonist. It also -- again like the Gregory Peck character -- doesn't quite ever give you exactly what you want or expect. The movie has a lot of depth to it, and I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Satisfying on Many Levels","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The elements are familiar, but the acting is terrific.  And Williams Wyler's use of the screen makes this a very satisfying drama.  Note the use of the widescreen images each time men begin to fight over their petty egos and jealousies.  Burl Ives deserved his Oscar, especially considering he played Big Daddy in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof that same year.  Oh, and yes, that familiar music is terrific too. "},{"Title":"Overlooked gem...","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  As a lot of other people have remarked, this is a criminally underrated, underappreciated, and underviewed film--possibly the best movie I've ever seen that falls in the category of the Critically Ignored.  Even if you're not a huge Western fan (I'm not), you'll get totally drawn into the story and the acting, not to mention the direction, cinematography, and absolutely phenomenal score.  (I can't believe it didn't bring home the Oscar for Best Dramatic Score--what were the Academy voters thinking??)It's on the long side, but there's not a dull moment from start to finish, and the last half hour features one of the best showdowns ever.  Actually, the movie's chock-full of super showdowns, not the least of which is a literal fistfight between Gregory Peck and Charlton Heston.  Just think of them as settling their political differences.  ;-)I wish they would bring this movie back into the theaters; I can only imagine how much better it would be on the big screen.  My parents got to see it that way when they were my age--lucky them!  Even on video, though, this one's a must-see. "},{"Title":"Big Movie","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Not only is the landscape big in this movie, the Stars and the Director are big also. Hollywood didn't let us down in one of it's early successes in bringing an array of major Stars together, all of them put aside their egos and percieved star billings and did justice to a great story. Gregory Peck's role of Jim McKay, the newly retired pragmatic Sea Captain was made for him. We see Peck as most of us have witnessed and  enjoyed over the years, quietly doing his own thing, resisting the baddies and getting his point across his way. Charlton Heston's role as the loyal but beleaguered Foreman, Steve Leech, must have had him thinking before accepting the part knowing there were a few around him who had meatier characters to play, but as always gave a reliable performance free of wooden expression we occasionly see in his roles. Jean Simmons as the demure Julie Maragon and Carol Baker as the tempestuous Patricia Terrill were characters suited to them both, especially Baker parading her talents to the three men in her life, McKay, Leech and her Father, Major Henry Terrill, played perfectly by Charles Bickford. The best performances came, I believe from Chuck Connors as the angry Buck Hannassey and Burl Ives playing his Father Rufus Hannassey. The scheming wayward Son was played cleverly by Connors as he snivelled his way through out the Movie until he finally meets his match via his Father. Burl Ives, like the Academy Awards suggests was brilliant! My favourite scene is when he came unannounced to the Major's home while the Terrill family were celebrating Patricia's home coming and impending marriage to Jim McKay. The interaction between them all is magic. The frustrated uninvited guest invites the Major to pick up the gun he has thrown across the room at him, the Major doesn't respond....there's too much to lose here... the defiant Daughter is hoping her Father would respond, the Foreman, ever eager to shield his Boss is restrained, sympathetic looks come from Miss Maragon and the Sea Captain is maybe starting to work out just who are the bad guys. Good stuff!!  The Big Country is a great movie,  is well directed and has a cast of Stars that compliment their characters and the story. I rank it a step away from The Searchers and that all time classic, Shane. "},{"Title":"Should be on anyone's Top Ten Westerns list.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  William Wyler's The Big Country ranks up there with John Ford's The Searchers and Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven as one of the finest Westerns ever made.  Far from being simple formulaic good versus evil, the script makes room for ambiguity and conflicting moral codes, and it's hard to say who's right and who's wrong in the struggle between two feuding cattle barons.Gregory Peck does his usual strong decent man shtick as the retired seaman caught up in the struggle.  Initially presented as a naive outsider, unaccustomed to the way things are done in the rough cattle country, he is quickly and convincingly revealed as a man with an unswerving moral code of his own -- one that he will not compromise, even at the cost of his impending marriage to the wealthy daughter of one of the cattlemen. Charlton Heston adds a note of menace as the sneering and jealous ranch foreman who tries to humiliate Peck, but the room the script allows for moral ambiguity makes it too easy to characterize him as a bad guy, and indeed, toward the end he starts to question the motives and decisions of his aristocratic boss before the final confrontation between the two patriarchs.  Jean Simmons should have been given a little more time on screen, but that's a minor quibble given that she plays a strong female character with a mind and will of her own;  it's just a pity that toward the end, she has to wait for a man to save her.  Burl Ives won a well-deserved Oscar for his portrayal of the rival cattleman and head of the Hannassey clan. "},{"Title":"A Classic Big Budget Western","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This happens to be one of my all time favorite westerns. It has everything from scope and grandeur to an unforgettable musical score to faultless casting and superb direction.The big fight scene between Gregory Peck and Charlton Heston is not to be missed. Burl Ives and Charles Bickford as the two opposing ranchers steal the film. Chuck Connors also stands out as Ives' oily son.A true classic of the genre. "}{"Title":"No more westerns like this one.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Great entertainment and one of my favorite westerns. Magnificent score and cinematography highlights better than average range war epic. You get two great leading men in Peck & Heston, Two great character actors with Ives and Bickford with Ives brilliant as rough and dirty Rufus and two beautiful leading ladies with Simmons & Baker along with Conners as Ives simple minded rowdy son. Every scene with Ives is unforgettable. Pure entertainment at its best and unlikely to be equaled in a western again.   "},{"Title":"Great western with perfect cast and great music score","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Underrated by many critics when first released (and still rather unappreciated), this movie has stood the test of time.  The cast is superb with winning performances by Peck and Simmons and career performances by Heston and Baker. Burl Ives almost steals the show with his academy award performance.  This is a big western, best viewed in the widescreen version and listened to in digital sound.  The music score by Jerome Moross is simply one of the finest ever composed for any movie.  In a way, watching this movie is more like viewing an opera than a normal flick. "},{"Title":"Pure class!","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Any wannabe film makers of the future should look right here for the ultimate lesson. It seems to me that before technology blasted its way into movie making, more effort went into the craft. Clearly, William Wyler(director) knew a thing or two about vision and elbow grease. Real characters, a good straightforward story line, strong men and beautiful women, and lessons acted out and learnt throughout,not to mention one of the most rousing soundtracks in movie history, make this a classic. Peck is good, as is Simmons and Heston, but it is generally agreed that Burl Ives steels the show. No spoilers in my review, just trust that you will enjoy this film. I wish they still made em like this today! "},{"Title":"Epic! in Stars, Scope, Music, Direction! Polished in Every Way!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  (Subtle Spoilers)A Gunfight! A Brawl! A Feud! And above all...a Fantastic Love Story! You'd expect a gunfight in a western...but not like this. A western feud is traditional, but it's normally between the ranchers and sodbusters...not here! The brawl is usually a result of the empty vessel called 'honor'...but honor gets a kick right where it belongs. And one of the finest love stories ever told (in a western? where two exceptional leading ladies get above the title billing) even though the destined lovers never exchange an on-screen kiss. But because it's Gregory Peck and Jean Simmons, the look in their eyes are so full of love and understanding, the Look is enough for us. And all surrounded by an all star cast, guided by three time Oscar winning director William Wyler (does he still hold the record for actor/actresses receiving more nominations/Oscars than any other director?) all giving three dimensional performances and enveloped in a vast, sweeping, western landscape.This is one of my all time personal favorites, and for good reason. It is a very mature telling of the genre that's appropriate for all members of the family (ironically makes a great date movie too). And it's not afraid to make constant left turns that succeed so well and be so patient in letting the story unfold in such a majestic way.Charlton Heston is at his peak under Wyler. Carroll Baker has the thankless task as the unsympathetic 'Pat Terril'; she's perfect! Burl Ives vs. Charles Bickford; as symbols of men in power who play so ruthlessly with innocent lives in their lust for hate. Alfonso Bedoya as steadfast ally; and Chuck Conners as the nasty, misguided 'Buck'; all being exceptional.There is so much to admire about this film the many patterns of twos that is laced thru-out. Buck tells Julie I'll be back after intruding on her, and he does (oh boy, does he!). Jim telling Pat I think I'm going to like Julie when finding her absent from Julie's parlor where Pat is staying. not realizing what fate has in store. And much more!I do prefer the laser disc over the dvd, not only because the laser has so much extras, but they also took time to restore the negative used in the laser transfer that is curiously lacking on the dvd...this film deserved more attention. And do NOT watch this unless it's widescreen!And the music! THE CLASSIC WESTERN MUSIC! To end all westerns (right along side Elmer Bernsteins classics). Jerome Moross exceeds himself!10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This great movie has been curiously overlooked.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  I recently caught this on AMC or TCM, and it is so good it just blew me away!It is a MUST to see this in Wide Screen format on DVD on a fairly big TV. The edited screen VHS loses about 40 % of the impact.This is an ALL STAR cast, with great performances all around. Burl Ives is my favorite in his Oscar winning role as a crotchety old head of a back canyon cattle clan.This is a classic well-written story from the pen of Donald Hamilton. (His legacy of the superb Matt Helm character is permanently confused in most minds by the forgettable Hollywood Matt Helm films made by Dean Martin.) But this story is a masterwork by Hamilton. In the Old West, it often came down to water rights, cattle and women, and that's when the trouble starts.Gregory Peck is great in his usual role as a man with almost as much integrity as God. Charlton Heston is dynamic, yet masterfully understated in his role as ranch ramrod (He doesn't steal the show). Jean Simmons is the desirable, yet cool schoolmarm in a flawless performance. I didn't recognize Carol Baker until I saw the credits, playing daddy's girl to the hilt. There are also great performances by Charles Bickford as the Major, and Chuck Conners as the Burl Ives characters fatally flawed son.The Big Country is superbly photographed, and makes one think of the later black and white film Hud.This film seems to be under appreciated, but should be on anybody's list of the Top Ten Westerns of all time. It is some of the best work that Hollywood ever produced. "},{"Title":"Don't call it a western","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Those who watch this movie expecting John Wayne/Clint Eastwood style action are usually disappointed.  It isn't a western.  It is a solid character study set in the West.  Jim McKay is an outsider, a true fish out of water, whose good manners and quiet self-reliance don't settle well with the clans of either Henry Terrill or Rufus Hannassey, two explosive ranchers around whose feud this story revolves.  Of course, the feud finally leads to a bloody confrontation, but viewer interest for the duration of the movie is maintained through the continuing attempts by McKay to integrate himself into the community without sacrificing his integrity.  Will he become more like them, or they more like him?  What is he finally willing to fight for? Loyalty and honor are themes common to most westerns, and they are present here as well.  However, McKay redefines the terms.  To him, loyalty and honor are not blind alignments with one side or the other. They are the inner battles between right and wrong waged in the heart as a man matures. Pat Terrill (McKay's fiance, thinking him a coward) You let him call you a liar.  I've never been so humiliated.  Don't you care what people think? McKay No, I'm not responsible for what people think; only for what I am. This is a film that rewards the patient viewer.STORY  A //// ACTING  A (particularly Chuck Connors and Burl Ives.  Anyone who says Gregory Peck is wooden, is missing a lot of nuance.) //// EDITING A //// CINEMATOGRAPHY  A++ (superb!!  Example McKay leaves Julie's porch with the deed; the camera remains still as the Hannasseys come over the distant hill to kidnap her.) //// MUSIC  A++ (three themes used to outstanding effect.  Has there ever been a better film score?) //// 10 out of 10.      "},{"Title":"The best Western EVER","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Although there are some exceptional Westerns (such as The Oxbow Incident, The Gunfighter and The Fastest Gun Alive), this is my favorite.I must first point out that Westerns are NOT among my favorite movies. I like them in small doses or when they rise above the crowd.This movie is GREAT in so many ways. First, the soundtrack is tops. It's magnificent in scope and fits the movie so well. Second, the acting is great. Particular standouts are Gregory Peck (as the strong, confident yet humble newcomer), Charlton Heston, Charles Bickford and Burl Ives. Overall, this movie seemed to best showcase Ives and Peck, as their characters were so solidly written and mesmerizing. Third, as alluded to in the last sentence, the writing was incredible and it was in many ways an anti-Western that deliberately avoided clichés and debunked some of the macho excessiveness of some Westerns. Fourth, the brilliantly paced and masterful direction of William Wyler (perhaps the greatest Director who ever lived).This is the plot in a nutshell Gregory Peck is an Easterner who had been a ship's captain who met a girl (Carol Baker) and agreed to marry her and move back west with her. It turns out her father (Bickford) owns most of the county and is way too adamant on proving his machismo--particularly when it came to altercations with another big-shot landowner (Ives) who is his rival. The problems all begin when Ives' son (Chuck Conners) and his buddies give Peck a nasty hazing. Peck laughs it off but Bickford is bound and determined to teach that trashy clan a lesson.It becomes painfully obvious through the course of the movie that BOTH patriarchs are pig-headed bullies who won't back down until their rival is pushing up daisies! Peck realizes this rather quickly but is disheartened that his fiancée is all for a countrywide bloodbath. Her lust for revenge and mayhem drives poor Gregory Peck away--into the arms of the luscious schoolmarm (Jean Simmons--not THE Gene Simmons from KISS, but the actress).As a compromise, Peck offers to buy a piece of land under dispute by the two patriarchs and give them BOTH equal access to the land. Neither one really wants this solution, as it will preclude them from killing each other.I won't tell more about the basic plot or the conclusion, as it would spoil the experience, though there are a few WONDERFUL moments I want to highlight.First, the cowboys try to get Peck on an evil (and seemingly unbreakable) horse, but he declines. They think he's yellow but he just doesn't think he has to prove himself to others. Instead, when no one other than Raoul (the servant--who is exceptionally well-played), he tries again and again to ride the horse until he ultimately succeeds into saddle-breaking it.Second, for much of the movie, Charlton Heston (Bickford's foreman) is itching for a fight with Peck. Again and again, Peck backs off--not because of perceived cowardice but because he has neither an argument with him nor did he feel I needed to fight. Now remember, Peck was introduced as an ex-sea captain--this was certainly NOT a wimpy profession, but he was so self-confident in his own masculinity that he just felt no need to prove anything to himself or his fiancée. Finally, after repeated provocations, Peck agrees to fight but not publicly. Instead, they fight all alone in an open field. The fight lasts for what seems like hours, as they exchange blow after blow. All this is shown NOT with the typical closeup, but with a DISTANT shot in order to avoid glamorized the fight. Finally, after they both are spent, Peck asks Heston if this REALLY accomplished ANYTHING! This was a beautiful moment.Overall, I think this movie's theme is REAL masculinity versus FAKE put-on masculinity and it does a masterful job. "},{"Title":"Blessed are the peacemakers","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" James McKay (Gregory Peck) is an easterner who comes west to marry Pat Terrill (Carroll Baker), the daughter of wealthy rancher Maj. Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford). McKay lands in the middle of a dispute between the Terrills and the Hannasseys (ranchers of less financial status) over watering rights on the Maragon property that abuts the two ranches. Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons) owns the property in question. Once the principal players are in place the story develops with few surprises.Peck is good at playing strong, silent types of high moral character and he brings that talent to this movie, but I found him less believable in scenes where physical toughness was required. For example, in the marathon fight between McKay and Steve Leech (Charleton Heston, the foreman on the Terrill ranch) it was hard for me to see Peck fighting to a draw. The role calls for a sensitive but tough man along the order of Gary Cooper. Jean Simmons is similarly miscast I think, she does not fit the image of a strong willed independent woman of the old west. I can better picture a Mercedes McCambridge in her role. But Bickford is perfectly cast as Maj. Terrill and Burl Ives steals the show in his Academy Award winning performance as Rufus Hannassey, the head of the Hannassey clan.While this is an entertaining and satisfying western, it comes with a message. We are encouraged to admire McKay as a peacemaker who subscribes to pacifism. For example, after he and Leech decide to call their secret fight a draw, McKay asks, Tell me Leech, what did we prove? He also tries to bridge the gap between the two warring tribes. And at the end non-violence is advocated as we see that violence begets violence with the ultimate result being mutual destruction of the heads of the two clans.There is some expert horsemanship on display here--the stunt-men must have worked overtime. It is a thrill to see a crew riding through a canyon and a six-team of horses running full out pulling a carriage.The beautifully filmed vistas of the big open range spark the imagination to consider what things were like in the west in the U.S. in the nineteenth century, before autos and too many people. The forlorn little town in this movie is probably pretty realistically portrayed.Finally, the score by Jerome Moross is suitably grand to match the story and the scenery. It is a bit intrusive at times, but once you hear the main melody, you will probably never forget it and forever associate it with this movie. "},{"Title":"The Big Country","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" From director William Wyler (Wuthering Heights, Mrs. Miniver, Ben-Hur, Funny Girl), I saw this film once before when I borrowed it from college, but obviously I dozed off during it, so I was glad to watch it again properly. Basically James McKay (Gregory Peck) is the retired, wealthy sea captain who has travelled to the American West to be with Patricia Terrill (Carroll Baker), his fiancée, along with her father Maj. Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford), at their large ranch. McKay is obviously a stranger to the town, and he has already made a few enemies, including Steve Leech (Charlton Heston), but there is also the feud going on between Terrill and Rufus Hannassey (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Burl Ives). Caught in the middle of the feud is also schoolteacher Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons), who allows Hannassey to use her water for his cattle, and Terrill is trying to buy her land to put him out of business. McKay is choosing to ignore and not be any part of the feuding, even with Hannassey's son Buck (Chuck Connors) harassing him, but with things getting tense he does learn to ride a horse, only telling ranch hand Ramón Guiteras (Alfonso Bedoya) about it. McKay soon rides to the Big Muddy, the land that Julie owns, and she agrees to let him buy it, as long as she carries on like normal with Hannassey borrowing water, and he again refuses a confrontation against Leech, and he and Patricia reconsider their engagement plans. Eventually McKay and Leech do have a fight, using fists not guns, and afterwards Leech does learn to respect his rival, but next, after moving into town, he has angered Patricia when she finds out he bought the Big Muddy, permanently breaking their engagement. Terrill orders Leech and his men to chase Hannassey's cattle from the Big Muddy, and Hannassey himself kidnaps Julie in retaliation and to lure his rival as bait, and his son Buck does try to rape her before being stopped by his father. McKay finds out about her kidnap, and he has obviously gained feelings for her, he rides with Ramon to get her back, and he does attempt to settle the deed agreement with Hannassey, but he says he still wants to fight Terrill anyway. Buck wants to fight, and his father gets him and McKay to do the formal draw, to which the son fires before the signal, grazing his opponent's head, and after the guns are dropped Hannassey steps in, spitting on his son is disgust. When McKay and rescued Julie start to walk away Buck picks up his gun to shoot them dead, but then his father kills him, and Terrill shows up in the canyon to fight against Hannassey, Leech refusing to join in the confrontation, but he does catch up. The rest of the group follow Leech into the trap in the canyon, but Hannassey and Terrill want a one to one showdown, and it ends with them both killing each other, while McKay, Julie and Ramon ride out together to the open space. Also starring Chuck Hayward as Rafe Hannassey, Buff Brady as Dude Hannassey, Jim Burk as Blackie / Cracker Hannassey and Roddy McDowall as Hannassey Watchman. Peck gives a good suited performance as the gentleman that only gives into fights when necessary, Heston gets just about enough good moments, Simmons has grown up well since Great Expectations and is well casted as well, and I can see why Ives won the Oscar for supporting actor, he is a good mild villain. It is almost three hours long, but it has a good amount of good gun play and horse riding sequences with a sweeping background of desert landscape locations, helped out brilliantly by the fantastic and iconic theme tune, it a most watchable western. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Jerome Moross, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. It was number 71 on The Ultimate Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Yankee gentleman former sea captain tries to tame the Wild West.","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" There have been many fine reviews of this film already. Thus, I will mostly confine my remarks to one of the themes of the film the incompatibilities that most contributed to the breakup of marriage plans between ex- Yankee sea captain Jim McKay(Gregory Peck) and his fiancée Pat Terrill(Carroll Baker), daughter of a cattle baron in the West. But, first, I would like to point out that, although not hinted in the film, the feud between the Hannasseys and Terrills was likely rooted in ethnic and religious bigotry. Hannassey is an Irish name, and the Terrills were most likely of English ancestry. This fits the general peception of the times of Irish immigrants as uncouth ruffians. Also, I should mention that Peck was very reluctant to be under the direction of the perfectionist William Wyler, whom he had worked with in Roman Holidays, who was infamous for the many 'takes' he required.Clearly, the middle-aged Jim and young Pat didn't know each other very well before Jim made the life-changing decision to retire from his nautical career to begin life as a rancher. Pat soon figured out that Jim was determined to quickly become his own man in this 'big country', not just her father's puppet. Strike one against him. She also discovered that Jim was too aloof to the rough and tumble western ranch culture for her liking. Not only did he show minimal hostility toward the rough hazing reception by the Hannassey 'boys', he refused to cooperate with the baiting challenges of riding a notoriously untamable horse, or brawling with ranch hand Steve(Carleton Heston), who also had the hots for Pat. The latter 2 challenges he eventually met, but only when there was no crowd to make him a spectacle, win or lose. Unlike some reviewers, I don't see Jim's aloofness regarding these challenges as necessarily a sign of superior nobleness. Rather they seem prudent responses. Also, he was much influenced by his father's death in a dual over which, in retrospect, was a rather trivial matter. It was prudent not to show great fear nor anger when faced with a gang of ruffians in an unfamiliar territory and culture. It was prudent not to risk making a fool of himself and risking serious injury before a crowd, including his fiancé, in trying to ride a horse hinted at as being very wild. It was prudent to decline engaging in a fist fight, with possible serious injury, over the seemingly trivial question of whether he had become lost in his solo survey of the ranch. But later, when learning of the kidnapping of his new love, Julie(Jean Simmons), by the Hannasseys, he ignored prudence and played the role of potential hero or dead man. The lines between courage and foolhardiness, and between cowardice and prudence will often be blurred.Various reviewers have made the point that a fundamental difference between Jim and Pat was that Jim believed that what he was really like and had accomplished was more important, whereas Pat believed how others saw you was more important than what you were really like. The film biases our opinion to see Jim's ethos as the better of the two, but remember that Peck was a coproducer of the film. As I see it, in the real world, both are important. Reputation often makes the difference between success and failure in the business world, whether based on fact or fiction. However, Pat should have understood that Jim had prudent reasons, consistent with his aloof personality, for responding to the several baiting challenges he was faced with, as he did. After all, as an ex-sea captain, Jim was used to exhibiting a degree of aloofness. Interestingly, when it came to sharing water rights that he now technically owned, something critical to all his neighbors, Jim was not aloof, declaring all neighboring parties had equal access to his water, as they had, some years ago, under Julie's father. Julie, as a non-cattlewoman heir to her father's land, had been too weak, and too connected with the Terrills to fully enforce the tradition of equal water access. Hopefully, now in league with Jim, and presumably now disconnected with the Terrills as well as the Hennasseys, the pair would be strong enough to enforce their critical rule. "}{"Title":"The Big Yawn","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The law of averages makes it inevitable than any major performer, whether vocalist (Sinatra) or actor (Michael Caine) if sufficiently prolific will turn in a percentage of dross. Ironically Gregory Peck, one of the finest and most underrated of major actors, turned out two of the most disappointing big-budget, all-star cast, 'westerns' in a tad over a decade, Duel In The Sun and this one, The Big Country. Though far and away the best thing in it Peck is hamstrung by the essential dullness of the story and pedestrian directing of William Wyler (who, together with Peck and Audrey Hepburn) had hit one out of the park only five years earlier with Roman Holiday. It's just hard to work up a sweat about Peck's non- conformist secure-in-his-own-skin role when the best 'all-male' opposition they can come up with for him to clash with giant Redwood Charlton Heston flaunting his Forestry Commission training in every scene and strewing the set with sawdust. From the comments I've read here I'm in the minority and not for the first time. Sue me. "},{"Title":"Gregory Peck at his best","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" One of those classic movies that cling to the heart.I saw it on the big screen over 47 years ago and still i find it entertaining me all the the time.Gregory Peck was never better.The script is excellent and befitting the characters.This is William Wyler's and Peck's kind of western,sort of Quaker dogma,tolerance of different people and races,getting over prejudice to signify man's equality to man etc.That Real courage is to stand up for your beliefs in all circumstances and once having made a decision never go back on it.The characters of Peck,Burlesk Ives,fantastic,and Bickford eachn their way trying to prove this.When Peck answers whether he has seen a bigger country with oceans it sums up the message the film tries to give the audience.Better keep yourself clean and bright...you are the window through which you must see the world.A very great film and a very great actor Gregory Peck. "},{"Title":"Waist-Deep In The Big Muddy With Gregory Peck And Company","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" It was Sam Peckinpah who, following the massive and controversial success of his epic and violent western THE WILD BUNCH in 1969, said The Western is a universal framework on which it is possible to comment on today. That approach can be said to have started in the 1950s with the more topical adult westerns like HIGH NOON and SHANE, and which greatly expanded into the 1960s, culminating with Peckinpah's masterpiece near that decade's end. And one of those 1950s westerns that helped point the way was director William Wyler's expansive 1958 opus THE BIG COUNTRY.Reputed to have been then-president Dwight Eisenhower's favorite film, THE BIG COUNTRY, based on the novel of the same name by Donald Hamilton, stars Gregory Peck (who co-produced the film with Wyler, and who delivers another excellent low-key performance) as a ship's captain who has ventured out West to marry the girl (Carroll Baker) that he had left behind. What he has gotten himself into by going West, however, is quite complicated. Baker's family the Terrills, whose patriarch is played by Charles Bickford, are a high-class bunch involved in a very fractious class and range war with the Hennessys, a more redneck clan whose patriarch is played by Burl Ives (in the role that justifiably won him an Oscar as Best Supporting Actor). The object of this war is a stretch of the Big Muddy River where that most valuable of all Western assets, water, is for their cattle, and each wants it for themselves as bad as the other. But the spread is tended to by a schoolteacher (Jean Simmons), who is a close friend of Baker's. Peck, in the hopes of placating both sides, agrees to sign a deed and co-own the spread with Simmons. But the range war intensifies and comes to a climax near Ives' spread in the narrow confines of Blanco Canyon.Movies don't often live up to their own titles, let alone the hype that just as often goes with them, but THE BIG COUNTRY is a big exception, largely because an exacting master like Wyler is behind the camera, and also because he and Peck have assembled such a stellar cast. Chuck Connors, just a year or two away from portraying Lucas McCain on TV's The Rifleman, portrays Ives' none-too-sharp son with appropriate rural menace; and Charlton Heston, fourth billed this time around, is equally good as Bickford's main ranch foreman who takes an instant dislike to Peck until the two men engage in a nighttime fistfight on the back forty and Peck wins, proving himself to be a man in Heston's eyes. There is also the final appearance of Mexican actor Alfonso Bedoya (he of I don't got to show you no stinkin' badges fame in THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE) as Bickford's Mexican wrangler. The superb wide screen cinematography of Franz Planer is equally impressive, done primarily on location in the San Joaquin Valley in central California; Red Rock Canyon State Park in the Mojave Desert in southern California; and Canyon de Chelly National Monument in Arizona.One other aspect of THE BIG COUNTRY that one wishes the Academy Awards had recognized is the classic Americana score by Jerome Moross, one of the best scores ever done not only for a Western, but for any film in general, period; its title theme promises what the rest of the film pays off in spades. It belongs up there, in terms of Western film scores, with Elmer Bernstein's score for THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN; Jerry Fielding's for THE WILD BUNCH; and Ennio Morricone's for ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST.Indeed, THE BIG COUNTRY belongs on the shelf, alongside those other films, of any self-respecting fan of Westerns. Though quite long at 167 minutes, thanks to Wyler's direction, a great cast, and a great screenplay, the drama and tension never flag. You can't go wrong with this film by any means. "},{"Title":"Burl Ives an Acting Masterclass","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I've been on IMDb for some years but this is my first review on IMDb so apologies if i don't demonstrate the eloquence of the more experienced members.Anyway why wait until now to post a review and why only an 8 when I have films that I rate as 10's. The answer is simple ....Burl Ives. I can't remember ever seeing a performance that gripped me so forcefully from the off. Its almost as if Gregory Peck, Charlton Heston et al are the supporting cast. Every muttering, monologue and bark are instantly quotable. I understand that as Producer Gregory Peck cast Burl Ives in the role, and its hard to believe that the role wasn't written for him specifically.The rest of the cast range from excellent to good and Charlton Heston is particularly brooding and says more in a sideways glance than most can manage in 10 minutes of dialogue. OK story if a little hackneyed and without the fabulous cast would probably be nearer a 5 but it does have some great camera work and panorama's. "},{"Title":"Big country, big mistake","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" If this beautifully-restored film were a travelogue, then I would give it a galaxy of stars. Having traveled the West-Montana, Wyoming, California, etc, I can attest to the unbelievable vastness of the land.Wyler exploits this quality to the fullest. My 32 TV doesn't do justice to the enormity of the setting. Restoration work has imbued the film with a glowing spectrum of color.Now the bad news. Wyler may have mastered the images, but he seems to have hired marionettes to replace the principals. Peck, Heston, et al, (exception ,Burl Ives), take turns posing stiffly, Peck's favorite posture entails turning slightly sideways, and staring balefully back at the camera. I suppose that was meant to show patient disapproval, or moral rectitude, or perhaps he had a stiff neck.An interesting aside--there is an old joke about the captive Hebrews escaping from Egypt and wandering 40 years in the desert and settling in the one place that had no oil...here, we have cattlemen who have chosen what appears to be Death Valley as a great spot to raise livestock. There is no location credit, but my photo tour of that desolate, but magnificent spot, matches my collection of images. If Wyler and John Ford chose locations for beauty over sense, who am I to complain? "},{"Title":"Plain big","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Delivers what it says on the tin, as they say, an epic western set in the great outdoors, where mere mortals play out their lives like gnats against the massive backdrop of the west. Propelled by the wonder, familiar theme music, itself big enough to almost assume character status, there's nothing modest about the director's aims here.The fifties of course were a time when the running time of big - budget Hollywood movie subjects ran and ran and ran - Wyler was to take this to some sort of apotheosis with Ben Hur and one of the supporting actor here, Charlton Heston, as his lead, the next year. However the latter had the wonder of those wonderfully constructed recreation Roman sets and a less contrived storyline than The Big Country to its advantage - glorious as the natural landscapes are in the latter, they can't carry the whole movie. Of course it needs a convincing story and top acting to achieve viewing satisfaction and while both these areas are well served, ultimately it falls short of true greatness, in my opinion.To fill its length, we're given a sub-Shakepearian motif of feuding families headed by intractable father figures in the persona of Charles Bickford and Burl Ives. There must have been something about America in the fifties with so many prominent features concerning the dynastic struggles between warring family members. Both actors by the way are fine but the conclusion where they annihilate each other is overblown to say the least. Gregory Peck is assured and commanding as the lightning rod around which passions seem to become inflamed, with Jean Simmons, not far behind as the heiress teacher over whose land Bickford and Ives contest. There are sub-plots too with Heston's near adoration of his stubborn old coot of an employer the Major and his suppressed desire for Peck's original intended, the Major's daughter, played by Carroll Baker.This is contrasted with Ives own errant eldest son (played by Chuck Connors) and his infatuation with Simmons, which predictably ends in death and tragedy before the end.For me there was too much plot for the film and I found I enjoyed the movie more when I was enjoying the high quality camera work, musical score or acting. Almost all of the acting is good, with Peck shining as only he can as the grace-under-pressure Jim McKay, who upholds his own principles of ethical behaviour in the face of overbearing peer pressure from his in-laws to be. Wyler's cinematography under a blazing son is excellent, some of the fight scenes seeing the protagonists reduced to the size of ants against the monolithic rocky tableau behind them.On the whole then, a mighty long, mighty big but still mighty enjoyable western a feast for the eyes and ears. "},{"Title":"I'm not going to go on living in the middle of a civil war.","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Retired sea Captain James McKay (Gregory Peck) arrives in the sprawling land of the West to marry fiancée Patricia Terrill (Carroll Baker). With an amiable, almost pacifistic approach to life, McKay confounds the ranchers he is now mixing with. Particularly the Terrill ranch foreman Steve Leech (Charlton Heston) who takes an immediate dislike to him. Not only that but it seems that James has landed right in the middle of a family rivalry between the Terrill's and the Hannassey's just as it's about to fully ignite into war.Directed by William Wyler (Ben-Hur/Mrs. Miniver), The Big Country is adapted from a short story called Ambush at Blanco Canyon that was written by Donald Hamilton. Beautifully photographed by Franz Planer on location at the Red Rock Canyon in Mojave, California and at the three-thousand acre Drais ranch in Stockton, the film is epic in many ways. Tho the story, with its twin themes of violence begets violence and you don't have to act tough to be tough, is a thin one, it's given such an operatic make over by Wyler it's not hard to be swept away by it all. Helped enormously by the afore mentioned Planer, music composer Jerome Moross and an impressive and on form cast (Heston in superb tough guy mode and Burl Ives delivering a Oscar winning performance as head Hannassey patriarch Rufus).Overall, The Big Country sees a small story made big as it's told in an astutely classic style. With memorable acting, gorgeous scenery, big music and notable moments of action a fist fight between Peck & Heston alone is epic and apparently took three days to get right it's a must see for the Western enthusiast. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the very few best westerns ever","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Somehow I missed this western for many decades, and its actually for the best that I did. If I had seen this movie earlier, it would have been a pan and scan version that completely misses great shots in the movie, including one of the most dramatic ever filmed in a western.I first saw this on a TCM showing, which gave me the widescreen version this movie deserves. Don't watch it on Encore Westerns, as they show the pan and scan version.For the story itself, the brilliance of this movie is a main character in a western that never fires a shot at a bad guy. In fact, the hero fires only one shot, and that into the dirt.It is easy to think of this film as epic in scope, even tho only a few days are covered by it. The classic conflict between the 'civilized' cattle baron and his backwoods foe sets a stage in which the full panoply of western pageantry is displayed ... everything but a quick drawing hero. ;-) Captain McKay (Gregory Peck) is unarguably the best definition of a man's man that has ever appeared on film. He is not more heroic or more highly skilled than other film heroes. He is simply the best centered, most self confident man ever in a film role. He doesn't need to prove himself to anyone BUT himself. That is a refreshing and unique take on a film hero.Watch this movie and just enjoy. It is among the top 5 westerns ever made, and likely among the top 25 or so films ever made. "},{"Title":"Big Westerns Don't Get Much Better Than This","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country is not a movie that held much appeal for me before I'd seen it. I only rented it because a guy I worked with said this was his favorite movie -- given the fact that he's about as conservative as it's physically possible to be, I had my doubts. But I owe him a huge debt of gratitude for introducing me to this magnificent film.Director William Wyler breaks from the women-focused domestic dramas that made him famous throughout the 1940s and heads out west to tackle cowboys, ranchers and the women who love them. And what a picture he paints! Everything about this movie feels grand, but not in that lumbering, stodgy way that CinemaScope epics from the 1950s so often did. Crisp editing and compelling performances propel this story along fluidly, as does a glorious score that's perfectly utilized. I've never liked Charlton Heston better than I do here (except for Planet of the Apes, but that's more to make fun of him), and Burl Ives anchors the film with his rich baritone and imposing size -- he's a force of nature in this film, and his impressive performance here is only one of two he delivered in 1958 (Cat on a Hot Tin Roof being the other one).Highlights of The Big Country include a fistfight between Gregory Peck and Heston that each refuses to quit and a breathtakingly suspenseful final showdown in a canyon between Ives and arch rival Charles Bickford set to more of that pulsing, vibrant musical score.A treasure from an on-again-off-again decade.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"One of the very best","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Why anyone who enjoys movies must see The Big Country 1. It's written for mature adults. The story and the performances delve into character, not at the expense of but in support of the western action sequences.2. The scenery is breathtaking. (I don't know for sure but suspect that I once hiked Blanco Canyon in Death Valley.) 3. The score and cinematography are first rate.4. Burl Ives a personal history comes to life in perhaps fifteen minutes of screen time.5. Gregory Peck, Charlton Heston and the rest of the ensemble are uniformly in top form. "}{"Title":"Don't Underestimate this Film. It's Big.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The story seems quite simple, and it is. The important thing is the way that the characters interact with one another.Major Tirrell's daughter brings her fiancé from the East, a sea captain. He doesn't know the country too well, and is waylaid by the Hannasey's tearaway son on the way to the Tirrell ranch.At first we are introduced to Major Tirrell and his family. They are the good guys, and the Hannesseys are the bad guys. And what a swine that Burl Ives is when he turns up at the Tirrell ball and makes a scene.But gradually we begin to see things differently. As we learn more about the behaviour of the characters, we see that for all the faults of his no-good son, Hannasey is more a man of honour than Tirrell will ever be.It turns out that the sea captain played by Gregory Peck is well capable of taking care of himself; and, with map and compass, can navigate across country as though he were at sea. Contrary to what everybody thinks, he can handle himself in both armed and unarmed combat, too.It is indeed a big country huge vistas, accompanied by BIG music composed by Jerome Moross. But however big the country may be, it is just too small for Tirrell and Hannasey, and their petty feud ends up in death and destruction.Very well made film with great acting, Burl Ives coming out first among equals. "},{"Title":"One the bests western ever made (minor spoilers)","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie is one the best westerns ever made. This movie is about honor and about how a man can make himself. Watching this movie you have a impression that a man only can be considered a man if has honor.  The storyline is simple, but very well conducted. The great performances of Gregory Peck, Charlton Heston, Jean Simons and Burt Ives and a very good direction make this movie almost perfect.-------------------------------Spoilers-------------------------------------- Peck is man that arrive in the Big Country to see his fiance Pat Terril. Unfortunately this place is the middle of the war between two stubborn mans (Henry Terril and Rufus Hannassey). Naturally this war its going to a bloody confrontation and involving Peck. Slowly he realize that maybe his fiance isnt the best choice for him. He has some problems due to this stupid war.------------------------------------------------------------------------The all movie said honor is everything, if you dont have you isnt a man. This movie is a classic and i expect that i can have a chance to see this move again. "},{"Title":"The Big Western","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  A big western, a big epic and a big cast, including big Burl Ives. This long, but romantic comedy western directed by William Wyler stars Gregory Peck in the lead as a sea captain who returns come to the big country to see his favorite gal (Jean Simmons). Unfortunatly the town is in the middle of a war dispute over water rights which is owned by a school teacher (Carol Baker). The town marshal and the Hannesseys, an outlaw family lead by the father (Burl Ives, who richly deserved the Best Supporting Actor Oscar.) are always at ends and even kill one another. Even though the film is long, it's funny, action pacted and has romance all at the same time. Charlton Heston turns in his second fiddle good guy role, who really doesn't take the liking to Gregory Peck, but in the end, it's a big country and there's always room for everybody. The music score is probably the best score for any western film out there. "},{"Title":"A definitive score by Jerome Moross is the highlight of this sprawling Wyler Western that's a treatise on civility.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This is one of those big epics from the 50's that generally personify the craftsmanship of that Hollywood era.  THE BIG COUNTRY, much like it's sprawling predecessor GIANT, presents a slice of Americana directly in tune with the times.  Gregory Peck, much like Liz Taylor in GIANT, enters the scene to lend grace and dignity to what the audience is set up to consider an uncivilized environment unaccustomed to change and advancement.  Like GIANT, THE BIG COUNTRY succeeds admirably in it's intention, thanks mainly to a splendid cast and first-rate technicians.  There are many notable qualities present namely the stirring Jerome Moross music, the class cast, Wyler's sure hand and Saul Bass's visual contribution (particularly in the main titles).  All these things add up to grandly-staged, high-quality American Western that's difficult to dislike.  Grandiose.    "},{"Title":"My favorite western","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a great story.  Believable characters.  It's just like a great book that you don't want to end.  You just want to keep following the story of Gregory Peck's character.  Maybe it's just Gregory Peck at his best like To Kill a Mockingbird.  Jean Simmons is great in her role and then all the other stars just make this a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Third best western of all time","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  I have always considered The Big Country as the third greatest western movie I have ever seen.  The reason it is the third greatest is the simple fact that I had seen High Noon, and Shane before I ever saw The Big Country. However, I remain adament about the order and heirarchy of these three movies.  While there may be a justifiable debate of the value of these three westerns I will only consider a changing of the heirarchy of the above three movies.  Nothing produced since those three movies will ever encroach into the heirarchy they have occupied since their introduction.The Big Country is a morality play as well as it is an entertaining spoof of the western genre.  Charlton Heston plays the cowhand boob to its highest level.  Carol Baker plays the spoiled brat daughter of a wealthy rancher as only Carol Baker could.  Whining her beau Gregory Peck into the arms of Jean Simmons the down to earth schoolmarm who held the key parcel of land in the dispute.I can't remember if Burl Ives was nominated or awarded the Academy Award for his part but if he wasn't it was an unforgiveable slight. I still can recite some of his dialogue.  And Gregory Peck gave one of his best performances, while Chuck Conners established himself as a serious actor.The excellent cinematography enhanced by the Big Bend area of the Texas location was outstanding and the musical score by Jerome Moross is a score I have recorded for my personal use and I play it over and over. I enjoy it the most in the opening scenes when Carol is driving Gregory to her father's ranch in a buggy.  I can even feel the heat and hear the flies buzzing in this sequence.On just about every level of movie-making The Big Country excels but the only reason it doesn't deserve a place at the very top is the fact that the other two offer a bit more suspence.  Still and all, given a choice of watching Citizen Kane and the Big Country I will choose The Big Country hands down.  If the choice is High Noon or Shane I might have a problem. Probably the beautiful women of The Big Country will win out. "},{"Title":"A great musical score!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  I have recently moved to Lithuania from Wyoming so I am familiar with the American West and it's settings. This film is very good by itself, but should be considered excellent due to it's great musical score. That is what sets this movie apart from most other Westerns. "},{"Title":"A great musical score!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  I have recently moved to Lithuania from Wyoming so I am familiar with the American West and it's settings. This film is very good by itself, but should be considered excellent due to it's great musical score. That is what sets this movie apart from most other Westerns. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like that anymore.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  And it's true. They don't. Just as the classic musical is no more, so, too, can the same be said for the sprawling western. Yes, The Big Country was not the last of the great sprawling westerns. It is merely representative of a type of movie no longer made by Hollywood. It is not just Hollywood's loss but everyone's loss. On the surface, the story is not unique. A couple of families fighting over water rights in the Old West, with a love story thrown in for added interest. But put it in the hands of a masterful director such as William Wyler and a movie such as The Big Country becomes something special. Suddenly, all the characters become bigger than life. The scenes are much bigger than they appear on the screen. The meanings, the dialogue, the twists and turns in the plot, all take on much more meaning than in any ordinary movie. Most important of all, the distinguishing lines between good and evil become blurred, to the point where you're not sure for whom to root and to root against.In The Big Country, the only thing about which you can be reasonably certain is that James McKay (Gregory Peck) is probably the good guy. Probably. But after him, everyone else is up for grabs. Of the two familial patriarchs, Major Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford) and Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives), you kind of figure that one of them will change coats and become a good guy in the end. But which one? And how? Then there's Steve Leech (Charlton Heston), Major Terrill's right-hand man. In the world of good/bad guys, he's about ten commandments removed from Moses. But is HE as bad as he seems? Maybe Buck Hannassey (Chuck Conners), Rufus' son, can fulfill the role of the profligate bad boy.Then there are the women. First, there is Patricia Terrill (Carroll Baby Doll Baker), Henry's daughter. The goodly Jim McKay has given up life as a seafaring captain to come west to marry her so she MUST be good. Mustn't she? And what about Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons), owner of Big Muddy, the ranch with the water that is causing all of the disagreeableness between the two feuding families? What role is she going to play in the denouement?This story is played out against a backdrop of spectacular cinematography and is further augmented by the unforgettable score of Jerome Moross. In fact, The Big Country theme song was one of the most recognizable songs of the late 1950s and for anyone today who is old enough and still alive enough to recall the music of that era, it remains one of the most recognizable movie theme songs of that or any other era.I guess what most impresses me about a movie like The Big Country is how William Wyler is able to tell such a simple story in such a complex way. Yes, it has great scenery and great music and great actors. But in the end, it's Wyler's storytelling that makes the movie.Yep, when it comes to westerns, they don't make 'em like The Big Country anymore. But I sure wish they did.        "},{"Title":"Epic in character, not simply budget or history","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  The Big Country has long been underrated in discussions of some other, rather overblown two-and-a-half-hour plus westerns of the 50's and 60's.  Unlike many others, this one is rich in character, not just another lesson in it's in Cinerama/Super Panavision and historical, so it's gotta be good.The cast is smaller than some spot-the-star epics and couldn't have been better chosen; what few people remember in amongst the always commanding Gregory Peck lead, the talented female duo of Jean Simmons and Carroll Baker, and the vivid feud-masters Burl Ives, Charles Bickford and Chuck Connors, is that Charlton Heston gave one of his best performances here.Not to say that the visuals aren't striking here; the technical work stands up to and often surpasses the big Westerns of the era.  Good news for fans and never-seens the movie was recently announced for release in stereo and widescreen on DVD in the next couple of months an overdue treat of a movie ready for discovery (or rediscovery.) "}{"Title":"Big and Fantastic","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie plays like a big, long, involved novel.  The performances are excellent, as is the scenery.  I hope this is letterboxed on video or DVD sometime soon.  Not your typical western with gunfights and sheriffs, which makes it even more entertaining.  I give this a big 9.  "},{"Title":"A Big and Marvelous Movie!!!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" In my opinion, this movie is an American classic because it reflects America's ideals of humor, romance, politics, and individualism albeit in a western setting. The cast is excellent, and the musical score is very memorable and grand. Interestingly, we see dichotomies of... a)personalities, b)social milieus, and c)political beliefs. Gregory Peck plays the thoughtful, gentlemanly, and temperate Jim McKay while his antagonist, the loyal, impetuous, and arrogant Steve Leech is portrayed by Charlton Heston. Both actors are magnificent in their roles. On the other hand, Burl Ives and Charles Bickford are a pair of selfish, foolish and senseless rivals that are headed for a range war. As far as the female leads go, we have the sweet and sensible (Jean Simmons) versus the fiery and foolish (Carroll Baker). We see contrasting life styles in the rich and refined versus the somewhat poor and unpolished. As far as politics go, we see the subtleties of the law abiding taking the law into their own hands and subverting it. Wait a minute! Isn't that still true today?! The Big Country has a great finale, but it still leaves you wishing for more because this is a biggg country! "},{"Title":"Big drama will please those liking action","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie is more a drama than a pure Western, though it should please fans of both genres. Gregory Peck is fine as Jim McKay, but the film belongs to Charlton Heston and Burl Ives in outstanding supporting roles. The Big Country has it all action, romance, humor, suspense. It's entertaining and well-acted, and you'll want to see what happens next. "},{"Title":"Best of the West","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Forget the nonsense about this movie being a left-wing allegory of the Cold War. If you're like me you're heartily sick of the left's mendacity on the whole issue, making movies &c. about how awful it was and protesting *only* in America (since the radical left -- forgive the redundancy -- supported the Soviets and hoped they would win; goodness knows they were quick enough to spy for Soviets and give them secrets undermining U. S. national security, sovereignty, and safety. Despite their freedom to make movie propaganda they were they same enemies of American freedom then as now). Also forget the idiotic notion that surly Charles Bickford was a stand-in for genial Eisenhower. The Big Country is a whale of a good western.Story Two cattle barons (the upscale Major and his delectable daughter against white trash Rufus Hannassey and his violent sons) want to drive each other out of business, their fight centering (but not caused by) a plot of land called the Big Muddy owned by Julie Maragon. Into this volatile situation steps James McKay, scion of a prominent eastern family, just retired from being a captain on his rich family's shipping lines. Though originally set to marry the Major's delectable daughter, McKay joins forces with Julie Maragon in an effort to bring peace to . . . The Big Country! The cast is phenomenal. The bickering cattle barons are played by Charles Bickford and forever-angry Burl Ives (he always sings so pleasantly but plays such nasty men in the movies). Supporting them are Chuck Connors (The Rifleman) as old man Hannasey's vicious, whoremongering, rapist and ultimately cowardly eldest boy, Buck; and no less a luminary than Charlton Heston as the Major's ranch foreman, Steve, who was adopted by the Major as a stray waif and is emphatic in his loyalty to his foster father.Gregory Peck is perfect as the idealist McKay, a typical upscale, northeastern, rich leftist who never solves a problem by striking at its root but who tries to force peace by jawing at it and treating it with placebos (shades of Munich 1938).As for the ladies, Jean Simmons is out of her natural habitat as Big Muddy owner Julie Maragon, but she deserves better than becoming the stereotyped maiden in distress as she is taken captive by Old Man Hannasey, with her virginity threatened by Connors' Buck. Carroll Baker is the Major's daughter, delectable until she opens her whiny mouth.The good A) the scenery; B) the movie's Oscar-nominated score, including one of the great opening western themes, that holds its own against the opening themes of The Magnificent Seven and The Sons of Katie Elder and even the iconic The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. C) something you see in too few westerns, an actual duel between McKay and Buck Hannassey, using honest-to-god one-shot dueling pistols.The Bad the script is weak in parts. Gregory Peck's McKay poses as a peacemaker and when he does speak he spouts a lot of hypocritical blather about peace. But he stirs up a lot of consternation by refusing to talk when a few soothing words of explanation are needed to clear up misunderstanding he has caused. In that way it's like the lowest form of comedy, which builds up on layers of misunderstanding just because the characters are too stupid to actually say a few words in season. It's a clumsy plot device and a serious flaw in character development.The Ugly Alfonso Bedoya's Ramón is embarrassingly stereotyped as the Mexican groom. Shameful. And don't blame the times. A western making the pretense of having an adult mind and modern sensibilities should not use ethnic slaps as cheap humor; it is just more of Hollywood's insincerity and exposes its real attitude toward otherness.My favorite scene the Major finally rides for a showdown with the Hannaseys when they abduct Julie Maragon. After obeying the Major throughout the picture, Heston's Steve refuses to be party to any more violence, and his men agree with him. So the Major rides to Julie's rescue alone. Then Steve's appreciation for all the Major has done to him weighs on his conscience and he rides around the mountain to join the Major -- and die with him, as Steve knows the whole thing is an ambush where the Hannasseys are hunkered down ready to murder all the Major's men in cold blood. The Major and Steve ride together a little further, then the rest of the Major's men come galloping around the mountain. It's a moving moment, since Steve has told everyone it's an ambush; but the necessity of saving Julie Maragon makes their lives worth sacrificing. This scene is impossible to catch in pan-and-scan. The Big Country MUST be seen in the letterbox format! One final word on the movie being an alleged leftist Cold War allegory I wouldn't be surprised if it was true since in the leftist mythology the U.S. was always the aggressor. Fortunately, unlike other propaganda pieces The Big Country can be thoroughly enjoyed outside any obnoxious political context. "},{"Title":"Fascinating reviews.  Add the music from Shane","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I'll watch The Big Country every time it's on simply for the music score. It's one of the best I've ever heard and it never fails to captivate me. Everyone writing a comment for this site about their favorite film scores is sharing an incredible list of their personal favorites. They're all magnificent! And the discussion is extremely intelligent and perceptive. One score that everyone seems to have omitted, however, is the music by Victor Young for Shane. Another classic film. The first adult western (as it's often called). The score unequivocally fits into this list of the best. I must admit that there are finer, more elaborate scores. But the music for Shane fits. And it, too, is a musical heritage that other composers have reached to match. Although there are more robust musical compositions for the movies, none is more memorable than Eyes of Blue from Shane. Victor Young did what he was hired to do -- the true mark of a professional. Young was to provide music that fit. He could have gone over the top with his effort but he didn't. He helped make this film a classic with music that is subtle and effective and not at all intrusive. "},{"Title":"Easily at the top of the greatest westerns ever made.","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw this as a kid at a drive-in theatre. Even at this early age, I recognized the greatness of this cast and quality of film production which still ranks among the best of all categories combined. I continue to watch this film several times a year and enjoy each time as I did the first. All the acting, directing, filmography, and producing warrants an Oscar. The music score, the title theme, and especially when Henry Terrell comes busting through Blanco Canyon is in a class all it's own. The film involves 2 families of different lifestyles setting several scenes of confrontation. Burl Ives is at his best as is Jean Simmons, Gregory Peck (To Kill A Mockingbird quality), and Chuck Conners. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Every once and awhile, a movie comes along that is so near to being perfect than any change, no matter how small, would diminish it.  Well, that's The Big Country. It has three of my favorite actors  Jean Simmons, Gregory Peck and Charlton Heston in parts that they were born to play. It has Burl Ives in a knock your socks off performance as the noble patriarch of an ignoble tribe. It has Chuck Conners in one of the lowest, slimiest, meanist characters in modern westerns. It has the big country - and unless you have seen this movie, you can't understand what that means.  The land itself is a character in this movie.  It is the object of veneration, love and lust for four of the major characters  Charles Bickford, Carroll Baker (sp?), Charlton Heston and Burl Ives. And it has the music.  The music is as big and as beautiful as the country and as perfect as all the performances. If you have never seen it, please do.  You will not regret it.  "},{"Title":"An outstanding film","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Great actors, script and tremendous score. Simply the best. Doesn't matter that its' a western. The story was excellent. Chuck Connors was the most vile, nasty bad guy. Jean Simmons simply a great lady. Heston and Peck, now that was one of the greatest fight scenes ever filmed. Simply the best. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie.","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Absolutely stunning western with an all star cast.  Sometimes an all star cast is assembled just for drawing power, but not so here.  All of the characters are well cast and have well developed roles.  Burl Ives is absolutely mesmerizing in a masterful performance.  The exchanges between he and Chuck Connors are riveting.  This movie is full of memorable dialog but it is worth the price of admission just to see the scene where Burl Ives crashes the party.  Small wonder he won an Oscar for his performance.  All performances are uniformly outstanding and the soundtrack is a true classic. One of my favorite films.  If you have seen Treasure Of The Sierra Madre you will want to watch for Alfonso Bedoya as Ramon in this film.  In case you are wondering why I mention this think of the phrase we don't need no stinking badges.  Yep, he is the one who said it. "},{"Title":"Big Grand Traditional Western","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Peaceful Jim McKay (Gregory Peck) is a wealthy shipping line owner from the east. He has just arrived to marry fiancée Pat Terrill (Carroll Baker), and lands himself in the middle of a land war in the west. Pat is the spoiled daughter of her wealthy commanding father Major Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford). Their ranch foreman Steve Leech (Charlton Heston) dislikes Jim almost immediately. The Major and the Hannassey clan battle over land owned by Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons).This is an old fashion western, the oldest of fashion. There are some great actors at work. It's big. The scenery is grand. The characters are big. Subtlety is not this movie's biggest asset. Everybody is bigger than life. Gregory Peck, Charles Bickford and Charlton Heston are all impossibly gigantic men. It does have some funny light hearted moments like Jim trying to ride the horse. But mostly it's a grand ole time. "}{"Title":"Magnificently Mounted Meaningful Message","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Critics may have called it right. It is an impressive, big Movie from the 1950s and there were so many Westerns of different worth made in that decade that sometimes it is better to see it apart from its time frame. Where the critics got it mostly right is that this is not a great Western.It is very good, finely produced, glossy, and left to bake in the sun just a little too long. The always talked about musical score is loud and overwhelming at times and screams out for attention. It is as if the landscapes and production are so BIG here that it tries way too hard to be heard and sometimes its too fanciful and frothy.There are some powerful elements to this production. A great and impeccably placed cast. All seem to excel here where in other places they were merely adequate. Chuck Connors, Burl Ives, and Charlton Heston all are excellent in this one and Gregory Peck is at his best. This is an anti-violence Western and it makes it point and continues to make its point for over two and one half hours. The beautiful landscape notwithstanding, this could have been much better much shorter. The ending also seems out of place once they get to the lackluster shootout in the canyon and it seems rushed, just the opposite of everything else that went before that could be called laborious. "},{"Title":"Wyler Rides the Western Roughshod","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Peace-loving easterner Gregory Peck (as James Jim McKay) arrives in the western town of San Rafael, to marry adoring blonde Carroll Baker (as Patricia Pat Terrill). Then, Mr. Peck becomes involved in the feud between the families led by her father Charles Bickford (as Henry Terrill) and rival Burl Ives (as Rufus Hannassey). Peck also meets sexual tension with soft-formed school-teacher Jean Simmons (as Julie Maragon) and sex-seethed, hard-bodied Charlton Heston (as Steve Leech).The direction and photography, by William Wyler and Franz Planer, of this anti-western opus is truly outstanding, with Mr. Wyler making particular good use of long-shots. Wyler really puts the town and its people in perspective. The music, by Jerome Moross, and performances are also excellent. In hindsight, the characters played by the award-winning Mr. Ives and Mr. Bickford are most noteworthy, but Mr. Heston and Chuck Connors (as Buck) also make especially fine impressions. Ms. Simmons is excellent as always, and Ms. Baker does well as she can with a character pretty much thrown asunder.The film loses something when Peck, looking relatively out-of-shape, gets the obviously muscled-up Heston out of bed for a wrestling match - which Peck seems to win. But, perhaps Peck was a trained fighter as well as an accomplished sea captain. Better played are his match-ups with Mr. Connors, who proves himself a versatile big screen presence just before his television role as The Rifleman changed everything. The Big Country could have stood to lose a scene or two, but it's still an excellent film.******** The Big Country (10/1/58) William Wyler ~ Gregory Peck, Jean Simmons, Burl Ives, Charlton Heston "},{"Title":"Big indeed","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Never was a film better named - the film itself is big (nearly 3 hours) and is filled to overflowing with vistas which show just how big The Big Country is.And yet there is also a contrast because, against the vastness of the landscapes, two very small stories are played out one is a story of mean-spirited inter-family feuding, and the other is a story of domestic relationships, jealousies and rivalries.Gregory Peck brings, as usual, enormous dignity to his city slicker, come to The Big Country to marry his fiancée only to be caught up in events already in motion before his arrival. He attaches no importance to the fact that he is perceived as a coward, and the wonderful scene where we discover that he is far from cowardly involves a fist fight with Charlton Heston which takes place secretly at night (so that no one else knows), and filmed from a long way away - the struggle of these two men is reduced to insignificance as we see the two tiny figures battling in the middle of a seemingly limitless empty plain.That is not to disparage the rest of the case, all of whom perform flawlessly. But, when all is said and done, the human element provides no more than a hook on which to hang Jerome Moross' magnificent theme and score, and the stunning sight of The Big Country. "},{"Title":"The Big Country is a film of epic proportions","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Academy Award winner William Wyler was never considered a Western director but he sure outdid himself with this epic film of the open range. The Big Country (1958) is a story of a longstanding feud between two cattle ranchers, Major Terrill (Charles Bickford) and Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives in an Oscar winning performance). The cause of their fight is over water rights and it's just their luck that the main supply of it happens to be on good looking and unattached Julie Maragon's land. She's played by beautiful Jean Simmons who doesn't bother to hide her English accent. Ms. Maragon is impartial to both of these fellows and that policy lands her smack dab in the middle of their mutual hatred society. Along comes cool and self-assured Jim McKay (Gregory Peck in top form); he's a seafaring captain and all set to marry Terrill's spoiled-brat daughter (Carroll Baker) until she surmises that he's too much a gentle man for her. Terrill ranch boss Steve Leech (Charlton Heston in one of his first starring roles) continually challenges McKay at every opportunity and the poor guy just doesn't seem to get it. Of course, underneath his mild-mannered exterior, McKay is capable of knocking Leech into the next county. He's also convinced that Ms. Baker isn't the best candidate to be his wife, especially after he gets his first close look at Jean Simmons. Chuck Connors is also in the cast as Hannassey's sniveling and cowardly son Buck. His specialties are rape and shooting people in the back. You might say that he doesn't live up to his old man's expectations, and then some.The Big Country is big in every way. The cinematography is outstanding and the musical score fits the story to a tee. It's an adult western and although there's plenty of action, it's mostly character driven with its feet firmly planted in the moral to the story. Both Charlton Heston and Chuck Connors received gigantic career boosts from this film. Heston, of course, went on to star in a slew of epic films and remains the icon of that genre. Connors had both a successful film and TV career (The Rifleman). Most folks don't remember his days as a pro basketball player (Boston Celtics) and later as a member of the Brooklyn Dodgers. He was able to apply his athleticism to good use in the demanding physical roles he chose for himself. Beautiful Jean Simmons recently passed away after a long and outstanding career including Oscar nominated roles. Carroll Baker continues to act to this day. "},{"Title":"A profound and humanly instructive as well as great entertaining Western.","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This is a great, expansive ... and quite profound ... Western.On its message boards, someone has raised the question as to whether Pat's idolization of her father the Major may been ... to an unnatural extreme. But the foreman Leech (Charlton Heston) would have known if it had been, and that would have destroyed his own idolization of the Major and probably his romantic interest in Pat, so no I don't think it was that ... although my skin crawls too during that one scene where Pat (Carolyn Baker) upbraids McKay (Gregory Peck) for not being (like) her father.I know a girl who is quite like Pat. She is/was a farm girl from farming country who had lost her father at a young age. After marrying, she was unhappy in her husband's town and moved back to her home locale. The husband followed for their little son to have his father.Suddenly, the hushand could do no right. He was not especially mechanical, and that was just one of the complaints. Her family had told him he was kind. She was NOT and was instead quite stupid and insensitive and downright mean - note the correlation.By contrast McKay and Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons) *are* VERY intelligent and sensitive and nice. They immediately like each other, but try to deny their mutual attraction.In two ways McKay is out of his element. He is a long way from the sea, and he is a good, intelligent person who comes to a place of bitter, internecine competition.But he *is* above the strife, and yes he's condescending, because he soon realizes that it's not just the Hannasseys who are the savages, and he's repelled. In fact, old Rufus shows far greater gentility and humanity than The Major.Burl Ives' performance is one of the most vivid and memorable in film history. He fully earned his Best Supporting Actor Oscar.And Chuck Connors played his part as his vicious son well too ... to the point I am surprised it didn't destroy his career. (And yet you can see how condemnatory Rufus may have made him that way.) Ironically, Connors went on to portray a fine father on TV in The Rifleman.The Big Country does attack patriarchs. "},{"Title":"Greg Peck is perhaps the last of the Gentleman Actors that Lived","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The movie name is the apt description of the American West and that is the way it is portrayed in this movie. Larger than life is the word suitable for this movie. The grand old wild west shown in it's entire grandeur with the help of long shots, over head shots etc. The movie is about a Easterner gentleman correctly played by Peck and his experiences in the wild and un-sophisticated west. Caught in a feud between two families, how he manages to restore sanity amidst anarchy is the basic story. The movie also asks some important questions. Does a sophisticated lifestyle mean a sophisticated mindset? Are the so called unsophisticated poor people always to be blamed for anarchy? Or are they forced to create it etc etc. This is an excellent western which deserves to be in the top of any western lists. I consider it a masterpiece and very under-rated piece of cinema. Gregory Peck is perhaps the last 'gentleman actor' that ever lived along with Jimmy Stewart. He oozes class in this role as an Eastern gentleman. The lead actresses Simmons and Baker are both impressive. Heston plays a tough guy the best way he can. Burl Ives also is impressive. Overall, I recommend it even though it is a bit long.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"H O R S E S","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Wyler's wranglers, to be trusted again in Ben Hur, help make this one of the best (and most underridden!) shows EVER. PERIOD. Get it for the HORSEPLAY! "},{"Title":"all-star cast in entertaining western","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  It's not a great western (it's not even as good as Angel and the Badman), but it's entertaining. Jean Simmons is pretty, there is a fairly insulting Mexican American stereotype character, Peck and Heston are wooden, Connors simpers and schemes, and Burl Ives doesn't sing a note what more could you want in a movie? Also, the settings are breathtaking, and the score is rousing. As I mentioned, Peck delivers his usual wooden performance, but here it's right for the role. He plays a sea captain who has transplanted himself to somewhere in the West (this someplace apparently covers thousands of square miles -- one set of characters live in the mountains, and the other on the plains, yet they routinely ride between these locations -- it's part of the charm of the movie). Part of the plot, which is pleasantly silly, is that the cowboys wouldn't realize that a sea captain from the 1800's would have to be tough as nails, so Peck's forbearance gets him labelled a sissy, and he has to beat the tar out of a couple of people before this confusion gets cleared up. (Kind of like the Kung Fu TV series plots.)This is one of those movies like Friendly Persuasion that just looks too good to be true. Whereas in that movie you kept watching for a wood-sided station wagon (a joke by Pauline Kael), here the scale is bigger so you are looking for golf carts. In short, I don't know why I like this movie so much, but I've watched it at least half a dozen times, and I bought it as soon as it came out on DVD (the DVD is disappointing, though -- there is nothing on it but the movie and a scratchy trailer; apparently the laser disc version had lots of interesting extra stuff). It's vintage trot-trot, bang-band... "},{"Title":"Interesting characters, could have been better","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This film has complex, real characters, excellent acting, very Shakespearean feel, but I agree with some other commentators that there is something missing at the end. I think it is that none of the deaths at the end really matter. A sniveling coward is shot to keep him from murdering another man; then two bitter, greedy men with an old feud kill each other. Was it a shame that any of these men died? And what happens to the feud? Here's suggestions for how it could have been better. First, give the Major, the gentlemanly cattleman, an admirable background -- hero in the Civil War, admired civic leader some years ago, whatever. When McKay, the sea captain (Peck), meets the Major's daughter in the east, he knows of the Major's admirable history. People in Baltimore praised the Major to him, and that's how he met the daughter. But years ago, after the Major came out West to start this ranch, he started to turn small, greedy, vindictive. Maybe his wife died, maybe there was some other disappointment. He has taken out his bitterness on the Burl Ives character, allowing a minor annoyance or misunderstanding some years ago to fester and grow. Ives has reacted with hurt and bitterness in return -- he knows the slight, whatever it was, doesn't justify this animosity, so he attributes it to snobbery. With this back-story provided to the audience -- it would only take a few lines to put it into the film, maybe delivered by a couple of people at the engagement party -- both old men become more complex, more understandable, more tragic in their confrontation. Then the movie plays out just as it is, until the end, the showdown in Blanco canyon to rescue the Jean Simmons character. The Major's daughter, who has always really been in love with her father, rides out after them, thinking that the captured woman, when rescued, may well want the company of a woman (the subtext here being, if Simmons has been raped during the kidnapping, she will need a woman to be there after the rescue). She arrives just as the final show-down between her father and Ives is about to happen. With her usual immature frontier desire that men fight for honor, she urges her father on to kill Ives -- and, of course, her father not only kills Ives, but is killed. As she is hysterical over his body -- she was too immature to really imagine that her father could die -- Heston sees it, and realizes that he doesn't love or want her any more -- he sees she is in love with her father, and also, he sees she is immature, and has the vicious streak her father had, and so he sees she is really a person he no longer wants to love. She sees the look on Heston's face, and then she sees McKay (Peck) with Simmons obviously in love, and suddenly she realizes that she has lost Peck, lost her father, and lost Heston, all at once. In the space of just a day or two, she has gone from having three men in love with her to having no-one in love with her -- and she herself has been the cause of losing all three loves. We see the bitterness harden in her and we realize that she, the heiress of her father's ranch, will continue his bitter reign, bitter against both Ives' family, and Peck & Simmons. Then bring Ives' younger son into the scene, the young man who will inherit Ives' ranch, upset that his father is dead, blaming the Major, blaming the Major's daughter who urged the Major to kill Ives his father, and blaming Peck and Simmons for the earlier death of his cowardly older brother. As the movie ends we see Peck and Simmons united, which feels wonderful, but we also see that the animosity between the clans is going to continue into the next generation, with both warring sides also blaming Peck and Simmons, the ones in the middle -- literally in the middle, since their Big Muddy ranch is the source of water for the cattle of both clans. Something like this would provide the movie with the emotional pay-off that the movie lacks as it is. It needs to be tragic that the Major dies as he does, an admirable men destroyed for nothing due to a vindictive flaw in his character. It needs to be tragic that his daughter goes from having three men who love her, to none. And it needs to be tragic that the feud will live on into the next generation. Or, alternatively, the movie needs to show that the feud will end with these deaths -- that the Major's daughter has learned, and matured, and that Ives' heir has also learned and matured. One or the other outcome needs to be in the movie. Ignoring the next generation, leaving open what happens to the feud, leaves an emotional hole in the story. Sometimes I read a comment on a book or film and it says The story would have been better if X, Y, or Z had happened in the story. My reaction to these kind of comments is, hey, it's a work of fiction, not a fact history. Just because the author didn't think of those improvements is no reason why you can't treat the story as having been told in that better way. You can act as though the story had in fact been told the way you think would be better -- just imagine for yourself that it was told that way. So for those of who who like the changes I just proposed, try imagining that this ending was actually in an alternative version of the movie you saw. If that gives you the emotional experience you seek, why not try it? "},{"Title":"Overrrated Range War Western","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" William Wyler directed this big budget spectacle. Critics always loved Wyler. His movies dominated the Academy Awards for decades (Burl Ives won Best Supporting Actor in this one). This was Wyler's second and last Western of the talkie era. He directed Gary Cooper in The Westerner 18 years earlier. I found both movies very disappointing.Here's what I liked- Wyler excelled at creating compelling heavies. Walter Brennan's Judge Roy Bean in The Westerner may the best Western bad guy ever. Here Chuck Conners gets the best role of his career. His sniveling inadequate son henchman makes my Top Ten Western Henchman list. Very similar to Jack Lord's excellent character in The Man From The West, released the same year. Of course, both Conners and Lord went on to '60's TV stardom.- Gregory Peck is well cast as the bottled up pacifist.- The characters are well developed and there are no glaring plot holes.- It's impressive thematically as a pacifist metaphor during the height of the Cold War. The Westerner was similar, but was a metaphor for U.S. isolationism leading into WW2.- It's a good looking movie if you like a lot of shots of wide open prairie.- Charlton Heston underplays his role perfectly as the cattle baron's adopted son turned loyal foreman (See Arthur Kennedy in The Man From Laramie and Burt Lancaster in Vengeance Valley for similar characters).Now here's what I didn't like- Nice acting job by Peck, but he's not my idea of a Western hero. In that sense, this is an anti-Western like High Noon. Like I always say, if I was anti-Western, I would watch musicals and romantic comedies, not this movie.- I'm not a big fan of range war Westerns. They tend to get stuck in one place. The landscapes in this movie are impressive, but limited.- The story is too melodramatic. I felt like I was watching Peyton Place Goes West. Usually the romantic subplots in Westerns are gratuitous. Here we have the opposite problem. Romance is overdeveloped to the point where this is barely a Western.- I liked Carol Baker in this, but I don't get the attraction of Jean Simmons. Never went for Audrey Hepburn either.- I didn't buy Burl Ives's character. I thought he overacted and was very stagy.- I thought the musical soundtrack was indulgent and intrusive.- There is not an iota of comic relief.- Not a single Indian or Mexican reference, except for a highly stereotyped Mexican servant. Like George Stevens (Shane) and Fred Zinneman (High Noon), Wyler wasn't really a Westerns director. All three men had little understanding of the milieu of the era and saw little reason to include these colorful cultural elements.- The conflict resolution at the end feels a little contrived. Also, it was unclear to me just how peace was going to come so naturally with so many potential claims on the land, considering the two main owners die simultaneously.- As Peck and Simmons stared contentedly into the sunset in the film's final scene, I cringed, fearing they would once again remind us that the country was, indeed, big. "}{"Title":"A pretty good, offbeat Western","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" William Wyler's The Big Country concerns a retired sea captain, James McKay (Gregory Peck), thrust into the middle of a squabble over land rights. The conflict pits the father of his fiancée, Major Terrill (Charles Bickford), against the head of a less successful and less refined clan, Rufus Hannassey (Burl Ives).The acting is solid throughout with Peck in particular delivering a fine performance. The supporting cast sports some familiar faces as well, including Carroll Baker, Charlton Heston & Jean Simmons. It should also be noted that Burl Ives won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his performance.The story is an interesting one since it doesn't conform to the usual style of a Western film. Peck's character is an enigma, especially to the rough and tumble Westerners who are quick to brand him as a coward. The romantic element of the plot is not as intrusive as I feared, though it is an essential ingredient in exploring the character of James McKay.From a technical standpoint the film is well done but not outstanding. Wyler clearly tried to live up to the film's title, with a number of shots demonstrating the sheer immensity of the country and illustrating how it dwarfs the men who inhabit it. The score by Jerome Moross was nominated for an Oscar but I didn't really think that it was that great. There are a couple of memorable pieces of music but overall I found the score to be merely average.All in all, this film is worth watching for Western fans and for those who enjoy a drama with a wide scope. "},{"Title":"Why ain't you dead?","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" An adaptation of David Hamilton's Ambush at Blanco Canyon, William Wyler's The Big Country depicts the murderous feud between two rival ranchers.An overlong western, Wyler's film resembles George Stevens' Giant, released two years earlier. Both films are mammoth productions which indulge in opulent sets, massive wide screen compositions and hokey melodrama. Still, at its best, Country portrays the West as being the playground of roving gangs of civilized land barons, each with his own cultural notion of integrity. Into their midsts steps Jim McKay, a retired New Englander. He's played by the always smug Gregory Peck. Like his role in To Kil a Mockingbird, Peck portrays an enlightened, liberal, cultured man who attempts to bring reason and understanding to a gang of violent oafs. He fails.The Big Country has been read as a Cold War allegory, but such a reading distorts history; West and East tended to fight ideological battles (not resource battles) over terrain neither wanted, and the post-WW2 period began with the Big Empires agreeing to carve up the spoils between themselves, in some cases even sharing the same colonial holdings.The Big Country's best scenes feature Jean Simmons and Charlton Heston, the latter a bitter farmhand, the former a fiery landowner. Chuck Connors is terrible in a small role. The film's renowned for a long fist-fight &#x96; one of the best ever filmed &#x96; in which two humans trade blows before an overwhelmingly vast landscape. 7.5/10 &#x96; Some underrated, eclectic westerns Hombre, Hud (both masterpieces by Martin Ritt), Mccabe and Mrs Miller, Broken Lance, Altman's Sitting Bull, The Long Riders, Lonely Are The Brave, The Missouri Breaks, The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid and Robert Benton's Bad Company. "},{"Title":"I'm not responsible for what people think, Pat, only for what I am.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Academy Film Archive, part of a foundation created by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, was established in 1991 and dedicated to the preservation, restoration, documentation, exhibition and study of motion pictures. This is one of the films they recently restored. It took three years to do the work.You know that it is going to be a big movie with stars like Gregory Peck, Jean Simmons, Carroll Baker, Charlton Heston and Burl Ives. That's about a dozen Oscar nominations among them, with three wins, including the one for Burl Ives for this film. The film's score was also nominated for an Oscar.The film was funny, especially when Captain McKay (Peck) tried to ride Old Thunder.But, the corrupting influence of money and power over road everything else. Maj. Henry Terrill (Charles Bickford) was obsessed with owning and controlling everything, even at the expense of others. The only thing standing in his way was Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons).While this s going on, there is a contest between McKay and top hand Steve Leech (Heston) for the hand of the Major's daughter Patricia (Baker) - the Easterner vs, the Westerner. Naturally, hey duked it out, but not like you would expect.Ives was amazing and Simmons was equally magnificent. Peck was the gentleman we know and love. An outstanding film "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I LOVED this film! The incredible cast is what drew me to watch it, but I quickly couldn't turn away. I've never seen Burl Ives play in this type of role. He was fabulous! Incredible scenery and great music score added to the effects.This film is what westerns are supposed to be about. You have a great plot with enough realism to keep the movie from become cheesy. I love the idea behind Peck's character, someone not from the west with different thoughts and reactions to their situations. Superb acting on both sides, his and those of the more prejudiced characters. Great film all around! "},{"Title":"If there's anything I admire more than a devoted friend, it's a determined enemy.","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Here's the kind of film I particularly enjoy, a nicely nuanced psychological Western that attempts to get inside the head of it's heroes and villains. The strength of the story lies in the character of James McKay, masterfully played to Atticus Finch like sensibility by Gregory Peck. In fact, one often feels like Peck should be showing more emotion given some of the situations he finds himself in. He does cut loose though in a brawling fight against Terrill foreman Steve Leech, which made me stop to think about something. Has there ever been an on screen fist fight between any greater pair of movie icons than Gregory Peck and Charlton Heston? That's not to say it was the best Western movie fight ever, but the one featuring two of the biggest stars. I'm going to have to keep thinking about that one.I was pretty convinced right from her introduction in the picture, that Pat Terrill (Carroll Baker) wasn't going to wind up as McKay's wife, even though she started out as his fiancée. In that regard, she showed some of her father's temperament, with a reliance on eye for an eye type justice to settle a score. With Easterner McKay's unwillingness to prove himself at every turn, you have the wedge that eventually begins to unravel any attempt at matrimony. That void begins to be replaced by the charm and manner of Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons), owner of the 'Big Muddy', and a focal point of contention between the picture's feuding families, the Terrill's and the Hannassy's. This was my first look at Burl Ives in a villainous role, and he appeared made for the part of the Hannassy patriarch. Didn't you just cringe each time he put down one of his own sons, especially big old Chuck Connors as Buck Hannassy. I don't know if I care much for Connors as a heel after seeing all those 'Rifleman' episodes, but he did put some gusto into the role.This might seem like a little thing, but I got a kick out of that scene when Old Thunder did the gimmick with the blanket giving Ramon (Alfonso Bedoya) the fits. I say that because it wasn't the first time I'd seen something like it. Roy Rogers' horse Trigger pulled off a similar stunt in the 1952 film Son of Paleface. It made me wonder if Trigger might have trained Old Thunder for the part.Speaking of that fight between Jim McKay and Steve Leech, keep an eye on the ensuing scene on the morning of the next day. Leech is talking to one of his ranch hands, and the only mark on his face is a slight bruise on his upper left cheek. However in the next scene, after running off the Hannassy's at Big Muddy, he has a cut on his lower lip, while talking to Buck Hannassy. Later on in the picture, the cut disappears.Somewhat oddly, for all of his importance to the story, Jim McKay doesn't figure directly in the picture's finale. It's almost as if you could have had the same story without his presence, except then you wouldn't have all of the character driven focus on integrity and values that defined where the story was going. Besides that, McKay was essentially out of his element as the displaced Easterner from Boston, so in that respect, you don't really get a sense of how he'd fare in a one on one show down. In one of my favorites of the genre, Gregory Peck appears in the 1950 Western, The Gunfighter, where he portrays a reformed outlaw, the Ringo Kid. It's another psychological Western that deals with the oft recurring theme of brash upstarts trying to take down a legendary gun man to enhance their own reputation. The twist at the ending is one of those be careful what you wish for scenarios at the expense of the Ringo Kid.NOTE - Added on 10/17/08 - Regarding fight scenes between legendary actors, the 1939 film The Oklahoma Kid features a great bar room brawl between Humphrey Bogart and James Cagney. "},{"Title":"Preaching Peace, but gripping when fists or bullets flying","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This has always been a perfect time killer for me, also the plot and its resolution is known and clear for long. Gregory Peck as a peaceful and held-back retired sea captain (not so terribly credible) looking to take Carol Baker as his wife, being viewed as a coward by his potential father in law and his foreman on the ranch, played by Charlton Heston, but proving and courage several times with a strong effort to keep it secret. But actually dominating the show are the two old men, who's ego is even bigger then the country they want to reign about, Burl Ives and Charles Bickford, all the way until they shoot it out eye to eye to settle the score for good. Also great as Burl Ives big mouthed son, but actually turning out to be a coward is Chuck Connors in a role that takes as much ego suppression as you could imagine. Big Noise, big shooting, strong action sound much louder then the words of peace and the quiet scenes, especially between Peck and Jean Simmons. Take it for great enjoyment, the message is not really pacifistic. 7/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Great start but weak ending","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Above average Western action drama with great lead acting and good cinematography.The story revolves around the philosophy of avoiding violence as much as possible and also about chivalry.The end scenes were not as climactic as they could have been and also some inconsistencies regarding the lead character's (Peck) honor code mainly due to him accepting a private brawl with an ignorant character (Heston) when this violent confrontation could have been avoided.This esuing brawl between Heston and Peck could have had better choreography also.Still,the movie is entertaning as long as one likes intelligent Western movies and are a fan of the lead actors.The musical score here was also good......   "},{"Title":"Horrible DVD reproduction, but the film is average western. score 60 (out of 100).","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Pros Burl Ives, Charlton Heston, cinematography, scoreCons Predictable story, horrible DVD reproduction, charactersTypical Hollywood western formula that finds Peck coming home to wed Baker, but runs into trouble with jealous Heston.  Also, there is a feud over water rights between Bickford and Ives (excellent role).  What gave me goose bumps was the score to the film.  One could almost wonder if Moross' score influenced later composers, like John Williams.Overall score 60 (out of 100). "},{"Title":"Surprising plot and cast","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Funny, I just saw this movie for the first time yesterday, even though it is 50 years old. I was amazed at how beautiful Carol Baker was here and Gregory Peck was definitely working up his credentials for To Kill a Mockingbird by portraying a highly principled and iconoclastic character. The plot weaknesses that I noticed were the relative abandonment of characters during the movie and the ending that seemed to be filmed from a helicopter totally without bringing resolution to Baker's character. Charlton Heston, Burl Ives and Chuck(The Rifleman) Connors were great choices but Charles Bickford was too much of a pantywaist to play the hard nosed patriarch. I will always love Jean Simmons, especially in the movie Mr. Buddwing, which I highly recommend to everyone! "},{"Title":"The Big Country is the grand-daddy of overblown westerns...","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" GREGORY PECK's innate ability to play a man of integrity is never better utilized than it is by director William Wyler for THE BIG COUNTRY. In fact, Wyler is able to draw expert performances from all of the male leads, who really do exceptional work here. It's the men who dominate the film and Wyler gives them all a chance to show what they can do. The film itself is a bit overblown, even for an epic western.As the most villainous of BURL IVES' sons, CHUCK CONNORS stands out in a very aggressive role as the gang of four who welcome Peck to the big country by taunting him with reckless energy as they lasso him, tear his hat off, shoot at it, keeping his fiancé, CARROLL BAKER in check to witness their humiliating tactics. But Peck is a gentleman from the east, a Sea Captain returning to the west to marry the woman he thinks he loves and his way of dealing with bullies upsets his fiancé who fails to understand his values and always underestimates him.As it turns out, JEAN SIMMONS becomes the real woman for him--and after many a plot turn he ends up rescuing her from a fate worse than death after she's captured by Ives and his unruly, cowardly son Connors.It's a complex story of an age old feud over water rights that involves, principally, Ives and CHARLES BICKFORD as the headstrong men who are unable to settle a score peacefully even when Peck tries to intervene. It's an epic tale, sprawling and a bit rambling over the course of two hours and forty-five minutes, but Wyler holds it all together for maximum interest, aided and abetted by a wonderful western score by Jerome Moross that has become classic.Peck never had a role that suited him so admirably and CHARLTON HESTON is excellent as Bickford's right hand man with unwanted designs on Carroll Baker. His fist fight with Peck is a classic of its kind. And ALFONSO BEDOYA (tbe grinning bandit from TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE)as Ramon, the sometimes dull-witted hired help with his halting English, is excellent.Summing up A sturdy but overblown western with a classic score, full of strong performances by an expert cast. "}{"Title":"I prefer friendly persuasion","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  These two westerns deal with the same subjectthe impossibility to avoid violence.The 1956 film saw a family of quakers '(Perkins and Cooper) refusing to go to war because the Lord  told us You shall not kill.It had always been Wyler's strong point showing a family against a hostile world (Mrs Minniver desperate hours friendly persuasion and even Ben Hur ).but here the family in question is not endearing and its character are not that much interestingone must specify that one of them -that of Caroll Baker MINOR SPOILER- disappears (and she does not die of course!-long before the end and however it would have been interesting to see her take part in the final conflict.It seems that Wyler was more interested in Jean Simmons's s character and it throws the movie off balance.Also handicapped by a bunch of villains who resemble cartoon characters (check the scene when one of them tries to rape Simmons) Actually ,if this movie failed to excite me as friendly persuasion ,I would blame the script more than directing  Wyler uses the landscapes with maestria and the horizons,in most of his wonderful pictures seems infinite.He films the Peck/Heston fight as two midgets moving in a giant background .The final confrontation makes the fighters look like ants in the canyon.But ,as far as  Heston is concerned ,his character is nothing but a poor man's Heathcliff ,Bronte's hero.And Peck's one has been seen at least fifty times by the average viewer.Deserves to be watched,wouldn't it be only for the pictures anyway. "},{"Title":"Tell me Leech, what did we achieve?","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This was the era of the epic, and it wasn't just the grand historical extravaganzas that were making it so. Genre movies were getting big as well, none more so than the Western. And why not? If anything could benefit from a 2.351 aspect ratio and the increasing ease of colour photography, it was the open plain.But like many of the bigger pictures of the day, especially those from the independent studios, a gallant attempt has been made to add drama to the spectacle. The screenplay went through a lot of hands, usually a good sign, and in this case the hands include those of novelist Jessamyn West and noted Western screenwriter James R. Webb. The outstanding feature here is the dialogue, which has a very clipped pace and even rhythm to it, so that characters snap the lines back-and-forth like pistol shots. The wording is often a little abstract, almost poetic, but the meaning is always clear, and even if they don't sound like things said by real people, the feel of the words always matches the character. It's even slyly comical, with odd lines like the one about Burl Ives' speech being a beardful likely to raise a smile.The cast is an unusual one, at least at first glance. Gregory Peck never really looked at home in a Western, but this is what makes him ideal for the greenhorn-from-back-East role. In director William Wyler's shooting scheme, he isn't treated to as many close-ups as some of the other characters, and this performance is more about the way he moves or looks out over the landscape. His antagonist Charlton Heston does get a lot of close-ups, as it's up to him to convey his affection for Carroll Baker &#x96; never directly referenced &#x96; through jealous glances at her and Peck. He does a meaningful but understated job, and this is by far the best I have seen from him. Surely the oddest person to see in a Western is Jean Simmons, but she is very believable in what is also one of the more complex roles. Then of course there is Burl Ives, who deservedly won the picture's only Oscar, by managing to bring out a rough humanity from beneath the bulk and beard. By the way, have a look over that cast list, and think of just how many heads must have turned every time someone yelled out Chuck! Let's look a bit more at William Wyler's input. His choice of how to shoot each actor at each moment &#x96; e.g. close-up, long-shot, face or back to camera &#x96; was often very irregular, even to the point of defying film convention, but it was always to serve the nature of the character, the mood of each scene or the picture in general. His previous effort, Friendly Persuasion, also his first in 'scope actually loses some much needed intimacy because Wyler seemed suddenly at odds with the new frame shape. For the Big Country however he actually uses the size of the screen to give a feeling of distance and emptiness. Peck and Carroll have many of their embraces isolated in the middle of the screen. Characters are sometimes seen seated at opposite ends of the frame, the gulf between them exaggerated. And this pattern is carried through into the outdoor shots, Wyler having chosen an extremely flat and barren location. More than once characters make analogies between the plain and the ocean, and Wyler has acknowledged that in the way he films it.A brief note on Jerome Moross's music. This score has been widely praised and resulted in Moross's only Oscar nomination. I grant that it sounds very much the archetypal Western theme, and there are some nice orchestrations. However it is mind-numbingly repetitive, contains some stupid cues (like the circus music heard after Peck tames Old Thunder) and after two hours and forty minutes becomes banal and grating.A little side point perhaps, that about the music, but I feel it relates to some of this picture's wider problems. The Big Country is just a bit too long. True, some stories do merit a lengthy runtime but this, for all its scope, is still just a little story &#x96; a handful of people in a simple situation. It is not the tale of a culture or a generation. And while the score is almost stereotypically Western-ish, the rest of the picture really isn't. Like the earlier High Noon, it is a political allegory set out West, which isn't a bad thing in itself, just that it doesn't really feel quite like a Western. Unlike the excellent Shane, it doesn't seem to have respect for the people or conventions of the genre. As such, it's a worthy but slightly hollow experience. "},{"Title":"Preachy","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  After reading other reviews at the IMDB, I decided to give THE BIG COUNTRY  another chance. I remembered anxiously anticipating this film when it was released in 1958.  From the previews it looked BIG, with a powerful cast, and magnificent score (I still believe the overture is the best piece of music ever written for the movies).  I then remember sitting through 165 interminable minutes. What a letdown!  Well, I was nine at the time; so, I figured this time I would catch all those wonderful nuances I would not have understood at age nine.  Upon careful reconsideration, I have decided I was a pretty good critic at nine after all.  THE BIG COUNTRY is a bore. Like a Chicago voter, THE BIG COUNTRY makes its point `early and often'.  It seems a reaction to cold war hysteria, mindful of `Can't we all just get along?' drummed repeatedly into our heads for 160 of the 165 minutes. Give me a break.Wyler's usual composition skills don't work here.  He rarely gets in close enough.  The cinematography overall is mediocre, as is the entire look of the film. I might have well have been watching an old episode of THE VIRGINIAN filmed in letterbox. By THE BIG COUNTRY, star and co-producer Gregory Peck had slipped into the stoic style that ruined most of his later films (just compare his work here with DUAL IN THE SUN, SPELLBOUND, THE GUNFIGHTER or TWELVE O'CLOCK HIGH).  Only once, during the scene with Jean Simmons `waking him' with cold water, does Peck even suggest that that playful, promising young actor. (Later in his career he rekindled some of that playfulness in HOW THE WEST WAS WON, but that's another movie).  Baker is cute and Simmons is cuddly, but their characters are so underwritten as to give them little opportunity to express much range. THE BIG COUNTRY does have two genuinely great performances, Charleton Heston and Burl Ives.  Ives, in particular, dominates every scene he is in.  Heston, however, has the less showy performance; but his `Steve Leech' brings to mind John Wayne as `Ethan Edwards' in THE SEARCHERS.  Unlike the uncompromising (and doomed) Edwards, however, Leech gives in to his fears and becomes `pragmatic.' This may be why Heston didn't receive more recognition for his performance; sad, because he had a much tougher job than Ives.   THE BIG COUNTRY reminds me of a overlong sermon by a old country preacher.  It's hard to enjoy even if you know it's good for you.  "},{"Title":"An American Allegory","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Big Country is a mythic American Allegory that still resonates today... Wyler somehow knew that THE BIG COUNTRY is America.A Liberal western that a man like Charlton Heston could attach his name to. ...Do any of us realize that this will resonate throughout time as we (as humanity) are destined to repeat these Biblical myths, parables, life lessons; ...again, and again... ...and again. ....I'm now long dead; ....so please tell all your friends (not that I'm long dead, but that we're all destined to repeat this ...yada, yada, yada...) Unfortunately, I have just learned that brevity is not the soul of wit (acording to IMDb) and my rather pithy and oh so resonating comments will not be recorded unless I fill space... so blah ...and blah and god knows BLAH ...IM TRYING! "},{"Title":"It's a long country....","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Forget big; this film is gargantuan in scale, ambitions and length. Impressively photographed, and with some very effective moments (both dramatic and humorous), but too often plodding. Gregory Peck is an one-note Mr.Right, but he provides a strong presence that holds the movie together, and Carroll Baker provides the eye candy. The other performers are also good, although Charlton Heston is not well suited to the rather unpleasant character he plays.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Looks like a Western, but actually is anti-American","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" As most as you know William Wyler was a Jew Born in Austria. He tried hard to understand the American mentality. if such thing exists. The Americans liked that and gave him 4 Oscars. But his view of the West it not the standard view. Why?1 - The hero is not a hot-headed, trigger fast American of the westerns...HE is someone like British Navy's Admiral Nelson, with the exception that Nelson did not went ashore into the desert of Egypt, because his crew of sailors would die of disease or Napoleon's army.. This man is a strategist. Most American's (even Today, Warren Buffett excepted) are not.2-It shows that Americans, have no moral values.. This is illustrated mainly by the opportunistic acts of Pat Terril (Carrol Baker, very well directed) and the sensible,strong and resistant behaviour of Julie Maragon (Jean Simmons) which is a grand-dougther of a Spaniard).3 - So that no doubts are left, Wyler ends the movie with an Englishman, a Spanish descendant woman and a Mexican humble servant as winners.Rightly so, Mr Wyler. Many Americans are trash...Even today... "},{"Title":"Boring REALLY boring","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I can't say anything else it's BORING!Well, it's NOT a Clint Eastwood styled Spagethi western where the Men with no name shoots bad guys, rather a drama, but quite enjoyable. There is NO any good shootout scenes or fights, just some disgusting murders, only for a horse's drinker place. Gregory Peck is a REALLY GOOD actor, but this film is not his best. The music is good, the actors are good, the places are beautiful, but the story is BORING!! John McKay (Gregory Peck) a pacifist ship captain, arrives to a village to marriage the beautiful Patricia Terill (Caroll Baker) the daughter of Major Terill, but He suddenly falls into the old conflict of the Major and Mr. Hannasey. But He doesn't want to fight, because He thinks this is an old, disgusting conflict of two silly old fools. And the end of the film He can't shoot Blakie Hannasey, the evilest guy in town. He's every times a pacifist.I think It's NOT REALLY a western, rather a dramatic soap-opera. If you think this is a wild western, well it's not. But someone would think This is the best western what ever made, well I think It's not. The Oscar-won music is really good, and really good for this film!To tell the truth I'm not really enjoyed this film, and I will NOT see this again. 4.5/10-boring story, good actors, good music. "}]