[{"Title":"Puberty Catalyst","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"70 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I researched this film a little and discovered a web site that claims it was actually an inside joke about the Post WWII Greenwich Village world of gays and lesbians. With the exception of Stewart and Novak, the warlocks and witches represented that alternative lifestyle. John Van Druten who wrote the stage play was apparently gay and very familiar with this Greenwich Village. I thought this was ironic because I first saw Bell, Book and Candle in the theater when I was in 5th or 6th grade just because my parents took me. It was hard to get me to a movie that didn't include horses, machine guns, or alien monsters and I planned on being bored. But, I remember the moment when Jimmy Stewart embraced Kim Novak on the top of the Flatiron building and flung his hat away while the camera followed it fluttering to the ground. As the glorious George Duning love theme soared, I suddenly got a sense of what it felt like to fall in love. The first stirrings of romantic/sexual love left me dazed as I left the theater. I am sure I'm not the only pre-adolescent boy who was seduced by Kim Novak's startling, direct gaze. It's ironic that a gay parable was able to jump-start heterosexual puberty in so many of us. I am in my late 50's now and re-watched the film yesterday evening and those same feelings stirred as I watched that hat touch down fifty years later . . . "},{"Title":"A Lesson In Chemistry . . .  And Moviemaking","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"48 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Bell, Book and Candle, one of two 1958 pairings of James Stewart and Kim Novak, may or may not be a great movie.  I've long since given up caring about that question; these days, at the umpty-umpteenth viewing of the film (which dates back to the first time I ever caught it in its secondary, or neighborhood release at San Francisco's Castro Theatre), I find myself still enjoying it as though I were seeing it for that first time.On the surface, this should rightly be only one among many so-called, and largely formulaic, sophisticated comedies of the late-50s era.  Wrong!For one thing, you can't cast James Stewart in such a film and expect it to run true to form!  More to the point, you shouldn't expect him to appear opposite Kim Novak (and 'opposite' here is the key word, in that his aura of decency and groundedness were diametrically contrary to the glacial other-worldliness which she personified), and not expect strange sparks to fly.  (Hitchcock, after all, relied on this dichotomy, for different purposes, in Vertigo.)Add to this mixture certain key scenes which rely upon the comic chemistry between Jack Lemmon and Ernie Kovacs --already well-established in the previous year's Operation Mad Ball (and catch this overlooked gem, if you can, if only to see Kovacs at his absolute cinematic best) --  and you're well on your way to understanding why Bell, Book and Candle still turns up regularly on such venues as American Movie Classics, to say nothing of its shelf life in video rental outlets.Were that not enough, you get BOTH Elsa Lanchester and Hermione Gingold, a first-rate score by George Duning (Picnic), superior production values and -- oh, yeah, by the way -- a storyline that can both make you laugh and pluck at the errant heartstring or two (if you don't watch out!) . ..You get a lesson in cinematic chemistry.  Maybe even . . .  alchemy! "},{"Title":"Kim Novak at her best (looking)","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"51 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Bell Book and Candle is not a great movie by any means (it's fair), but it's worth checking out for a couple of reasons.  First, it's almost hard to believe this is the same Kim Novak that graced the screen in Vertigo the same year.  The combination of her manner in this film, and her incredibly striking natural good looks make her almost hypnotic.  She wears little or no makeup throughout the film, and looks infinitely better than being slathered in makeup in all her other films.  Sharon Stone wishes she looked this good.The second reason this film is worth checking out is Jimmy Stewart.  Now, while I consider Stewart my favorite actor of all time, there were many instances where he was just not effective in the role he was playing.  He's at his best when he's playing the naive sap (Mr. Smith, Destry, Harvey), the everyday man (Made for each other, Philadelphia story), or the straight nose who is thrust into unusual situations (this film, You Can't Take it with you) where he can play off of what's happening to him.  His weaker performances, I felt, were in his straight forward dramatic roles (liberty valance, man who knew too much, even Vertigo).  This film is a chance to see his everyman thrust into wacky situations.  This film is a little too tame to be considered screwball, but as with any good screwball, the supporting cast is as important as the leads.  Elsa Lanchester, AKA Bride of Frankenstein, is hilarious.  Ernie Kovacs, as Sidney Redlitch, is an absolute riot.  I had to pause the film when he goes looking for a little post holiday cheer, I was laughing so hard.  Then, of course, there's a pre-The Apartment Jack Lemmon in a supporting role, as well.  Bell Book and Candle isn't great, and it never really seems sure of what kind of film it's trying to be, but it's pretty funny and worth seeing for the performances alone. "},{"Title":"Pyewacket and friends get the Hollywood treatment","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" The play Bell, Book, and Candle was a favorite of mature actresses to do in summer stock and take on the road. One famous story, told by director Harold J. Kennedy, has Ginger Rogers insisting that her then husband, William Marshall, who was not an actor, costar with her. Marshall wore a toupee, and when he walked through a doorway, his toupee caught on a nail and stayed behind, dangling in the doorway as he walked on stage.The play was adapted successfully into a beautiful color film starring Kim Novak, James Stewart, Jack Lemmon, Elsa Lanchester, Hermoine Gingold, Ernie Kovacs, and Janice Rule. It's light entertainment, about a normal-appearing family of witches (Novak, Lemmon, and Lanchester) and the publisher (Stewart) who lives in their building. The most expert of them is the sultry, soft-voiced Gillian, who would love to be normal. One night, with Stewart in her apartment, she puts a spell on him using her Siamese cat, Pyewacket, and he falls in love with her.Bell Book and Candle was filmed on a charming set that replicates New York. The movie is loads of fun. Jack Lemmon is very funny in a supporting role as Gillian's brother, a musician in the witch and warlock-laden Zodiac Club. He uses his powers to turn streetlights on and off and to turn on the occasional woman. Janice Rule is perfect as the snobby ex-college rival of Gillian, now dating Stewart, and Ernie Kovacs has a great turn as an eccentric who is writing the definitive book on witches. Lanchester and Gingold, of course, are always wonderful, Lanchester Gillian's daft aunt and Gingold as a sort of queen of witchcraft.Kim Novak is a good fit for Gillian, giving the character a detachment befitting a witch, showing emotion when it becomes appropriate, and with that voice, fabulous face, and magnificent wardrobe, she certainly is magical. Stewart, in his last foray as a romantic lead, costars with Novak as he did in Vertigo, and they make an effective team. He supplies the warmth, she supplies the coolness, and somehow, together they spark. In this, of course, he's much more elegant than in Vertigo. A charming film, good for a Sunday afternoon, good around Christmas (as part of it takes place at Christmastime), and great if you feel like smiling. "},{"Title":"Romantically haunting!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"40 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was like any Jimmy Stewart film,witty,charming and very enjoyable.Kim Novak's performance as Gillian,the beautiful witch who longs to be human,is splendid,her subtle facial expressions,her every move and gesture all create Gillian's unique and somewhat haunting character,she left us hanging on her every word.I should not fail to mention Ernie Kovacs' and Elsa Lanchester's highly commendable performances as the scotch loving writer obsessed with the world of magic(Kovacs) and the latter as the lovable aunt who can't seem to stop using magic even when forbidden to.The romantic scenes between Stewart and Novak are beautifully done and the chemistry between them is great,but then again when is the chemistry between Jimmy Stewart and any leading lady bad!  "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"34 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Kim Novak, at the peak of her career, is lovely here, as beautiful (single) witch, Gillian Holroyd. New neighbor, Shep (James Stewart) moves in upstairs, and suddenly that ole black magic is brewing all over the place.Based upon the popular 1950s stage play, this movie does have a bit of the stagy feel to it. Despite that, there is the good use of Technicolor, George Duning's pleasant score, and the great cast of comic actors. Ernie Kovaks looks a little out of place, but he does well. Jack Lemmon is great as Novak's warlock brother, Stewart is fine, Elsa Lanchester is good as well, and so is Hermione Gingold. The real star of the film, however, is Pyewacket, Novak's handsome seal-point Siamese cat. What ever happened to him?Not exactly a knee-slapping comedy, but pleasant, lite and fluffy entertainment. Enjoyable, and a stark contrast to Novak and Stewart's earlier pairing (the same year) in Hitchcock's Vertigo. Worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Bewitching Romantic Comedy -- Sunday Afternoon Delight!","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Kim Novac is wonderful as the 'good witch' falling in love with mortal James Stewart. The special treat with this film is that there is a complete 'underground society' (literally) of witches and warlocks, of whom we get to know Elsa Lanchester and Jack Lemon, both recommending Kim Novak quickly forget her romance with the mortal man.This film is a visual feast with some tidbits of 1950s Jazz music in the score. Complete with black cat, spell-book and magic tricks. Who can blame Jimmy Stewart for falling for Kim Novak's spell? The International cast of supporting actors includes an authentic Parisian Night Club Act, as well as the ultra-eccentric Hermione Gingold (of Gigi/Moulin Rouge fame). Elsa Lancaster is an absolute delight as the intuition-plagued Auntie Queenie. Don't miss this bewitching piece of light entertainment! "},{"Title":"Do You Believe in Magic in a Young Girl's Heart?  Jimmy Stewart sure does.","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" It took Bell, Book, and Candle almost a decade to get from Broadway to the screen. John Van Druten's play ran for 233 performances during the 1950-1951 season and served as a starring vehicle for the then married Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer. I'm sure that the Shepherd Henderson that Harrison portrayed must have been light years different than Jimmy Stewart. Also the entire play took place in the Holroyd apartment and a whole lot of characters were added for the screen.A good job was done in transferring this stage work for the screen, it barely betrays it's stage origin. Stewart is very good as the puzzled publisher who gets ensnared in a witch's spell because Kim Novak takes a fancy to him. Novak was quoted as saying that her favorite leading man during her career was Jimmy Stewart and her two favorite films, Vertigo and Bell Book and Candle are the ones she did with him.Hermione Gingold is absolutely brilliant as the head witch, Mrs. DePass, and watching Stewart drink that concoction she mixed up to kill Kim Novak's spell was a scream.Jack Lemmon plays Novak's brother and by this time he was doing leads and carrying films on his own. He's good, but I do wonder why he accepted a supporting part here.One thing I am curious about. How did they manage to get Pyewacket the cat to act on stage for 233 performances? "},{"Title":"Kim Novak bewitches Jimmy Stewart, and the viewer as well...","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  The John Van Druten Broadway hit is brought to the screen with a maximum of star power in this romantic fantasy about a modern-day witch who beguiles a successful Manhattan publisher. James Stewart may get top billing, but it is Kim Novak who steals the show as one of the most alluring witches ever to cast a spell on the movie screen. The lead pairing is, in fact, one of the movie's few weaknesses the gray-haired Stewart seems a bit old for the role, and while it is easy to see why he falls hard for Novak, it's a little harder to understand what she finds attractive about him, as they seem mismatched in temperment and outlook. (It is one of the story's amusing conceits that witches and warlocks are portrayed as Greenwich Village beatniks and bohemians.) Curiously, the Stewart-Novak pairing would generate a lot more heat in Vertigo, released the same year as this film, but then Vertigo had a compelling suspense story, and the benefit of Alfred Hitchcock's direction.The film's comic moments are mostly provided by the stellar supporting cast, including a young Jack Lemmon (as Kim's warlock brother), Elsa Lanchester (their ditzy aunt), and Ernie Kovacs (!) as a befuddled writer. Hermione Gingold even shows up in a hilarious cameo as a sort of Grand Witch. There's lots to like in this movie--wit, romance, and a great cast--that is, if you can possibly take your eyes off the enchanting Miss Novak. I have seen the movie a half a dozen times, and I never can. "},{"Title":"Another bewitching teaming of James Stewart and Kim Novak.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Made in the same year as Vertigo, this is an equally bewitching movie, though in a much lighter vein. It's set in an enchanted New York during the winter Kim Novak is a witch who casts a spell over James Stewart, but gets caught in it instead. The interesting sidelight is that Novak's rival is played by Janice Rule, who originated the part of Madge in Picnic on Broadway (the part that Novak would make famous on film). "}{"Title":"Bewitched","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Bell Book and Candle was shown recently on cable. Not having seen it for a while, we decided to take another look at this comedy. Based on the James Van Druten's Broadway hit, which was a vehicle for Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer in the early fifties, the film was adapted for the screen by Daniel Taradash. The film was directed by Richard Quine, who turned the play into a delightful comedy.Evidently, judging by some of the comments submitted by IMDb, the big issue seems to be the pairing of the two stars, who had collaborated on Vertigo, released the same year. Movie audiences didn't think anything about the age difference when this film was released. In fact, most of the aging male stars of that period were always involved with much younger women.The film set in Manhattan during Christmas is a delightful comedy that has enchanted viewers. Kim Novak was at the height of her beauty as it's clear the camera adored her no matter what was she playing. As the witch that becomes human, her Gillian is charming. James Stewart, who plays the publisher Shep' Henderson, is also seen at his best. Mr. Stewart was an excellent comedy actor who shows in here why he was at the top.In supporting roles the wonderful Elsa Lanchester, playing Queenie, is a welcome addition to any movie, as she proves here. Jack Lemmon's Nicky Holroyd, the brother of Gillian, is also good. Ernie Kovacs is also seen as the writer Sidney Radlitch.This is an excellent way to spend a winter night at home watching Bell Book and Candle. "},{"Title":"this is a great film","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" this is a wonderful film, makes the 1950'S look beautifully stylish. Kim Novak is intriguing and compelling as a modern-day witch with one foot in Manhattan and another in infinity. All the supporting performances are terrific, from Jack Lemmon as her bother Nicky to Ernie Kovacs as the author of Magic in Mexico who is working on Magic in Manghattan, to Elsa Lanchester as the slightly batty as well as witchy Aunt Queenie. And then there is the cat- I have no idea how many witches (besides me) have named a cat Pyewacket but suggest a zillion. Jmes Stewart looks out of place, but only just as much as his character is out of p;ace in this weird sub-world of magic and witchcraft. Perfect. And it has the perfect romantic happy ending, which we believe in because movies of this vintage do have those happy endings. Gillian and Shep certainly have as much chance to be happy ever after as Rose and Charlie Allnut in The African Queen (another great film) "},{"Title":"Bell Book & Candle; a fun, sweet love story for all ages!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" As a Pagan, I must say this movie has little if any Magickal significance. It's a fun witchcraft movie and not meant to teach us anything except that love is the strongest Magick of all, and never to use it in a controlling or vengeful way. That's a lesson everyone needs to learn, not just Pagans.That having been said, this movie is wonderfully written and sweetly executed by Kim Novak and the venerable Jimmy Stewart.Hermione Gingold delivers a stellar performance as Bianca, Elsa Lanchester (with too many movie credits to mention except as Ms. Jane Marbles of Murder By Death) was wonderful as Ms. Novak's absent-minded-yet-capable upstairs neighbor Queenie. Also starring Jack Lemmon (wonderful performance) and Jim Kovacs (brilliantly witty).Witches can't cry. Why, they can't shed a single tear because their heart is full of Magick. They don't have time for silly things such as love. Queenie.Gillian Holroyd (Novak) and her brother Nicky (Jack Lemmon) are Manhattan witches. Cloaked deeply within the secret underworld of those of the Craft, they live among other New Yorkers as one of them, without so much as causing a raised eyebrow. But then, along comes Shepherd Shep Henderson (Stewart), a steadfast, no-nonsense, dedicated businessman who is engaged to be married to Gillian's old college rival. By a quirky mishap of chance, he finds himself moving into Gillian's building and is instantly bewitched by her charm and grace. By the use of Magick, with a little help from Pyewacket (Gillian's familiar, trained by Robert E. Blair) and Queenie, Gillian begins to work on this handsome new dream man to get back at her old enemy.But Magick should never be used to control, nor to hurt, and Gillian learns that the hard way in the most bittersweet way. Not only does she have to face what she's done, but she has to face Shep in her guilt. From the critical perspective; however, the movie takes a serious turn The effects are very dated to the point of being pure camp. Some of the scenery was seemingly shot in the basement of someone's small home, but at least the characters were quirky and fun.On a personal note, Pyewacket steals the show. Great cat! Great training by Robert E. Blair. As a Note of Trivia, this is the roots for the beloved Bewitched television sitcom. This introduces the original Samantha and Darrin. All the characters of note are present and accounted for. You have but to look, to see it for yourself.This is one of my favorites, and I watch it often.This movie gets a 9.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Works Well As Light Entertainment","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" This works well as light entertainment, but it is rather uneven, and it leaves you thinking that it probably could have been better. The premise is interesting and creates good opportunities both for comedy and for romantic complications, the production values are generous, and the cast is first-rate. And it's certainly worth watching, yet the whole seems to be just a little less than the sum of its components.Kim Novak works very well as Gillian, making her believable and quite captivating. The role is also written effectively, and it gives Novak a lot of good material to work with. James Stewart is equally believable (and, of course, always likable) in his part, but he is given much less to work with. The dialogue for his character never rings true the way that Gillian's does, and even though Stewart does his usual fine job with it, it's hard not to notice some of the less-inspired lines.With Jack Lemmon, Elsa Lanchester, Ernie Kovacs, and Hermione Gingold, the supporting cast is also loaded with talent. Lanchester and her role are well-matched and quite entertaining, and the others make good use of their opportunities when the script allows them to.The movie usually looks very good, and in particular Gillian's shop is a very nice creation that also serves as an interesting backdrop to the story. Yet it never really hits high gear, and given the concept, it might have worked better with a more episodic approach, instead of trying to sustain one story line all the way through. It is definitely worth seeing, as the cast and some of the settings alone make it worth watching. But there are some missed opportunities, and if they had been taken, it could have resulted in a really fine movie. "},{"Title":"One of the movies that launched a thousand concepts, and a great Xmas movie alternative to boot","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Bell, Book and Candle was one of the great pop culture phenomena of the mid-twentieth century, very similar to the phenoms we see today (back in the 70's - more than ten years later - there were still endless references to this film). It made Novak a huge star, put a nice item on Jack Lemon's resume, cast new light on Jimmy Stewart, and gave Lancaster and Gingold new avenues to explore in their careers (both went on to continue to play witches and other curious old bats, in film and television).Along with the 40s movie I Married a Witch (which helped to make Veronica Lake an icon), Bell, Book and Candle inspired the grand film and TV fascination with all things witchy that began with Bewitched and has continued through Practical Magic, Worst Witch and Harry Potter.What I rarely see noted is that the movie is also a rather interesting alternative Xmas movie. The story takes place over the Christmas holidays, and, despite the fact that it is superficially about witchcraft, actually embodies a great deal of Xmas spirit (giving, love, family, self-sacrifice, etc).I will always watch this movie (have seen it several times since my first viewing in the early 90's) particularly if it is shown around or just after the holiday season. It has style, substance, a great cast, and terrific production values. And like Adam's Rib, it casually expresses ideas that were rather radical for its time, are radical even now (in both movies the female character is guileless and powerful), and so always seems ahead of the times. "},{"Title":"don't forget","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" this may not be War & Peace, but the two Academy noms wouldn't have been forthcoming if it weren't for the genius of James Wong Howe...this is one of the few films I've fallen in love with as a child and gone back to without dissatisfaction. whether you have any interest in what it offers fictively or not, BB&C is a visual feast.I'm not saying it's his best work, I'm no expert there for sure. but the look of this movie is amazing. I love everything about it; Elsa Lanchester, the cat, the crazy hoo-doo, the retro-downtown-ness; but the way it was put on film is breathtaking.I even like the inconsistencies pointed out on this page above, and the special effects that seem backward now. it all creates a really consistent world. "},{"Title":"Music","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Although I agree that it's a good but not great movie, for many of the reasons other posters have mentioned, I still enjoy it. One reason is the music I'd call attention to the very cool appearance by the Candoli brothers -- Conte and Pete -- in a well-staged scene in the nightclub. These guys were two of the best jazz trumpeters of their day, and they manage to convincingly boggle the mind of Jimmy Stewart by playing an hysterical trumpet duet, one trumpet in each of Stewart's ears. The Candolis really did play that well, too, though I suspect the actual music for that scene was dubbed later by the two of them. I don't know much about George Duning, who gets the credit for the music (other than that he seems to have worked with the Three Stooges on more than one occasion), but the casting of the Candoli brothers as jazz-playing warlocks was a real nice touch. "},{"Title":"Ring the bell, close the book, quench the candle.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" This is a cute rom-com based on witchcraft. A 1958 movie with Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak, the same year they gave us the memorable VERTIGO. Here Kim Novak again demonstrates that she's not just a pretty face, but also a fine and versatile actress, as the witch that seeks the affection of Stewart's book-publisher character. My summary, and the film's title, is from a conversation where they talk about the technique for breaking a spell.some SPOILERS follow, you may not want to read further. The aunt puts a spell on the phone so that Stewart will have a reason to go downstairs and use Novak's phone, the spark that gets them together. Add to that, she was at college with his fiancée, remembers her as a very self-centered person, and puts a spell to make him drop her. This film purports that witches neither cry or blush, but if they were to fall in love, they would cease to be a witch. Stewart is naturally upset to find out he was tricked into his affection for her, but in the end recognizes her blush and her tears, no longer a witch, they love each other and plan to marry. There is nothing to be taken seriously in this cute film, although there might be something about the need to be true to yourself and others. However it is just meant to be a nice diversion, and a chance to see two of the best of the 1950s - Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak. On VHS, borrowed from my local library.March 2012 edit I have this on DVD now, part of the Kim Novak collection issued about a year ago I believe, and I confirmed once again what an entertaining movie it is. "},{"Title":"An overlooked gem","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" By some happy coincidence the same year that Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak made Alfred Hitchcock's haunting masterpiece Vertigo, they also made this light comedy. Perhaps the two actors needed to do it after undergoing the heaviness of the Hitchcock film . At any rate this a great companion piece to Vertigo as it again explores a very un-likely but powerful romance. In fact the film can be seen as the flip side of Vertigo with it's happy ending. Here again Novak undergoes a transformation, in Vertigo she essentially plays two women and here she 'transforms' from witch to mortal. Stewart is again bewitched and for awhile tormented by his love for her. Unlike Vertigo the two come together in Bell Book and Candle , a perfect antidote for the Hitcock movie. Again the dynamics of love and attraction are examined but in an altogether different vein. The cast is terrific. Lemmon hilarious as Novak's warlock brother and Elsa Lancaster giving a classic performance as the Aunt. Ernie Kovacs as the alcoholic cult writer and of course Hermoine Gingold playing Novak's competitor are all great. The scene with Stewart drinking the potion is comedy at it's best. Anyone who has seen Vertigo or even if you haven't should see this memorable light comedy. "},{"Title":"Bewitching...Somewhat","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Fairly sophisticated yet simple tale of mortal human Jimmy Stewart falling in love with witch Kim Novak. The fare is pretty light here, but director Richard Quine and a fine cast breathe life into it nonetheless. The film has some funny moments, some genuine acting, and is entertaining if not profound. Quine creates some beautiful backdrops. The subject of witches and warlocks is handled almost with the most moderate view to the subject I have seen...including the television show Bewitched which is said to owe part of its genesis to this film. Stewart gives an amiable and one-sided performance. Novak is lovely and stoic. For me it is the supporting cast which really shines by giving wonderful character actors eccentric roles. Elsa Lanchester and Hermione Gingold excel in these types of vehicles and Bell, Book, and Candle is no exception. Ernie Kovas also shines in his role as a mortal out to write a book on the subject of witchcraft. And lest I forget, Jack Lemmon plays a humorous warlock playing bongos no less. There is little magic to be seen and virtually no real malice performed. Wiches in Quine's world are somewhat misguided, lonely people who need to worry about money. Who knew possessing magic wasn't lucrative? Anyway, Bell, Book, and Candle is a fun, fluffy film. "}{"Title":"Sweetly witchy romantic comedy","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Bell Book And Candle is a classic romantic comedy starring James Stewart and Kim Novak. The film bears similarities to the 1942 Veronica Lake film, I Married A Witch, and most likely inspired the hit 1960's TV show Bewitched, which was produced by Columbia's television division.Gillian Holroyd (Kim Novak) is a modern-day witch who lives with her Siamese cat familiar, Pyewacket, in a Greenwich Village apartment building where she owns a small gallery that offers primitive art.Book publisher Shep Henderson (James Stewart) lives upstairs, and when she discovers that Shep is engaged to her old nemesis from college, Merle Kittridge (Janice Rule), Gillian casts a spell to make him be in love with her instead - only to fall in love with him herself.The predictability of this does nothing to spoil the fun - skillfully directed by Richard Quine, based on the Broadway play written by John Van Druten, screenplay by Daniel Taradash - Bell Book And Candle is wonderfully written, full of playfulness and poignancy throughout, in addition to being a visual delight.Novak at her prime is showcased in outfits designed by Jean Louis, all gorgeous - some of them backless - Novak had a beautiful back, so was often dressed in open-backed clothing in her films. She is first seen in a red jacket over a black pullover and slacks, barefoot, and she moves with a feline fluidity befitting her role and her clothing.Bell Book And Candle boasts a solid co-starring cast Jack Lemmon as Gillian's brother Nicky Holroyd, a mischievous bongo-playing (Lemmon played the bongos himself) warlock; Elsa Lanchester as Queenie Holroyd, their somewhat addled aunt and fellow witch; Janice Rule as the snooty fiancé, Merle Kittredge; Ernie Kovacs as Sidney Redlitch, the boozy author of a book on witchcraft; and Hermione Gingold as Bianca de Passe, another witch.This was Stewart's last film as a romantic lead, as he felt that at age 50 he was becoming too old to be convincing in that category. He and Novak do however exhibit the same chemistry that was evident in their other on-screen pairing (Vertigo, one of my favorite Alfred Hitchcock films, released earlier the same year). Bell Book And Candle was originally written as a serious play; however it was revised to a light romantic comedy when audiences kept unexpectedly laughing during try-outs. The revised play, starring Rex Harrison and Lili Palmer, was a Broadway hit. The film Bell Book And Candle was honored with two Academy Award Nominations Art Direction and Costume Design.Trivia - to stock Gillian's art gallery, $75,000 worth of African and South Seas island primitive art was borrowed from New York's Carlebach Gallery. Also, as the actress spent much of her time barefoot for her role, Columbia hired an attendant whose sole responsibility was to provide blankets for Novak's feet to keep them warm in between takes. "},{"Title":"Ring the bell for magical fun","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" One of my favorite movies, this is sheer entertainment that never garnered the recognition it deserves as a sophisticated, romantic fantasy. James Stewart plays Shep Henderson, the staid, conventional businessman snared and enraptured by the magical machinations of witch, Kim Novak. Their romantic involvement is both abetted and impeded by complications inserted by her Aunt Queenie, a witch, and her brother, Nicky, a warlock. Novak, as Gillian Holroyd the witchery heroine, in partnership with her feline assistant, Pyewacket, activates a zap of a love spell on her intended, accompanied by the full ceremonial ritual of haunting music and alluring wardrobe. Novak in this film has never looked more enticing on screen. Dressed to make the object of her affection swoon, she is attired in a dress of wine colored velvet whose sleeves are manacled by red sequined bands. In this get- up, setting her slanting eyes in a gaze focused to mesmerize, she is a seductress primed to get the man she targets and have the man she wins do her bidding. Here again Stewart showcases his well-honed screen persona of hapless and gullible, performances keynoted by whiny, shrill confusion and frustration. In this film, however, these devices typical of Stewart's acting technique work for his character of the lover seduced by otherworldly powers. In a film, abundant with eccentricity, it is the performances of the supporting cast that gives the film much of its enjoyable moments. The quirky genius of Ernie Kovacs shines as an alcoholic huckster who authors dubious exposes of witchcraft with enough sensationalist elements to guarantee best sellers. As Sidney Redlitch, Kovacs veritably steals every scene in which he appears. Grandiose in manner, and outrageous in dress, and as one character describes her, appearing as if she lived in a pickle jar, Hermoine Gingold provides the perfect incarnation of the grand old dame of this New York witchery set. As Bianca de Passe, she reigns over proceedings, a figure lounging in the club where the coven congregates, a Greenwich Village cellar hangout appropriately named The Zodiac. Jack Lemmon lends his great comedic facility to Nicky, a boyish amalgam of merry-magic prankster and bongo playing beatnik. There is not one superfluous or dull moment in this movie. The premise and script are clever, it all fits, it all works and it's a whole lot of magical fun. "},{"Title":"Kim Extremely Beautiful","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Have not seen this 1958 film in a very long time and greatly enjoyed Kim Novak playing the role as Gil Holroyd who is an actual witch and has an aunt named Queenie Holroyd who is also a witch and Gillian also has a brother warlock named Nick played by Jack Lemmon. When Gillian sets her eyes on Shep Henderson,(James Stewart) who is engaged to a girl he is going to marry; Gillian performers some magic spells with a cat and changes his mind about his intended bride and then becomes very lust full and falls in love with Gillian. The story tells that a real witch cannot fall in love, blush or cry and this begins to prove a big problem between Shep and Gillian, so Nick and Aunt Queenie decided they have to do something about this situation. Great film to view over and over again and a great classic film from 1958. "},{"Title":"This movie will put a spell on you.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was a delightful romantic comedy. Jimmy and Kim were great in Vertigo so it was nice to find this movie on A&E.I enjoyed it. Jack was great as Kim's brother. I enjoyed him in this. I had read the play previously and it was cleverly adapted. I love the story personally.Just a light-hearted fare but I am all for it. "},{"Title":"a mess","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Considering its pedigree, this should be a far more enjoyable film than it is. Even with a lip-smacking collection of eccentrics in the cast - what aficionado would not eagerly anticipate a movie which brings together Lemmon, Lanchester, Kovacs and Gingold? - the entire event is dully paced, drearily shot and, more often than not, witless.Kim Novak's gifts were not essentially comic, as she went on to confirm in Kiss Me Stupid. James Stewart was a fine comedian, as he ably demonstrated in movies from ranging from The Philadelphia Story to Harvey. I think he comes out better from this mess than anyone else does. Except maybe the cat. "},{"Title":"What a Witch","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Kim Novak's a witch on the prowl for a mortal lover, and James Stewart's her choice.  Scintillating comedy of manners, from the Broadway stage; shot by James Wong Howe in Witch Color, and performed by a sterling cast.  Ernie Kovacs is wonderful as the perpetually dishevelled writer Redlitch.  I love this movie, though few others seem to.  Kim alone makes it a winner in my Book.  Ha! My #5 film of 1958. "},{"Title":"Funny and Light Movie","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Bell Book and Candle is a funny light comedy starring James Stewart and Kim Novak, the same lead actors from the highly acclaimed Hitchcock movie Vertigo, which came out the same year.Kim Novak plays a witch who casts a spell on a book publisher played by Stewart. The leads give decent performances, but supporting star Jack Lemmon is a scene stealer in this movie.This movie is not what you would consider a great movie, I rated it 6 out of 10 - worth watching once. "},{"Title":"*** 1/2  Charming and funny","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Some have said that Kim Novak is miscast in the lead role of this silly little romantic comedy, and I fully agree, though not for the reasons everyone else seems to think. It's not her talent that is lacking here, since Novak has always been an abundantly gifted actress who exudes charisma and presence, both dramatic and physical, though in typical fifties fashion critics and audiences thought that Shirley Booth overacting her scrunchy face and wringing her hands over a lost puppy was what real acting was about (whatever; pardon the expression, but people who rejected Novak's and Elizabeth Taylor's abilities at the time wouldn't know real movie acting talent if it bit them on the ass, excuse me). The problem with Novak in this role is that she's just TOO beautiful!!! As Gillian Holroyd, a modern day witch living in New York's Greenwich Village, she finds herself falling in love with her upstairs neighbour (James Stewart, Novak's co-star from Vertigo the same year) and to get him to fall in love with her, she casts a magic spell on him. WHAT?!!?!! The old guy should be so lucky that the most appealing woman in the world who is responsible for the spontaneous puberty of millions of youngsters would even dare to look his way! Apart from that, the film boasts beautiful photography, snazzy outfits and some genuinely amusing moments, nothing that amounts to much but an enjoyable little affair all the same. Jack Lemmon plays Novak's wizard brother, and as usual, he's a big Virginia ham. "},{"Title":"A Hex Must Have Been Placed On This Production","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" This movie takes an idea that might have had potential-a group of witches in Manhattan daring to get too involved with ordinary humans-and makes a rather incoherent and confusing story. It is billed as a comedy but has hardly any laughs, despite all the big-time stars including Ernie Kovacs.A family of witches in an apartment building meet a new tenant, a major book publisher who is set to marry a woman whom one of the witches is an old enemy of-and said witch makes the man fall in love with her as a way to spite the other woman. Of course there are complications with that idea, one being that witches are not supposed to have romances with ordinary humans. Another is that this witch's brother is a childish prank-player who decides to get involved with an author to get a book published revealing the secrets of the Manhattan witch community-putting them into danger.Based on a stage play of the same name, the movie might have been effective if done right, but somebody must have put a hex on this production. Jimmy Stewart is too old to play the part of the book publisher who is the type to marry and love in haste, all the other performers lack chemistry, and the movie fails to develop the background of the witches' community, such as why they were even in Manhattan to begin with, or what sort of lives they normally have. That might have been interesting in itself.This scenario might have worked, but they developed it too poorly and made it into a bad rom-com. "},{"Title":"I may sound like a lunatic, but I'm not crazy!","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Gillian Holroyd (Kim Novak) is a witch. Secretly, she's attracted to her quite normal neighbor Shep Henderson (James Stewart). She casts a spell on Shep that forces him to dump his fiancé and fall for her. Things are going along quite nicely until Gillian discovers she really cares for this mortal man. She decides to tell him her secret. But how will Shep react when he finds out that he was tricked into falling in love with Gillian? As far as light-hearted 1950s comedies go, Bell Book and Candle is good, but nothing spectacular. It's an enjoyable enough watch and should appeal to almost anyone who sits down with it. Just don't go into the movie expecting the greatest thing since sliced bread. The movie's cute, funny at times, and touching in the end. Kim Novak and James Stewart do their best and have some real chemistry. Novak (as others have pointed out) looks quite incredible in an understated sort of way. The supporting cast with Jack Lemmon, Hermione Gingold, and Elsa Lanchester is often laugh-out-loud funny and steals a lot of the spotlight from Novak and Stewart. The biggest problem I see is that Bell Book and Candle can't quite decide what kind of movie it wants to be. Is it a screwball comedy? Is it a romantic comedy? Is it a supernatural comedy? Had director Richard Quine stuck with just one approach, the movie might have been even better and more memorable. "}{"Title":"I wish I could have been an adult during that era (fine film)","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I laughed out loud at Bill-3 (page 6) and his hilarious comments and am in agreement with him. Yes, only in Hollywood films does a beautiful 24 or 25 year old woman have to put a 50 year old man under a witches spell in order to get him to fall in love with her.Kim Novak was a grossly under-rated actress who underplayed wonderfully in an era when that was not appreciated by an actress. Actors could do the method ala Marlon Brando, Montgomery Clift or Rod Steiger, but an actress was supposed to display histrionics.James Stewart was one of the finest actors and stars in Hollywood history and was a major star for over 35 years. Yet he was miscast in this film and I would have preferred Jack Lemmon, who was 17 years younger, in Stewart's role.What great cinematography by James Wong Howe, and what an outstanding musical score by George Dunnning. The supporting players, especially Elsa Lanchester and the stupendous Ernie Kovacs were brilliant.The versatile Daniel Taradish, the screenwriter, also wrote From Here to Eternity and won the Academy Award for best screenplay that year. In addition, he wrote Picnic, Golden Boy and many other fine films during his long career. "},{"Title":"Jimmy Stewart Bewitched.","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" It's a gentle, easy-going 1950s comedy. Kim Novak belongs to a coven of witches in Manhattan. She puts a spell on neighbor Jimmy Stewart out of boredom but eventually falls in love with him, losing her powers. See, witches are permitted to have hot blood but not love. Elsa Lanchester is Novak's aunt, also a witch. Jack Lemmon is her brother, ditto. Hermione Gingold is the chief witch, and Ernie Kovacks is Sidney Redlich, an author who specializes in writing about witches.I described it as a 1950s comedy because it could hardly be mistaken for anything else. Everything is so smooth and polished, from the set decoration, through wardrobe and plot, to the performances and direction. Take the character of Ernie Kovacks. He's referred to as a drunk and a nut. And here's how the movie demonstrates these traits. He asks for a second drink, and, though he always wears a jacket and tie like the other gentlemen, his hair is a bit long and tousled. That's a strictly 1950s version of a drunk and a nut. Nothing is out of place; everything is tidy and free of dust. The soles of Jimmy Stewart's shoes are barely scuffed.And the Zodiac Club, where the witches hang out. It's called a low dive. Yet it's a clean, dark place with polite waiters, a quintet of musicians, neatly dressed clientèle, and potted plants against bare brick walls. That is not my idea or yours of a low dive -- not even for Greenwich Village in 1958. My idea of a dive in Greenwich Village is Julius's or The White Horse Tavern or The San Remo or The Swing Rendezvous, a now defunct lesbian hangout. The Zodiac Club is a high dive compared to these.The kookiness we always hear about is muted by today's standards. I mean, Kim Novak is odd because she runs around her apartment in her bare feet. And she wears a lot of black clothes like the Beatniks of the period did.But never mind all that. It's an enjoyable romantic comedy. Kim Novak is effective as Gillian, who runs a primitive art shop for the uptrodden. She has a strange beauty, bulky and ethereal at the same time. She glides rather than walks, a wispy presence. Her eyebrows seem drawn with a set of plastic French curves. And Jimmy Stewart is quite good as the bewildered and bewitched victim. In the 1930s he usually played in light roles. In the postwar years and for much of the 1950s he was the tortured protagonist, but here he puts his early experience in comedy to good use. Who could resist laughing when Hermione Gingold forces him to wear a shawl and drink a hideous concoction of putrid fluid in order to cure him of Novak's spell? It's good to see him as a stooge instead of the angry and indignant man of principle he was in danger of becoming. Richard Quine directs the movie quietly, without fireworks or special effects, and does some interesting things that the play couldn't have had. Note the scene in which Novak casts the spell over Stewart, when the Siamese cat's face and ears seem to merge with Novak's startling eyes.Ernie Kovacks in the 1950s was a well-known television personality. There was never anything quite like The Ernie Kovacks Show before -- or after. It brings the word surrealism to mind. He could stage five minutes worth of wordless and indescribable tricks in an unpopulated room with only Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra as background. And he did an unimpeachable sketch using the character of Percy Dovetonsils, an effete poet. The movie's end credits kind of skip over The Condoli Brothers but that's a little cavalier because these two guys -- Pete and Conte -- were virtuoso trumpeters with independent careers in jazz ensembles. Conte was later a member of Doc Severison's band on Johnny Carson's Late Show. You can see Conte play a few screwy solo notes in the No Hay Banda performance in David Lynch's Mulholland Drive.The third act kind of bogs down a little and becomes more romantic than comedy. But it's never dull. The whole film rolls along as neatly as Van Druten's play and the kids will probably get a kick out of it too. "},{"Title":"Far from great, but not a bad little time-passer","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" For those of you unfamiliar with Jimmy Stewart, this is one of his lesser films from later in his career. And, while it isn't a great film compared to many of his other pictures, it isn't bad and is a decent time-passer--but not much more.Kim Novak is a witch in New York City and for some inexplicable reason, she decides to cast a spell on poor Jimmy to make him fall in love with her. Over time, the cold and detached Ms. Novak also begins to fall in love with Stewart--and apparently in the witch's rule book, this is a definite NO, NO!! The film is odd in its sensibilities about the witches. They are neither the baby-sacrificing nor the all-powerful variety. Most of their magic is pretty limited and pointless (such as Jack Lemmon using his powers to turn off street lamps). And, very oddly, the witches all seem to be bohemians who hang out in hip bars where you might find people wearing berets and listening to crappy jazz. Considering what I think of jazz, it must really stink to be a witch in this movie's world!Anyway, the film is pretty romantic and mildly comedic, but not something I would rush out to watch. The acting is pretty good, but the script doesn't offer enough payoff to make this an exceptional film--in fact, I almost scored the film a 6--it was really close. "},{"Title":"The wonderful 50's","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie and watch it at least once a year. It seems like a Chistmas movie to me because it starts in that season. I was born in the early 50's and the film brings me back to my childhood and the more innocent times of our country. Kim Novak is wonderful, (as well as at the height of her beauty), as Gillian. Jimmy Steward is at his best in this comedy. The supporting cast is wonderful Elsa Lanchester, Hermonie Gingold, Jack Lemmon, (his first film), and Ernie Kovacks. I love the Beatnik witches hanging out at the Zodiac. One of the best things about this film is the music by George Duning. It is a shame that Gillian has to lose her powers just to fall in love. Her character went from interesting to bland. Otherwise this movie is one of my favorites and a classic. sfranato2 a gay film? There are some obviously gay characters, (the French singer), but the film is not about being gay. "},{"Title":"Gaze Into My Crystal Ball","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" This is a quirky little movie. It's very enjoyable, but there's something very different about it. Perhaps it's the subject of the movie, but it certainly is a stylish 1950's movie, unlike any other that comes to mind. Novak is rather breathless the entire movie which I found to be annoying after a while, after her fine performances in Vertigo and Picnic. Stewart is his usual self, and managed to be quite funny in some scenes, and the supporting cast is fun too, but Lemon could have been used a bit more than he was.The biggest mystery was just how little magic was used in the movie. There were a couple scenes but there were no big showy special effects used, not that I needed that but you would think there would be more in this type of movie since it's about witches and warlocks. "},{"Title":"The stars carry it","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Vertigo co-stars Stewart (in his last turn as a romantic lead) and Novak elevate this, Stewart's other Christmas movie, movie to above mid-level entertainment. The chemistry between the two stars makes for a fairly moving experience and further revelation can be gleaned from the movie if witchcraft is seen as a metaphor for the private pain that hampers many people's relationships. All in all, a nice diversion with legendary stars, 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Brady Bunch connection!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Is it my imagination, or did the infamous Brady Bunch horse sculpture make a cameo appearance in this film??  Look for it in one of the scenes.  This was a Columbia Picture, and the Brady's were at Paramount (I think), but I swear it's the same horse.  Also, wasn't this film the inspiration for the TV series Bewitched?  I also heard Tom C. and Nicole were going to remake this before the break-up. "},{"Title":"Reading between the lines","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  I checked out the DVD after reading the comments by sfrenato2. Boy-o-boy! There a quite a number of interesting lines, the most memorably Jack Lemmon's, ...shake well, don't tell.  As in Breakfast At Tiffany's, certain behavior is hinted at ($50 for the powder room).To be honest, I don't know if I'd have picked up on the homosexual undertones had I not been given the heads up(honest, that's the phrase I'd normally use).  Nothing's overt in anyway, this is a G movie all the way. I imagine the stage play really played it up.All in all, BB&C is a pretty, romantic comedy.  Jack Lemmon is always a hoot.  Lovely shots of wintery NYC.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun Comedy for Stewart and Novak after making Vertigo months apart","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" After you see Vertigo, then watch Bell, Book and Candle, made within months of each other.My second favorite Kim Novak film, with Picnic, coming in as third.All three performances are great, Vertigo, being the best, of all.They came to my nowhere Kansas Prairie town, near by, at Salina, Kansas in the 50s, to film, Picnic. Bell, Book and Candle's musical score, I believe is one of Alex North's. Perfect for this bit of comedy.After Vertigo, Stewart and Novak, did this comedy, how amusing to note the dramatic contrast.Worth your time, if you like Kim Novak. The Greta Garbo of my youth. "},{"Title":"Charming, Beautifully-Presented; Witch Pursues Mortal; Boy Gets Girl","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" John Van Druten's Bell, Book and Candle is a delightful and unexpected fantasy about a coven of modern-day witches living in New York City; it was obviously an attractive movie property. It had a stellar part for Gillian Holroyd, for her erstwhile book publisher enforced-sweetheart, Shepherd Henderson and her madcap family and circle, including Shep's bewildered fiancée, the hateful Merle Kittredge, against whose chances with Shep Gillian begins her magical spell-casting. It even had Pyewacket, a Siamese cat-familiar with well-timed miaows, Sidney Redlitch, a fake witch expert with atrocious pretensions and bad manners. In short, it seemed to its producer, perhaps, box-office magic. And so it proved to be. So many things were right about its production, it only had one element not perfect; but I found the rest to be amusing, charming and very consistently-entertaining. To begin with, the screenplay by Daniel Taradash kept the best qualities of the fine theatrical play but opened out its scenes to include Greenwich Village and other areas of New York's scene. The technical production was beautiful, with cinematography by the legendary James Wong Howe, a fine score by George Duning, more-than-clever sets by Louis Diage and gowns by Jean Louis. In the attractive cast were Wolfe Barzell, Howard McNear, Janice Rule as Merle, Ernie Kovacs as Redlitch, Jack Lemmon as Gillia's mischievous brother, wonderful comediennes Elsa Lanchester and Hermione Gingold as fellow witches and lovely Kim Novak in one of her most touching parts as Gillian. Jimmy Stewart was the imperfect element in my judgment; he did well with the comedic portions of his part, but he was never convincing as a New York book publisher, and a bit too-old for the part of Henderson anyhow. But director Richard Quine used subtle lighting, pace changes, and unusually-composed shots to indicate the oddness of the witch portions of the film, keeping the other portions very luminous but straightforward in their presentation. The plot's main crisis in the film comes to pass when in reality Gillian falls for Henderson, who does not believe in witches at all. She started out merely to alienate him from his fiancée, her stuck-up college rival. Later, when Henderson tries to walk out, he keeps coming back to her--and realizes he is under a spell, as she has apologetically tried to explain to him. ..Meanwhile, Sidney Redlich has been summoned by witching spell to come to New York to sell his book to Henderson. Of course he knows nothing at all of magic, but is quite puzzled and interested to find out why he had come anywhere at all; but Gillian's brother enlightens him. All comes out right in the end in this romantic satire as Gillian proves her love to Henderson by losing her powers--which is what happens to witches when they truly love a mortal. Of course, he never really wanted to resist her anyhow. The film has sprightly dialogue, charm, and a little magic of its own in the fey charm of the witches and the torments Gillian must undergo in her battle with herself, and to win the man she loves. A lovely ending to this beautifully-photographed and unusual romance makes its amazing realism, though a fantasy, just about complete in my view. Memorably delightful. "}{"Title":"A rather staid and stuffy situation-comedy...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Kim Novak, the Lavender Lady, trades in her purple chiffon for witchy black in this glossy--but not very crafty--witchcraft comedy. James Stewart is Novak's new neighbor and, unaware of her powers, gets lured into her trap...but can he teach her what true love is really about? Jack Lemmon has the brightest moments as a happy-go-lucky warlock, but there's really no character there; Lemmon gets laughs strictly by winging it. Vertigo co-stars Novak and Stewart have a terrible time trying to create chemistry. Some smoldering smoke arises, but no real sparks. When the stars have to try this hard, the effort is noticeable and the picture falls down around them like an expensive soufflé. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" one of films from same period who has only ambition to be nice. the tools - an ambiguous story, James Steward who is almost the best ingredient for this kind of film, Kim Novak in a role for who her simple presence on screen is the most part of work, Jack Lemmon in the skin of a strange-adorable-crazy character and, maybe the best, Elsa Lanchester. a film about magic, love, envy and the truth. all in perfect package, using the humor and old clichés, a cat and the eyes of Novak for save small errors, ignoring each credible detail, being the best choice for the fans of James Steward and creating a good state of soul. a film who could be an adventure. for discover, in different manner, ordinaries things. "},{"Title":"inconsequential but amusing comedy of beatnik sorcery","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Apparently witches were all beatniks, hanging out in Greenwich Village bars playing jazz and talking spells. That, at least, is the conceit of Bell, Book and Candle, in which beat/witch Kim Novak, sick of her beat/witch friends, pursues the singularly un-hep Jimmie Stewart.It's a very silly movie, with a suitably witchy Novak and solid supporting performances from Hermoine Gingold and the always delightful Elsa Lanchester. The movie is reasonably funny and has charm, but writing this review a day later, I already barely remember it. So I wouldn't call it a great movie. But it is fun and worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bewitched","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Bell Book and Candle is adapted from a play. It also has similarities to the 1942 film, I married a Witch.This is a light romantic comedy rather than a screwball comedy without the political subtext of I married a Witch.Kim Novak, Jack Lemmon and Elsa Lanchester are a normal looking family of witches living in a New York apartment.Jack Lemmon plays Novak's brother, a musician in the Zodiac Club. A notorious hangout for witches and warlocks. Ernie Kovacs is an eccentric writer researching a book about witches in New York. Lemmon teams up with him to help in his research.There are some nice scenes in the film, especially when the hat is flung out on to the street from the Flat Iron building when Stewart and Novak kiss.However I found the film rather light on romance and comedy. A less funny version of the television series Bewitched.The problem is Stewart's casting. He is just too stiff and ordinary as the straight man here. He also looks too old to be a bachelor going after nubile women. Yet right here we have Jack Lemmon who would had been perfect casting as Novak's love interest.The film is set in the post war Greenwich village district. Thinking about it and the minor plot of the writer investigating witches and warlocks hidden amongst ordinary New Yorkers and hanging about in their own clubs. Their certainly is a gay subtext in this movie. "},{"Title":"Has its Moments","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Ten years before Rosemary's Baby (1968) came to Manhattan, there was the white magic of B,B, & C. It's a clever premise with a great supporting cast of vintage eccentrics. Lanchester is in fine pixilated form, while Kovacs and Gingold appear wired to a different planet. Yes indeed, too bad that the two wacky ladies don't have a scene together. There was world- class potential there, as others point out. I do however wonder about Lemmon. He's lower keyed than usual, so his wonderfully wacky side doesn't really come out. Why he took a supporting role that other less talented actors could fill is unclear to me. Perhaps he was returning a favor for director Quine's superbly entertaining Operation Madball (1957).On one hand, Quine does make good use of Novak's glacial beauty; however, anything comedic appears beyond her range. Thus, the tone changes whenever she enters the frame, resulting in an uneven light comedy. Then too, a 25-year age difference with the 50-year old Stewart makes their clinches more frantic than romantic, although not for want of trying. Too bad that excellent actress Janice Rule isn't given more to do, in a career apparently blighted by a strong personality. Nonetheless, those memorable shots of Manhattan are nicely blended with the studio streets; and who can forget that 60-second pan of the floating hat, a charming bit of inspiration. This may not be Quine's best work, but it certainly does have its moments. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining movie for a fun time of magic spells and love","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" The dramatic action takes place in Greenwich Village (NYC) in 1958. The editor Shepherd Shep Henderson (Stewart), love of Merle Kittridge (Rule) and about to marry her, knows her neighbor at Christmas Gillian Gill Holroyd (Novak), witch living in NYC, a family saga including her Aunt Queenie (Manchester) and her brother Nicky (Lemmon). Gill is young, attractive, sexy, lonely, and hipnóptica feline look. She's looking for something exciting to distract her boredom. Runs an antique shop and singular objects (flowers marine). Shep is handsome, noble, naive and charming. The aunt is nosy, gossipy, voyeuristic, manipulative and adorable.The film combines comedy, romance and fantasy. Develop a simple plot, clear and evocative, which keeps the smile on the viewer. The story is elegant and sophisticated, not looking for a laugh, but a balanced tone and content, which teaches classic and tasteful. The result is an entertaining comedy, inspired and measured, which focuses attention on an exotic tale of witches and sorcerers, who are wary of love because it can deprive them of their supernatural powers The film picks up the second collaboration between star James Stewart and Kim Novak. A few months earlier had participated in Vertigo, Hitchcock records opposite of this. During filming Stewart turns 50 years and decided not to embody romantic lead roles. Kim Novak, Jack Lemmon and Ernie Kovacs, following the film, they become regular players Quine. Novak had worked with Quine (Pushover, 1954). They after again collaborate in Strangers When We Meet (1960) and The Notorious Landlady (1966).These are the memorable scenes of enchantment by Gill accompanied Pyewaket, hat thrown from the top of a skyscraper (Flatiron Building), the unexpected meeting of Shep and Aunt at the home of himself and others. The work inspired the TV series Bewitched. It's very entertaining movie to pass the time between magic, spells and love. Both players go through their performances note, however, we are talking about two great classic movie and the truth is that neither had to work hard for the film to prove. The plot is simple and graceful. Lemon has a good performance and the character of Aunt is most dear.The film is not the best of its protagonists, let alone the golden éoca 50, but is perfect as a romantic comedy of a certain quality to have a good time. "},{"Title":"A delightful and forward-looking comedy","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I recently saw this movie again at a tribute to Kim Novak (with Ms. Novak herself attending, making it even better!), and I find I enjoy it more with each viewing. Something that especially struck me this time was what a modern, independent woman Gillian is--OK, she's a witch, but still...running her own business and having relationships on her own terms, pretty good for 1958! And there's the implication that her relationship with Shep is not entirely chaste--Aunt Queenie tells him that while witches aren't supposed to fall in love, hot blood is allowed, as she thinks he realizes! And in a wonderful line that I'm amazed made it past the censors, when Shep tells Merle that Gil is a witch, Merle replies that Shep doesn't know how to spell.Also, the costumes by Jean Louis are absolutely fabulous, and the use of color in them is particularly interesting. Through most of the film, Gillian is dressed in black, red, or some combination thereof--her gorgeous dark red velvet backless dress for Christmas Eve; her dancing dress in black with red roses on the skirt, with matching rose-printed scarf and shoes (I covet this outfit); or her Village bohemian look of red sweater, black slacks, and bare feet with red-painted toenails. Then, at the end of the movie, she's in a white dress lined in yellow--perhaps to signal the change in her nature? (Hope she retained the independent streak!) And Shep is almost always dressed in gray (needing Gillian to bring color into his life?) and his secretary in gray or black.Most of all, the film's about witty dialogue and terrific performances, but all these other factors make it even more delightful. Last, an interesting side note Janice Rule, who played Merle, originated the role of Madge Owens in Picnic on Broadway--the role played so well by Kim Novak on film. "},{"Title":"Bewitching","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Bell Book and Candle was released in December 1958 and features James Stewart, Kim Novak, Jack Lemmon. and Ernie Kovaks. This film had James Stewart and Kim Novak in their second on-screen pairing (after the Alfred Hitchcock classic Vertigo, released earlier the same year). This was Stewart's last film as a romantic lead as he was deemed too old at age 50 to play that sort of part anymore. The movie is about a witch played by Kim Novak who is attracted to a mortal played by James Stewart. She puts a spell on him and he falls head over heels in love with her. I enjoyed the movie and its cast. This movie at the time was a moderate success which was nominated for a Golden Globe for best Movie Comedy. GimmeClassics "},{"Title":"William Asher Got Bewitched By This Movie","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" The 1960's TV series Bewitched owes it's idea from this movie. This is the movie that Jimmy Stewart & Kim Novak made right after they were cast together in Vertigo by Alfred Hitchcock. This one is not as obsessive as that one but Novak is just as captivating.This was Jack Lemmons 10th movie and he is good in support here as well as Ernie Kovacs. The movie has a lot of good things about it. Hermine Gingold is very good in this movie, almost as good in support here as she was in The Music Man. The cast is very solid.This movie has a late 1950's New York City feel & a cat that is as hexing as any feline in any movie. It is well worth watching as it is a love story with all the emotion of any, & a little magic too boot.It is not Vertigo but I think because it followed that movie, viewers then did not rate it as good as it deserved - sure am glad that William Asher saw it, so that the 1960's series got created. I am not so glad about what Will Ferrell did to it on the big screen, this movie is much better than that. "},{"Title":"The Age Difference","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" A number of contributors have mentioned the age difference between Stewart and Novak. She was 25 and he was 50 when this movie was released. I think that the difference didn't matter for a suspense drama like Vertigo, but it does matter for a romantic comedy. We can easily understand, that is, why his character would be attracted to hers, but it's less clear why hers would be attracted to his.Still, the movie works as a light romantic fantasy. The scene where she stares at him across the cat's head, with her dark painted-on eyebrows flaring and the sounds of her humming and the cat purring, is true magic. It's a little jarring, therefore, when the scene shifts to the top of the Flatiron Building, and we see the age difference very sharply. As he embraces her, she reaches up to run her fingers through his hair, but stops that motion and just brushes her fingertips lightly against his toupee. "}{"Title":"Kim Novak - awesomely voluptuous yet strangely innocent.","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I can watch B,B&C and feel all the emotions I felt when I first saw it at aged 18 well,maybe all but one.Certainly Miss K.Novak has lost none of her silky allure in nearly half a century.She was a thinking youth's Diana Dors.All those thinking youths now collecting their pensions can briefly regain the heart - clutching,collar - tightening,blood - pulsing ardour they felt when she gazed directly into their eyes back in the days when they were being told that they had never had it so good. Now,huddled up against the cold and fearful of being mugged by a Hoodie,they scuttle home as fast as their arthritic knees can carry them from the Video Shop,relatively happy in the certain knowledge that within the triple - locked comparative safety of their fourth - floor tower block flat they can regain just a small fragment of their lost youth and perhaps reflect that love truly is eternal. This movie is Miss Novak's Golden Moment.She seized it avidly and gave a performance of awesome voluptuousness combined with a hypnotic awareness of her own sex - appeal and,despite all this,she convinces us that her character possesses a strange and beguiling innocence. She completely dominates the amiable Mr J.Stewart who seems resigned to handing her the movie.Misses E.Lanchester and H.Gingold offer comic relief along with Mr E. Kovacs whose peculiar talents are strictly proscribed.Mr J.Lemmon plays Miss Novak's brother.He is a beatnik,a species that disappeared as soon as it realised that its existence was being acknowledged by the mainstream.Some of the more hardcore beats reinvented themselves as hippies a few years later.Certainly they had become figures of fun by 1958 and Mr Lemmon does not appear overly concerned with restraint in portraying one. But all else is mere frippery,Miss Novak - bathed in a particularly beautiful spectrum of Technicolor - is the sole raison - d'etre for Bell,Book and Candle.It survives,its reputation enhanced,as the ultimate showcase for one of Hollywood's most beautiful women. Loved by moviegoers,ignored by critics,Miss Novak will continue to captivate with that enigmatic smile all the time thinking old men have the strength to push the Play buttons on their DVDs.One day,probably after we are all gone,she will be discovered by a new generation who will - belatedly - realise that it is quite possible for a woman to be fully - dressed and sexually attractive at the same time. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  I have warm memories of watching this movie, alot to do with the circumstances in which I watched it.  There was heavy rain, a major flood and I couldn't make it into work. An enforced duvet day.  Yayyy! Bell Book And Candle happened to be the afternoon movie on one of the TV channels and I cocooned with blanket, tea and chocolate biscuits and loved it. I'm impressed with the production values of  movies of that era, & this one is particularly gorgeous, the colours muted yet glowing. New York looks enchanting at Christmastime, Pyewacket the cat is endearing and Kim Novak so beautiful it hurts. Novak and Stewart make a classy pairing and there is much to delight in.   "},{"Title":"A pleasant piece of fluff.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the kind of film that, if it were made today, it would probably star Sandra Bullock and Hugh Grant; actually, now that I think about it, this one is quite liable to be remade one day. It's pleasant, but with no depth whatsoever. It suffers from the almost fatal miscasting of James Stewart in a role he is about 20 years too old for, and as a result there is no chemistry between him and the beautiful Kim Novak. Ernie Kovacs, in the small supporting role of an aspiring writer, is the only actor in the film whose performance approaches what you might call wit. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"The gay subtext","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" It surprised me to see so many posters say they didn't see any gay subtext to the film when it was clear to me and I wasn't even expecting it. So here's the gay subtext as I see it, though I may miss some things since it's been a while since I've seen it.Most of it is embodied in Jack Lemmon's character, Nicky. What is it about Nicky that makes Shep's fiancé Merle refer to him several times as weird or creepy? In comparison to the Zodiac's other patrons Nicky is from Squares-ville, clean-shaven in his suit and tie, so what IS it about Nicky that Merle finds so objectionable? A little history helps here, knowledge that the Beatniks were a counter-culture during the staid 50s and gay men were among the movers and shakers of the group, from Allan Ginsburg to William S Burroughs. Greenwich Village and the Beats were associated with gay men. The music, clothing, & atmosphere of The Zodiac show it to be a Beat hang-out, the horizontal striped shirts, berets, and Nicky's bongos are all stereotypical Beatnik props. Even the name Nicky, not Nick or Nicholas, is a diminutive, a less than manly name. Jack Lemmon's boyish appeal plays into it as well, and the next year in Some Like It Hot he would play a man dressed as a woman who sees nothing wrong with marrying Joe E Brown, who by the end knows he's a man under that dress. Nicky's sexual interests are never mentioned. He shows no interest in women, a clue in itself. The mystery is solved with the introduction of Ernie Kovac's Sidney Redlitch, the only person outside Nicky's family he shows any interest in, and who returns that interest. Redlitch calls Nicky a fascinating boy and hangs around with Nicky exclusively. They even seem to live together while they collaborate on the witchcraft book. They're a closeted couple, though of course that isn't stated outright. You have to remember we're talking about the 1950s when nothing obvious about homosexuality would have made it past the censors- that's why they call it subtext.Add in that the author of the BB&C play, John Van Druten, also wrote I Am A Camera, the first dramatic play based on gay author Christopher Isherwood's book The Berlin Diaries (also the basis of Cabaret) and it's clear the gay subtext is deliberate. I've never read an extensive biography of John Van Druten but many of his associates were gay (Carl Van Vechten for one), he based plays on books by gay authors, and no online bio mentions a wife. He knew what he was doing when he wrote the character of Nicky. "},{"Title":"Below Average adaptation of stage hit.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Why anyone would cast the folksy James Stewart in a role originated by the urbane Rex Harrison is beyond Me! This one piece of mis casting along with opening the play up to include some dated beatnick night spots totally destroyed the charm of Van Druten's original play. Kim Novak is very easy to believe as a a young beatiful witch and Elsa Lancester is perfection as the dotty old aunt queenie but its not enough to save the film.Jack Lemmon is fun as Novak's brother Nicky but the extra scenes made his character inconsistent to his personality.  Even the great Ernie Kovacs as investigative writer Sidney Redlitch is not enough to help the film as his appearances are few and far between. Take my advice, read he play,avoid the film. "},{"Title":"Charming comedy","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  An absolutely charming fantasy, with top-notch performances by Stewart, Lemmon, Lanchester, and (especially) Hermione Gingold. A pure delight. "},{"Title":"Kovacs' Book, Novak's Candle","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Sometimes very ordinary films contain some interesting observation on themselves. The humor of self-observation was a cornerstone of Ernie Kovacs' life. Sadly, most of the self-referential anarchy I saw on his TeeVee show in the 50's is lost forever. But here he is, serving as a writer of a book on witchcraft who doesn't know anything about it. In fact, as the book progresses, we get the impression that it either still misses the boat or is retroactively made dumb by Gillian's spell. That's just like the writer of this film who has glimpsed something bright but somehow got it wrong in translation. That self-referential bit is interesting.Also interesting is the use of redheads here. I believe that hundreds of such films have created (or mined) a mythology of redheads. Both Gingold and Lanchester are red here. On through to `Practical Magic.'There's more fun if you are willing to splice two movies together. In `Vertigo' we first have Novak create a film-within-the-film and fool Stewart into love. Then we have the turnabout where Stewart turns director and creates a `movie' romance out of Novak (without knowing who she is). That second film is this one, with a mirroring of the turnabout first Novak turns the spell, and then (after being visited by the magic cat) so does Stewart.Incidentally, this thin film has one of the cleverest title sequences I recall.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Amusing, anti-feminist romp","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  As a huge fan of both Novak and Stewart, I was amused by this light-hearted romantic comedy.  Novak was brilliant in her role as the darkly attractive bohemian witch.----Spoiler Alert----However, take a look at the stunning anti-feminist angle of this movie... Witches lose their powers if they fall in love, leaving Novak's character at the end powerless, but *of course* she is glad to trade independence and her family connections for domestic bliss with Stewart.  Watch how her wardrobe changes, moving from uninhibited (and comfortable) to standard 1950's Donna Reed fare at the end, complete with pantyhose and high-heels around the house.  It's sad, really.  Apparently, this movie believes that women should give up all their power and individual Self gladly in order to have love and a home of their own.Still amusing, but don't take it to heart.   "},{"Title":"Good-looking but dull and unfunny","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Witch Kim Novak falls in lover with non-witch Jimmy Stewart with hilarious results. The film's first half-hour is fun--the film looks great, has some good lines and Novak is incredibly beautiful and sexy (especially with her cat). Then she and Stewart fall in love and the film dissolves. It turns very unfunny, dull and Novak and Stewart have zero chemistry (also Novak falling in love with a guy at least 30 years older than her? Don't think so!). Novak is great to look at, but a lousy actress, and Stewart is miscast and looks very uncomfortable in his role. The supporting cast is great (Elsa Lancaster, Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovaks) and obviously enjoying themselves, but they can't carry the film. Supposedly, this film has a cult following. Why is beyond me. "},{"Title":"What It Does Not Have In Heat It Has In Charm","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Bell, Book, and Candle is a colorful gem of a movie perfect for a lazy Sunday afternoon that stars an avuncular James Stewart and a young Kim Novak as an enchanting couple. (This was released in 1958, the same year Vertigo came out. I am not sure which was released first, but Novak takes Stewart on another amorous spin). It also features Elsa Lanchester (who viewers may remember played the gal wearing the white-striped fright wig in the original 1930s Bride of Frankenstein.) and a youthful Jack Lemmon (before Some Like It Hot). They play Novak's sidekicks &#x96; together a trio of witches, or, more accurately, two witches and one warlock. This is not a horror tale of forbidden love but a funny one with a little frisky black magic supplied by Novak who longs for real romance with a mortal.The fun includes the light sultry seduction provided by Novak and her furry friend - a cat called Pyewacket. Stewart is the mere mortal &#x96; a middle-aged bachelor who is a publisher about to be married until he's put under Novak's spell. Light comedy ensues against a bluish post-card palette of rich yuletide color mixed with jazzy tunes. Think Mad Men-esque set design but with less glass and more wood and deeper textures. The sex is implied of course &#x96; a kiss here and an embrace there, from head to foot. Nonetheless, audiences will be asking themselves as the plot unwinds whether Novak's incantations will succeed or whether Stewart will be won over by her real charm. They also may be thinking to themselves, Hmmm, I wonder if this movie was the inspiration for the beloved TV series Bewitched? "}{"Title":"Pyewacket Pudding.","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" It's one of those films that we all have, the movie that features actors you simply adore, but no matter how many times you watch it in the mystical hope that it will change and get better, but it never does. Bell Book & Candle is my pet frustration.Fronted by James Stewart and Kim Novak, supported by Jack Lemmon & Elsa Lanchester, this screen version of the theatre play has a modicum of charm befitting the story of a publisher who falls under the love spell of a modern day witch, but ultimately it plays out as dull.It looks nice, both in art direction and colour photography, Jimmy and Kim are pleasant of course, and Elsa, Hermione Gingold and Pyewacket the cat are bundles of fun, yet the belly laughs are missing, a need to care about the lovelorn and the restless sadly some place else.I have a framed still of Jimmy & Kim from this movie hanging in my hallway, every time I pass it I point my finger at it and swear with sadness in my heart. I love those guys you see, the movie not so much... 5/10 "},{"Title":"Slight movie, but watchable for the cast","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" The contrast between the ultra-fine talent and the ultra-nothing content is probably the most extreme of any movie you could watch.It preserves a James Stewart performance at the absolute peak of his finely-honed everyman screen persona. His low-key performance here is perfect. It also preserves Kim Novak at the peak of her career, in terms of acting, screen presence, beauty, etc. Eccentric Elsa Lanchester and a cat steal the movie. Jack Lemmon is OK and Ernie Kovacs is interesting and effective as always.First-rate production values, although the main musical theme is lame and non-distinctive in my opinion.Despite some possible 1950's topical undertones, the content of this movie is thin. So thin and light it almost floats off the screen, as if it was filled with helium. It is true that the cast is very charming but I think that the overall attempt at charm by the director and writers etc is somewhat forced. Nevertheless, you will enjoy the performances. The cast exhibits subtle, effective screen acting at its best. The cat is excellent, too. "},{"Title":"Bewitching and Spellbinding","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know who cast the spell on the last few posters, but they sure didn't see the same move that I saw. I first came across Bell Book and Candle when it came out in the theatres, and I loved it. What's not to love about Kim Novak and Jimmy Stewart, especially the scene where Gillian is holding her cat, Pyewacket, and casting her spell on Shep? She is incredibly beautiful, and her face framed by Pywacket's ears is fascinatingly witchy.It ain't s'posed to be real folks, it's a movie, a fantasy, entertainment. Jimmy Stewart is perfect as Shep Henderson, the publisher who is spellbound by Gillian Holroyd, played by the beautiful Kim Novak, and with a marvelous supporting cast they did a great job of transferring the stage play to the screen. The technicolor is great in what was still the post war era, and the story fit well into the feeling of euphoria and release that filled the nation.I happily recommend this movie to anyone who wants to be entertained for an hour and a half or so and isn't looking for a documentary. Enjoy the scenery, the period costumes and the great acting of a marvelous cast that includes not only Stewart and Novak but Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovak, Hermione Gingold, Elsa Lancaster and Janice Rule. "},{"Title":"a fascinating little romantic comedy that's both funny and touching","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Richard Quine's Bell Book and Candle is in short, a fascinating and certainly unique little romantic comedy from the 1950s and no, this does not mean it's old-fashioned, it means that it's from the age where romantic comedies were actually humorous and charming unlike today where it's all about sex gags and references and tired old routine attempts to spur laughter. Many will argue that Bell Book and Candle is a good movie, but not a great one. I tend, however, surprisingly, to disagree.I admit, I am not a particular fan of the romantic comedy genre and that the main reason why I ventured in to watch this motion picture was because it had my two favorite cinematic performers, James Stewart and Kim Novak, in it in the one of only two films they made together. Previously, they had starred in Alfred Hitchcock's mesmerizing psychological masterwork Vertigo (1958). And no, this is not as good as Vertigo. Very few films are. But for what it is, despite a few weak points, is a bewitching little comedy that's both funny and touching.The plot of the film is silly, but charming. Kim Novak stars as a smoky-voiced enchantress who initially out of spite casts a spell on her apartment neighbor played by James Stewart to make him fall in love with her. Yes, in the world of this film, witches and warlocks exist and live in the background like ordinary people, practicing their magic here and there when secluded. Novak and Stewart share a fascinating relationship but things start to go awry when Novak begins to fall in love with him for real and Stewart realizes what has happened.Apart from Stewart and Novak, we have the always versatile and multifaceted Jack Lemmon who provides a lot of the film's humorous elements with his performance as the witch's ambitious brother. Aiding this is Elsa Lanchester, who you may remember as the monster's bride in Bride of Frankenstein (1935). She's good here as well. There is also Ernie Kovacks as an alcoholic book author, but he unfortunately is a weak point of the film. Kovacks's performance, as well as the material his character was given, seems just a little&#133;stodgy to me, but since he's a supporting character, this is forgivable and he doesn't detract from the film's impact much.James Stewart, as well as the critics of 1958, thought he was miscast as the character of Shepherd Henderson in Bell Book and Candle. Perhaps because he was too old (50) to be playing romantic leads anymore. I will say that perhaps Stewart wasn't the quintessential choice and I sometimes wonder what it would have been like if Stewart and Lemmon's roles were reversed, but I do admit that my favorite actor, James Stewart, gave another great performance despite being older than the conventional romantic lead. As for my favorite actress, Kim Novak, she was very seductive and sweet and beautiful and charming as the witch who slowly transforms as she bonds with Stewart's character. Reportedly Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak were very good friends and had a wonderful friendship on the two films they made together and this is evident seeing as how their bonding on the screen seems very natural.I've seen this film twice now and do look forward to seeing it again. I am very thankful I gave it a chance, even though I was motivated mostly just to see my favorite actor and favorite actress sharing the screen one more time. It's a harmless, funny movie and when it needs to be, it becomes surprisingly dramatic and beautiful. The ending of the film is what really won me over and lured me into giving it my highest rating. Again, not as good as Vertigo, but still a noteworthy and charming motion picture. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, somewhat slushy, film transfer. Worth a look as simple comedy and more.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" What must have been sharp, sophisticated fun during its season on the Broadway stage with Rex Harrison and his (then) wife, Lili Palmer, is given handsome if standard Hollywood treatment. While we get atmospheric snow in the streets and a first rate supporting cast that includes fine performances from everyone from a very young Jack Lemon, Ernie Kovacs and an unbilled Siamese (Pywacket - in perhaps the film's best performance) to Elsa Lanchaster, Hermione Gingold and even the too seldom seen Janice Rule (the original cast only required five actors!), as the central personalities warm up, we also get a good deal of slush in the opened up plot AND the scenic streets of New York.In typical Hollywood fashion, the sophisticated Harrison and Palmer are swapped for the aw shucks Americanism of Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak. Jimmy plays Stewart as always, and that's OK by me. Novak gives perhaps her best screen performance.If that last is extremely faint praise (it is), it is also sincere. Even more than in the technically more demanding double role Novak played opposite Stewart earlier the same year in Hitchcock's popular mystery VERTIGO, the actress proves a pleasing counterbalance for the amiably polished Stewart, though it's difficult to imagine any actual sparks - sexual or emotional between the two. This time the demands of the role - especially as blandly rewritten for the screen - are better suited to the limits of her talent, bit where the play was a well made, off beat romantic romp, the film remains merely a pleasant semi-intellectual exercise.I'm told that a generation of straight boys were pushed toward early puberty contemplating Ms. Novak's particular charms on screen. I'm afraid that a generation of young men otherwise oriented were similarly pushed to early discoveries in a different direction finding themselves utterly immune to them . . . though if the rumors are true that Van Druten intended his original script as a well disguised in joke about alternate lifestyles in New York's Greenwich Village, by making the in joke considerably less veiled in the film performances of Novak and her associates at The Zodiac, the film may have opened the eyes of a generation of alternately inclined young WOMEN too! "},{"Title":"Funny and witchy!!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is major comedy-can't watch it any other way. The seemingly unbelievable story line of New York filled w/witches is great by Kim Novak and Jack Lemmon. The nightclub scenes are great fun, but the chemistry b/w Kim Novak and James Stewart is lacking a bit... "},{"Title":"Gender bender?","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie after watching Practical Magic, and the older film was far superior. I liked the way the lighting, makeup, and costumes changed as Gillian changed in the story. Jimmy Stewart's mannerisms didn't do a lot for me in this film, but I suppose they did serve to highlight the reserve of Gillian's character. I was also struck by Nicky's and Gillian's mannerisms--it was as if the director wanted him to appear effeminate and Gillian to appear masculine. The gestures Nicky makes when he's showing Redlich his powers especially struck me. I've never thought of warlocks as being effeminate, so it was an interesting way of contrasting those characters. "},{"Title":"Nice, little, fun","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Surprisingly funny bit of supernatural comedy, lovingly photographed by James Wong Howe (this was my first opportunity to see his work in technicolor widescreen, and I am suitably impressed).  I was mainly surprised at how well Novak carried the role, but then again all she really had to do was simper, and there were definately a few moments where her acting was the very definition of unconvincing.  Stewart is his usual genial self, and Elsa Lanchester makes some memorable moments as Novak's overtly witchy mom.  Not much to comment on here, except that this movie is a kind of a gem that shows the kind of subtle magic Hollywood could still, on occasion, deploy to good effect even in its waning years. "},{"Title":"WITCH ALERT--you want to see this one !!!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  This impossible tale is of a female witch pursuing a mortal man, in a mortal world.  Her community is open among it's members, but she conceals her witchcraft from the mortals.  Hmmmm...this is starting to sound familiar. LOL.  It's not your typical movie.  Very campy performances by Jack Lemmon and Ernie Kovacs keep things from getting dull.  Kim Novak is always a pleasure on screen, but I found her pairing with James Stewart unusual (but not fatal to the story).With re-newed interest in all things witchy and dark, this film deserves to be discovered and re-discovered by old and new audiences...... IT'S STILL A HOOT ! "},{"Title":"magically sweet love story","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" this is an honest attempt to make a bewitchingly sweet love story. the obvious inspiration behind the successful TV series Bewitched, this lovely sweet rom-com is a timeless treasure. the comparisons are obvious. jimmy stewart plays a hapless but stolid straight. kim novac plays a voluptuous blond witch who captures him through the use of a love spell. but when that spell is broken by a stronger witch, she contents herself with the duties of running her own shop and takes comfort in the fact that her beloved pyewacket (her feline familiar) is being cared for by her beloved aunt. you'll recognize the aunt from Murder by Death. this movie is fun and touchingly sweet, bearing some spectacular wit and a nice witchy feel. worth a look. "}{"Title":"Jimmy Stewart's Other Christmas Movie","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone sick to death of the horrible Capra schlockfest, It's a Wonderful Life, would do themselves a favor by viewing this non-sentimental love story featuring Stewart and his Vertigo co-star, Kim Novak.I'm quite surprised to read some other reviews and see how many people are panning this movie. Oh well, it's not the first time I've seen people with no taste.Everyone else has already given plot descriptions so I won't bother. Stewart and Novak are great. Lanchester, Gingold, Lemmon, and Kovaks put in fine performances. The story is a subtle blend of romance and allegory. And you have a feel good ending that doesn't leave you in need of a insulin injection like Capra's movie does. It's a shame BB&C isn't shown every holiday season instead. I'd much rather see Hermione Gingold on Christmas Eve than that Clarence bozo. "},{"Title":"You guys are missing the point...","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":"  The whole movie is really about being gay. John Van Druten the playwright was gay. It's an allegory. It drips with innuendo and double entendres. Watch it again with this in mind and you'll see a different movie. "},{"Title":"Bell book and candle, cannot enchant viewers any more","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" 1958, the same year taking the leads in Hitchcock's timeless VERTIGO (1959, 8/10), James Stewart and Kim Novak also managed to star in a modern-day romance comedy about a witch's enchantment boomerangs since she falls for her incantation recipient, but the film is a middling nonstarter by comparison, one major hitch is Stewart was way too old to lead a rom-com of this kind, thus the entire premise of their romance comes too contrived and the stale dialogue barely elevates the supernatural kernel of the story, which by the way, is nothing spectacular (no more than shallow cinematic tricks). It's Christmastime, New York, Gillian (Novak), her brother Nicky (Lemmon) and auntie Queenie (Lanchester) are all witches, or warlock (the terminology for male). Gillian is a proprietor of an exotic shop, Gillian Holroyd African and Oceanic Primitive Art, lives with her kitten Pyewacket, which is also the medium of her witchcraft. The new tenant upstairs is Shepherd Henderson (Stewart), a soon-to-get-married publisher, maybe it is love-at-first-sight or the vindictive idea to sabotage Shepherd's union with his fiancée Merle Kittridge (Rule), whom Gillian finds out is her snitch schoolmate, or maybe both, she puts on a spell on Shepherd and effectively makes him infatuated with her. Things swerve to a U-turn when possessed Shepherd puts marriage on the table, as Gillian, her clumsy evasion cannot justify herself anymore, she has to confess everything and Shepherd is furious, he resorts to a senior witch (Gingold) to break the spell, while Gillian come to know she has lost all her magic and becomes a human since she is truly in love with Shep. The plot rambles on quite freely, a chief subplot involves Nicky and Sidney Redlitch (Kovacs), a writer is unwittingly summoned by Gillian, who is obsessed with bell-book- candle witchery, writing an insider-dealing book about witchery among people, which inexplicably is clashed with Gillian's plan but never fully developed. Lemmon and Kovacs are standouts in the cast, each embodies a distinctive verve to spark the tedious Gil+Shep progress.Kim Novok is not a great actress, but this film harnesses her mysterious and glacial beauty to bring about an indelible screen splendour with her overt but not-so-irritating mannerism and the truth is that her best scenes are with her feline familiar, witches should stick to their pets. Stewart is a middle-age everyman, is at best with his own droll monologue, not a tailor-made role for him, otherwise, with a younger leading man, at least viewers would invest more into the lovey-dovey entanglement. "},{"Title":"Interiors!","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I love it! I fall into a trance watching this film wishing I were there, at that time. To not be an admirer of mid-century films you must know that they can be slow to reveal. If you bore easily refrain from watching; The Women, Dinner at Eight, My Man Godfrey...or take a pill sit back and ENJOY some of the best films ever made! As a designer and owner of a vintage furniture store the interiors of these films inspire and ignite me. In Bell Book and Candle, Kim's apartment was SO COOL!!! It got me back into my African art and artifact collection. Stark, clear, organic, well edited, loft like, sharp. Very Cool! chill "},{"Title":"the occult, nuttiness, love and romance, and wonderful entertainment rolled into one.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" As a boy of twelve, I saw the trailer of this movie, and dismissed it from my mind; naturally, however, the image of Kim Novak remained in my mind. But much more recently I saw this movie, and now have found it to be a favorite of mine. While Kim Novak and Jimmy Stewart were wonderful together in Vertigo,...my favorite Hitchcock film, by the way,...this movie was as funny as Vertigo was serious. In this story about witches in Greenwich Village, Kim Novak, in one sense of the term, hardly qualifies for the definition of hag.She is able to, literally, cast many spells, and only in that way is she a witch. Jack Lemmon is his high-strung self, Ernie Kovaks is his comical self, Janice Rule is her very beautiful self, and Hermione Gingold and Elsa Lanchester are nothing but laughable as a couple of eccentrics. The music score sticks in my mind even yet. While I can't give away anything, I will say that I liked the ending. And too, the color and snow-covered New York, in which the icy skating pond in Central Park is included, were beautiful aesthetics. I never saw the stage play of the same title, but I do not see how the quality of entertainment of the play could surpass the quality of entertainment of the movie. A very drawing cinematic piece,to be sure. "},{"Title":"Bell Book and Candle is acceptable but not captivating","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" First let me say that I am a fan of Kim Novak and that I like many of Jimmy Stewart's performances (e.g. Rear Window, Anatomy of a Murder). Although I found this film watchable, I would not recommend it, because I would be so uncertain that someone else would enjoy it.The film's story proceeds at a languid pace, which is not necessarily bad. My impression is that the pace is driven by the subdued, quiet performance of Ms. Novak. She sizzles, especially is some of those amazing dresses, but I wouldn't say her character has much depth. And although I enjoyed the performances of Lemon and Kovacs, their characters were rather undeveloped also.The reviewers here have made many superlative comments about this film, using terms like  romantic, classic, and remarkable. Conversely, I saw a thread where someone was trying to defend the film against naysayers. In my opinion, the quality of this film sits firmly somewhere in the middle ground. I enjoyed it mostly as a showcase for the era in which it was filmed and for the presence of some iconic screen stars. "},{"Title":"Impossible to dislike...","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Nearly impossible to dislike. Book editor James Stewart falls for Greenwich Village neighbor Kim Novak. Or does he? She's a witch who's put a spell on him, stealing him from snooty college friend Janice Rule. It's a fun, extremely glossy and hopelessly studio-bound comedy with Stewart & Novak exuding a lot of chemistry. Released several months after VERTIGO, the film could not be any more different...it's as light as a feather. The cast is populated by the likes of Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovacks, Hermione Gingold and Elsa Lanchester. They're all hilarious. Daniel Taradash (who scripted everything from PICNIC to FROM HERE TO ETERNITY and RANCHO NOTORIOUS) adapted the John Van Druten play. James Wong Howe did the cinematography. Richard Quine, who cornered the market on comedies of this ilk in the late 50s & early 60s, directed. "},{"Title":"Charming and charmingly dated.","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" To think that a film about the Dark Arts could be so adorable! The thought of Jimmy Stewart in such a wacky vehicle -- covens of witches and warlocks hanging out at hidden clubs (shades of Harry Potter) was too good to pass up. He did not disappoint, stammering and hamming his way through the twists and turns in classic fashion. Kim Novak was excellent as well -- strong, confident and tortured, with an edge of coldness perfect for a powerful witch. Ernie Kovacs turned in a great, imbalanced performance as well, constantly on the prowl for witches and a good barbershop. Jack Lemmon as a bongo playing, beatster warlock was something to behold. Although, the cat -- Pyewacket -- stole the show. A love story that's perfect to watch on a lazy Sunday morning with some killer lines.-- www.cowboyandvampire.com -- "},{"Title":"Sappy and Long But Otherwise Good","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" A modern-day witch (Kim Novak) likes her neighbor (James Stewart) but despises his fiancée, so she enchants him to love her instead... only to fall in love with him for real.I really want to like this movie. The witchcraft story is fresh, I like that they threw in theosophy and it is hard to lose with Stewart and Novak (it is like Vertigo with more romance). But it gets too sappy, it runs too long, and the same sort of stuff is done better in Burn Witch Burn.Jack Lemmon is without fault here, and he clearly showcases his unique talents here. After seeing him in Mister Roberts, I have learned to appreciate him more than I did when he was just one of the Odd Couple. Yet again, he here shows that he was a bigger screen presence than he is probably given credit for today. "},{"Title":"It Might Be Witchcraft, But It Failed To Cast A Spell On Me!","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Somehow the magic just didn't work for me as I was watching this. It isn't a bad movie. It's got a decent enough cast but I found the story to be somewhat lacking, giving that cast little to work with. As a comedy, this wasn't really all that funny and as a romance, for me at least the match of James Stewart and Kim Novak just didn't work. Stewart (at age 50) seemed much too old for the role he was playing, especially teamed with Novak, who would have been 25 years his junior. I don't object to the age difference; I just found that it caused me to have doubts. Given her character's background, I could perhaps understand the decision to match Novak with an older, more mature type, but it was more Stewart that I found awkward in the role. It wasn't their performances. Both were fine in that regard. It was simply that the romantic match didn't work for me.Novak's character of Gil was a witch who found herself falling for Stewart's Spencer, a very human publisher engaged to be married to someone else. In something of a theme, Janice Rule, who played his fiancé, was 23 years younger than Stewart. Obviously, those who made this movie really wanted Stewart, in spite of the awkwardness that they surely must have known would be created by the age difference! Gil's problem was that a witch can't fall in love according to this story (or, at least, if she does, she loses her powers.) She places a spell on Spencer because she likes him, and manages to create enough havoc in his relationship with Merle (Rule) that they break up, but Spencer is confused by her seeming inability to really connect emotionally with him. Eventually, Spencer finds out the truth and finds a senior witch (played by Hermione Gingold) to release him from Gil's spell, while Gil finally admits that she's in love. With her powers gone and the spell on Spencer broken, these two finally have the chance to develop an honest relationship.Director Richard Quine did a good job of developing the character of Gil. Emotionally distant perhaps, Gil is still a sultry and exotic figure, the point being simply made by having her barefoot in many of her scenes. Stewart - as he often is - is pleasant enough to watch and has a bit of an aura of confusion about him as he deals with everything that's going on that's gradually turning his life upside down. The film also features good supporting performances from folks such as Jack Lemmon as Gil's brother Nicky and Elsa Lanchester as her Aunt Queenie. I wondered as I was watching this how much of an influence it may have been on the 60's sitcom Bewitched. I know that show was supposed to have been directly based on 1942's I Married A Witch, but there seemed enough similarities to this concept to believe that it at least was in the back of the minds of the creators of that show. It's not an unpleasant movie to watch. It just really didn't cast any sort of spell on me. (4/10) "}{"Title":"About being gay?  any evidence???","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Watch this movie without looking for any stereotypes. It's simply fun and fine entertainment. Some of the commentaries on this movie suggest that this movie is about being gay in Greenwich Village in the 1950's. There is some evidence of that. A couple of manly-dressed women stand in the back of one scene. Other characters look very artistic. Certainly there had to be some thought by the director when placing people in various scenes in this movie. The French singer, plainly thin, gesticulating wildly during the singing of his song could be a gay stereotype. And while I got it and saw gay characters in this movie, I never look at this movie as anything other than a vehicle for the stars in the film. Witches certainly...but I don't make the connection that witches are automatically gay. Jimmy Stewart is absolutely charming and real for any audience...gay, straight, pro-witch, anti-witch. It's just so fun and light that complicating it with sexual stereotypes of one sort or the other ruins what is really a fun film. Ernie Kovacs is just plain roll-on-the-floor funny in this film. The cast is a selection of some of the finest character actors on the screen at that time. Certainly there are some adult themes but nothing dirty or obscene. "},{"Title":"Who's to say what magic is?","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" After starring in Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 masterpiece Vertigo, James Stewart and Kim Novak reteamed together for Bell Book and Candle - from riches to rags. Based on a stage play by John Van Druten, this particular witchcraft/romance comedy is not one of Mr. Stewart's better pictures despite the fairly good cast and witty music score by George Duning. Stewart plays a Manhattan publisher named Shepherd Henderson, and Novak plays Gillian Holroyd, proprietor of an African primitive art shop. It so happens that Gillian, her brother Nicky (Jack Lemmon), and her Aunt Queenie (Elsa Lanchester) are all witches, and Gillian wishes to have Shepherd as her lover, even though he is scheduled to be married the next morning. To that end, Gillian casts a spell on Shepherd, causing serious complications for the innocent publisher. By the end of the film, however, it becomes quite clear that Gillian is much better for Shepherd than his stuffy, unlikable fiancée Merle Kittridge (Janice Rule).My favorite moments from Bell Book and Candle include the following. At the Zodiac Club, the jazz combo (consisting of two trumpets, electric guitar, and Nicky on bongos) plays a nice rendition of Stormy Weather; the irony of this is that Shepherd, Merle, Gillian, and Queenie are sitting at one of the tables discussing Merle's fear of thunderstorms. As Gillian listens to Shepherd talk about his forthcoming marriage in his usual folksy, slightly confused Jimmy Stewart mold, she holds her Siamese cat Pyewacket close to her and hums softly as she casts her spell on Shepherd (with a brilliant use of color and light). Stewart stretches his folksy bafflement even further by humorously accentuating certain words (perhaps out of frustration for having to act in this film), as when Shepherd first confronts Gillian about his spell and, just before he leaves her shop, tells her that he thinks he can lick it, then comes back into her shop and calls an imaginary taxi; or when he detests having to drink a rather disgusting concoction brewed by the highly respected witch Mrs. De Pass (Hermione Gingold) in order to break his spell; or when he talks to Queenie on the staircase and discovers that Gillian liked him.The filming of Bell Book and Candle was reportedly not a particularly pleasant experience, since the aggregate of thespians turned out to be, as Jack Lemmon put it, a bad mix. My favorite actor James Stewart is quite cranky as the worldly publisher, and Kim Novak unfortunately does not bring any humor to her witchlike role. On the other hand, Jack Lemmon is very delightful as the jazz-loving Nicky Holroyd (even though Lemmon himself admitted he never did quite get the hang of that role), as is Ernie Kovacs as the alcoholic writer Sidney Redlitch, Hermione Gingold as the strange Mrs. De Pass, and Elsa Lanchester as the mischievous Aunt Queenie (with a wonderfully sinister laugh). "},{"Title":"Sum is Much Less Than Its Parts","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" I just don't get it. You've got Jimmy Stewart! You've got Kim Novak! You've got Jack Lemmon! You've got Ernie Kovacs! You've got Hermione Gingold! You've got Elsa Lanchester!And what do you get? A flat, boring movie. This movie must have looked great on paper. For all of it, it's a big nothing.James Stewart is miscast? I don't think so. You want to talk about Jimmy Stewart being miscast, I will refer you to 'Vertigo'. James is too much the 'everyman' to be adequate at playing the tortured soul dabbling in fetishes and necrophilia.Part of the reason 'Strangers on a Train' works so well is that Hitchcock wanted Robert Walker for the role because he was aware of Walker's mental breakdown at the time.But I digress....why? Because I really don't want to talk about this movie. I remember seeing it years ago and being disappointed. I saw it again a few months ago, and what do you know? Deja vu all over again.I can get over a much-older James Stewart romancing the always-lovely Kim Novak a lot easier than I can get over a light comedy that is neither light, nor funny.If anything, this film has to stand as a monument to some of the best talents being wasted on a trifle.For 'witchy' comedy, might I refer you to I Married a Witch, with Fredric March and the sultry Veronica Lake? It's entertaining and.....for a light comedy, it's funny. Imagine that! "},{"Title":"This Ain't Bewitched","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw this film, I was about ten years old and I was expecting something like Bewitched. However, this film plays more like a supernatural version of Breakfast at Tiffany's. This film is nothing more that an average romantic comedy at best and is not as funny as the the aforementioned show that it supposedly inspired. James Stewart shines in this role as Shep, the object of Gillian's (Kim Novak's) desires and Jack Lemmon and Ernie Kovacs both shine in their roles as well. However, this film pretty much was a chick flick before the term was invented. I found the love story somewhat cheesy and Kim Novak gave a somewhat weepy performance. Everyone may have called Bewitched inane and I Dream of Jeannie may have been television's version of a sex farce, but at least those two shows were funny. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Delightful romantic comedy. It stars Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak and was released later the same year as Hitchcock's Vertigo. Novak is a witch living in New York City who runs an occult shop. Stewart lives above the shop. Novak is attracted to him, but she doesn't really want to go for it. After all, though witches can have sexual relationships with normal human beings, it is a risk. If they do happen to fall in love, they lose their powers. So she doesn't go for it until she meets his fiancée, a bitchy former classmate played by Janice Rule. Novak casts a spell on Stewart, causing him to fall for her (and consequently dump Rule). The plot is very lackadaisical, drifting along gently with some nice little laughs here, some nice little romance there. Elsa Lanchester is very funny as Novak's aunt, and Jack Lemmon plays her warlock brother, who enjoys putting out streetlights with his spell. He has kind of a subtle homosexual subplot with Ernie Kovacs, playing a researcher interested in witches. I don't know if the filmmaker really realizes the homosexual implications of this subplot, but I'm kind of betting it was intended in the original play. It is true that Stewart was miscast in this film - in fact, even he thought so, and he made sure that it was his last romantic lead. But it doesn't harm the final product too much. It's quite wonderful. "},{"Title":"Mildly Bewitching","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" The same year that Stewart and Novak made Vertigo they teamed up for this comedy, which will never be confused for the Hitchcock masterpiece but it is mildly amusing. The cast is pretty good, particularly Stewart, Kovacks, and Gingold. Novak makes a beautiful witch but her acting is wooden as usual. Lemmon plays a broke warlock. The question of why a warlock can't get rich using his magical powers is raised but not answered. The premise of Stewart and Novak wanting to lead normal lives, without witchcraft, may have inspired the creators of Bewitched. This so-so film might have been more engaging in the hands of a director like Billy Wilder. "},{"Title":"Love Conquers Witchcraft but Not This Bell,Book and Candle **","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" With the exception of The Eddie Duchin Story, and Jeanne Eagles, Kim Novak gave another miserable performance on screen. This time it's for a playing a witch in Bell, Book and CandleMiss Novak was suited for the part as her eyebrows were made up appropriately. Though she is a witch in love, she should have evoked some fear but does not. Her aunt, another witch, played with relish by Elsa Lancaster is at her comedic best. In some ways, her eccentricity that she showed the year before for Witness for the Prosecution is there. Equally matched by Hermione Gingold, another witch, the two don't appear together on screen. Together, they would have been absolute dynamite.James Stewart is good but was too old for the part. He could have been Novak's father and not love interest.The big surprise here is the lackluster performance of Jack Lemmon, in a supporting role, as a warlock, the brother of Novak.Ernie Kovacs appears as an author of a book on witchcraft and is stymied by his monotone voice. "},{"Title":"There have always been hate movies","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Around 1965 is when the hate movie not only became the norm, but became pretty much mandatory. I remember being in school in the sixties and seventies, and hate themes were preached by teachers, parents, and all adults except perhaps a few pastors.This is a poorly disguised hate movie. It tries to be about the underdog winning, but it isn't. The artsy crowd is not really the artsy crowd. They're witches and warlocks, and the sad fact is that glorification of witches and warlocks is Satanic and does damage to all involved, including the idiots who think they'll benefit from it.It's black magic, or more properly witchcraft from Satan that has only one goal, to hurt mortals, via lie, cheat, steal, kill, and destroy. It is demonic, and it is moronic to glorify it.This movie tries to make the warlocks and witches look like the underlings and poor people, but that is a sick myth. They could not be underlings by definition. They have more influence, power, and money than anyone most people associate with.This is a hate movie aimed at fooling people into trusting the wrong characters, in other words, into trusting demons. It is sick, and it has no value. I would rate it 1/10, but there are movies even more depressing and demonic than this. "},{"Title":"Spellbound","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" Daniel Taradash was dab hand at fashioning screenplays from other media, be it a novel - From Here To Eternity - or a play - Bell Book And Candle. John Van Druten had been an established playwright since the early thirties when he had a huge success with Young Woodly. In the fifties he dramatised Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye To Berlin as I Am A Camera, this was subsequently filmed under the same title and later became the basis if Cabaret. In Bell Book And Candle Van Druten turned out a charming, sophisticated drama centering on witches and warlocks in Manhattan and Rex Harrison scored a personal triumph as the mortal lead who winds up with a witch. Columbia signed up a great cast for the movie version and for once non-actress Kim Novak landed a part she could handle, the witch who is not really at home among mortals. Also on hand were Jimmy Stewart, Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovaks, Elsa Lanchester and Hermione Gingold. With a cast like that and more than a soupcon of charm it really couldn't miss and still stands up today. "},{"Title":"Banned in Wasilla","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Fantasy","Review":" This is surely the strangest Christmas movie you're ever likely to see.Kim Novak, a very beautiful witch, is depressed because it is Christmas. She gets a hankering for her new neighbor, Jimmy Stewart, and thanks to a spell cast on Stewart's home phone by her nosy aunt, she gets to meet him. There is a whole secret network of witches and warlocks conspiring against the marital fate of Stewart. Now, this movie is a comedy. And it is, of course, make believe. There is no such thing as witches or magic. Except in Wasilla, Alaska, where Sarah Palin attended her local church to be blessed by a genuine African witch doctor to prevent any witches from casting spells on her, and to make sure she got plenty of money. It's all on youtube. I don't know about the first part, but she has done pretty well on the second. I doubt if Hollywood would dare make this movie today with all the religious wingnuts who actually think it is their god-given duty to protect everyone else in America from being tempted by the devil. They would probably picket every showing of the movie. And then there was Damn Yankees, about an old guy who sells his soul to play professional baseball. Boy, they wouldn't even have to watch that movie, the title's bad enough. It's Hollywood. It's make believe, folks.Just watching Kim Novak, even on screen from a distance of five decades, she is still electrifying. This is, of course, a perfect companion movie to Virtigo. Someone questioned the appropriateness of Jimmy Stewart in the lead. But compare this to Harvey. What we see is that Stewart had an extraordinary gift for doing droll humorous roles, in addition to his serious dramatic skills. The entire cast is fantastic. Note the rare performance by the exceptional Ernie Kovacs, who died too young. Kovacs was one of the great, innovative comic geniuses in the early days of television. He said It's appropriate that television is considered a medium, since it's rare if it's ever well done. Too bad Kovacs didn't get the lead, then it would have been Kovacs and Novak. If you like the music at Zodiak it is because Pete and Conte Candoli were two of the finest jazz musicians of the era.Footnote The apartment building that Jimmy Stewart's fiancé lives in with the bridge in the background is the same one used in Gentleman's Agreement for Gregory Peck's fiancé. I assume it is a real building, but I'm not sure. The area with Novak's shop looks like a set seen many times before, including in some Twilight Zone episodes. But many exteriors are real Manhattan scenes, and bring back wonderful memories of pre-terrorist, pre-crime New York City. "}]