[{"Title":"This movie is staggering","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"122 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I am nothing short of amazed by what the filmmakers pulled off.  Before I saw this movie, I tried to write a script that would encompass the whole story of the Titanic.  I had stacks of Titanic books scattered around me, a huge map of the Titanic spread out in front of me, and I was overwhelmed by the sheer mountain of anecdotes and facts and technical details and contradictions in survivors' accounts.  Reconstructing the event seemed impossible, and finally I abandoned the project by the time I got to about 130.  Then I saw A Night to Remember, and wouldn't you know, it was exactly what I was trying to do!  Kenneth More's portrayal of Lightoller is perfect.  Laurence Naismith is heartbreaking as Captain Smith.  The factual, historical, and technical detail is so thorough that this may be the most meticulous historical movie ever made -- certainly that I have ever seen.  Somehow the stark black-and-white cinematrography is more realistically convincing than James Cameron's full-color treatment, in which things are inexplicably blue.  The thing that disappointed me the most about Cameron's film was the lack of reverence for the historical characters.  Lightoller, my personal hero, came off as an cowardly twit, Captain Smith as an incompetent fool, Ismay as the force of all evil in the universe, and Benjamin Guggenheim's change into evening ware as an excuse to get drunk!  A Night to Remember had that reverence that was so sorely lacking in Cameron's film.  Lightoller is portrayed as the hero that he was.  Captain Smith is a fine captain who is understandably ovewhelmed by the magnitude of the tragedy facing him.  Ismay is irritating, but tries to help out and be a responsible president -- and when he jumps into the lifeboat, well, would any of us do different?  And Guggenheim's final stand brings tears to the eyes.  The drama of the Carpathia is as exciting as any fictional Hollywood action film.  This is the only Titanic movie that addresses the problem of the Californian, and though Lordites will object to the rather anti-Lord portrayal of the events, the facts speak for themselves.  If you want to be picky, you can complain that the movie doesn't go into the politics behind building the Olympic and Titanic, or the near-collision with the New York, or lots of the little personal stories, but let's be fair the movie has two hours to tell the story of, as Walter Lord put it, the death of a small town.  It's simply not possible for a movie, or even a really thick book, to cover everything.  I don't think it's possible for a better movie to be made about the Titanic than A Night to Remember. "},{"Title":"still the best!","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"80 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I've seen several film versions of the Titanic tragedy (I'm something of a buff--I'm distantly related to Mr. & Mrs. Edwin Kimball, who were 1st class passengers!) A Night to Remember is still the best, no contest. The effects are 1958 state-of-the-art, the script was meticulously researched, and the people are actually written and played as 1912 people (James Cameron's cast were a bit too much 1990's to be convincing). Even those characters who are slightly fictionalized (the lady who represents--without mentioning--Lady Cosmo Duff-Gordon, and my dear son and his family, for examples) behave as their real life counterparts would have in 1912, giving the film a documentary feel without failing to give the viewer people to identify with and care about. This is classic film-making at its finest!  "},{"Title":"A FILM to remember too.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"78 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Including the very first movie that dealt with the Titanic disaster, SAVED FROM THE TITANIC (1912) starring Dorothy Gibson, an actual survivor who wore the same outfit in the movie that she had on that fateful night just a few months earlier, there have been TEN movies made covering the sinking, A NIGHT TO REMEMBER, based on Walter Lords' ultimate reference work of the same name, was the 6th. The film has no equal!  For those who are interested, the other nine ARE chronologicallyTITANIC (1915) TITANIC DISASTER IN THE ATLANTIC (1929) TITANIC (1943) TITANIC (1953) A NIGHT TO REMEMBER (1958) SOS TITANIC (1979) TITANIC (1984) TITANIC (1996) TITANIC (1997)The REASON that A NIGHT TO REMEMBER excels, is that it is a straight up docudrama of the event. Historical accuracy (lets forget the split,... although actually suggested by a few eye-witnesses at the time, it was believed the ship had foundered intact) was observed, the main characters were vastly better portrayed than in later films and the scale of the disaster far more keenly felt, for all James Cameron's $180 million! Kenneth More made an unimprovable-upon Captain Lightoller and Laurence Naismith simply WAS Captain Smith. (The less said about Bernard Hill's loopy characterization in Cameron's epic, the better!) Those who wish to compare multi million dollar digitization to that which was available in 1958 need to get REAL and for all that money, and exciting as Cameron's was - it just didn't either LOOK or feel anything more than, well...a massive film-set! The 1958 version went to the heart of the tragedy...and took the viewer with them.  A NIGHT TO REMEMBER will remain a tribute...THE tribute to that night of madness. Little things, David McCallum fighting for his life-vest, Michael Goodliffe as Thomas Andrews - dignity personified waiting for his last moments, the drunken cook - they were all worth more than $100 million dollars worth of fx! You can't BUY credibility. This could never have been an American tale - it didn't work with the 1953 Barbara Stanwyck version and it didn't ring true for Cameron (good though it was as a movie rather than as the tragedy!)  Did anyone notice dear old Q (Desmond Llewelyn) below decks and old Brit-turned-Aussie favorite Stuart Wagstaff, as a steward in Steerage? "},{"Title":"Emotionally impacting, factually informative and surprisingly involving and fast paced","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"67 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The Titanic was to be the greatest ship ever made, a veritable city on the sea moving between England and New York. Made in Belfast, the ship travels to England before its maiden voyage, which it makes loaded with over 2,100 people ranging from the richest gentlemen in first class down to those in stowage seeking a new life in America. However, a series of errors and oversights result in the Titanic striking an iceberg and ripping a gash along the side below the water level. As the unsinkable ship starts to fill with water the shortcomings of having only 1200 lifeboat spaces sinks in.It has become very fashionable now to hate James Cameron's Titanic and it is the norm now, not only to prefer this film but to actively hate the 97 film in any review of other versions! I'm not a fan of the rather bloating modern film but I will refrain from making this review about that film and will focus on the one I've just seen. The first thing you notice here is how quickly the film moves and, after only a very brief introduction to the characters we are underway and hitting the ice. Shorn of romantic subplots and heart-tugging sweeping scores this is a very good approach and it simply lets the facts of the event and the real horror speak for themselves. In the remake we were supposed to get our emotional attachment to one or two characters based on their love for one another; here the film respects our humanity enough to know that we will be touched by the sheer number who died and the manner of their death. This works much better and it is genuinely eerie to see that large ship slip below the surface to a barrage of screams from unseen thousands &#150; that the effects are not as good doesn't matter because they are good enough and the emotional impact more than covers for them.This is not to say that the film lacks characters because you do tend to care for everyone and the film did very well in delivering little things without getting in the way of the rather documentary style form. The horror of the death is as well told as the horror of those watching it occur from the lifeboats; I liked the guilt of the designer and the guilt of the men who climbed into the lifeboats etc, these little touches work much better than inserting large fictional sections. With this sort of performance the actors do well &#150; all realistic with none really upstaging the film with ham. Moore is a good lead and only at the end is his delivery a bit flat &#150; but that is more the fault of a wordy conclusion. The rest of the cast do very well with realistic performances of fear even if they are being directed into generic class groups &#150; simple but, with the delivery of the material, it works.Overall, to me this is the best telling of the Titanic disaster that I have seen. The factual approach is consistently interesting and, without our attentions being directed to one or two people, the emotional impact is greater than I expected and I was quite chilled by the whole thing. For those irritated and put off by the sweeping sentimentality of the modern version, this film is the one for you. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Account of the Titanic,  Told Through One of the Best Historical Dramas Ever Made","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"63 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Based on the Walter Lord novel of the same name, A Night to Remember is far and away the most definitive and honest telling of this famous and world-shaking disaster. Flaws it may have, but these largely revolve around a lack of special effects technology available at the time, and a lack of historical evidence due the fact the wreck had not yet been discovered. Despite these minor quibbles, the film is probably the only one to loyally adhere to telling the truth about what happened that night; and it does so in a most compelling way.Unlike the smartingly awful James Cameron schlock boiler, ANTR doesn't pack a spectacular special effects punch - but nor does it pack a spectacularly corny and improbable love story concocted with teenagers in mind. The producers of ANTR understood that you didn't need a fictitious love story to heighten the tragedy of that night - the bitter irony of the real events sufficed.And it is this irony and tragedy that the filmmakers brought out absorbingly well. The comprehensive book by Walter Lord was consulted down to the letter; so the story is told as authentically as possible. With a great script involving mainly real historical characters, perfect casting, and performances that show the actors were engrossed in their roles, the film really does shine. The snappy, economical directing is both proof of the lack of pretensiousness of the producers, as well as being extremely effective in bringing out the meaning in each scene. This makes for intelligent and gripping viewing.Watch out for the poignant scenes in which the crew attempt to contact the nearby Californian to no avail, and Captain Smith walks to the railing and implores God to help them; the scene where the Captain calls every man for himself, then walks into the wheelhouse just before it dips underwater; and the gripping scene in which Thomas Andrews (the Titanic's designer), a broken man, waits in the smoking room for the end, determined to go down with his creation. All these scenes are powerful, authentic and sincere; scenes in which all the various emotions aroused by such a disaster are brought out very clearly and movingly. The special effects, although not so brilliant for today, were fantastic for the times; half the ship was actually constructed for life-size shooting, and a large model was also built, complete with miniature little row boats featuring motorised oars, for the long shots. So the maximum effort was made to make as realistic a depiction of the disaster as possible. And, in fact, the interior scenes of the ship are perfectly authentic, and the audience feels that they are actually aboard the Titanic. Only in the long shots, where a model was used, does the film look noticeably dated.So by sticking as close as possible to the survivor's accounts featured in the Walter Lord novel, and by avoiding modern cinematic clichés, A Night to Remember remains the only Titanic film to provide a genuine account of the sinking of the great ship that is not marred by superficial Hollywood garbage. It tells the story, as it happened, of an event that changed mankind's attitudes toward his own creations; and as such, it brings to the screen the full impact of what this disaster really meant to the world in, as mentioned, a very compelling, poignant and honest way. It is a true testament to British film making.As a footnote, many actual survivors of the Titanic were on set as the film was being made; and the musical pig in the lifeboat scenes was the actual one from the real disaster. In addition, the Titanic's fourth officer Boxhall was a technical adviser to the production. And the film's producer was there, as a small child, when the actual Titanic was launched in Belfast. This kind of authenticity makes this movie almost a living documentary.Intelligent, honest and compelling, A Night to Remember is at least one of the best historical films ever made, and is well worth anybody's time. Everyone is bound to get something out of this movie; and indeed it is a powerhouse for anyone with an interest in the Titanic or just history in general. A totally underrated gem. "},{"Title":"The unsinkable ship","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"54 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night to Remember is an extraordinary film that gives a magnificent account of the Titanic tragedy. The film is based on Walter Lord's book that describes what happened to the ship, that by all accounts, could not sink. The wonderful script illuminates on the facts of that fateful night in which the Titanic sank in the North Atlantic; it was written by Eric Ambler, in a fabulous adaptation for the screen.We had seen this film years ago. On second viewing, the movie has kept its impact on us like no other. The amazing cinematography of Geoffrey Unsworth looks as crisp as when it was first released. Contributing to the enjoyment of the film, Sidney Hayers' editing is excellent, as is the music by William Alwyn. This film shot in London's Pinewood Studios seems real, given the technology of the movies in those days.The human tragedy aboard the Titanic comes across vividly and with high intensity, as the director, Ray Ward Baker, kept everyone moving in perfect formation. One of the many achievements he was able to get from his cast and crew was this precise staging of the story. There is not a false moment in the movie. In keeping the film narrative as a documentary, Mr. Baker gets amazing results from everyone.Among the large English cast, Kenneth More, has the most important part of the ensemble players. Some of the best English actors, working in films at that time, are seen in the movie. The more prominent faces one sees are Honor Blackman, David McCallum, Alec McCowen, Michael Bryant, among others serve the film well in roles that intermingle without making anyone shine over the rest.A Night to Remember was one of the best English films of the period and it is gratifying to have seen it again after many years looking so well. This is a film to treasure. "},{"Title":"No comparison should be made...this was based on a DOCUMENTARY novel...","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"59 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Why do all the commentators here insist on comparing apples to oranges? There is a huge difference between the two movies BUT THE DIFFERENCE IS INTENTIONAL--'A Night to Remember' is based on Walter Lord's documentary-style novel which does not use a fictional story at all. 1997's 'Titanic' does not paint itself as a documentary--the author (James Cameron) chose to tell a fictional love story set against an enormously famous tragic event--AND THIS IS WHAT HE DID. He was not striving to make a documentary. Therefore, no one should be wasting their time trying to compare the two films--each had a specific purpose in mind and accomplished it.If you read the Walter Lord novel, you'd know that 'A Night to Remember' is intended to be a crisp re-telling in documentary style of the events of that fatal voyage. It does so without any frills, sticking closely to the novel's minute by minute description of events. The film never once misses a true beat and all of the performances are excellent. Only in the area of special effects is there a letdown--the model is an obvious model filmed against a black backdrop for the sky. There are other minor flaws that one could quibble with--but on the whole this is a fine, realistic depiction of the actual event. On the other hand, if 1997's 'Titanic' insults you by telling a fictional love story told against this background, then don't bother to see it for that is exactly what Cameron intended it to be--a fictional love story set against the background of an historical event, much the way 'Gone with the Wind' was a fictional love story told against the background of the Civil War and its aftermath.BUT PLEASE--STOP COMPARING THE TWO MOVIES. It's a senseless thing to do. They weren't meant to be compared--each takes a different route toward telling the story and shouldn't be compared, any more than you compare fiction with non-fiction! Each has its own assets and one shouldn't be judged superior to the other. And yes, each one is undeniably an example of great filmmaking. "},{"Title":"A Worthwhile Straightforward Treatment","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The Titanic disaster has provided material for quite an assortment of films, and a number of them have at least something to offer. This is one of the more effective, with its straightforward and, based on the knowledge then available, factually accurate approach. One particularly worthwhile aspect is that it spends more time detailing the reasons for the disaster than do most movies on the subject.Often movies that try to stay close to the facts suffer from a lack of focus, especially when there is/are no central character(s) to hold things together. In this adaptation of A Night to Remember, they solved the problem by focusing much of the action around Second Officer Lightoller, who was involved in some way in so many different aspects of what happened. As a device it works well, and there is enough action involving the other characters to keep it balanced.Another inherent challenge in the story is that there are so many characters, and most of them hold some interest. In this adaptation, they chose simply to depict as many brief situations as possible, often without giving much with which to identify the characters. If you are familiar with Walter Lord's book, it is often possible to identify many of them, but otherwise, it might be a little confusing to sort through so many characters.For such a detail-heavy story, this is an effective and commendable movie. With very few frills, it tells the story believably and sometimes memorably.It does a pretty good job of meeting the main challenges, not telling the complete story, of course, but providing a worthwhile overview of events. "},{"Title":"A Riveting And Emotional Study","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The original adaptation of the Ship of Dreams, 'A Night to Remember' is a riveting and emotional study of the fateful maiden voyage of the RMS Titanic. A British production made on location at Pinewood Studios, Roy Baker's meticulous re-creation of the sinking of the Titanic is an utter masterpiece of cinema. The scale of the sets, the ingenuity of the visual effects and the stellar performances all make this a 1950's Brit-blockbuster at its very best. Whilst the '97 adaptation from James Cameron is a powerful piece of cinema, this stunning and melodramatic 1958 flick spends its 2-hour duration focussing on the lives of everybody aboard the ship instead of wandering off to study a love story between two characters. A film that relies on real-life survivor testimony, 'A Night to Remember' is in my opinion the best adaptation of the tale of the unsinkable ship and one of the best British films to have ever graced the screen. "},{"Title":"A film that displays tragedy so well.....","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Well what can I say? What can you say? I know what my 16 year old cohorts would say; it's rubbish, there's no sex and drugs etc. Well to them I say grow up, there's more to film than that. A red-headed friend at school is talking with Channel 4 about doing a documentary on ginger people, and while everyone else says oh god not another awful waste of disk space, I say good luck. Back to the film, It is brilliant. It puts a lot more emphasis on the crews actions to save that wonderful ship than Camerons and the actor who played Molly unsinkable Brown was credible, believable and so what if the designer, Thomas Andrews, had somehow lost his Irish accent. It was awful for me having to watch as he lent so casually by the fireplace, and adjusted the clock to time, only for it to be frozen in that position for all time. And when E J Smith calls for everyman for himself, and the sense of the ship plunging into the abyss beneath everyone, the atmosphere is tense, and you really start siding with characters, I personally sided with Lightoller, who was portrayed as the brave, professional seaman that he was. Cameron's Lightoller; GET BACK OR I'LL SHOOT YOU ALL LIKE DOGS, was awful and I personally resented that cowardice portray-el of the real hero of the Titanic story. The model is pretty good for its day, and although the smoke stacks are a bit too tall the ship is still identifiable as Titanic, so no need for computer graphics there. The sinking was very well executed and although films don't upset me much, when the old boy with the little kid on the ships fantail are huddled together, with the old man reassuring that he will see his mother in a couple of minutes, that sent a chill through a my body, and I feel really upset as I write this.In short, its a very good film, and does not resort to stupid love stories, and really is quintessentially British!!!!!! "}{"Title":"easy solutions","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Roy Ward Baker's masterly docudrama still holds up well even after nearly a half century. It is a far more historically accurate, and broader-scoped version than the James Cameron 1998 epic. Although I thoroughly enjoyed the latter, the former still wins the prize for historical veracity as well as for dramatic impact.Les from Brighton asks a couple of questions and poses a few comments meriting responseQ With a huge iceberg nearby would it not have been obvious to run the Titanic aground upon it? A Obvious, perhaps, but hardly practical. Icebergs are harder than steel and any attempt to beach an ocean liner on a berg (particularly with nearly perpendicular slopes) would only invite more damage to the vessel. There is some speculation that Titanic might have survived if the lookouts had detected the berg only one minute later than they did. The deck officer would have had no time to attempt evasion and Titanic would have rammed the berg-head on instead of sustaining a glancing blow, which peppered the hull with breaches to sea along her port bow three hundred feet aft. Conceivably, for a head on blow the damage might have been restricted to the first two or so of the first four watertight compartments, which might have allowed Titanic to remain afloat.Q In a similar vein on spotting the light on the horizon (the Californian) I would have thought that setting out for it in one of the lifeboats manned by as many beefy rowers as they could cram into it might have been a good way to get its attention. A SS Californian was anywhere from ten to fifteen miles from RMS Titanic on the night of the sinking. An oar powered life boat (not built for speed but for capacity) with a full crew can make, perhaps, three to four knots on a flat sea. This would mean, roughly, two and a half to four hours for even a beefy lifeboat crew to reach Californian, even if Californian had been close to Titanic, and even if the boat crew had the strength and endurance to pull at maximum speed for the entire time. Titanic struck the iceberg at 11h30 on 14 April and sank at 02h20 on the 15th, slightly under two and a half hours between impact and foundering. There was not enough time to attempt a rescue effort along those lines, and the boat needed for it was better used to get passengers off Titanic.Q On the other hand had I been aboard I may have been running around like the rest A There was very little running around. The crew of Titanic were unpracticed in evacuation procedures, but they were highly disciplined. They loaded the boats and launched them as quickly and efficiently as they could, but the boats were nowhere near capacity when crew launched them. Walter Lord suggests that one of the factors contributing to the high death rate among passengers (there was room in the lifeboats for 1200 passengers and crew, but only 714 survived) was not necessarily that the large number of steerage passengers were deliberately kept from getting to the boat decks, but that few crew members took the initiative to try encouraging steerage passengers to go the boat decks. Even if a few crew members made the attempt to drive passengers to the weather decks, however, most passengers making it to the deck found it too cold and uncomfortable and simply turned around to go back to the warmth of below decks until it was too late. "},{"Title":"They can't make them like they used to","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The excellence of this movie just cannot be overstated. Nothing is missing. Nothing is out of place.Titanic was a microcosm of social class stricture. This point is made very clear at the outset, when we see wealthy, landed gentry (upper), the educated but comfortable (middle) and the Irish rustic (lower) classes, each making their separate rendezvous with the doomed vessel. Lightoller (perfectly played by Kenneth Moore) and his wife, represent our middle-class, arriving by train. There is an interesting comedy of manners concerning personal hygiene, played out in the railway carriage. This film is based upon John Lord's original heavily-researched book, a factual account which has not been compromised with additional drama. As if any were needed. Seen today, it has the appearance of a documentary, an impression reinforced by filming in black & white. Furthermore, because the film is about as long as the Titanic actually lasted after the collision, events unfold in what might be called 'real-time'. The gradual shift from humour and indifference to one of concern and fear, as the realisation slowly begins to gel that this ship is in serious trouble, is astonishingly well done. The camera cuts and cuts again, presenting brief but graphic vignettes of individuals on board, and how their circumstances and attitude alter with time. The captain stares in disbelief at the lights of the nearby Californian. A lost child is picked up by an ageing steward. The baker elects for drunkenness. We hear garbled conversation, often in a foreign language. Millionaires disintegrate, other remain steadfast until the end. The band never falters.In its time, this was the most expensive movie ever filmed in Britain. And it shows in the lavish and authentic set-pieces. Today it is possible to tell that the long-shots of the ship at sea are actually those of a model; though I'm blowed if I know quite how. That model was some 22 feet long and painstakingly copied. Many of the scenes were also filmed during a very cold late-Autumn, so the steaming breath and shivering depicted later were unintentionally authentic. The 'epilogue' on the Carpathia now seems rather needless and trite, but it would have been entirely appropriate in 1912. I think the almost endless cycle of disaster/horror movies of the last half-century have hardened our hearts somewhat. It's all so easy to forget, in a world of celluloid fiction; that this actually happened, and pretty-well just as you see it.Today, perhaps the saddest element of this movie is that it can never be made again. The characters and mannerisms, the sense of honour and stoicism arising from an unflinching belief in ideals, have quietly passed away with their very last representatives that the 1950's encapsulated. There'll be no more fine fellows, no more old beans, no more stiff upper-lips. And hopefully - in an emancipated society - no more 'women and children first'.Get a hold of this movie, and cherish it. Both it and the ship are gone forever. "},{"Title":"This is the way it should be done","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Roy Baker made this extraordinarily fine film about the sinking of the Titanic in the style of a documentary. Although it has a large cast it has no real stars, except perhaps Kenneth More who was a star in Britain at the time. He is an officer on the ship and is the central, linking character. Constrained by budgetary considerations the film used models but the cutting and the matte-work are so fine you are seldom aware of this. The tragedy engulfs you and the tragedy is of epic proportions. The stories of individual passengers come to the fore and the naturalistic acting of the cast make these stories very moving. The film is an honest tear-jerker in a way American movies never can be. It shows the florid, flabby and bloated James Cameron movie up for what it is. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Cameron Version","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Everyone knows what happened to the Titanic ( So no spoiler alerts needed ) and the opening credits alone are far bleaker than the entire James Cameron epic of 1997 . In fact you can't help thinking Cameron based much of his overrated romantic fantasy on this far superior movie . In A NIGHT TO REMEMBER we see the little Englander mentality , the somewhat xenophobic attitude and the rigid class structure and of course the hubristic lofty ideals of the British ruling class . Cameron used these threads in his own screenplay but for some reason injected romance , action , adventure and a storyline similar to a James Bond role reversal all set during 1912 A NIGHT TO REMEMBER is different , it's not a melodrama produced to make profits for the staggering cost of its production , it's a historical drama featuring the sinking of The Titianic . While not being entirely accurate ( It's far more accurate than that other movie ) it is rather understated and rather bleak and Roy Ward Baker directs in an effective documentary style without resorting to an artificial Hollywood blockbuster style or having to change the laws of physics since throughout the disaster characters are reminded that the sinking ship's weight will pull down everything floating nearby , something a later film ridiculously ignored . If I have one criticism about the directing it's once the survivors are in the sea you don't really get the sense of how cold the environment is and we even see at least one character rowing about with the sleeves of his thin shirt rolled up Far superior to the 1997 mega blockbuster A NIGHT TO REMEMBER shows that a disaster movie / historical drama can be quite effective without being massively expensive . Seven out of Ten "},{"Title":"If you watch historical documentaries try to see them in the right sequence, but if you have ANY interest in the Titanic be sure to see this film.","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Three years ago I wrote comments on the 1997 James Cameron film Titanic for this database. Either because of the number of Oscars collected by this film, or its fantastic production cost of some two hundred million dollars, I felt ashamed when reporting that I found it to be a most uncomfortable combination of a historical documentary and an entirely fictional romance. I found it hard to understand why such a major film should have been split between two such disparate styles of presentation. Although I had recognised that several scenes in Cameron's Titanic appeared to have been directly copied from the excellent 1979 TV film S.O.S. Titanic, I did not feel this was adequate to explain the strongly documentary flavour of so many other sequences. All was explained very recently when, thanks to TCM, I had an opportunity to see A Night to Remember for the first time. This is an almost completely documentary 1958 film based on a very thoroughly researched and near definitive book of the same name that was prepared from the testimony given at the official enquiries in the U.K. and the U.S.A., and written by Dr. Walter Lord.. Much of Cameron's film was also documentary and appears to have been directly based on this much earlier film, the remainder was a romantic drama that was essentially incompatible. Cameron probably decided on this approach because ANTR, with no well known stars in the cast, failed to achieve the same success in the U.S.A. as in the U.K. I can now understand that featuring the romance in the way which Cameron did was probably intended to enable his film to create a greater degree of viewer involvement with the unfortunate passengers on the liner and so help to avoid this problem. Unfortunately in my view the documentary and the fictional parts of his film never melded. These comments on the more recent film are necessary before I can meaningfully report my impressions when watching ANTR Although filmed in monochrome and created with a much more modest budget, ANTR is a film that I will find it very hard to forget. Characterisation of both the passengers and crew seemed to me to be spot on, there were none of the occasional caricatures which jarred so severely in the later film. The drama of the events was left to speak for itself and this created a much more powerful film. The three aspects of the Titanic disaster which have gripped public interest so strongly for almost a century are the sudden impact on a community of 2,000 ordinary people from all stations in life as they gradually realize that they probably only have another hour to live, the impact of the rigid class structures of the period on the way in which this situation was handled both by the passengers concerned and by those in authority, and the enormous number of what if? questions that the disaster raised (such as what effect pressure to win the Blue Riband for the fastest Atlantic crossing may have had on the seamanship shown by the officers). All three of these aspects are fully featured in the film, but often in quite subtle ways, and none is given excessive weight. The camera-work and attention to details of presentation, such as the creaking and groaning from the tortured ship, are truly outstanding. Special effects in the 1997 film are admittedly much superior (after all $200 million must buy something!), but those in ANTR are quite advanced for its time and are more than adequate to prevent any serious jarring notes from arising as the film is viewed. Ultimately a film has to be judged primarily by the credibility of the acting and direction, not from the special effects, and I certainly support the view of the majority of IMDb users that these raise ANTR to the status of an exceptionally fine, if not almost unique, movie. A documentary presentation of a major marine disaster which is realistic enough to closely involve most of its viewers will never be everybody's choice of film to watch; but for those who wish to see it, this film will provide an exceptionally rich viewing experience. "},{"Title":"A  Smashing Good Film","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I believe I have got to see every TITANIC movie that there is and when all is said and done, A Night to Remember is my hands-down favourite. I first saw this at the age of 14 and it made quite an impression on me even then.I like the lack of a pretty unbelievable love story. You have for romance the Strauses, the young honeymoon couple, and even a bit of Lightoller smooching Mrs. L. You really do not need more than that in a credible TITANIC film. The costumes were pretty good and true to the time Her Ladyship (whom I believe, based on her lines in the lifeboat, was meant to portray Lady Lucile Duff-Gordon)is great as the snobbish aristocrat...oddly enough her husband seems to care more about people getting picked up--at least he doesn't dismiss it the way his wife does. And her evening gown in the scene where she and her husband are seen entering the First Class Dining Saloon...looks like something out of Worth or Poiret (as an aside here on costuming, in the 1953 version of TITANIC, Barbars Stanwyck's gown seems much truer to the fashion of the time, as does the day dress in the scene where she is reading a poem to Robert Wagner.The black-and-white format gives the film a definite period feel that works nicely with the script and actor performances. Colour probably would have ruined it. And yes, I have cried watching this film as after 47 years, this film still has not lost its ability to move people. There is a certain sadness in the epilogue--that so many people had to die in order for basic safety regulations to be passed into law. Hmmmmm...Lightoller. I think he was shown pretty much the way he was..Kenneth More makes a far better Lightoller (so posh where he fires his pistol then tips his cap to a lady) than Johnny Phillips and his GET BACK I SAY OR I'LL SHOOT YOU ALL LIKE DOGS! histrionics.All in all I give it an eight out of ten, and the deductions are mostly the ripoff scenes from the 1943 TITANIC. All in all one of the first is still the best in my book "},{"Title":"A Night to Remember- definitive account","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I saw A Night to Remember once Saturday afternoon in my grandparent's house when I was 10 years of age. Not being particularly taken with black and white films at this time, I didn't give it much hope for holding my attention. It took minutes. From the launching footage at the start, the normality of Bertie Lightoller, the introduction of the various stories ranging from the heights of the upper class decks all the way down to steerage- and there were Irish people in it too.. 25 years on and I still watch it from time to time. I try and list the most poignant moments but there are too many- The look on Anderson's and Captain Smith's face as realisation of Titanic's fate is confirmed. The increasing despair of the wire operators. The Captain walking, almost stumbling to his final post as the band play Nearer my God to thee. The husband realising he will never see his children again. The innocence of a musical pig.All these moments (and others) were referred to in Titanic (1998) but left me cold. They just did not capture the tragedy of it all and this is the inherent difference between A Night To Remember and all others. Not that I am writing this as a comparative study- in my mind, this film is the one that will stand the test of time while pretenders such as Titanic will fade from people's memories. Don't forget, this film was made with survivors from the disaster still living and helping to share the awfulness of it all. As time goes by, we become removed from such events so much that we can ignore the main point of the story and instead involve a bunch of kids running around with a big jewel in their pockets while being chased by some baddies. Sorry, but this story could be anywhere. The Titanic only sunk once and A Night To Remember honours that event honestly and reverently. "},{"Title":"A definite Night to Remember...","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" For the first time today, a shameful admission in itself, I saw this movie and I was so impressed, it could very well be my favourite film version of the disaster. I do think it is better than James Cameron's Titanic, which I actually liked, but this film is much more compelling and moving. Something I did prefer here than in the Cameron version was the music score, the score here is superb, whereas the music in the 1997 film is a score I am still not sure whether I love or hate.I also loved how A Night To Remember was filmed. The ship is lovingly rendered, and the cinematography and costumes are lavish. In terms of scenes there are many effective scenes, but the sinking scenes here were brilliantly done, it had a sort of edge-of-your-seat feel to it. The story is very documentary-like in its approach, and this was a great idea I think as it allowed us to see the disaster at more than one character angle. Not once did the film get melodramatic, but there were some very moving parts such as the events leading up the ending. The direction is great, the pacing is brisk and the cast headed by a very impressive Kenneth More acts their roles impeccably.Overall, a wonderful movie, the conclusion is a little too wordy, but other than that A Night To Remember is a must-watch! 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I am acting on his advice. This ship is going to founder.","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Directed by Roy Ward Baker, A Night To Remember is adapted by Eric Ambler from the book written by Walter Lord. Tho only met with a lukewarm response at the box office on release, the film has since received critical acclaim and is highly regarded by Titanic historians for its accuracy.The story of the ill fated voyage of the RMS Titanic is here given a first rate telling by Baker and his crew. Kenneth Moore heads up the multiple cast list there's over 200 speaking parts, but crucially they let the story be the star. This is about that desperate and distressing night, when people of all classes perished due to a number of circumstances. Circumstances that are all fully formed here. They largely stick to the source story and by using research with actual survivors they have kept it straightforward and factual. There's also no sub-plots to bog it down, there's time spent with the principals of course, but only enough time to hold our interest when disaster strikes-and decisions are to be made. Given a story with so much detail it's a major achievement that the film never sags, the outcome of which is a classic movie that's as memorable as it is poignant. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The power and the terror","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Along with Brief Encounter, this picture epitomises perhaps the most classic genre of British film the tearjerker that invokes the most powerful of emotions by means of understatement and restraint. It's an old favourite of the BBC, who trot it out at regular intervals... but somehow it gets me to watch it every time. And every time -- knowing the film, knowing the history, knowing the legend of hubris and disaster entwined around the very name Titanic, until the word has lost all connotations of size and evokes only the iceberg and the deadly sea -- every time, I find myself willing hopelessly that things can change. Waiting, with heart in mouth, for the warning to be taken or help to arrive, as if any of my wishing could make it so. The iron grip of events is overwhelming.One of the most impressive things about this film is the almost flawless way in which large amounts of information are conveyed -- and vast numbers of characters introduced -- without any sense of strain or visible exposition. The Titanic's colossal size and provisioning requirements, her status as a national icon of pride, the proportions and variety of her passenger list, all are mentioned naturally and concisely within the first few minutes; the characters on the whole are not established by name, but only by role -- the card sharp, the Polish emigrant girl, the band leader, the man who goes down to his cabin to get drunk -- which in practice is probably a wise choice. We wouldn't remember the names if they were given (various ship's officers get addressed by name, and frankly I didn't remember most of those).Another very powerful choice is the decision not to manufacture villains. It would have been easy to demonise characters individually or collectively in order to create an easy hate target for the audience but it would have been a cheap gesture. People were stupid or hidebound that night; people panicked, or failed to understand. But there was no deliberate malice, and that is the tragedy of it. There were individual moments of nobility and unbearable courage, just as there were acts of blindness and seeming petty motivation, and none of them were the perquisite of any particular group.As a piece of documentary representation, this is in fact remarkably accurate. The central linking role of Second Officer Lightoller has been deliberately amalgamated out of incidents involving several different officers, and other details -- including the launching ceremony -- invented for the purposes of the film, while the depiction of the ship's final plunge is now known to have been erroneous but a large proportion of events incorporated into the screenplay are based on meticulous research.But the great art of this film lies in its use of tiny, effective details to conjure atmosphere or to make a point. A toy pig grabbed a jewellery-box abandoned. A wry line of dialogue Anyone who feels like it can pray -- or you can all come and have a cup of tea. A lapping rim of black-scummed water at the foot of the companionway. A hand silently slipping from its death-grip on an upturned keel...Within its emotional compass, the picture seldom or never puts a foot wrong. Every point is made quietly, by implication, not hammered into the audience, and is all the more telling for that. The mood shifts very gradually from the humour and optimistic warmth of the voyage opening to the clawing terror of the ship's last moments and the icy drained dark of the night; the pacing is almost perfect. The film need not be a moment longer, and could scarcely last a moment less. It draws upon the greatest traditions of British cinema -- the documentary, the intelligent script, the ensemble cast, the emotional intensity -- and in many ways encapsulates them all. "}{"Title":"The  story of the Titanic","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night To Remember must be the most authentic version of the Titanic story . It was made in 1958 from the book by Walter Lord and the screenplay by Eric Ambler. The story is told in a documentary style utilising all the facts that would have had to have been researched prior to filming - eyewitness accounts from actual survivors. It is told with respect and restraint.Laurence Naismith gives a very sensitive and articulate performance as the Captain.Kenneth More really conveys the truth of the moment as Lightoller. The film's low key and factual approach steadily guides the audience to the catastrophic tragedy -- the 'what ifs' are possibly the most resonant pieces of screen time -- the telegraph operator missing the ice warning-- the captain of the boat nearby going back to sleep....... "},{"Title":"The Best Titanic film","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Out of all films about the Titanic A Night To Remember still remains the best of the lot. Based on Walter Lord's meticulously researched book A Night to Remember recalls the events of that terrible April night with both heavy drama and a huge amount of respect for the people affected. The characters made so one dimensional by James Cameron come to life thanks to the brilliant actors, particularly Kenneth More as the Second Officer. J. Bruce Ismay the head of White Star Line comes off as man whose dream was destroyed (rather than the coward Cameron portrayed him as) while the story benefits from having a number of Titanic survivors on set to add their personal stories to the film.For a film made in the late 1950s the effects still look good and actually since they don't dominate the film as they do in Cameron's it means you concentrate on the people. Will still be remembered in 100 year's time (I hope) "},{"Title":"Very much a film to remember.","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I feel a little silly putting a warning about spoilers to my review, after all, it's not like The Titanic is going to undergo a last minute rescue (probably the next Tarantino movie!) but the fate of the ship in this movie is superbly balanced with the fate of the passengers and crew. Some will make it, some won't, but unlike Cameron's Titanic the characters were real people and the movie hardly ever gets it wrong as regards to historical accuracy.I've read Walter Lord's excellent book on which the movie is based, which is able to get to the heart of the drama without once overdoing it. The film is like that, too. It's sober and compelling, and when Kenneth More's character (who survived in exactly the way depicted in the movie) says I don't think I'll ever feel certain about anything again, it merely underlines the incredible story that still feels unreal to this day. It's almost impossible to believe these events actually happened.Like Titanic the movie gets it wrong occasionally - the 3rd class steerage passengers were not deliberately locked below decks; the gates were closed as a matter of routine, and some did make it to safety. But in the main I rate this a better movie than Leo and Kate's effort. From the fate of Astor, ship designer Andrews, Captain Smith and Guggenheim to the lowliest third class passenger, you are made to feel the horror and the drama of those 2 1/2 hours of the ship's sinking. The movie also cleverly depicts that the era of the class society was about to end; such snobbery as displayed by the lifeboat occupants would have turned even 1950s audiences green.Beautifully directed by Roy Ward Baker and acted with British restraint by its cast, A Night To Remember is a film to remember, indeed. "},{"Title":"Memorable Indeed","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This film about the Titanic focuses on the final hours on the ship on that fateful night in 1912. Based on the book by Lord, it is a near-documentary depiction of the tragedy. The bulk of the film is devoted to the aftermath of the collision with the iceberg, as the ship's officials come to the realization that the ship is definitely going down and take steps to save as many passengers as possible. It features fine ensemble acting by a British cast that features the likes of such future stars as Blackman and McCallum. The final scenes of death and panic are heart-wrenching, as many of the men on board accept their fate with quiet dignity. "},{"Title":"The Official Titanic Movie","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Although James Cameron's epic Titanic film is now considered the version of the most famous ship disaster in history, this film should never be eclipsed overlooked. A Night To Remember is a straightforward documentary style drama of what went wrong. I'm sure with all the folks in steerage in Titanic there must have been an Irishman named Murphy and his law was working in full force in April of 1912.The leading cast member of A Night To Remember is Kenneth More as Charles Herbert Lightoller who has been cited in most accounts as showing exceptional leadership and bravery during that night. You won't forget easily what More does in saving a number of people who are in the water as the ship is in its final agonies. Lightoller was the highest ranking ship's officer to survive that night.The famous Denver millionairess Molly Brown who gets her own story in The Unsinkable Molly Brown is played by Tucker McGuire and she and the more famous passengers on the Titanic are reduced to the background. Still enough of her irreverent and feisty character shines through.Although he does have a speaking part I looked in vain in the credits for who played Captain Archibald Butt, military aide to both Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft in the White House. By April 14, 1912 he was one of the few people who was on speaking terms with both men. It's long been a source of interesting speculation that he might have brokered some kind of truce between them. But that was not to be and Roosevelt ran on the Progressive Party ticket for president later that year.Laurence Naismith is the gallant and intrepid Captain Smith of the Titanic. In the true traditions of the sea, Smith went down with his ship. It was hardly his fault that not enough lifeboats were provided, sacrificed for frills for the very first class passengers. It was Smith and a thousand others who paid, interestingly enough not J. Bruce Ismay head of the White Star Lines who is played by Frank Lawton and who survived the disaster. If the Titanic story has a villain he was it.Unlike James Cameron's Titanic, this film had the advantage of several Titanic survivors still alive who remembered and were technical advisers on the film. It doesn't have a romance with attractive young people like Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, but if want to know the real story, A Night To Remember is THE Titanic movie. "},{"Title":"The night the unsinkable sank....","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this at Christmas one year on TV when I was about 10 years old, and was impressed even then at Roy Ward Baker's masterpiece that told the story of the most famous shipwreck of the 20th century - the Titanic. I had read about the Titanic in a book about icebergs but had no idea at just how horrible the real-life tragedy had been until reading Walter Lord's book on which the movie is based.The movie centers around true, factual accounts of the Titanic's passengers as interviewed by Lord when he wrote the book. The ship is launched in Belfast to a cheering crowd but what no one knows is the maiden voyage will also be the ship's last. Titanic's 2nd officer, C.H. Lightoller, is the character most closely followed. It pays close attention to the ice warning that never reached the bridge as well as the Californian's 'role' in the tragedy. J.J. Astor is mentioned but he does not have the prominent role in the movie that he did in Jim Cameron's 'Titanic' which came 39 years later.The mad panic that seemed to surround the sighting of the berg was absent in this one; you can however see Murdoch's eyes getting bigger & bigger as the ship appears not to turn before it strikes the iceberg. It appears to just miss the berg, except for a shot on the well deck as it scrapes past. Laurence Naismith is brilliant as the Titanic's captain; he plays a more decisive captain than others have shown in various Titanic movies.This is a masterpiece that must not be missed; anyone who has seen Jim Cameron's 'Titanic' also needs to see this one. For 1958 the special effects re-creating the sinking are incredibly realistic - remember digital effects didn't exist in 1958! And its story is entirely based on factual experiences of the ships' crew & passengers. Though Cameron's film is a masterpiece in its own way, this one also is - it is a documentary-type movie as opposed to the fictional characters set against the Titanic backdrop in the 1997 movie. See this one! "},{"Title":"Accurate depiction of this tragic event","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Of all the movies depicting the sinking of the Titanic, this version is the most accurate to detailed accounts from witnesses as to how it actually happened. The movie is based on the Sir Walter Lord book of the same name, which was the result of years of research he did on the subject.It is magnificently done, both artistically and dramatically. Certainly the technology used in the production is dated, but the filming technique actually adds, rather then detracts, to the somber mood of the impending disaster. The black and white filming gives an overall claustrophobic tone, and puts the viewer aboard the ship along with the passengers to empathize with the horror these people must have endured.Someone who has seen the more fictionalized version Titanic! will recognize some lines of (word-for-word) dialog and some actions by the passengers and crew. These things actually took place and Cameron's movie borrowed much of the information it used from Lord's work, and this movie. None of the fiction, (such as people shooting each other during the sinking) is in this version. But you will see the heroism of some passengers voluntarily sacrificing themselves so someone else could get on a lifeboat. You will also see cowards who impersonated women to sneak aboard lifeboats. This movie gives you everything that happened, positive or negative.Certainly the story addresses how the calamity occurred--what mistakes were made, and by whom, and how the crew and passengers addressed their situation. It's done remarkably well, and the scene of the band singing Nearer My God to Thee, is touching and heartbreaking. Objects from the wreck, shown floating in the water, are haunting.Highly recommended, a fine movie which depicts the history well, and shows proper respect for those who perished. "},{"Title":"Best Motion Picture about the 1912 event.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  If a viewer is interested in a historically accurate movie about the Titanic sinking than this 1958 British film is about as close as you'll get.  The film continues to hold  up well  forty odd  years after it was made. Other films about the ill fated vessel followed including the James Cameron version which had very little to do with historical accuracy.  This picture has no per se big name star in it but it's depiction of the event is what makes it the fine film it is.  A pre Avengers and Goldfinger  Honor Blackman is featured in the cast.   "},{"Title":"an excellent straight-forward 1950s masterpiece about the Titanic disaster","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The 1912 sinking of the RMS Titanic has been described as one of the worst disasters of the 20th century. The terrible night in which thousands of passengers aboard the ship died horrible deaths in the freezing waters of the Atlantic Ocean has been re-enacted for the screen many times before. Most of these adaptations include fictional subplots to make it seem more Hollywood and keep the audience interested. But the 1958 film A Night to Remember proves itself entertaining without using fictional subplots. It is shot in a documentary-like style with a seldom-used soundtrack and revolves around several real-life characters that either survived or died in the Titanic disaster.The film is high in entertainment value even without major characters. The famous incident with the iceberg occurs early in the film and the other three-quarters of the two-hour running time is devoted to the slow and chilling sinking of the ship. It has a masterful way of showing the initial calmness of the crew and passengers and then slowly gets more chaotic. Acting is effective by all members of the cast, especially by Laurence Naismith as Capt. Edward J. Smith.Like I mentioned earlier, the soundtrack is almost non-existent in A Night to Remember. We do hear a few cues, but only when it's necessary, otherwise, there is no background noise except for the ship's engines or the screaming of panicking passengers.In short, A Night to Remember is a film that I will recommend to most. For those I would not recommend is the crowd that does not bother to look at black-and-white pictures or those who want more seriously involved characters that are more central to the plot, such as in James Cameron's 1997 telling of the story. If I was to pick between the two of them, I wouldn't be sure which one I'd choose as the better. But I do recommend A Night to Remember. "},{"Title":"Vividly Effective Docudrama-Style Handling of the Legendary Sinking","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Sixty-four survivors from the actual Titanic were interviewed extensively by author Walter Lord for his meticulously researched 1955 book, A Night to Remember, the basis of this still-remarkable 1958 dramatic reenactment of the momentous sinking. Obviously this lends great authenticity to this production, which feels very much like a docudrama offering a diverse gallery of characters to track instead of a main protagonist. While there are inarguably impressive elements in James Cameron's über-successful 1997 epic version of the same tragedy, most specifically the technical details and mind-bending CGI images and effects, this much lower-budget British film manages to feel more dramatically resonant simply because the superficial Hollywoodization of the event is not evident here, i.e., the forced melodrama, heightened romance and stereotypical characters.Director Roy Baker and screenwriter Eric Ambler draw upon a much broader canvas by having the camera roam through the ship and capture the essence of the various people on board from the boiler room workers to the first class passengers. This compelling approach doesn't change as the ship sinks as we continue to recognize a full emotional range between heroism and cowardice through these characters. The other aspects that this version handles well are the specific construction-related reasons for the ultimate sinking and the roles played by two other ships during the tragedy. Not only was there the Carpathia, too far away to get to the Titanic on time yet there to pick up survivors, but also the Californian, a steamship only ten miles away and within sight. As vividly portrayed in the movie, the officers of the Californian misinterpreted the distress signals and did nothing to come to the Titanic's aid. You will likely recognize several scenes here that were repeated almost verbatim in Cameron's film, in particular, the lifeboat-boarding scenes and the aftermath of the sinking. What doesn't sync up is the ship dramatically breaking in two, a fact not depicted in the film since it was not verified until years afterward.The primitive nature of the special effects may frustrate younger viewers, even though the then-standard use of small models is still pretty impressive on its own. The film also spends a bit too much time with incidental characters such as the drunken baker and the dedicated string musicians. There are a few familiar faces in the large cast, chief among them Kenneth More as the heroic second officer whose forward-moving calm saved many lives, Honor Blackman (later Bond girl Pussy Galore in Goldfinger) as the young newlywed determined to stay with her husband, and David McCallum (Ilya Kuryakan on TV's The Man from U.N.C.L.E.) as an assistant wire operator. Geoffrey Unsworth is responsible for the striking black-and-white cinematography. The 1998 Criterion Collection DVD has an excellent hour-long making-of feature, as well as an interesting commentary track by Titanic experts Don Lynch and Ken Marshall. Two trailers round out the extras. "}{"Title":"James Cameron who?","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night to Remember is not simply spectacular storytelling, it's a sincere and awesome piece of anthropology on what happens when people are faced with the end of the world - this particular world of the unsinkable great ship, which I think is an unintentional(?) metaphor for society in general, where our structure hits a big wall, and we're forced to go down with the ship (just like now perhaps?) Seeing how the people variously react, with no one quite like the other aside from mob mentality, is staggering and hear-rending. While a lot of this is taken from already compelling historical fact culled from the novel by Walter Lord, Baker's direction of the large cast, and these performances (all by people I frankly don't know much at all, though Honor Blackman rings a bell) being all around stellar, not to mention Geoffrey Unsworth's classy cinematography, turn this monumental tragedy into a kind of melancholy poetry that mourns the sadness that comes with men/women/children in peril but honors when people can be good. It's noble and exciting, which is more than can be said for Cameron's film that takes many set pieces straight out of this (not even in a subtle way, I mean like compositions and staging exactly). Aside from special effects, which have dated somewhat, it's a total knock-out from start to finish. "},{"Title":"The greatest of all tragedies","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I put on A Night to Remember with some trepidation, as with any movie where you know the ending will be horrible. As I write this I have just finished watching the movie, and, at this moment, it happens to be 220 a.m. local time, the moment Titanic sunk beneath the waves, 100 years ago. It is impossible to fully grasp the enormity of the disaster, but the movie helps, as does reading the book it was based on. It also helps to know that both stick close to the true facts. Sure, there are some minor embellishments, such as the christening of the ship and the children's playroom, but they aren't significant. The one detail that does bother me is the muddied presentation of the women and children first policy. There have been a lot of articles about the Titanic lately, some with new information not available when Walter Lord wrote his book, others simply clarifying old information. It seems Captain Smith issued the women and children first order, which Second Officer Lightoller interpreted as women and children only. In the movie, Lightoller changes the order several times, muddying who, exactly, screwed up here, as there were often empty seats in the lifeboats that could have been filled with men, had Lightoller followed Smith's order. This was not my first time watching the movie, and previously I had felt Lightoller was a hero. The movie desperately needs a hero, and Lightoller was alive and a consultant to the film. He doesn't look quite so good this time around, but the film tries not to pass judgment on Lightoller's error, or anyone else's -- and there are plenty to go around -- except perhaps Bruce Ismay's in sneaking onto the lifeboat. And the clueless crew of the Californian. New scientific analysis of the weather records suggests there was a thermal inversion at the time that created a mirage effect on the ocean. This raised the visible horizon and created distortions, making it harder to see approaching icebergs, and altering the view of the Titanic by the Californian, which may explain why they couldn't see each others' signal lamps. Still, they had to have been pretty dense not to recognize distress rockets and turn on the wireless. The most important fact missing from the movie is that Capt. Smith plotted a new course after getting the iceberg reports, much farther south than the original. And there was never, ever any plan to set a speed record, as briefly alluded to in the movie. This was a pure lie perpetrated by William Randolph Hearst's newspapers. The White Star liners were not built for speed, but for luxury, and were incapable of out-racing the Cunard liners.Add to that the fact that icebergs were reaching much farther south than recent memory because of a shift in the warm, iceberg melting Gulf Stream, and Capt. Smith doesn't look quite so irresponsible. Still, he could have managed the response to the sinking better. Some say he could have tried to plug the leak with canvas or something, to slow down the sinking. And then there was the matter of the missing binoculars; surely, he could have found a pair or two for the lookouts. And then there were the wrought iron rivets used in the hull's bow. Analysis of actual rivets recovered from the Titanic indicate they would have failed under pressure, leading to the hull's plates to unzip, producing a relatively slow leak, rather than the cascading water portrayed in the film. These weak rivets may have doomed Titanic. But there were so many other factors contributing to the ship's fate, and so many opportunities to avoid that fate, had people acted more prudently. Why does the Titanic still fascinate, a century after it's sinking? Simple It's a great story! The makers of this film were wise to stick closely to the facts; how can you improve on real life? James Cameron tried, but all he got was a $200 million disaster flick.The real Titanic is a mini-Homeric sea epic wrapped in a Greek tragedy. This time Odysseus loses his ship on the way home because he tempted fate with his conceit, and fate won. Aeschylus could not have written a better tragedy. This one was written by the Great Playwright, Himself. But Shakespeare (Edward de Vere) understoodAll the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players They have their exits and their entrances ....What we witness at the end of A Night to Remember are the exits. It is those men and women who faced their fate with dignity and faith that are the true heroes of this tragedy, whom we should honor on this centennial anniversary. And then there is Ismay, who must wander the Earth for the rest of the life, haunted by what he has seen and done.May they all finally rest in peace. "},{"Title":"Voyage to the bottom of the sea","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Although Cameron's version was OK as soaps go, this unpretentious black and white British effort will remain the definitive movie of the catastrophe that night. In 2 compact hours you get to know a dizzying array of people from all walks of life and of all dispositions, some to survive and some to die, and all told with an amazing regard for the truth coupled with bald entertainment values.Everyone knows the story of the Titanic sinking on its maiden voyage killing 1500 people &#150; and yet this is watchable over and over again. I suppose trying to make sense of it all even at this distance is one reason along with the human fascination with disasters of all kinds, but ultimately what can be so fascinating about drowning in this world of water where even we are 98% water too? God hasn't got a sick sense of humour but none at all to let this happen - the singing by the passengers at the end of Nearer, My God, To Thee is so poignant. In these 2 hours you identify with the characters and run through so many human emotions worry, anguish, hope, fear, resignation, humour, honour, aplomb as befitted good breeding, altruism and self-sacrifice in spades, selfishness, cowardice and calmness &#150; it's all here. If in a similar situation which one would you and I be? Cameron made a blockbuster on the same subject (and therefore comparable) with a keen eye for cgi cartoon detail, but generally unengaging characters with soap opera tendencies and the famous Kate Winslet nude scene to sell it all &#150; ie not in the same league as this one. There were so many good performances, but if I had to single just one out it would be 2nd Officer Kenneth More &#150; a sterling actor playing a sterling character.It's a grippingly sad yet rewarding classic film, of that you can be very sure. "},{"Title":"Titanic sans Schmaltz","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night to Remember (1958) ****Of the many films made about the Titanic disaster, A Night to Remember stands at the top. While it doesn't have the pure visual replication carried out by Cameron's 1997 epic, it nevertheless creates an incredible replication of the great ship, especially considering that this was made in 1958. Roy Ward Baker's film, based on Walter Lord's book also spares the 3 hour schmooze fest and melodrama that hurt Cameron's film. A Night to Remember is akin to a police procedural, except you know, about a rapidly sinking boat conducted by civilians and crewmen. The film is set on no one in particular, but rather follows the exploits of various members of its cargo, officers, captains, rich folk, poor folk. Watching this one, you can certainly see the elements Cameron borrowed and suggested at in his version. Little time is wasted getting to know everyone, and in no time at all the great ship has hit and iceberg. It is comparable to the second half of Cameron's film - which I always felt should be the point of a Titanic film. The effects used for the sinking ship are outstanding, although viewers certainly will notice that the sinking ship sinks in a manner that we're not accustomed to. No we do not see the ship break in half here. That information was not officially gathered until the 1980s when the ship's remains were found (although some survivors had recalled seeing the ship break in half, the official story was that she went down intact). The film of course is subject to some fine hammy 50s acting (Molly Brown here is the worst offender) but overall this version is very subdued, aiming for an overall documentary like retelling. If you are looking for a Titanic without the 2 hour melodramatic prelude, you'ld be well to spend sometime with A Night to Remember "},{"Title":"A Motion Picture To Remember!","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The night of the title was the night of the sinking of the Titanic on her maiden voyage in April of 1912 as related in the book of the same name by Walter Lord. I have read several books on this subject, including this one, and the events of this motion picture seem fairly accurate. When you add excellent acting by an all British cast, I believe you have a motion picture worth remembering. I particularly liked Kenneth More's performance, but the excellence of the acting was such that even minor performances by John Merivale, Michael Goodliffe, Anthony Bushell, and other actors stood out. This motion picture was two hours long, but it did not seem that long. From beginning to end, it was well-done and interesting. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"A terrific and very moving film.","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is superior in every respect to the 1997 Hollywood movie Titanic. A Night To Remember features many more characters than the 1997 version but the character development is much better. You care more for the characters in this movie than you do for the fewer central characters in Titanic. As I watched this movie, I was moved by the utter tragedy of the disaster. The 1997 film, a blockbuster, special effects, action movie, used the disaster as a background for a love story and failed to convey the magnitude of the human tragedy. I believe the 1997 version is an example of Hollywood appeasing the lowest common denominator need for action, adventure, and big-time special effects over good cinema. I found A Night To Remember a much more moving and valuable piece of cinema. Titanic was a good movie but A Night To Remember is a truly great movie. You do not watch a movie like this for mere entertainment. It is a touching, sad, and finally, an inspirational film. Very highly recommended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"To The Point","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It's difficult, of course, to comment on this movie - or even to judge it on its own merits - without immediately succumbing to the temptation of comparing it to the 1997 blockbuster Titanic. That's too bad, because this is in its own right a superb movie, which, for the most part, offers what appears to be (from my admittedly imperfect knowledge of the historical event of the sinking of the Titanic) a faithful recreation of what happened on that memorable night.Whereas the '97 version added a fictional romance between a somewhat implausible couple in order to recount the story through their eyes, this movie sticks quite to the point. We seem to get to the iceberg fairly quickly, and the movie does a good job of showing the gradually (very gradually, actually) rising tension and ultimately panic on the ship. While some may not have liked the addition of the romance in Titanic I think it might have given the '97 movie somewhat more of an ability to draw the viewer into the story by giving them characters to really get to know and to care about, and I have to confess that - while I think both movies are tremendous - Titanic did make a bit more of an impact on me for some reason.The performances in this movie were excellent, though and this did come across as a team effort by the cast. No one really stood out as the star. You couldn't identify one actor (or one character) and say this is who the movie was about. Some of the performances were worth noting, however. Laurence Naismith as the Captain was excellent, as was Michael Goodliffe as Mr. Andrews, the ship's designer. Both know almost from the first moment that the ship is going to sink, and both are portrayed as calm and professional in going about their duties - the way I would like to believe they would have been. Tucker McGuire gives her own take on Molly Brown, and is quite good in the role. I also appreciated the focus on the Carpathia and the desperate attempt by its captain (Anthony Bushell) to get to the scene of the disaster as fast as possible, as well as the Californian, which was closer but ignored the sinking.The only real flaw here couldn't be helped given that the movie was made in 1958. James Cameron had the advantage of computer simulations and, of course, the fact that the wreck has been found. He knew the boat split in half before it went down. In this movie, the Titanic goes under in one piece. But they wouldn't have had any way of knowing that, I suppose, although one wonders why the survivors - from whose accounts the original book by Walter Lord (which I read when I was in high school) and then this movie are supposed to have been made - didn't mention it.In any event, one has to recommend this movie to anyone truly interested in the historical event. For those more interested in a story and its characters, the '97 version is out there (and reasonably accurate enough as to the details in itself.) 8/10 "},{"Title":"A TRIBUTE TO WALTER","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Walter Lord sadly died in May 2002 aged 85 and is justly famous for his meticulous research of the circumstances surrounding the sinking on Monday 15/4/1912 of the White Star liner,RMS Titanic and stirring the public's interest in this disaster.There are a few factual errors in this marvellous Rank Organisation 1958 film.The ship is seen to sink in one piece but this was the received wisdom in 1955 when the book was first published.The picture above the fireplace in the first class smoking room is seen to be The Approach to the New World (by Norman Wilkinson).In fact this hung in the equivalent location on her earlier sister ship, RMS Olympic.The correct painting should have been Plymouth Harbour by the same artist.Also White Star and the ship's constructors, Harland & Wolff just launched their liners at their Belfast shipyard without flowery speeches such as ....I Name this ship Titanic.May god bless her etc etc.The launching scene is actually of the Olympic which you can tell because of her light grey painted hull made more photogenic for the cine cameras of the day - Titanic's hull was black. with white superstructure and a gold band separating these two colours.Lord admitted these understandable errors in his sequel The Night Lives On (1986) after Dr Robert Ballard ( of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute ,Massachussets) at last found the final resting place of the ship, 2 1/2 miles down on the Atlantic floor in 1985.That said, this is a riveting and unforgetable docu-drama of this historical event, arguably the most infamous maritime disaster (although loss of life has been greater in other shipwrecks).The fascination lies in the if onlys.i.e. if only she had been going a few knots slower, if only she had had enough lifeboats for all instead of the maximum laid down by the British Board of Trade in their already out of date 1894 regulations, when the maximum tonnage was deemed to be up to 10000 tons.Titanic came in at 46000 tons.If the weather had been rougher, waves would have broken over the base of the iceberg thus making it more visible.If the crow's nest crew had been given binoculars (they were removed at Southampton).If the Titanic had not been delayed in her construction (and therefore her 31/5/11 launch) by her shipworkers being transferred to the repair in September 1911 of the RMS Olympic following a collision in the Solent with HMS Hawke.If 1st officer Murdoch had steered straight at the berg instead of trying to avoid it the ship may have stayed afloat (although deaths would have occurred by the crumpling of the bow).If the California's captain, Stanley Lord had raised wireless operator, Cyril Furmston Evans who had just retired for the night, instead of trying to contact the mystery ship with a Morse lamp.If Alexander Carlisle, marine architect who originally planned 32 lifeboats had not been over-ruled by White Star because it made the boat deck look cluttered.In fact RMS Titanic ended up with 16 lifeboats, the regulation number required by law, but then White Star actually exceeded the quota by the provision of an extra two Englebert collapsible sided lifeboats with a further two lashed on top of the officers' quarters.If a vital ice message from the Caronia sent on behalf of Capt. Barr and received by senior Titanic Marconi operator John Phillips, had gone to the bridge in good time, warning of icebergs directly in the path of the ill fated vessel.And so the if onlys go on.The fascination is of a small Anglo Saxon floating town set in 1912 with all the social classes represented from the aristocratic and rich (first) class, to the professional middle (second) class down to the emigrant and poor (third/steerage) classes - and never the twain shall meet.The gilded age, as termed by Mark Twain, had begun in about 1890 and society was marvelling at the wit of man and the many technological innovations and inventions.Perhaps Mankind could outdo Nature but a Greek tragedy was waiting in the wings to punish man for his rash hubris and arrogance.There is a companion video available called The making of A Night To Remember which goes behind the scenes at Pinewood studios and shows the locations used.Actual Titanic survivors were invited as advisors to the Irish producer, William MacQuity, among them were Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall, Lawrence Beesley, the science master from Dulwich College (who wrote the book Titanic Its Story and Its Lessons, published by Houghton Mifflin 1912)- a second class passenger who escaped in boat 13.Captain Edward John Smith's daughter Helen stated that the actor Lawrence Naismith who played him, was uncannily like her father as evidenced in contemporay photographs of the two men at approx. the same age.Captain Smith died aged 62, (probably on his last voyage before retirement although this can never be proved).Actor Kenneth More is seen chatting to Sylvia Lightoller the widow of Charles Herbert Lightoller who was second officer,- read his biography Titanic Voyager.The convincing creaking sound you hear as Andrews tries to sit down in the first class smoking room just before the end, was the actual sound of the hydraulic lifting gear in the studio as it progressively raised the floor.MacQuitty was very careful to ensure the accuracy of the film set angles (of the ever slanting deck as she sank by the bow and rose by the stern), were always matching the dramas recorded by witnesses, so there is a marvellous sense of continuity in the filmed sinking.The B&W photography merges seemlessly with the authentic period film and all the actors convincingly say their lines many based on actual speeches said by the principal characters as remembered by witnesses.This is a superb film.Watch Cameron's Titanic 1997 only for the special effects. "},{"Title":"The Movie of Record","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was very well put together, in an era in which its makers did not have the advantages available to James Cameron.  But A Night to Remember certainly outdoes Titanic, as a dramatic, uplifting, entertaining movie, and for its far-superior and much-more-thorough historical substance.  I do not care whether A Night to Remember had to make use of fake scenery in some instances, while, for example, some minute physical quality of the ship was replicated in 1997 (and even Cameron was not perfect in this regard).  For it is the substance that counts, and aside from the unbalanced presentation, some things--both substance, and less important (like ability to withstand cold weather)--in the turgid 1990s blockbuster were not represented as they were, even in reckless disregard of the truth--e.g., with respect to the conduct of First Officer Murdoch.   Nothing like this would have ever happened in a film based on Walter Lord's book.  A big deal about Titanic was that accuracy was such an accomplishment, but it beats A Night to Remember only in the sense of the technological advantages its makers had, like knowing that the ship had split in half.OK, I'll admit, Titanic was still a good movie, but it pales next to this one.  I do not mean to overly dwell on the comparison, but I am more interested in seeing the perspective of Second Officer Lightoller than that of creators of nude paintings and some rich villains -- save that for another flick, not involving the Titanic disaster.  The themes of heroism, perseverance, and cowardice, and ultimately, loss, are explored better in this 1958 masterpiece than 39 years later, Leonard DiCaprio notwithstanding.  For aside from being thorough and balanced, director Roy Ward Baker is very straightforward in his depiction of the disaster, and allows us to see it from the point of view of the doers, the executors.  The acting?  Yes, Titanic had its share of good acting, but Kenneth More is excellent as Lightoller, and we get to see pre-spy Honor Blackman and David McCallum, and both do very nicely.  10 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Best Titanic film, wonderfully produced","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A Night T Remember is the BEST of the Titanic films easily superior to the more famous J. Cameron soap opera version. There is no fabricated story to get in the way of the telling of what happened that night in 1912. The ship, itself, seems to be the star of the film. Filmed in black and white, it has the feel of being a docudrama. The DVD version is really the one to have. Not only is the picture excellent, but there are bonus features that are worth the price of the disk - a making of documentary featuring the producer of the film, William MacQuitty, and Walter Lord who wrote the book that was the basis for the film (he also wrote a second book correcting some errors in the first one, The Night Lives On) AND an audio commentary track by two Titanic experts, Don Lynch and Ken Marschall who point out various changes in actual happenings and going into more depth about the role of the Californian, the ship in visual distance that did not come to aid of the sinking Titanic.Considering that this film was made in 1958, it is a technical marvel. Yes, there are models used for parts of the film, but they are excellently done. If someone is expecting the computer generated special effects of today, they might be disappointed, but that is nit-picking as you become drawn into the happenings and forget such minor things.With a predominately British cast or unfamiliar faces, the characters become more real than seeing some familiar Hollywood player in a roll. The performances are excellent and many of the actors have a striking resemblance to photos of the actual people.There are some things that have now been proven to be incorrect - the ship is shown sinking in one piece and not breaking half - but this was the opinion of the time that is did not break apart. Since the finding of the Titanic on the ocean floor, we now know it did break up. But these things can not take away from a truly excellent film.Anyone who is fascinated by the Titanic and wants to view a film with a you are there feeling should have this excellent production, especially on DVD.   "}{"Title":"Artful, Unfettered, Cinematic Depiction of Disaster","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I had seen this movie in the theatre as a child. The image of a serving trolley moving slightly in the first class dining room by the first tilt of the ship, lingered in my mind all these years. Today it evokes for me the baby carriage on the Odessa steps. I just saw the Criterion DVD edition priceless, with informative extras and participation of real survivors (filmed in the 50's). The movie holds up splendidly. Ever increasing tension is created by editing, use of the camera, sober use of props. Indeed the sliding trolley is a haunting example of the cinematic mode in which tension is ratcheted we go back to the same image, each time with more pronounced tilt and movement, purely cinematic depiction of increasing powerlessness and doom.  Restrained cross-sectional plot hints are enough to depict the variety and complexity of the human load aboard. These are economical but multiple and diverse enough incidental passenger portraits for us to develop care and empathy with individuals as well as to develop a sense of the grand but very human tragedy unfolding on-screen. There is no dominant story line other than the vessel itself; no love story here. Comparisons to Titanic are unfair to both films, but unavoidable. One can enjoy both, but it seems to me A Night to Remember, even with an overlit model ship, is the more moving, elegant, arguably realistic, ultimately most satisfying of the Titanic movies. It also has a mercifully less intrusive musical soundtrack. (There is also a Titanic with Clifton Webb and Robert Wagner.....not really in the same league as either of the two films discussed above).  "},{"Title":"an excellent movie!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Even today, A Night to Remember is still worth watching. It gives a feeling of awe even though its in black and white and doesn't have any of the fantastic special effects of modern films. Night to Remember doesn't get its power from its special effects. Rather, it relies on the superb acting and drama the characters present. It is these qualities that make Night to Remember hard to beat. And it also makes one have a better appreciation of good old black and white films!  "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Review in a sentence  Far superior to Cameron's blockbuster.No one can deny that 1997's Titanic was entertaining and technically dazzling.  However, A Night to Remember is better than Titanic because it is more engrossing, and it is almost completely based on fact.  Whereas Cameron strayed liberally from historical events, A Night to Remember (based on the Walter Lord novel of the same name) is practically a documentary.  And most of the inaccuracies in ANTR can be attributed to lack of knowledge at the time it was filmed (for example, it was not known that the ship broke in half prior to sinking until the ship was discovered in the 1980s).  In the 1997 film, I became misty eyed when fictional characters experienced hardship and loss.  In this movie, I cried for real life people who lost their lives or the lives of their loved ones during this spectacular disaster.  10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Excellent drama about the sinking of the Titanic. Well written and well acted. Really brings across all the elements of the Titanic trajedy, even touching on some things that James Cameron's film didn't. Particularly in touching on the lives of some of the passengers. While Cameron's movie was more of a soap opera, this movie has a strong human element. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Far Better than Titanic","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The over-hyped special effects spectacle called Titanic, can't hold a candle to this taut, gripping, underplayed drama.  A Night to Remember lets the inherent drama of the Titanic catastrophe provide the emotion.  In fact, juxtaposing the unflappable Kenneth More with the events seems to make them that much more wrenching.The black and white photography here makes the color of Titanic look like a waste of emulsion.  And, believe it or not, there are a few special effects in A Night to Remember that give Titanic a run for its mega-bucks.There's a Criterion DVD of this film. Buy it and compare.   "},{"Title":"Interesting  British adaptation retelling the famous tour  of the luxury liner","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This notorious and gripping tale concerns about the voyage of the Titanic, it's a watchable reconstruction of what happened on the disastrous night in 1912 written by Eric Ambler and based on Walter Lord's text . The luxury liner is full of people want to flee of misery for a new life in America. At the ship appear passengers from the first and second class of different social and economic ladder and from diverse ends.The luxurious cruiser crashed in the fateful moment with an inevitable iceberg that resulted in the death of more than 1000 passengers. At the finale are told the following words 'For their sacrifice was not in vain, today there are lifeboats for all, unceasing radio vigil and in the North Atlantic , the International Ice patrol Guards of the sea lanes making them safe for the people of the world'.Fictional and actual characters are mingled for a detailed reenactment of the luxury liner. Picture is quite effective in conveying the calm and panic on the real sinking . There are the ordinary subplots, personal drama, heroes, cowards, comedians, and musicians. Story gets a little melodramatic but is added an exciting account of danger, risk, despair and courage. Excellent performance by Laurence Naismith as 1ª Captain, John Smith, he's properly correct as the veteran Officer making his last travel before retirement and the Second Officer, Charles Herbert, perfectly acted by Kenneth Moore. And large secondary cast formed by prestigious British actors, as David McCallum, Kenneth Griffith,Alec McCowen,Honor Blackman,Anthony Bushell,Michael Goodliffe... The special effects are impressive, a long model of big size was built for the splendid recreation. Adequate score by William Alwyn and usual musical conductor by Muir Matheson. Evocative and atmospheric black and white cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth.The motion picture is effectively directed by Roy Ward Baker who keeps the outcome of the ship tense and suspenseful, in spite of the end is well known. The story will like everybody , despite we've seen many times.Another movies about this fateful accident are the following Titanic(1953) Hollywoodized version by Jean Negulesco with Barbara Stanwyck,Clifton Webb, Robert Wagner and Edmund Purdom in the role of Kenneth Moore; mega-budget and Oscarized adaptation(1997) by James Cameron with Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet and Billy Zane; and TV version(1996)by Robert Lieberman with George C. Scott,Peter Gallagher and Catherine Z. Jones. "},{"Title":"Our Hearts Will Go On For This Version As Well&#133;","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Roy Ward Baker's (what a truly great but sadly underrated director this was&#133;) version of the Titanic catastrophe is unquestionably one of the most astounding and technically superior adventure movies of the cinematic black and white era, but I reckon it will become very difficult to recommend it to nowadays audiences. Let's face it, why would anyone opt to see this old and dated version when the most expensive movie ever made revolves on exactly the same facts and &#150; moreover &#150; features an extra love story and stars a cast full of extremely popular faces? Quite a lot of reviews I encountered for A Night To Remember state that this is the one and only version for mature and demanding audiences to see. Well, that's quite an exaggeration. I am aware that it's a popular nowadays sport to hate James Cameron's Titanic and, in all honesty I'm not the biggest fan of the dire fictional love-triangle plot myself, but the second half of the film &#150; the actual sinking &#150; is undeniably brilliant, staggering and unforgettable cinema. This movie, albeit half a century old by now, is staggering and unforgettable as well and admittedly it accomplishes these effects merely through factual narrative and the pure professionalism of everyone involved in the production. I presume it's rather useless to give a brief description of the plot. Everybody knows what overcame the supposedly unsinkable ship the Titanic during its maiden voyage across the Atlantic Ocean &#150; unless of course you just flew in from another planet &#150; and the screenplay of this wondrous movie (based on a documentary book) collected the memories and declarations of numerous survivors. Most aspects of the tragedy, like the disregarding of the weather reports, the actual collision with the iceberg and the painfully slow and clumsy evacuation of the passengers, are commonly known and also feature in pretty much every other film version, but A Night to Remember also fascinatingly elaborates further on the two ships that were nearest to the Titanic, namely the Carpathia and the Californian. Particularly the latter provides a jaw-dropping sub plot, as the crew never realized what dramas occurred at barely 10 miles away from them. Other small and already details about this historical event are illustrated just as saddening and emotionally moving here as they are in James Cameron's multi-budgeted blockbuster, like the faithful orchestra and the several brave and honorable crew members that sacrificed their lives for the safety of the passengers. Director Roy Ward Baker could rely on an extended but extremely dedicated cast (including some prominent names like Honor Blackman and Michael Goodliffe) and everything else &#150; like music, photography, choreography and costume designs &#150; are literally astonishing as well. "},{"Title":"The best Titanic.","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Fans of this film, of which I'm one, will tell you that this beats James Cameron's mega-box-office smash Titanic from the 1990's into a cocked-hat. I haven't seen the earlier Hollywood Barbara Stanwyck movie (also called Titanic) from around 1953, but this British take on the tragically doomed luxury liner's maiden voyage looks like the one to beat. Shame about the awful title by the way, wholly unfitting for the scale of tragedy that occurs here.Compared to Cameron's, in my opinion, overblown epic, we get near-documentary realism, understated acting (many of the characters taken from real-life), a general broadening out of the story to take in more characters and situations, not to mention the near absence of sentimentaility and of course complete absence of that appalling Celine Dion song.Kenneth More leads the cast as a firm-but-fair ship's officer, but no-one dominates screen-time as myriad little vignettes are played out in front of us displaying the full gamut of human emotions and reactions that proximity to a great disaster evokes. So that while most of the characters display courage, even heroism, stoic acceptance and sacrifice, the film doesn't shy away from also depicting acts of treachery and cowardice in the mêlée on board.The special effects are fine for their time; okay you can occasionally see the use of models in some of the long shots of the stricken boat, but there's no shortage of water flowing in in torrents and the sets are well made and realistic to behold.The direction is well-paced and as indicated above largely avoids histrionics and certainly achieved its aim, surely, of putting the viewer on board. I rarely looked away from the screen once the Titanic started to list and was quite moved by some of the little play-lets enacted as different characters met their fates in different ways.I read that this movie was a failure on release as many other film on the subject appear to have been before Cameron blew box-office returns out of the water (sorry for the pun). It's a shame that this more modest re-telling of the story will be less remembered in cinematic history than Cameron's version which never convinced me for a minute that the tragedy was happening to real people, as A Night to Remember definitely does. "},{"Title":"That sinking feeling.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There are two crummy movies about the sinking of the Titanic and one good movie. This is the good one. (I'm not counting a German propaganda feature which was actually pretty good.)Oh, it's oooold. And it's black and white. And the sound is monaural and nobody under the age of thirty has heard of any of the actors, but it's an unpretentious if somewhat fictionalized story of a real tragedy. The other two movies, which shall go nameless here, are soap operas wrapped around a multitude of historically accurate period details. The most recent Titanic used silverware manufactured by the original silverware maker of the original Titanic. The shoes of the actors were made of the same leather. The wigs were made of exact duplicates of the hair worn by Titanic's passengers. Even some of the passengers themselves, dead lo these ninety-some years were exhumed and electronically animated sufficiently to walk through their parts. Alas, speech organs being more frangible, the animatronic marvels could only gurgle instead of speak, but the Foley artists took care of that.I made that all up, but the point is that historical accuracy is no substitute for decent film making.Does it really matter much if the Titanic's hull broke in two before (or during) its sinking? Does it matter if the little band didn't play Nearer My God To Thee? Nope. Because this isn't the simple story of a ship sinking. It's a story of hubris, of man's attempt to defy luck and -- how does one character put it? -- conquer nature? The problem is that nature isn't an enemy to be conquered. It's completely indifferent to our fate. The sea, that rich broth we rose from, will continue to swallow our follies until we incapacitate it. When it ends, we end too.There isn't much acting in this movie because not much is called for. Kenneth More is a suitable hero. But I also approved of the way the wireless operators were dealt with, possibly because I was one for a few years. The direction is functional without being in the least splashy. I mean splashy in the stylistic sense.It's a decent movie, made for adults, a story of a shipwreck in which roughly 1500 people died, not the story of a dysfunctional relationship whose problems are solved by an iceberg. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, but there are a few things wrong with it.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" So I have seen my fare share of Titanic films that I didn't like. I wasn't too fussed on the James Cameron Titanic and there are 2 others that I have seen which are just downright insulting (one of which is on the Bottom 100). I decided to give this a watch because it was considered one of the best Titanic movies. Is it deserving of such a reputation? Well I haven't seen that many Titanic adaptations myself but I did enjoy this.First of all, unlike most reviews. Here I will not say the plot. Why? Because I'm sure everyone would know it. Because from what I've heard this keeps true to all the historical facts at the time. With that being said there are a few problems with this movie.My biggest problem with this movie is the attitude of the passengers. I know they thought it was unsinkable but that's as far as it goes with their attitude. They think it's unsinkable while it's sinking. If there was just a few complaints about waking them at a late hour in the night then I might understand it a little bit more but this? Even though they do panic later some of what happens earlier is almost laughable.Although to be fair, while that is going on I do like some of the scenes. The scenes with the sailors and people working in the Titanic when they're being told it was going to sink and there weren't enough lifeboats. Those scenes are actually pretty sad to watch. As are some of the final sinking scenes such as a boy getting lost and not being able to find his parents.So, is this worth watching? In my eyes it certainly is. This movie is actually very well made in most respects. If you want to watch it then I would recommend it. "}{"Title":"REALITY Cold, Brutal, and Moving beyond Words...","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" THE GREATEST TITANIC FILM OF ALL TIME, and that's all I need to say. For those who have been obsessed with the Titanic for more than a decade, like me, or for those who want to know what really happened on the night of April 14-15, 1912, without having to watch pathetic love stories or listen to corny Celine Dion songs, 'A Night to Remember' is a film that absolutely must be seen, by everyone. It pays more attention to realism and the individual, fascinating true stories of those who were there, and looks very closely at the causes of the disaster, such as the reason for the infamous lack of lifeboats, the failure to deliver ice warnings to the bridge by the Marconi wireless operators, the fact that passengers actually REFUSED to enter the lifeboats and escape the ship until the very end, and the truly gruesome end that awaited the over 1500 passengers and crew who failed to leave the Titanic in time. For those who care about history and humanity, here is the TITANIC, the way it really happened, and the way it should always be remembered. "},{"Title":"Definitive retelling","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A NIGHT TO REMEMBER is a classic of British cinema the definitive retelling of the sinking of the Titanic, told as it was and without embellishment. In the more than capable hands of director Roy Ward Baker, this is a taught, tragic and thoroughly compelling disaster movie that beats most of the competition hands down.One of the reasons that this film works so well is that it's focused throughout on the sinking of the ship. There are no romantic sub-plots to get in the way, no needless conflict between protagonists and antagonists. The iceberg is the only antagonist here. The emphasis is on realism, a careful recreation of the sinking as described in the then-recently released book by Walter Lord.I especially liked the way that the movie avoids cliché to get the point across. There's little in the way of dramatic music or outright destruction; in fact, everything plays out rather stately, with the minimum of fuss. It may be the British stiff upper lip effect, or the realisation that you don't need to outwardly dramatise such a dramatic story to begin with.Kenneth More is excellent as the even-handed Lightoller, and he's supported by a familiar cast giving solid turns, even those in minor roles. Particularly good is Michael Goodliffe as the ship's architect, and watch out for a youthful David McCallum too. Altogether this fine movie shows that you don't need CGI spectacle or shoehorned-in love scenes to tell the story; take note, Mr Cameron! "},{"Title":"Still A Tragedy 100 Years On","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I have watched just about everything on this ship this week being the 100 year anniversary of the sinking. My heart always goes out to those who died, how it must have felt knowing you were going to perish, knowing you would never see your loved ones again. Makes me so sad to think what they went through. I feel even sadder that people insist on going to the wreck to look though it like ghouls. But anyway I digress.. I am not going to start by comparing this film to the fictional love story built on a back drop of a tragedy made by James Cameron in 1997. There is no point as they are two completely different films with 2 completely different agenda's and i feel those who have on here have missed the point to both these films. This film is meant to be the most true to history account of what happened on that night - obviously apart one or two technical things we weren't aware of when the film was made - i.e the ship splitting. Titanic 1997 was a fictional love story built around the backdrop of the sinking of Titanic and as such should be viewed as fiction. This film is beautiful. The performances are beautiful and believable able and you grow to love the characters and really root for them to make it - unfortunately some don't, its almost as disappointing on screen as it probably was in real life. More attention is paid to the crew and what when on behind the scenes rather than what the passengers got up in the first part of the film and I like that, although it does make you wonder why they insisted on sailing at such speed with the numerous ice reports and the freezing temperatures. A fitting tribute to watch on the 100th anniversary of the ship sinking and i recommend it to anyone after all it is a night to remember. "},{"Title":"A Night to Remember (1958)","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The only movie about The Titanic you need to see. Nowhere will you find melodramatic nonsense, or forced love stories. This film is filled with tension and terror way before its time. As the events unfold, it's surprising to see how calm everybody is. The calmness gradually builds to madness, but not to the insanity of the 1997 film. I saw this film when I was very young, and it always stuck with me. Some shots were directly lifted for Cameron's effort. Some may mistake the very Englishness of it all as a lack of emotion. It couldn't be further from the truth. A man lies to his wife about the severity of the impact, a woman runs for her lucky pig, the designer tells a couple their best chance of survival etc. It's the calmness that is unsettling, but also what this film, and those on the "},{"Title":"I take it you and I might both be in the same boat later","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Nowadays, it seems that only with an apologetic blush can a film buff confess his fondness for 'Titanic (1997),' but I'll go ahead and do it, anyway. James Cameron's spectacularly-successful blockbuster, however bloated with its fictional central romance and modern-day framing device, is nonetheless a powerful and emotionally-exhausting recreation of the RMS Titanic's final desperate hours. Owing to its documentary- like approach, I hadn't quite expected 'A Night to Remember (1958)' to strike a comparable emotional chord, but it did. Indeed, everything that made Cameron's film such a compelling and memorable cinematic experience &#x96; the fear, anguish, desperation, courage, and cowardice of the ship's passengers &#x96; had already been achieved forty years earlier, and without the need for an entirely-fictionalised romance to overshadow the disaster itself. Perhaps the only additional theme explored by the 1997 'Titanic' is that of the British class system, approached only peripherally by the 1958 picture, which was released when films like 'Look Back in Anger (1958)' and 'Room at the Top (1959)' were only beginning to explore the theme.The sinking of the White Star Line's RMS Titanic on April 15, 1912 has long since seeped into popular folklore. It was the moment when Mankind attempted to assert his dominance over nature, and when Mother Nature decisively demonstrated that we'd never be impervious to her might and fury. A combination of human vanity, careless planning and plain bad luck contributed to the sinking of the great unsinkable ship, and the subsequent loss of 1517 passengers and crew. 'A Night to Remember' was the fifth film to depict the Titanic disaster, its most well-known predecessor being Jean Negulesco's 'Titanic (1953),' starring Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck. In Roy War Baker's drama, a large cast of mostly unfamiliar actors, and the absence of any immediately identifiable characters, somehow doesn't detract from the film's emotional strength, perhaps because the basis in history keeps the tragedy's human toll in continual prominence. In fact, the film's wide scope, often encompassing small, inconsequential characters who nevertheless show remarkable courage in the face of death, brings home the enormity of the disaster.'A Night to Remember' brings a distinctly-British sensibility to the tragedy, starkly realistic and yet somehow tinged with an almost poetic romanticism. That such a mighty work of human engineering could so readily be toppled by nature seems absurd, almost surreal, and the film brilliantly captures this dreamlike sense. The uproar of the panicking passages as they jostle for seats on the lifeboats is eerily juxtaposed with images of the first-class dining rooms, where fully-prepared tables stand empty and untouched, perfectly normal but for the absence of patrons and the ever-so-imperceptible tilt of the floor. Emotion is found in the small, heartbreaking moments. A loving husband assures his family that its all an inconvenient precaution, all too aware that he'll never see them again; an old man holds a lost and nameless child to his chest as the ship descends beneath the water; Thomas Andrews, the ship's designer, desolately wanders the ship's deserted halls, the foundations overhead creaking like a pod of calling whales; the musicians valiantly keep playing their music. It's been a long time since a film touched me so strongly. "},{"Title":"a movie to remember","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" As a titanic enthusiast i can say that this is a remarkable film. Its the most accurate film of the titanic which gives a lasting memories of the fatal accident of 1912. Apart from the obvious error of the christening everything else is as was the splitting of the ship was still in argument at that time)and from the view of some of the survivors it was not so obvious.)For the time the effects were great and the acting was first class giving the viewer an almost feeling of being present...if you haven't seen this movie and are a titanic buff or just have an interest in the ship or history value, go and hire or purchase this movie "},{"Title":"A monster of a movie","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It's really a monster movie with the iceberg as the lurking menacing monster hiding in the still darkness of the cold north Atlantic. Or maybe the monstrous doomed state of the art ship is the monster as it transforms from a sanctuary of comfort and pleasure into a screeching, howling mass of metal that will plunge to an eternal depth and in a death gasp and with a death grasp take with it whoever and as many as it can. Or are the passengers themselves the monster as they collectively descend into mob mentality and reach down into the darkness of their souls to save their souls in the darkness of the night? A Night to Remember captures all of what it would have been like on the ill-fated liner Titanic on that memorable night in April of 1912. A big ship requires a big cast and here are Kenneth Moore, Ronald Allen, Robert Ayres, John Cairney, Michael Goodliffe, Frank Lawton, Tucker McGuire, Laurence Naismith, John Merivale, Kenneth Griffith and even Napoleon Solo, James Bond and a Bond girl in David Mccallum, Sean Connery (as an extra) and Honor Blackman. Joseph Graves Boxhall, who actually sailed on the Titanic as one of her crew served as a technical adviser to the film adapted from the Walter Lord book A Night to Remember. Director Roy Baker would go on as a maker of many B-horror movies in Quartermass and the Pitt, The Vampire Lovers, Sons of Dracula, Dr. Jekyll and Sister Hyde, Asylum, and The Monster Club. Cinematographer Geoffrey Unsworth photographed this film. Unsworth had previously did cinematography on such noted films as Scott of the Antarctic, Trio and A Town Like Alice and would go on to do such famous films as The World of Suzie Wong, The Return of the Pink Panther and 2001 A Space Odyssey. A Night to Remember is a memorable film and I've seen it many, many times on TV over the years since I was a kid. I would give this a 9.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A true to life movie of a true tragedy","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I have this out of the local library in an interesting format. CD-ROM, which means I can keep it out for three weeks instead of three days. ) It's the only format the library has. Somebody mentioned the only way to really watch an epic film is in a theater. I heartily agree, especially since I was watching it as 2 1/2 by 4 inches (approximately) because if I made it full screen it looks like DVDs do when you use the zoom (the picture quality, that is). I would even have preferred my 20 TV screen. That complaint aside, I'm glad I got to watch it.In it the people are just that, people. Neither noble nor villainous. There are people acting in a noble way but they are flawed. There are people who yielded to their baser instincts (and who knows if I wouldn't do the same--I hope not but . . . .) but who were not basically evil.Because it's a British film about a British ship, the class structure as it existed even when this film was made is very clearly defined but as I mentioned, one class wasn't better or worse than another. There was nobility evinced through all the classes as well as some not so very nice actions.I do like when the lifeboat is being filled and Lightoller asks if there are any more ladies, the steerage passengers who had managed to find their way up, presented the women with them and said Here are some ladies, which makes them true gentlemen.There are many, many such moments through out this movie.The one I saw is the alternate version which essentially has words not deeds at the end instead of the other way around.There aren't any performances that played false. None of them go overboard (pardon the pun). The band members, which played the version of Nearer My God To Thee which they would have been familiar with, not the one known by Americans, gave subtle moving performances. I appreciate that the cellist sang the words. I don't know if that was just to enhance the moment (which it certainly did) or because they knew that upon release in America that we would wonder what they were about in not playing Nearer My God To Thee (not recognizing the tune). "},{"Title":"Better than the 1997 version","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  In my opinion this movie views as a better telling of the legendary story of the Titanic, than the multiple Academy Award winning 1997 version.  The characters are written to give an accounting of both the period, and the desperation of the situation aboard the unsinkable ocean liner.  This is in contrast to the 1997 version which clearly was bogged down with the need to provide vehicles for its star cast.  The 1958 version is a straightforward and compelling telling of the facts as they were known. "},{"Title":"The best of them all!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  There has been countless movies of the Titanic, and I've seen most of them. This one is the best of them all.Unlike 'Titanic', this is more about the event. It captures the sheer terror those people must of felt. The special effects still look good today, and the story sticks pretty close to the facts. Fore some reason, almost every copy I've seen cuts out the part where a man swims up to a life boat with a baby wrapped in a blanket, only to find out the baby is dead. Kenneth More releases the baby's body into the ocean. I guess that's a little taboo for some, but it does add to the scope to the disaster. The Titanic still captures the imagination of people today, and there is countless movies, and books about the subject. Walter Lord's book still stands out as the best, and that's why this movie is the best. In fact, Walter himself was at the filming of this almost every step of the way.  "}{"Title":"See this Titanic tale which makes Cameron's version stagnant","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this again recently and once more marvelled at how superb it was on all levels. Meticulously researched and unblinking in its assessment of the devastation of life when a class structure places the lives of the rich and famous ahead of their so-called lessers. I felt again the tension of waiting (even though knowing the outcome!) to see whether the Californian would respond to the SOS calls of the distressed liner 10 miles away. The writer and director struggled for truth in this movie, which plays more like a documentary. I cried when the orchestra played its last number and the old man shelters the lost little boy in their final moments. Nothing is sentimentalized here, we draw our own conclusions from much of the action and dialogue. Kenneth More excels as always and the rest of the cast are believable. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A dry, matter-of-fact account of the Titanic story.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  No wonder it has been forgotten. It lacks a Jack and a Rose! )Seriously, this is to Titanic what Tora! Tora! Tora! is to Pearl Harbour an older, better account of what really happened during those days. The fact that it's a b/w film only adds to its appeal it looks old, worn out. More like a documentary than a real movie. Its serious overtones, good acting and no-nonsense style are its real forte.Definitely get the new DVD version. It's impeccably mastered. A fine additon for your late night black and white viewing pleasure. "},{"Title":"An almost perfect motion picture.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A NIGHT TO REMEMBER (1958) is much more than the best film version of the Titanic sinking.  It is an incredible piece of filmmaking.  I loved the James Cameron 1997 film version, but this far exceeds that more famous film.One of the compelling pluses to NIGHT TO... is Kenneth More as Lt. Lightoller.  Here is a stocky, middle aged, ordinary man- the hero of the film, the one who kept the filing of women and children onto the boats as organized as he possibly can.  The reactions to the ship sinking are done with intellegence.  We see people become rather controlled, dis-believing or trance-like when they learn they may die on the ship in an hour or so.    Also, director Roy Ward Baker uses incrediblly minute details to help signal the ship is doomed.  We see table contents slowly shift and move, the sounds of the ship bending and creeking will give you the chills.  It is more fact-based than any of the other film versions.  A must see.       "},{"Title":"It May Still Be the Best","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  As I looked in awe at the special effects used to create the more recent telling of the story of the Titanic, my mind wandered back to being ten  years old and seeing A Night to Remember on our black and white TV.  Watching the portrayal of the tragic deaths of all those people and realizing that the tragedy was real kept me from sleeping well for several days.  While it doesn't have the flash of the contemporary film, it has the heart the newer version never has.  No star-crossed lovers, no angry fiances wielding pistols, just the people who trusted the big companies and the engineers to produce an unsinkable ship.This film, which starts slowly, draws us into the lives of the several characters--put together with delicacy from the text of Walter Lord's wonderful book.  The tragedy is in the hopelessness of a group of people who are at the mercy of an overall antagonist--arrogance--which will destroy them. It is all dramatic irony, like so many disaster films are and we are the viewers. The movie tries to even inject an element of humor and show the totality of the human spirit, not just the incredible despair.  It's what we are.I'm sure modern viewers will criticize the pacing (although once the action starts, it is remarkably done), but this movie has more emotional clout than Mr. Cameron's also incredible film.  The acting is subtle and controlled and if one is looking for heroism, there was plenty to go around on board that ship. "},{"Title":"My favourite film EVER","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw ANTR on 28th August 1969 (it was a Thursday). I was seven years old and I have been gripped by the Titanic story ever since. I still love the film. I know the f/x aren't up to modern standards (I think the effects in 20th Century-Fox's Titanic of 1953 are better visually, although factually incorrect) but it is incredibly movingPossible spoiler coming up!  My appreciation of the film has changed over time, too as a boy I saw it as a spectacular adventure, now I find a tear in my eye as the father hands his son into a lifeboat knowing he will never see him again - that could me with my own child. End of possible spoiler.I agree with two other commentators. The way that man (I refuse to utter  the name J*m*s C*m*r*n!) stole not just dialogue but entire scenes for his travesty (the true story isn't good enough, we need a badly-written ham-fisted fictional story to make it more 'relevant') makes my blood boil. Also the quality of reproduction for video is very murky and some vital details are lost. I haven't seen the DVD yet.I could drivel on about this for hours. Suffice to say it's a film that regularly makes its way onto our video player. Just as regularly my wife sighs and says It sinks you know. I hate that! "},{"Title":"True, as far as I'm concerned, to all recorded documentation.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This film captures the true essence of the 1912 sea tragedy, it mirrors the social attitudes of those times.Obviously, much care and attention was poured into the filming of this 1958 production,with out glitz and glamour, or fictional personalities.It is a testament to Walter Lord's all encompassing research of that monumental horror. The black and white production adds a serious and dramatic tone to this film. None of the actors can be slighted for poor performances.A wonderful film, one which I believe will become even more of an appreciated classic film.   "},{"Title":"The power of a true story","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  It is such a pity that the only film most people have heard of about the Titanic is James Cameron's 1997 blockbuster. A Night to Remember lets people view the Titanic story from a different perspective -- one that is not clouded by a half-baked, fictional love story. As a Titanic buff (and member of the Titanic Historical Society), I was impressed at how accurate the film was, given the facts prevailing at the time it was made. This classic masterpiece is a true cinematic triumph and clearly underscores once and for all that a true story can touch people's hearts and minds far more deeply if it stands on its own ... without the corrupting influence of contrived additions. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, gritty version of the Titanic tragedy.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Inevitably, comparisons will be made against James Camerons version. I like both movies and own both on video.  I feel that A Night To Remember is best in terms of making Titanic herself the focus , without a distracting love sub-plot. Also there is a more moody and tense feel about this movie. Made closer to the time of the sinking and using able British acting talent it seems to capture more of the feel of the old class system and social behaviour of the time. Although the special effects are vastly inferior to Camerons film, perhaps due to this there is more simplicity, quiet dignity and poignancy here which ultimately is more emotionally involving. Kenneth More is terrific as Lightoller.  "},{"Title":"The Winner And Still Champion","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  To this day, I will never understand why James Cameron thought he could one-up this magnificent movie by jettisoning such fascinating real-life stories as the Californian incident and the heroism of Captain Rostron and the Carpathia for the sake of a putrid soap opera.  While there is fictionalizing in ANTR as well, it's all done in the interests of streamlining and presenting a representative picture of what things were like that tragic night.The magnificence of ANTR lies in its recognition that the story of the Titanic needs no outside grabber ala Jack and Rose to make for compelling cinema.  It just lets the story speak for itself.  Along the way, there are outstanding performances all around, especially Laurence Naismith and Michael Goodliffe as Captain Smith and shipbuilder Thomas Andrews who are so convincing that you almost forget they're actors.  And it is wonderful to see the Californian story presented thoroughly and dead accurately (to the earlier poster who recommended Peter Padfield's outdated book, I can only say check out Leslie Reade's The Ship That Stood Still which confirms the depiction of the event as we see it in ANTR once and for all). "},{"Title":"Disaster understated","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm glad this fine piece of film-making from forty years ago is still readily available on video for all those who want an alternative view to James Cameron's gross, overhyped special effects extravaganza from 1997. Cameron spent more on making Titanic than the White Star Line spent (adjusted for inflation) on building the original liner and her two sisters, the Olympic and Britannic. The British producers of A Night to Remember spent in total on their film about as much as Cameron did on hairstyles for Titanic, yet tell the story much better. The style is semi-documentary from a book by Walter Lord, an American journalist who had actually travelled as a child on the Olympic. Hence time and place are evoked seamlessly even if the representation of the ship using small models and back projection does not match Cameron's 9/10ths scale replica. Filming is in black and white, wholly appropriate as most of the action is at night, and there's not a bad performance from any of the large cast, several of whom went on to greater things.All the story is there - the elegant huge new liner with passengers and crew neatly divided by class, the reckless overconfidence (21 knots into an icefield when several other ships had radioed they had stopped nearby,) the ignored ice warnings, the strange behaviour of the Captain of the nearby Californian, the general heroism of the Titanic's officers and crew,  and the lovers, young and old, who would not be parted. Anyone who came out of Cameron's film feeling vaguely cheated (as I did) should see this movie for a much better presentation of the story, and a vastly better script. Not that that would have been hard - Cameron was a mug to write Titanic himself - his talents lie elsewhere, in appealing to the chimpanzee  (primal fear) in all of us. The current interest in a shipping disaster which occurred 86 years ago does suggest it has a broader cultural significance than our desire to experience vicarious danger at the movies. A Night to Remember at least give some basis for thoughtful reflection.   "}{"Title":"Currently, the best version of the maritime tragedy available.","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  What a little research and determination to present facts will do!  The technical flaws of models are quite easily overlooked and don't hinder the story-telling.  The data has been assembled and presented accompanied by film and editing techniques that increase the tension even though we know the outcome.  Improbable fiction is not allowed to distract from the presentation of a very factual film.  This little film puts the lie to the belief that bigger is better, even after forty years.     "},{"Title":"Things Go Bump in the Night","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It's April 1912, and you know what that means&#x85; The unsinkable R.M.S. Titanic is about to embark, on her maiden voyage, from Southampton, England to New York, New York. Things go swimmingly for the upper crust crew until Bernard Fox fatefully yells, Iceberg dead ahead! Then, it's up to heroic Kenneth Moore (as Charles Herbert Lightoller) and his crew to see that things don't go completely downhill.Don't be fooled by imitations, this film is historical fiction at its finest. Producer William MacQuitty, author Walter Lord, scripter Eric Ambler, and director Roy Ward Baker make it tense and realistic throughout. The (minimal) use of music is extraordinary. The quiet stillness, as photographed by Geoffrey Unsworth, speaks volumes. And, more than the story of the Titanic, this film is about class, in more ways than one.********* A Night to Remember (7/1/58) Roy Ward Baker ~ Kenneth More, Laurence Naismith, David McCallum, Honor Blackman "},{"Title":"Excellent account of the Titanic disaster","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night To Remember was made 5 years after the first movie of this disaster, Titanic. I think this version is one of the best, even though the ending is not too accurate as Titanic doesn't spilt into two halves when it goes down at the end, as nobody knew this then.This features an excellent cast of British stars Kenneth More (Genevieve, North West Frontier), Honor Blackman (some years before she became a Bond girl as Pussy Galore in Goldfinger), a pre Man From UNCLE David McCallum, Michael Goodliffe, Robert Ayres and Frank Lawton. All play their parts well.A Night To Remember is shot well in black and white and has decent special effects too.This is certainly worth viewing. Excellent.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Devil's in the details","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I watched Titanic when I got back home from the hospital, and cried. I knew that my IQ had been damaged. - Stephen King There are many films about the HMS Titanic and her tragic sinking, but the main 4 are Titanic, a German propaganda film released in 1943, Jean Negulesco's Titanic, released in 1953, A Night To Remember, released in 1958 and regarded by many to be the definitive Titanic movie, Raise The Titanic, a ridiculous movie released in 1980, and 1997's Titanic, James Cameron's box office juggernaut.The 1943 film was directed by Werner Klingler and Herbert Selpin, and eschews historical accuracy in favour for some hilarious German propaganda. The film portrays the crew and wealthy passengers of the Titanic, as well as the chairmen and managing directors of the White Star Line, as being slimy and despicable, concerned only with winning awards, profit, setting records and making money. Everyone in the film bullies servants, makes terrible decisions and is corrupt and incompetent, except for Hans Nielsen, the ship's German First Officer. Nielsen is not simply the only righteous member of the Titanic's crew, but the only person in the film who realises that the actions of those around him will lead to certain disaster.And so the film treats the HMS Titanic, her collision with an iceberg and subsequent sinking, as an allegory for western capitalism, which, like the titular ocean liner, is bloated, accelerative and heading for crisis. The film makes this most explicit by using the upper and lower decks of the ship to highlight social stratification (the rich hobnob on the upper decks while the poor live in steerage compartments), whilst the Titanic's sinking, which was due to the ship travelling too fast in order to break naval records, is shown to be the result of businessmen who were using the ship's lunge for the record books to drive up stock prices.The film ends with the words The deaths of 1500 people remain unatoned for, an eternal condemnation of the English quest for profit, and then mourns the fact that the underprivileged died whilst those responsible for Titanic's crash escaped Scott-free, fleeing on lifeboats and buying their way out of subsequent law suits (the film is structured as a flashback within a courtroom), a salvation akin to the financial crisis of 2007-2010 and the ensuing bank bailouts (in real life, economic lifeboats are given innocuous names like Emergency Economic Stabilization Acts).Ironically, the film was quickly banned in Germany, German propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels deciding that the ship's sinking too closely mirrored the fall of the Third Reich. Director Herbert Selpin was himself executed for expressing anti military sentiments.Unlike the German version of the tale, the 1953 Titanic has little to offer modern audiences. The film focuses on an estranged couple who are journeying to America. She wants to escape the confines of his high society life in Europe and he gradually learns to let her go. Of course the ship then sinks, putting an end to their petty squabbles.In contrast, A Night To Remember, released five years later, holds up really well. A mosaic of short scenes, the film is a near documentarian account of the Titanic's launch, maiden journey and sinking. Director Roy Baker offers us glimpses into the lives of a myriad of characters, the film stressing the collective rather than the individual nature of the experience.Like most Titanic films, Industrial Age hubris is a big theme, but unlike most of these flicks, the film is more preoccupied with the ship's class divisions. This is made clearest during two sequences, the first in which we jump to and from characters of varying economic standing, and observe the various ways they journey to the ship itself (horses, trains, mules, cars, foot etc), and the second in which the different classes mingle or are forced into lifeboats together, the sinking of the Titanic symbolising the collapse of structured society and the crumbling of the British class system.Unlike the 1953 film, in which almost everyone is American, this is thus a very British film. It's a British production with British actors playing everyone including the Americans, and is one of many early post war British films to react to decolonisation and the dismantling of the British Empire.Social conscience is exactly what 1980's Raise The Titanic lacks, the film mostly interested in gimmicks and spectacle. It's a worthless film, notable only for its shots of submersibles, submarines, underwater camera drones and its plot which revolves around a group of salvagers who attempt to resurrect the Titanic, raising her barnacled carcass up from the ocean depths.James Cameron's 1997 Titanic is, of course, the big Titanic film which everyone is familiar with. What's interesting is how Cameron pulls subplots, scenes and whole sequences from all the previous Titanic movies. Cameron's bookends with the salvagers, treasure hunters, submersibles and camera drones comes from the 1980 film, whilst the love story, blue diamonds, jewels, villains, accusations of theft, bossy parents, arranged marriages, class constricted heroine (and the fiancé she doesn't love) and free-spirited hero come from the 1958, 53 and 43 films.All those memorable individual shots in Cameron's film of praying characters, ship-builders fine-tuning clocks, children and mothers on beds as the water rises, lovers separated by lowered lifeboats etc etc, are also all pulled together from the previous films.Pretty much the only unique thing about Cameron's film is its spectacular climax. Made after research dives ascertained that the Titanic broke in two before sinking, Cameron's film is the only Titanic movie which details how the ship sank in sections. And while the other films simply show the ship sinking from afar, Cameron's is a very spatial movie, treating us to a range of complex shots and staggeringly elaborate action sequences as the ship sinks.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Hubris","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The sinking of the Titanic was the culminating event of a century of the greatest changes to ever affect the human race in history.Alistair Cooke lived and worked to the age of 95. If there had been someone that age in 1912 who had observed the human condition with as much alacrity, that person would have been born into a world little different from that of Caesar, except perhaps a little dirtier and less luxurious. As a teenager he would have seen the advent of the railroads, the telegraph would have come along in his adulthood, the telephone and electric light in his middle age and the airplane in his old age.No wonder then that it was said that God himself couldn't sink this ship. Lord's book is one of the finest and most riveting non-fiction works you'll ever read, and the only fault of the movie version is that it couldn't be long enough. "},{"Title":"Best Titanic Film Ever Made","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" If you're looking for cutting edge CGI then this isn't the Titanic film for you but don't forget that 'A Night To Remember' was made way back in 1958. But if you want a very entertaining and mostly factual account of Titanic's tragic maiden voyage, filled with mostly authentic characters and an enthralling sub plot about 'the mystery ship' then this is the Titanic movie for you.If you know the story of Titanic already then no spoiler alerts are necessary because credit to directer Roy Baker he uses the book by Walter Lord quite extensively and tells the story as it most likely happened. Kenneth More stars as 2nd Officer Lightoller (who helped evacuate many of the passengers) and plays a blinder as the film's authoritative hero.But the best part about this movie is that it actually focuses on the Titanic itself unlike Cameron's movie where the primary story is a fictional love story between 2 fictional characters. Also A Night To Remember includes the enthralling story of the Californian, a nearby ship which supposedly could see the Titanic yet inexplicably done nothing and also the Carpathia, the ship who's captain heroically risked the ice infested waters to rush to Titanic's aid.These two crucial parts of the story where totally ignored by Cameron which is a real shame because they add to the drama tenfold. The movie isn't without it's flaws (***spoiler alert***), for example the ship doesn't break in half before sinking (although it was generally accepted in 1958 that the Titanic sank in one piece) and Captain Smith is portrayed as a steady pair of hands and quite in charge of the disaster when in fact many accounts seem to indicate that he was quite lost and overwhelmed on the night.Other than that and a few other minor mistakes A Night To Remember is very well made and excellent for it's time and holds up very well today, for Titanic enthusiasts it's a must see, for casual movie fans I'd put it down as well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Film To Remember","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The sinking of the Titanic on its maiden voyage in April 1912 has been the subject of many books and films. Perhaps no book or film is better than Walter Lord's 1955 book A Night To Remember and this, its 1958 film adaptation. Given the reputation of its source material, how does the film hold up? The strength of the film is ultimately the same as that of Lord's book. Following the opening minutes of the film which are set prior to when the ship sets sail and introduces us to second officer Charles Lightoller (played by Kenneth More), Eric Ambler's script focuses on just about a dozen hours of the Titanic's story namely the events from 1140 PM on April 14th through about the same hour the following morning. The film effortlessly wanders around both the Titanic herself and the people aboard her. We see the Titanic story from a large number of perspectives including officer Lightoller as well as groups of passengers from all three classes from a millionaire couple, middle class newlyweds and a group of Irish immigrants. The film occasionally moves away from the Titanic to two ships that also play big parts in events the eventual rescue ship Carpathia and the Californian (the infamous ship that stood still which stands at the center of a controversy that the film helped to reawaken( and those aboard those respective vessels.As a result, the film features a large cast. The aforementioned Kenneth More effectively leads it and he does extremely well in the role bringing a sense of both authority and humanity to his performance though it's worth noting that some of the actions and events he is depicted as taking part in didn't necessarily happen to the real man on that April night. Yet with the exception of More, there are no stars in roles (though several of the actors would go on to greater fame in the years ahead) with More's Lightoller being literally just one part in a large cast of actors and actresses who bring history to life ranging from Laurence Naismith as Captain Smith and Michael Goodliffe as the ship's designer Thomas Andrews to Honor Blackman as a first class passenger along with Anthony Bushell and Russell Napier as the respective captains of the Carpathia and Californian amongst many, many others. In doing so the filmmakers created a fascinating human drama played out for the most part on an 882 foot stage filled with people from all walk's of life.The film also succeeds for the fact that it stays true to events, or at least to events as they were known in the late 1950s, and not sensationalizing events. Unlike other depictions of the Titanic both on film and on television, there are no fictional characters or love stories taking center stage. The Titanic and those aboard it caught up in events are the stars of the film. The film features some excellent recreations of areas on the real ship that stand up well even against those from the James Cameron film wile both the direction of Roy Ward Baker and the black and white cinematography of Geoffrey Unsworth playing up the drama of the events of that night rather than attempting to enhance them cinematic. Even the score from William Alwyn, sporadic as it is, isn't intrusive or loud but subtly underscores the events taking place. While the film does have deviations and historical errors (of which Titanic researcher Paul Lee has compiled on his website for those who are interested), the film remains the most accurate Titanic film yet made.Where perhaps the film is let down is in its special effects. Some of the model footage hasn't aged well at all with some of the shots during the sinking featuring an obvious Titanic model with even more obvious lifeboat models. Other times the superimposing of those in the lifeboats in front of those shots leads to results that are at best mixed and poor in others. That said, the sequence of the Titanic taking its final plunge remains a fantastic combination of special effects with other elements to create a haunting and memorable sequence (even without the ship breaking apart as it was later confirmed to have done more than a quarter of a century after the film was made).Like the book its based on, the film if A Night To Remember succeeds by giving the viewer the facts of the event and the incredible human drama that played out on an 882 foot stage in the middle of the North Atlantic. It also remains after more than half a century the definitive film depiction of the Titanic disaster for that same reason. Chances are, it will stay that way and is a film to remember as a result. "},{"Title":"A Night to Remember sinks the 1997 blockbuster","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Coming out in 1958, 46 years after the sinking of the real Titanic, and 39 years before James Cameron's Titanic broke box office records, A Night to Remember depicts the doomed maiden voyage of the famous ship. Titanic (1997) was mistakenly hailed by ignorant moviegoers as the best movie ever (including me, as I was young), but A Night to Remember had already done the same story, better. The director is Roy Ward Baker, who even when later doing lesbian vampire horror proved himself to be a competent filmmaker.Over two hours (no needless padding), the film seems to start slow for me, and kind of like a reverse Titanic, rises as it goes on. We see complacency gradually turn to panic, and feel real sympathy for the characters of the film. Although a fictionalized history, there isn't really a main character, more of an ensemble. Lightoller gets a fair amount of attention at the beginning, and at the end, where he expresses a message of the movie- how can we be so sure of ourselves? Actually, I think this movie kind of exaggerated people's belief that the Titanic was unsinkable (White Star Line didn't really make that claim). But I feel this film captures the tragedy of the accident. The one advantage Cameron's movie has over it- a naked Kate Winslet. "},{"Title":"A film to remember, and to watch more than once.","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" What an incredible movie, one you can watch a hundred times and still experiencing it as if it was the first time you did it. Unique also in that there is no need here for the feverish imagination of a fiction writer to bring to life one of the most thrilling stories ever told. Because everything is real here, and it happened in the way it's shown to us. From the baker who got a bit tipsy but who was nevertheless rescued at the end, to the socialite who went back to retrieve her lucky pig that played the maxixe, to the Strauss couple, who preferred to go down with the ship rather than to be separated one from the other.Don't look here for actors, or a director, shooting for an Oscar. Because ANTR is not about being artsy, stagy, but about reproducing to the smallest details the events of the night of April, 14, 1912 in the North Atlantic. And the end result is breathtaking, astounding, as the stated intention of the filmmaker was to put you right there in the midst of events, living them as everyone else aboard the doomed ship. And making sure also that you see exactly what any other person in the same situation would have seen, felt, heard. For that, not only the ship's interior has been faithfully reproduced down to the small designs on the tinted glass on salon doors but also every cast member, extra, is seen performing with just one thing in mind to do exactly what the people they are playing did; and doing it in the same fashion, mood and body language. What all that brings us at the end is the unforgettable experience of seeing it all unfold as if part of the present, through a porthole in the fabric of time. That is why you can watch ANTR many times and it will still look fresh to you.Now, while watching ANTR there was a couple of things that came to my mind, which I had the pleasure later to realize I hadn't been the first one to concoct. Intellectual relief also, as I found the answers I was looking for. See, when Capt. Smith looks at the Californian, even longingly, and calculates that it must not be further than 10 miles, I thought Man, why don't you send a boat with the strongest men on board; what more than a couple of hours could take them to reach it? Not quite so, according to a reviewer here; it would have taken them up to four hours, which would definitively close the matter. But I'm not quite sure that's the end of it, because if they had carried rockets--a boat that can take a load of about 4 ton. could easily withstand the reactive forces of a firing rocket, I guess--and if they fire them at midway, they would have certainly called the attention of the ship's crew, which would have wondered about those rockets taking off from the sea itself. It may seem far fetched, true, but in one of the most recent books on the subject I found something even more strange, and intriguing. In RMS Titanic, by Hugh Brewster (pg. 181) it is said that when Smith sent away lifeboat number 8, he told the sailor in charge, Thomas Jones, to take the people to the nearby ship--the Californian--and come back to pick up more. If that really happened, it would indicate a great degree of mental confusion in him, as what he was asking for was absurd if lifeboat 8 reached the Californian, there was no need for it to come back.The other, more technical point is that I had the nagging suspicion all along that the Titanic could have been saved if the crew had just let the collision happen. That was confirmed to me in the DVD comment. In a head on impact the ship's bow would have been smashed but the most serious damage would have been confined there. As things happen, they did their best to achieve the worst possible outcome presenting the hull's side for the iceberg to rip it apart, while stopping the propellers, which left the rudders without the strong flow of water in which they worked best. One last thing if Smith knew that there were lifeboats for less than a thousand people, but also that help would be arriving in hours, why didn't he put every able man on board to build rafts with all available material&#x97;i.e. wood. It wasn't a far fetched idea after all, in the movie we can even see a sailor fashion a raft with some decks chairs and, according to the DVD comments, it really happened and the man survived. So, my conclusion is that not only Smith but his crew had become so mentally conditioned by their profession that they couldn't act otherwise than by procedure; they were incapable of any improvisation. Just remember the irate steward screaming at the man hacking down a door, that he's damaging company property. I guess that such a mindset spanned all the way up, to Smith himself. Probably a bloke with no experience or knowledge would have improvised in such situation and maybe even come with a few good ideas, but not Smith or his crew. They were too hung up in procedural protocols and navy & company regulations to start thinking out of the box when it was the most needed. In any case, the Titanic story provides an unique case where not only everything that could go wrong went wrong, but also where almost every decision taken was the wrong one.In all, one that you can add to your DVD collection without any fear of second thoughts. To remember also that there was a time when the British film industry was able to come out with masterpieces like this almost effortlessly, as if they were naturals at it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"100 years since the sinking of Titanic","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Today, it has been 100 years since RMS Titanic, the ship thought to be unsinkable, sank.This movie tells what happened on that horrible night in 1912.A Night to Remember (1958) is directed by Roy Ward Baker.It's based on Walter Lord's book from 1955.The movie is full of very fine performances.Kenneth More plays Second Officer Charles Lightoller.Jane Downs plays his wife Sylvia.Ronald Allen is Mr. Clarke.Jill Clarke is Mrs. Clarke.Honor Blackman plays Mrs. Liz Lucas.Later she became known as a Bond girl in Goldfinger.In this movie you can also see James Bond Sean Connery in a small role as Titanic Deck Hand.And Desmond Llewelyn, Q, is seen as Seaman at Steerage Gate.John Cairney plays Mr. Murphy.Laurence Naismith plays Captain Edward J. Smith.Bernard Fox, who plays Lookout Frederick Fleet, was also seen in '97 Titanic.This must be the best Titanic movie I have ever seen.James Cameron's 1997 version may had more money and special effects, but those elements don't necessarily make a better movie.And this is more realistic.Many of the conversations and everything that happens on the ship, actually happened.It is absolutely heartbreaking to watch those people going to their certain death.The sea feels no mercy.And the band keeps on playing, and then finally, Nearer, My God, to Thee. "}{"Title":"Much more focused on the details...","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Lots of stock footage of OTHER ships at beginning and early portions of film. To me, this wasn't necessary and too, me out of the experience, as the clips were often rather grainy. It's a shame, as I must say that apart from early scenes, the recreation of the Titanic was very good and impresses even today.I was surprised that this film was made considering that Hollywood made Titanic only five years earlier. However, the two films are a bit different. Titanic (1953) was focused on one particular family--a small group on a ship full of doomed passengers. In contrast, A Night to Remember is much wider in scope and focused much more on the actions of the crew that led to the disaster as well as their reaction to hitting an iceberg. This makes it a less intimate film but one more for those who want the 'big picture' or the inside view of what happened. So, the 1953 film is much better if you are looking for a people film and the 1958 one about technical details.To me, I actually preferred the slightly lower rated Titanic because it had heart. Sure, it was fictionalized and didn't care about showing all the events leading to the disaster, but the story was top-rate--and less stuffy--and less terrifying (you don't see the folks drowning like rats like they do in A Night to Remember). Which one you'll prefer probably has a lot more to do with what you're looking for in the film. Either way, they are both very good productions.The biggest surprise in watching A Night to Remember was how incredibly stupid and ill-trained the potential rescue ships were. They ignored many signs that if answered promptly probably would have saved more lives. The other was how shabbily some of the folks in 2nd and 3rd class were apparently treated.By the way, although this film was released by Criterion and they usually do a bang-up job, in this case there were no captions--and this is not at all typical of their DVDs. "},{"Title":"No Iceberg has ever spawned so much fine drama","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Having read Walter Lord's, A Night to Remember, and its sequel, The Night Lives On, I must say I approached A Night to Remember with some trepidation. Like most of my generation, my experience of the Titanic was restricted to the James Cameron blockbuster. What a fool I was. Yes, the 1997 Oscar winner has a tremendous amount of effective special effects. So what? The 1958, Night to Remember boasts great acting, a fine screenplay, and an immediacy and intensity lacking in the 1997 re-make. My only real problem with the 1958 version was its idolization of Second Officer Lightoller, something the 1997 Titanic, to its credit, tried to disabuse. Lightoller was in charge of the right side of the Titanic's loading boats. His stubborn insistence - an almost mulish mindlessness exalting Women and Children First - led to the deaths of hundreds of men because he refused to allow men in the boats, even when there was room for them. Aside from that, I found, A Night to Remember memorable cinema and worthy of my highest rating. "},{"Title":"A GREAT AND FANTATIC BOOK AND MOVIE","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie with the late Kenneth Moore and Honor Blackman, and David McCallum which ironically had Benard Foxx of Dr. Bombay fame on Bewitched and as Col. Gracie in the Cameron 1997 Titanic film was the lookout in this version. This is one of the rare cases where the film outshines a great and fantastic book. Dr. Lord book is one of the best on the subject considering he sailed on board the Olympic the Titanic's sister ship in 1926 at age 9 and knows the story inside and out even today at age 87. Added to this fact that surviving 4th officer John Joseph Boxhall (1878-1967) even though by 1958 was in frail and failing healing health at age 80 was the technical consultant for this film. It was definitely the most realistic of all the films. Definitely gets a 10 star in my book, only the 1953 and 1997 film come close.  "},{"Title":"The best complete Titanic movie overall","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A Night To Remember is by far the best Titanic movie ever done. Originally written by Walter Lord which he had taken survivors accounts and transposed them in the story. Granted, Cameron's Titanic had great visual effects and accurate props, however, it was way too bogged down with the boy/girl love genre, over and over.  A Night To Remember is the No B.S. approach to accurately telling the story of the Titanic, even the Californian incident that in Cameron's version was left on the cutting room floor, was included in this movie. I feel that this movie was done well considering the technology they had in 1958 england.  I have read that the original concrete slab that they laid for the Titanic movie set still exists on the Pinewood Studios lot.  I strongly recommend this movie for any new serious Titanic enthusiast, not those fly-by-night Kate/Leo fans.  That's what the 1997 version is for. "},{"Title":"Strengths far outweigh faults","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I am convinced that the ultimate Titanic story has yet to be told. Perhaps the next generation will put together the various pieces that past generations have contributed and come up with that definitive film version of the tragedy.A Night to Remember is about as good as the existing Hollywood versions get. Much more factual than Cameron's or DeGulesco's, this film has some definite strengths. It also has some weaknesses. For my money, Nicolas Noxon's National Geographic Secrets of the Titanic (1986) is still the best Titanic story on celluloid. It has as much drama and pathos as any of the movie versions and is even more riveting.The main problem with A Night to Remember is its short length and failure to develop several key characters. Other than Second Officer Charles Lightoller (Kenneth More), we see the `main' real-life characters so seldom that we never get to know them. Worse, as the disaster unfolds, I found myself having trouble even identifying them! I believe director Roy Baker should either have focused on fewer people or made a film longer than 123 minutes-despite the gripes of modern viewers who despise three-hour movies. It would be nice to get to know `Pat' and the handful of steerage people better. I never quite caught onto what their background was and what their goals/dreams were. Molly Brown was seen and heard just enough so that we would know who she was in the lifeboat. A couple of the married couples could have been fleshed out much better. In many cases, we never even caught these people's names. (And this is frustrating today, for those of us who have seen various documentaries on the subject and would recognize the names immediately.) It is also difficult at times to distinguish between shots on the Titanic, Carpathia and Californian. Also, trying to recognize the captain of the other ships was confusing. Perhaps, as in Tora, Tora, Tora, Midway and other docu-dramas, names and titles should have been superimposed over many of these characters. While that might have seemed intrusive to some, it would have avoided much confusion.Overall, though, Baker's effort is more satisfying and less frustrating than Cameron's. (I have yet to see the 1953 Titanic.) Centering on Lightoller was a deft move and More handles the big roll very well. His short scene with his wife (Jane Downs) did much to add humanity to his character. Both this film and Cameron's do a nice job of presenting ship designer Thomas Andrews (Michael Goodliffe), who had the disorienting task of telling the captain that the `unsinkable' ship he had designed was, indeed, sinking. Although Baker refrained from having Andrews apologize to a passenger for his ship's failure (as Cameron did), the sense of bewilderment and stunned horror he and Captain Smith (Laurance Naismith) projected were admirable.Based on Walter Lord's outstanding book of the same title, the film does a sound job of presenting the facts. (Of course some knowledge and interpretation of the facts changed after the discovery of the wreck.) The characters are dealt with in an even-handed manner. Captain Smith (Naismith) is neither a hero nor a bumbling goat. Neither is White Star chairman J. Bruce Ismay (Fred Lawton) particularly demonized. Other than saving himself when the opportunity presented itself, he appears to be a wealthy executive facing a crisis he never could have imagined and trying (somewhat pathetically) to help during the evacuation. Lord and Baker did not buy into the legend of Ismay pressuring Smith to try to set any type of speed record.Overall, this is a quality film. I agree that the decision to film it in black and white at such a late date was a bit puzzling. Still, the period special effects look more convincing in black & white and it does give the film more of a 1912 feel. For any real Titanic or shipwreck fan, this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"A thought to remember.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this movie again. It had been some twenty years since I last saw it on television and it still looks great on the small screen (although, as we all know, the only real place to see epic movies like this is in the cinema). I generally agree with the comments that have been written here, but I can´t help but feel that there is a little something wrong in what is presented to us about what happened aboard the ship that fateful night. It is hinted at several times in A Night To Remember but never fully pursued. The hint is that the steerage passengers were kept at bay until the first-class passengers had manned the available boats. We are even informed, at one point, that the first class passengers are being loaded onto lifeboats at the other side of the ship, away from the main contingent of passengers gathered together in their lifebelts. Another scene depicts attendants penning the steerage passengers in like dangerous wild animals as the actual evacuation is taking place. Still, an admirable film which tried perhaps as honestly as possible to portray what really happened. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Lot","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"    Technically, the Cameron film is better, but that is the only area that Night to Remember loses out to James Cameron.  There is just as much time spent on the collision and sinking in NTR, and we see many of the stories of what went on in 1912 recreated here, even to the steward who drinks himself into a state of anti-freeze so that the 29-degree water doesn't affect him. We see the acts of bravery from the first-class passengers, that we don't see in Cameron's over-blown epic. And, this movie can be shown in elementary and Jr. high classrooms without having the silly, sappy sex and improbable romance. The film is further enhanced by having First Officer Lightholler played by Kenneth Moore as technical advisor he was alive when the film was made. When I want to see a film about the Titanic disaster I will watch this one or the Webb/Stanwyck film. "},{"Title":"Almost Documentary","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A Night to Remember doesn't try to be spectacular like James Cameron's Titanic, which is actually a fiction love story with the Unsinkable as setting. The storytelling in ANTR is indeed very straightforward, and the filmmakers tried to be as faithful as possible to the actual events.The story of Titanic will always be interesting because it's a story of human arrogance, the Tower of Babylon of modern day. It has been filmed time and again. But ANTR will always be remembered for its truthfulness. If you want to know about Titanic and you respect history, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Before I start I have to admit that I am a Titanic enthusiast, and I have to say that this film is the most true to life that you will see. Forget Cameron, his film is just a reproduction of the ship and not a factually correct movie.  That is my opinion and not a rating on the film although I only watched it once, and as a true fan of the ship will not watch it again!!!Watch out for the ships cook when the ship is sinking and you will have a laugh.  This film although black and white shows what it was really like when the great ship sank.  An excellent movie that should be watched!! "},{"Title":"Without a doubt the best TITANIC film with kudos to Mr. Kenneth More.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The observer who is disappointed with the extraordinary model of the TITANIC should visit the  museum in which it is housed. It would seem to me that the only way to satisfy his desire for reality would be to raise the BRITTANIC and refit it and take it out to sea.  We have already had one  motion picture in which one of the FRENCH LINE ships was used in a disaster movie THE LAST  VOYAGE. The French and other passengers who had sailed on the proud lady were angry at  the way it passed.It is regrettable that this film is unable to reveal all of the amazing stories of its passengers.   Kenneth More in his role as LIGHTOLLER rivets home the Be English, Men slogan of that era.  Maybe someone will provide television viewers with a mini-series.  "}{"Title":"A Fine British Film","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Filmed in semi-documentary style, this good effort was a success on its initial release in 1958. The film graced by many fine actors was an account of the sinking of the Titanic in 1912. Budget limitations meant of course that models had to be used. However, the atmosphere of the film was never compromised. Kenneth More really excelled himself here and his portrayal of 2nd Officer Lightoller is memorable. The final scenes in the water are extremely emotional. And the very final scene of the Titanic's debris floating past the rescue ship even more so.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  By far the best movie about the Titanic to date (factually wise), of course James Cameron's is the most visually stunning. This one is straightforward, and very entertaining.  It has very few fictional characters and sub-plots, and really gets to the point.If you can stand the bathtub quality special effects then you will enjoy it!! "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This moving,atmospheric and intelligent film is immeasurably better than James Cameron's horribly crass mega-bucks Titanic. The effects are as convincing as can be, while the acting is uniformly magnificent, with special mention for the always brilliant Kenneth Moore. An air of dignity and honour fills the screen. "},{"Title":"winner, and still champion","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Despite James Cameron's slick and bloated effort, this is still the best film about the Titanic's sinking. No phony romantic subplot was created here. The stories of the fascinating people who were actually there, as recounted in Walter Lord's magnificent book, suffice perfectly well to move the story forward. The acting is superb all around, and the effects stand up well for a 1958 movie. A powerfully compelling true story told in a powerfully compelling way.  "},{"Title":"A straightforward story of the Titanic","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  'A Night To Remember' certainly captivates the whole story surrounding the world's fascination of the Titanic. The plot concentrates more on actual events rather than playing around with fictional characters waiting for the inevitable. Although the special effects of the day are not too convincing, Director Roy Ward Baker shows the sheer terror of being on the sinking ship. For the time, the sets used were brilliant, and they still are. Kenneth More is great in the lead role as Second Officer Lightoller (very different from the one portrayed by Jonathan Phillips in James Cameron's Titanic) and a special mention should go to a young David McCallum as Wireless Officer Bride who is ever so simple and human. James Cameron should have looked at this film and considered whether he could have based his story on more actual events rather than a fictional romance. This film is a must for all Titanic fans, especially ones who want to see a documentary style film on the subject. "},{"Title":"A must see for every generation","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie stayed close to the facts as they were known in 1958. It brought Lord's book to life.  The acting was wonderful, and the lack of fictional sub plots gave it the purity it deserved. I enjoyed the 1997 version of the movie, but seeing A Night to Remember adds another dimension for those interested in the tragedy. I am now a certified Titanic Buff.  If anyone can recommend other books on the subject, please add them to your comments. "},{"Title":"A  GREAT  FILM","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I  Think  that  James  Cameron's  film  Titanic  is  a  wonderful  film  but the  film  ANTR  is  also  a  truly  marvelous  motion picture.  It  spends more  time   trying  to  show  us  the  real  people  that  were  aboard and  what  all  they  must  have  went  thru.  Since  there  were  many survivors  alive  at  the  time  they  were  able  to  give  insight  on  to the  way  it  really  was.  And the  sinking  is  done  very  well  for  a time  without  computers  to  do  all  the  special  effects  for  them. the  new  film  goes  to  much  into  the  fictional  story  with  most  of the  scenes  of the  real  characters  cut  from  final  film.  The  acting is  great  in  ANTR  and  without  the  big  names  to  distract  from it, a  truly  wonderful  and  moving  film  that  I  am  glad  to have  a  copy of. "},{"Title":"Factual Account about some big ship sinking....","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The most accurate account to the sinking of the Titanic (that was known in 1957).  The typical 1950's feel to it should not put you off the very fine and dramatic film.Okay, the effects are not up to Cameron's vision of this disaster, but a night to remember can stand proud with what were then state of the art effects, and a dramatic and thought provoking story of how it may have been so different..If you never saw this as the cinema then check out the recent DVD releases. These also have excellent extras on board, which help you appreciate the film, all that much more.  "},{"Title":"Uncluttered Disaster Movie Best of Titanic Flicks","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Of all the movies based on the sinking of the Titanic, both TV as well as cinema, A Night to Remember has to be the best made.  It is uncluttered by any fictional characters that divert from the true circumstances of that fateful night in 1912.  Granted, the special effects are not up to 1998 standards, but one must remember that we know more now about what happened than we did 40 years ago.  One can see the impact of this earlier film on Cameron's Titanic.  One cannot watch this film without being moved. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film, so much so in fact, that I went out and bought the video!  It was beautifully underplayed, yet conveyed perfectly the tension and horror of that night.  I can't find fault with it.  I have read other comments that suggest the film did not use models that were realistic enough, but what we need to remember is that this movie was shot 40 years ago - without the access to the 90% scale model replicas or special effects technology of the latest Titanic offering.  I feel the 1958 version is superior. "}{"Title":"Iceberg, Dead Ahead! Don't Panic You're On The Titanic!","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" If you were to ask me, I'd honestly have to say that this 1958, $1.6 million, b&w production spotlighting the tragic sinking of the famed ocean-liner, Titanic, actually scores a notch higher than does the likes of James Cameron's 1997, $200 million, colour spectacle. I'm not kidding here.This film is a first-rate production all the way from its involving story, to its attention to detail, to its awesome effects depicting the actual sinking of this unsinkable luxury-liner.I swear you'll be absolutely amazed at this film's top-notch production values, especially on its budget of only $1.6 million.You know, I'd actually go so far as to say that A Night To Remember puts Cameron's glittering showpiece to shame in a number of ways.And, on top of that, I found that I actually liked a number of the characters and even sympathized with them over their dire & desperate situation, which I really didn't in the 1997 version.This film also clearly brings to light certain crucial facts about the distress call sent out by the Titanic once the iceberg had been struck. This aspect was pretty much ignored in the Cameron version.Yes. I recommend this film very highly. "},{"Title":"Much better than the Cameron version","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Made forty years earlier and with far less the budget, this version is way better than the Cameron version. In the beginning, all the class distinctions of the passengers are presented. The actors, were not boring yo-yos (except for Kathy Bates)like in the Cameron version. They were interesting and engaging characters. I was surprised to see Honor Blackman before she was in Goldfinger.The scenery was actually almost equal to Titanic, with much less budget. In addition, the story line was much more gripping. The Kathy Bates' character was really good to. She was a free-spirited proto-feminist tough woman, who spoke plainly but was well admired. The only drawback to the movie was that the people were so mannerly. The movie was trying to show off how polite and stoic the British people are. However, I don't think that was reality. When the boat is sinking, Britishness manners matter naught.Overall, it was a good movie. It was entertaining. The characters were really, except for that one flaw I just mentioned. One wondered why that ship ten miles away ignored all the distress signals. I suspect that (from the opinion of the movie)that the captain aboard that ship was used to all kinds of things that were not cause for panic really, and that he, like others, just couldn't believe the Titanic would sink. In any case, the real culprit was not having enough boats for all the passengers.One thing that the television movie (George C. Scott, etc.) and the Cameron movie did better was to suggest that the designer of the ship wanted to race the ship. Trying to compete with other ships to set speed records were common back then. In fact, in the Mississippi River, a lot of steam boat steamers blew up due to getting overheated from racing other ships. "},{"Title":"A powerful film about the unforgettable night when the Titanic sank","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night To Remember is directed by Roy Ward Baker, is based on the book about the sinking by Walter Lord and stars Kenneth More, Michael Goodliffe, Honor Blackman and David McCallum.A Night To Remember is told mostly from the point of view of the ships second officer Charles Lightoller(Kenneth More). The film features some actual footage of the real Titanic leaving Southampton and focuses on the horrors of the night and the courage and tragedy of the passengers caught up in the disaster. We see the ships journey from Southampton, four days at sea through to them hitting the iceberg, to seeing hundreds freezing to death in the sea before the rescue ship Carpathia could reach them. The whole cast give superb performances with special mention going to Kenneth as the heroic Lightoller trying to keep calm and order on the ship whilst trying to get the lifeboats filled and lowered.Michael Goodliffe is also excellent as the Titanic's builder Thomas Andrews. Goodliffe captures Andrew's shock and despair at what is happening not just to the ship he built but to the passengers and crew. A Night To Remember is very accurate in regards of what actually happened on the night and how people behaved, this is a moving and interesting film about people coping in terrifying circumstances and about a ship that was considered unsinkable and unbreakable at the time and yet was destroyed by the sea on a freezing April night in 1912.James Cameron's Titanic is more accurate about what the ship looked like and what the interiors were like, but this is more accurate about how people behaved on the night. "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It is 1912 and Titanic went from Southampton, England to New York on her maiden voyage. On her fourth day she went on an iceberg and Titanic become death-doomed. The passengers panic.A Night To Remember is better than James Camerons Titanic-film, because this film show more what happens around the ship.It is also more realistic when it is Black and white. A Night To Remember is also very authentic.It is also very good actors among others Michael Goodlife.This is the best Titanic-film I have ever seen! I can very recommended A Night To Remember to Titanic-fans! "},{"Title":"A  Very Good portrayal of the 1912 disaster...","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is the first time, that I have reviewed a Disaster movie, But this actually happened! The Titanic, was a beautiful Ship, and I felt that, it was very sad that this was her Maiden voyage.I enjoyed the part by Kennith Moore,And was surprised that the designer went down with her. I have this film on a video, by Rank Ltd, I wonder where they got the titanic set from? I thought that all the acting was superb and there was a lot of panic also. I liked the quartet of musicians and I was moved to a tear when one of the quartet sang that song, as the ship sank. I thought he had a good voice. I was disappointed by the Calafornion's captain, he should of followed the example of the captain on the Parthia, as soon as the signal came from the Titanic, he turned the ship around and the crew did all they could to help pick up survivors, while the other ship, wanted to know who the titanic was. I also liked the tour of the Titanic you get while watching the film. From the Captain on the bridge to seeing the engines. I thought the same as the Titanic's captain, after the rockets where all fired, are you blind or what?? The Calafornion's captain spent most of his time in his cabin asleep! The second officer, thought it was an advertisement,for a tobacco company. I think not!! I thought that the radio operator Sparks did very well. I know S.O.S. 3 dots, 3 dashes and 3 dots! I also know a few facts about the Titanic, but I',m not going to put them on here. I knew just how the Diesigner felt when he went down to see the damage that the iceberg caused.I am going to give this film 10/10 for historical importance. "},{"Title":"Amazing for 1958","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I just finished watching this wonderful film and I must say I am impressed by the sheer size and realism of the story. The models hardly look like models and the characters are very well acted out and accurately portrayed. This film preserves very closely the historical accuracy of the novel on which it is based, as close as a film can get. This is one of two films about the Titanic that seems to be as accurate to the actual events as possible. The other film I am referring to is James Cameron's TITANIC (1997).Yes, contrary to some opinions, the James Cameron film is actually the most historically accurate depiction of the sinking of the Titanic since A Night to Remember. I would rank both movies as equal in this respect. Night provided a detailed, documentary-style account of the sinking, and Titanic was able to convey the size and luxury of the ship, as well as the realism of the actual disaster. The downfall of Night was the limitations of special effects in 1958, and the downfall of Titanic was focusing too much on Jack and Rose and overlooking some small, yet still interesting, details. If anyone wants a truly accurate depiction of the 1912 disaster, I would highly recommend seeing both movies - Cameron's to get an idea of size and realism, and this film to get the small details and a more all-seeing view of the tragic event. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking and True","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The heartbreaking and true story of the sinking of the Titanic, this is an excellent film version of the event, British-made, unpretentious and very well-acted. I can't think of too many things wrong with the movie. That it was done in England in black and white works in its favor, making it seem more a product of 1912 than 1958. There isn't much spectacle in this one, as it deals mostly with the impact of the sinking on the crew members and passengers, and how the captain and his men dealt with it. The cruel ironies (the ship moored ten miles away; had the Titanic veered just a little sooner it wouldn't have struck the iceberg at such a fatal angle; if there were only enough lifeboats; had the ship not been moving so fast) are all there, and none is dwelt on for too long. This is solid film-making, not wildly imaginative, with everyone hunkering down to do his best. Though it was made more than forty years after the fact, transatlantic liners were still popular in the fifties, there was still somewhat of a British empire, the mannerisms and punctilios of the leisured classes hadn't changed so drastically since the Titanic went down, and as a result the movie is only partly a period piece, with many in the cast and crew a product of the Titanic era, which the movie seems to capture so effortlessly. Had been made ten years later this would have been much harder to do. Of the various film versions of the event, this is my favorite. "},{"Title":"Excellent for the year it was made.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a great Titanic movie. See this film if you want to know all of the facts about the ship, and if you are looking for some terrific special effects. (The effects are very well for the 1950's.)I had first watched this movie when we were all going through the Titanic '97 phase. Don't get me wrong, I love the 1997 and 1996 TV versions, but this is probably the best depicted out of those three. Considering that this movie was created without computers or any visual (fake) effects, I think that it is great. The ship was supposedly a model in a small pool, and they used their own hands and minds to make it look just like the real Titanic. Some of the best movies are made without billion dollar props.Some people may frown when they see the actual sinking and other parts because it is not the same as in the newer versions. Keep in mind that this is an older movie when the facts weren't too straight and they had a couple of things to go off on. Yes, the sinking is different from what it really was, and it doesn't go into detail about it breaking in half with all of the destruction that followed. But, it is well crafted together.The writing and different story lines that circulate with the different characters aren't too interesting but the sinking makes up for that. The wardrobe and details to the ship are excellent. This isn't in regards to this film, but to the '97 mega hit. I noticed and was irritated about how some of the writing was taken directly from this film. I am specifically talking about the part where the lookouts spot the iceberg for the first time. This may not seem like a big deal to some people, but no movie should ever be copied.So, the model of the ship, the different props used to duplicate the originals, and especially the remarkable effects used in creating one of the most tragic ship wrecks of all time, are brought to life in one of the earlier versions of this tale. Any Titanic fan should love A Night to Remember. "},{"Title":"One of the two best movies on the Titanic tragedy","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  When I first saw this movie as a child when it was shown on TV, it was what made me a Titanic buff. Each time I talk to people who also share my love of the great ship, they normally will mention this movie, as well as the book on which it was based. As a member of the Titanic Historical Society, during last year's convention, members were asked how highly they still rated the film. Although most of us now rank Cameron's version as the best, A Night to Remember which always hold a special place in our hearts for its accuracy and passion. Although I wish the movie was a tad more detailed in naming more of the passengers, and Officer Lightoller comes off as THE hero of the story (and I don't remember Fifth Officer Lowe being mentioned), this is a not to be missed Titanic epic, particularly if you're looking for one that sticks strictly to the facts known at the time. "},{"Title":"A great telling of the Titanic story.","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" With all the different Titanic versions out there, this is still the one to beat. Even though it doesn't use any fancy effects or other expensive stuff the movie still manages to tell a dramatic story effectively better than any other Titanic movie. What this movie does well is that it doesn't pick a main character. It allows the story to be told from multiple different angles, with different characters at different settings. Because of this the movie can almost be seen as a documentary like telling of the events that led up to the sinking of the Titanic and the actual sinking and its aftermath. Because of this this movie has also been always regarded as the one that tells the 'true' story of the Titanic. This not in the least also due to the involvement with this movie of many survivors of the actual disaster.The movie also doesn't waste a lot of time. The sinking already begins before the halve way point of the movie. There is little room for dramatization or character building. This is something that works well for the overall realism and later chaos of the movie.The sinking itself, as you would expect, forms the best part of the movie. It also seems that it isn't until then that we start to know the different characters of the movie. It's really done impressively, also especially when you're considering that this movie at the time only cost an estimated $1,680,000 to make, which even at the time wasn't a lot of money for a movie of this scale.It's a surprisingly classy movie from director Roy Ward Baker, the man who I know best for directing some of the late Hammer Production movies. Movies which aren't exactly known for their class.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"A symbol of progress, of man's final victory over nature and the elements","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It isn't hard to imagine why the story of the Titanic has seen so many film interpretations. Catastrophe makes for exciting film and as far as pure spectacle and great tragedy goes, you can't do much better. Plus, it doesn't hurt that the actual sinking of the Titanic took roughly 2 increasingly horrific hours, lending itself eerily well to the medium. Beyond that potential for spectacle though, what really keeps the story of the Titanic afloat (... hold your applause) is its power as an allegory. It's the perfect man vs. nature metaphor - of man's supreme technological accomplishments, and the naivety of those who believe they are above the mercy of the Earth's raw power. Even further, it works brilliantly as an allegory of class stratification and discrimination, and the equalizing power of imminent death which transcends all social constructs. And finally, the stories of its individual passengers gives us looks into the depths of human nature the power of denial, the strength of loyalty and compassion, courage and cowardice, rationality and panic. Impressively, A Night to Remember successfully mines essentially all of these elements and brings them to the screen. Given it was made in 1958, it is pretty incredible how well this film captures the scale and spectacle of the disaster. Of course it doesn't quite reach the jaw-dropping scale of the renown James Cameron epic (which is highly indebted to this film), but the effects in this film are still very effective in their own right and hold up extremely well. And beyond the spectacle, the depth and breadth of the aforementioned themes inherent to this tale are all explored man vs. nature, privilege vs. poverty, man vs. women, man vs. man, and man vs. himself. It's pretty difficult to fault this film in any way, but I will say that for those who have seen Cameron's Titanic, its impact may be a bit lessened. I wouldn't necessarily say that Cameron's film is the better of the two - in fact, as I mentioned, it owes many, many of its successes to this film. But, for better or for worse Cameron's film is able to drum up a fair bit more melodrama and emotional weight. A Night to Remember is more in the style of a documentary, presenting the event as it occurred without much in the way of extra dramatization (which clearly isn't necessary given an event of this magnitude and tragedy). But, from a pure entertainment value perspective, the docudrama style of this film definitely feels a bit drier and more procedural than what Cameron accomplished in 1997.It's a bit sad because even though I did enjoy this film a lot and have a lot of respect for what it accomplishes, I do think its impact was lessened just by virtue of having seen Cameron's film. It worked for me completely in its craft and thematic execution, but it didn't quite resonate with me on an emotional level beyond that. Still, this is an excellent film and it most definitely stands on its own as a fantastic and classic Titanic adaptation. I would especially recommend it if the cheesy melodrama of the 1997 version disagrees with you. "},{"Title":"An amazing piece of filmmaking","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" 1958's 'A night to remember' is, and should be considered the definitive movie detailing the infamous doomed liner 'Titanic' sunk on her maiden voyage, in April 1912. Watching this film in High definition, it is abundantly clear, that this is a class job of movie making. The sets, which are extraordinary, the effects, which to my eye are still wonderful, and most importantly the characters and story, are all done to an extraordinary standard. You really do feel that you are a fly on the wall, or even more terrifyingly, a passenger on the doomed ship. I found myself so engrossed in the goings on that I wanted to shout to the passengers to run to the lifeboats! Shot by the incomparable Geoffrey Unsworth, the film is a feast for the eyes, detailing the splendor of the Gilded Age, and the interior of the recreated Titanic. Even that, though would be a lost effort, if not for the wonderful cast and script taken from Walter Lord's book of the same name. According to the trivia section actual survivors were on hand to lend their expertise. Absolutely incredible. Of all the tragedies that have befallen the world, the sinking of the Titanic continues to fascinate the public. With so many unanswered questions, theories, what-ifs, stories, and lives lost, the Titanic will continue to fascinate for another 100 years. This film really does the story justice, a must watch! "},{"Title":"Far from a night to forget","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Things being what they are, you can't look at a movie about the Titanic without comparing it to James Cameron's film (nor can you be blamed for doing so; that movie's a cultural behemoth and defined the sinking for a generation). And even though A Night to Remember can't compete with Cameron's huge spectacle, that's just fine; it's not supposed to. This movie covers the territory very well without feeling drawn out. More importantly, you find yourself gradually getting sucked in only to be hit in the solar plexus by a simple line or the image of a piece of furniture crashing into a stack of child's building blocks. Instead of a love story, it's the earnest performance from Second Officer Kenneth More, and the movie pays much more attention to the class division among the passengers and the unsinkable reputation of the ocean liner.And I love that, in the final moments of Titanic's lifespan, it's really about mourning the loss of such an illustrious vessel (complete with an uplifting afterword). I didn't expect to shed a tear, and this is a find movie indeed.8/10 "},{"Title":"Women and children first","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Night to Remember is, on the face of it, a straightforward account of the sinking of the Titanic. The film wields great emotional power, however, in its portrayal of the lives and backgrounds of a varied cross section of the passengers, showing us how the tragedy touches each of them. The historical setting is Edwardian England, a time often looked back on in Britain as a golden age of prosperity and peace, despite the pronounced class divisions in British society at the time. Very soon the Edwardian age would be shattered forever by the First World War, and maybe the film portrays the 'impossible' sinking of the Titanic, and the effects on its passengers and crew, as a dark foreshadowing of that terrible war. We follow the preparation of 2nd Officer Charles Lightoller, played by Kenneth More, for the voyage and journey to the port. An aristocratic couple in their elegant horse and carriage are waved off by children of the local workhouse; in rural Ireland, a group of men of more modest means set off in their horse and cart to board at Belfast, destined for ship's quarters far removed from the opulence of first class.There is a huge cast of mostly British character actors. Many of them had recently come through the events of the Second World War, many serving in the armed forces, and were no stranger to hardship; the strain is etched on the faces. This lends the acting great conviction. Kenneth More, who served in the Royal Navy, is superb as the epitome of the unflappable British officer, but there are good performances throughout the cast.The realism is reinforced by the scenes of the ship's interior, and the sinking itself is well portrayed for the special effects standards of the time. Tension is stretched to breaking point as we see the crews of the other ships in the area either mistake the distress signals for celebratory fireworks or realise they are too far away to effect a rescue.Every human emotion, good and bad, is on display, particularly in the desperate scramble for the limited lifeboat space. It really was 'women and children first' in those days and we are treated to some of the most poignant scenes ever committed to celluloid as fathers are separated from their families, a lost child is comforted by an old, kindly, steward, and the band plays 'Nearer, My God, to Thee' on the steeply inclined deck. The film leaves you with a deep sympathy for the hundreds who lost their lives, and the sense that hubris and humility are flip sides of the same coin. "},{"Title":"A stunning counterpart to the Cameron film","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Let me just say that I loved James Cameron's Titanic, which took a huge historic disaster and turned it into a compelling film that went beyond the sensational. Yes, it was a populist film (who can argue with its record-setting box office?), but a damn good one. That being said, I enjoyed A Night to Remember immensely. It doesn't have the lover's story contrived for the Cameron film as its anchor, but I was still captivated by the ticking bomb of the unsinkable ship approaching its demise, with some rising to a heroic level and others resigning themselves to fate, or simply refusing to admit reality. And I was blown away by the special effects, expecting them to be primitive in an old-school kind of way. Yes, there were models, but their impact was every bit (if not more) of that of the Cameron film. This was truly a remarkable accomplishment. "},{"Title":"A semi-sympathetic recount of A Night To Remember","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The recreation of the famous world event seems to have been meticulously accurate and tragically predictable. Roy Ward Allen places you on the ship full of social class, exquisite tastes and proper procedure but, unfortunately, not enough life boats for everyone. While the much heralded James Cameron film 40 years later would out-do the special effects, its' interior of the ship in 1958 production is incredibly the same as its' remake, a tribute to the detail of those in charge. What is missing for the first third of the film, however, is character identity. The first rule of the disaster film genre is to get the audience to care about those in peril. I felt for a father and those locked below in steerage, but hardly anyone else. Cold? Not as cold as the water, the force behind the drama and I needed a bit more to know who to invest my heart with. Without specific rooting interests, I was left to watch inevitable history without the ruse of entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Film To Remember, and To Never Forget.","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" *NOTE* I am going to compare this film to the James Cameron version a lot. Listen. I don't hate his version. Its just that I found it very hard to watch and a lot of things bothered me in that film which I will explain in this review. I just think Roy Ward Baker's version is better.I rented this film on ITunes from the Criterion Collection. To begin with, this is one of the greatest films ever made and I am so glad I rented it. This is my first time watching it and I must say it is better than James Cameron's version. Why? For starters, there are no heroes or villains in this film. The main problem I had with this film is that the Villains in Cameron's version got away safely without any consequences. Also, the women in Cameron's film felt weaker being told off by the people on the boats.In this film, you don't need protagonists or antagonists, you just need the ship and the iceberg and the many extras that play the scared passengers to make one of the most shocking exhibitions ever put on film.Technically, the film looks amazing for the late 50's. There is so much going on in the background and it is awesome.I like how the film takes the POV's of passengers and crew members instead of focusing on 1 or 2 people like in Cameron's version. It gives us more space to explore around the ship with these characters.Very little music is put into this film. Mainly because director Baker did not want to ruin the frightening atmosphere of the sinking unsinkable ship.I loved everything about this film. It is one of the greatest films of all time. People must experience this eye capturing movie that you cannot take your eyes off of.100/100 A+ "},{"Title":"Mr Kennth More shines on a dark Atlantic night....","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Even if you're all Titanic'd out after incessant TV tributes on the centenary of the biggest maritime disaster in history you should find time to watch this modest British film which tells the familiar story in a straightforward way and benefits enormously from a reassuringly stiff - upper - lip performance from the wonderful Mr Kenneth More. Virtually ignored by the serious critics until a late career - reviving turn in BBC's unexpectedly popular The Forsyte Saga,Mr More had long been loved by ordinary filmgoers who saw him as the personification of decent middle - class Englishness before it became fashionable to drop your aitches unless actually pronouncing the letter H when you could aspirate it.How Mr More's generation would have abhorred this abomination of the English tongue. Here he plays Second - Officer Lightoller,a man ingrained with the late Victorian virtues of service,sacrifice,modesty and courtesy,values soon to be obliterated on the bloody battlefields of Europe. We may deride the class - system as perpetuated on Titanic,but it is as well to remember that on the great Cunard ships a hundred years later there are stark differences between First Class travellers and the peasantry. It is clear with a century of hindsight that Captain Smith must bear the brunt of the responsibility for the sinking of his ship,the buck stops on the bridge. In A night to remember he is shown as placing too great a reliance on his officers like Mr Lightoller and failing to exercise full control of what could be salvaged from the situation. Mr Michael Goodliffe is outstanding as Mr Andrews,designer of the ship,a good and brave man who saw within minutes that disaster was inevitable. Perhaps the film's greatest virtue is it's brevity,condensing the whole voyage into a short playing time without sacrificing the integrity of the story,closely followed by its classic b/w photography giving it the air of almost cine - verite at times. At a time when cinema budgets were beginning to expand exponentially,A night to remember was made for about ten bob, a tribute to everyone involved. It isn't great cinema - it wasn't meant to be. But it is involving and entertaining and it has Kenneth More in it. In 1958 things didn't get much better than that. "},{"Title":"100 years since the sinking of Titanic","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Today, it has been 100 years since RMS Titanic, the ship thought to be unsinkable, sank.This movie tells what happened on that horrible night in 1912.A Night to Remember (1958) is directed by Roy Ward Baker.It's based on Walter Lord's book from 1955.The movie is full of very fine performances.Kenneth More plays Second Officer Charles Lightoller.Jane Downs plays his wife Sylvia.Ronald Allen is Mr. Clarke.Jill Clarke is Mrs. Clarke.Honor Blackman plays Mrs. Liz Lucas.Later she became known as a Bond girl in Goldfinger.In this movie you can also see James Bond Sean Connery in a small role as Titanic Deck Hand.And Desmond Llewelyn, Q, is seen as Seaman at Steerage Gate.John Cairney plays Mr. Murphy.Laurence Naismith plays Captain Edward J. Smith.Bernard Fox, who plays Lookout Frederick Fleet, was also seen in '97 Titanic.This must be the best Titanic movie I have ever seen.James Cameron's 1997 version may had more money and special effects, but those elements don't necessarily make a better movie.And this is more realistic.Many of the conversations and everything that happens on the ship, actually happened.It is absolutely heartbreaking to watch those people going to their certain death.The sea feels no mercy.And the band keeps on playing, and then finally, Nearer, My God, to Thee. "},{"Title":"Women and children first.","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I could not help but think of my Grandfather, who came over to this country in steerage fro0m Sicily. Fortunately, his ship did not sink or he would have been treated as the passengers were on this ship.They really had not choice as there were 1000 more passengers than there were lifeboat spaces.This was an excellent film about the sinking of the Titanic without all the silliness that accompanies more modern films. You can see clearly that, besides not having enough boats, the actions of the first class passengers leading up to the crash with the iceberg was largely responsible for the death toll.There were some outstanding actors in this film like Kenneth More, Honor Blackman, David McCallum, Sean Connery, and more.Blood good film, I say! "}{"Title":"Did the Captain forget the iceberg after hitting it!","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It is easy to be wise after the event but I have always wondered what Captain Smith was thinking of once he discovered that his ship would sink in a few hours. With a huge iceberg nearby would it not have been obvious to run the Titanic aground upon it? In a similar vein on spotting the light on the horizon (the Californian) I would have thought that setting out for it in one of the lifeboats manned by as many beefy rowers as they could cram into it might have been a good way to get its attention. On the other hand had I been aboard I may have been running around like the rest ! "},{"Title":"A Very British Sinking","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  As one who saw this movie well after the arguments over James Cameron's TITANIC died down, I view A NIGHT TO REMEMBER a little differently from the previous writers. Both films have their strengths and weaknesses. ANTR's are more than just a matter of special effects. The emphasis here is on characters maintaining a stiff upper lip. Panic is minimal. This cast has few obvious American accents (in spite of many American passengers) and the mannerisms of the few ethnic types, (Irish and Jewish) are exaggerated. One is frequently aware these are actors on a soundstage. Having said that, I will agree that the story is less melodramatic than Cameron's though we can see this was an age when melodrama provided society many role models. Watch ANTR for Eric Ambler's authentic based-on-fact narrative--watch Cameron's TITANIC for action and special effects. For the worst of both worlds, watch the 1953 TITANIC. "},{"Title":"A Superior Presentation","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  In every respect, A Night to Remember is a fine film achievement. This to me is the definitive version of the story of the Titanic.  It is thorough, beautifully researched and masterfully executed.  The special effects are entirely adequate for scale and type of film it is, and the acting is uniformly excellent. Kenneth Moore's contribution is outstanding, as always. All associated with this production did themselves proud.  "},{"Title":"Excellent, with reservations","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an excellent dramatazation for reasons already given by others. However, the actual role of the Californian is a debated topic.  This movie, as well as the book, adheres to the findings of the US and British inquiries.  There is strong evidence that the situation was more complex than those findings indicated.  Those complexities made the view from the Californian far less obvious than the movie implied.  For more information, I recommend The Titanic and the Californian by Peter Padfield. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  As a person of English decent, it was good to see a movie done by the English that gave the American movies a run for their money. This version was very well done, with Kenneth More in the lead, you can't go wrong. I liked the way that in this version, The Californian made more of an appearance. No matter what people think about the captain of the Californian, it makes you think about the what ifs......What if the Californian had a 24 hour marconi operator, what if they could have reached the Titanic in time?????A very good movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent production, very informative, a must for Titanic fans.","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Charles Lightoller was an important Titanic survivor, the highest ranking officer from the ship to live, a man whose insights, along with those of other officers, Boxhall, Lowe, et al were valuable in documenting what happened to the great ship.However his claims to heroism are mitigated by the fact that he was not entirely truthful in portions of his testimony and was among those responsible--if not chiefly responsible--for launching lifeboats half full. He was not quite the unblemished hero portrayed in this movie.However, A Night to Remember does present the heroism of Captain Arthur Rostron, Carpathia, and the negligence of Captain Stanley Lord, Californian, better than any other movie I've seen.  This is a valuable addition to the several best movies on Titanic.  Better in some ways than the Cameron movie of 1998 and highly complementary to the later movie.  Both tell us a great deal about Captain E. J. Smith and designer Thomas Andrews and I would say a Titanic collection should include both. "},{"Title":"Documentary- Style Movie About The Titanic","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A Night To Remember is the best of the Titanic movies because it tells some of the real stories of the Titanic.  It's reality of the tragedy is horrifying.  You can put yourself into this movie and cringe.  It makes you wonder what you would do if you know you are going to die because there are not enough lifeboats.Of all the documentary-type movies of real stories, A Night To Remember is the best. This is one of Kenneth Moore's best movies.  He plays an officer who is second in command of the Titanic.   "},{"Title":"A comparison","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I have been fascinated by the TITANIC tragedy for several years; I started studying it in the early 1980's (in fact, I'm getting real sick of the hype!). I bought all the books I could find, and I still have the news articles from when she was discovered. I have seen A NIGHT TO REMEMBER several times (own the video), so I was sceptical when the new one was released in 1997. I love NIGHT TO REMEMBER - that movie has always amazed me with how realistic it was - considering it was 1958 and the technology wasn't near what it is today. I've always thought that filming in black-and-white made it even more realistic. That movie touches me so much - I have seen the (new) TITANIC several times also, and it just isn't the same. I tell people that I believe NIGHT TO REMEMBER is better. TITANIC had a nice background story, but some of the computerized special effects were soooo obvious and phony-looking; I never felt that way with NIGHT TO REMEMBER. It touches me more.  "},{"Title":"The Titanic's maiden voyage is doomed.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Based on a novel by Walter Lord and told through the eyes of the ship's second officer, Herbert Lightoller(Kenneth More)another version of the doomed maiden voyage of the Titanic. This is a straightforward depiction of the panic, despair, hope and courage of the 2200 some odd passengers as they are finally informed that the luxury liner had collided with an iceberg and suffered a giant gash in its hull. Radio was a new invention, but did very little good raising the attention of the closest ship at sea. With not enough lifeboats on board for a ship the size of the Titanic caused another life lost problem. Women and children were loaded into lifeboats first as other passengers from various stations in life watched with greed and despair as they scrambled to save their own lives. Crew members and passengers alike either jumped into the icy cold waters or simply perished in the wounded ship as it sank into the North Atlantic.Roy Ward Baker directs a large all-star cast that includes Ronald Allen, Honor Blackman, Anthony Bushell, Kenneth Griffin, Robert Ayres, Michael Goodliffe, James Dyrenforth, David McCallum, Harriette Johns, Richard Clarke, Frank Lawton and Sean Connery. Not that tragedy is entertainment; the infamous voyage and sinking of the Titanic is history. "},{"Title":"The Rockets Red Glare","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Characters can be Fleshed Out and Developed to Make a Disaster Film More Personal and Give the Audience Focal Points of Human Interest. But the Titanic is the Personality Here. The Self Contained City with the Three Classes of People.First Class, Second Class, and Steerage all Living and Dying Equally. This is the Real Life Metaphor. The Hubris of Half the Lifeboats Needed. This Film is Mostly Concerned with Accuracy and the Big Picture of What Happened and Perhaps Why.The Chills Come from the Unanswered Messages and Rockets and it Seems that Only Laziness and Bad Seamanship from Nearby Boats Doomed So Many. This is a Gargantuan British Production and They Pulled All the Stops to Present a Respectful Retrospect of the Maritime Tragedy.It is Considered One of the Best and Perhaps the Best of All the Titanic Movies and it was the Inspiration for James Cameron's Box Office Hit. The Mood is Tense and the SFX are Superb with Striking Black and White Camera Work, Attention to Detail, and there is Just Enough Personal Story for Some Heartfelt Moments. A Fine Film and Highly Recommended. "}{"Title":"A Time Ago","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I have held the opinion since the films initial viewing that A Night To Remember provides greater definition and as it were greater clarity even as to the Titanics place in history.I had wished to purchase this film from the Criteron Collection only to hesitate repeatedly as the films $40.00+ price tag was to expensive.The purchase was accomplished with the initial viewing occurring on a large screen Sony Vizio.The definition,the detail of this Black and White transfer was excellent.The film really in fact looked as though nothing had changed only life had moved many years ahead.Time as it was stood still and with an impressive ability to detail this disaster in the North Atlantic it was with legitimate care that this film was viewed most recently.Historically there is information that suggests that the Titanic had received a number of separate transmissions regarding the appearance of ice and iceberg sightings.It is also the pictures position that at least one of those many wireless communications the Captain never saw.It is even more involved in this very critical area as both protocol and response time were factors in the timeliness of information reaching the Captain.The Captain did not always have the latest information however there is a degree of likely hood that a competition of sorts might of clouded the judgment of the Captain.That competition was to see how fast could she could go to beat another shipping companies star steamer or the like,there was competition which served as a bit holding back an event that would not be denied.The Titanic was moving faster and faster over the course of the voyage with a difficult discovery revealing that Titanic was moving as fast as Titanic had moved at any point in the voyage at the point when The Ship struck an iceberg.Titanic was recorded nearly eclipsing 22 knots when the iceberg was first sighted.The Captain most certainly and indeed the film itself does not need to suggest the outright cause of the contact was due to the ship moving to fast to correct its course in time however there are a number of other factors which can make this particular film an interesting opportunity to know this disaster.The contact with the iceberg was made inevitable with the ships speed and was the cause of the inability to evade the iceberg.The Titanic had by design one very large size rudder.It was proved in an inquiry that if the ship had been fitted with a somewhat smaller rudder ? The ships ability to respond would of not only been more responsive but as well it was shown that even at the rate of speed that Titanic was moving, Titanic would of been able to steer clear of the iceberg.There is no excuse when there is contact made with a stationary object,like an iceberg.It is considered unacceptable without much thought a driver will be faulted for perhaps speeding,moving to fast for conditions,outright carelessness and so on.Though the Titanic was thought to be unsinkable someone suggested that the steel used to construct the Titanics hull was inferior to how steel is designed today.Titanics metal, perhaps if I can suggest this vulnerability was susceptible to a glancing blow at or below the waterline.The hard turn to starboard had the effect of exposing the ships most vulnerable area to a glancing blow. Iron nowadays is cleaned of much of the impurities that sulfur and as well Phosphorus provides which was not the case at that point in time.Sulphur is like phosphorus and are hereby noted as a limiting agent in the hardness of steel.It is not usual to suggest that perhaps a better steel may of held tighter and not yielded as it was to the ice.The Captains performance however capable seemed to be self assured.This only provided the viewer with a false belief that all was perhaps well.The threat to all that the sea posed should of been first and foremost with the North Atlantic being a very challenging body of water.The ship had at a slightly earlier point in the trip moved further South than initially charted in an attempt to as it were forestall the inevitable as the then adjustment was designed to move further South of the more common areas where ice was forcasted to flow. This event need not of happened,this was a preventable accident.It is equally a shock when the film reveals that the Titanic did not have sufficient lifeboats to off load the ships passengers.It is here suggested further that timing restraints limited a complete ability when Titanic sailed knowingly without the ability to safely transport there passengers.Regulations of the time was what contributed to a limited number of lifeboats, it also made the voyage unsafe.It may well be that the Titanic was her own worst enemy.It was the Titanic that struck the iceberg,not the Californian however it is the Californian whose conduct I hold as culpable.If there was anything that would frustrate ambition it may very well have been the Californian.The conduct of that ship was very nearly unnerving as so many calls for help went out across the wires even as it were across the waters.The Californians crew starting with the Captain appeared to deliberately ignore a so obvious a climate as to be without merit. There was no defense as to such a willful disregard for life on the high seas.This indefensible position was had by the Californian and as such is held in contempt for the virtual injustice its inability to properly respond represented.The Carpathia is hereby noted as a sacrifice without blemish, perfection is her name.All Hail Carpathia.A name without blemish.The bravery exhibited with time drawing near made me wish and perhaps to offer a prayer.The name thee calls is our Father in Heaven.Unmistakable and moving this event in time.Unmistakable and moving is a Night To Remember. "},{"Title":"The best for me...","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  After having read several book about the Titanic (Lord, Wade, Marshall & Co., etc.) I saw this only a few years before Cameron's.Since this was based on Lord's book (a bible for many Titanic enthusiasts) which was itself based on the results of the hearings that took place in both the US and the UK (as was Wade's), it would naturally have the feel of a documentary.  The characters and event are real.  I don't mind at all black and white movies, and I certainly don't mind watching the special effects of the time.  Oftentimes they show much more ingenuity and creativity than the CG effects of these days, which are too often called upon to carry a movie.Cameron's film suffered from having a fictitious romance at the center, which took away from the real people.  Pearl Harbor suffered in the same way.  Both had the potential to be tremendous historical dramas, but ended up diluting the human aspect by relegating the real humans to the background.  The real histories of these events provided plenty of human drama, had the directors only been willing to look for, or trust in its effectiveness.Night allows us to see the real people, without the distraction of major stars (to US eyes) to get in the way.  And unlike at least one reviewer here, I found that in Cameron's version, they were all shunted to the background, while in Night, they were the ones you got to know.  While I might have felt teary for Jack & Rose at the end of Cameron's film, in Night, I felt teary for everyone I had seen.A couple of interesting things...I was surprised to see John (Jack) Merivale in the film as the noble father (who was based on fact) as he was the man that Vivien Leigh turned to after her marriage to Olivier broke up.  Also, the creaks you hear as the ship sinks were real creaks from the sets that they built as they were tilted by hydraulic lifts.  As for the effects, I still like them, though they can't compare to now.  That said, I still marvel when I look at the tornado in the Wizard of Oz after seeing Twister.  I wish people who want to do a big film on a historical event will someday see fit to let the real history do the talking, and not try to impose the fakery that they think will make big box office.  The Titanic story has a built-in appeal that I think is larger than most people realized, but we knew when we put up an ocean exhibit, which we duplicated online, and then did tracking.  The online version had two Titanic stops, and they wound up being the #2 and 4 hits we received.  Most of them came directly from outside. I think it is the story that drove people to see Titanic (& the effects) rather than Cameron's treatment of it.  I've heard too many people say that aside from those two aspects of it, they didn't think it was that great of a movie.  If they haven't seen Night, I tell to give it a try...grateful to be able to vent an opinion! "},{"Title":"Great Version","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Night to Remember, A (1958) **** (out of 4) British version of the sinking of the Titanic from director Roy Ward Baker. While the Cameron version might be bigger in scale, I'd go ahead and say this was the best version about the sinking. I enjoyed the fact that they didn't spend too much of the running time talking about stuff that happened before hitting the ice burg. Having the sinking start early in the film just left for more entertainment even though I find films and documentaries on this subject to be highly depressing.Also worth checking out is the German version from the 40's and Fox's big budget version from the 50s. "},{"Title":"No breakup?","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The wreck was only discovered in 1985, and who knows when the ship split before 1985? Only the survivors in nearest lifeboats could know that the ship sank in 2 parts. The ship had sank April 14-15 1912, 1140-221. The ship, will never be raised by wires. It needs at least 36 SS Nomadic's to raise it for 1000 meters. The telegraphs were put reverse, steering wheel to port, but it was TOO LATE! The watertight doors were closed, though there was only a few bulkheads on D-Deck. That allowed the ship to sink fast. Titanic was hull number 401, Olympic was number 400. Nomadic was hull number ???, Lusitania was hull number 0166. Aquitania was hull number 0547. Mauretania was hull number (same as Aquitania). Britannic was number 402. "},{"Title":"A Night to Remember","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The sinking of RMS Titanic is one of the most well-known and adapted events of the 20th Century, and you probably wonder if there is another version as good as the James Cameron 1997 success, and here, the answer is yes. There are no certain characters focused on, like in the 1997 version with Jack and Rose, it is a more a documentary style miscellaneous plot seeing all characters (mostly in the upper classes) living out their time on the disaster set White Star liner. So four days pass with no problems, and then it comes to fateful night of April 14th 1912, when the ship is hit by an iceberg. So begins the attempted evacuation of the ship with all characters panicking to save their own and each other's lives before they sink. In the end of course, out of the 2,200 people aboard, only 700 got into the boats, the other 1,500 people perished in the freezing cold waters. Starring Kenneth More as Second Officer Charles Herbert Lightoller, Michael Goodliffe as Thomas Andrews, Ronald Allen as Mr. Clarke, Goldfinger's Honor Blackman as Mrs. Liz Lucas, Anthony Bushell as Capt. Arthur Rostron (Carpathia), John Cairney as Mr. Murphy, David McCallum as Assistant Wireless Operator Harold Bride, Kenneth Griffith as Wireless Operator John 'Jack' Phillips, Robert Ayres as Maj. Arthur Peuchen, Jill Dixon as Mrs. Clarke, Jane Downs as Mrs. Sylvia Lightoller, James Dyrenforth as Col. Archibald Gracie, Harriette Johns as Lady Richard, Frank Lawton as Chairman J. Bruce Ismay, Richard Leech as First Officer William Murdoch, Tucker McGuire as Mrs. Margaret 'Molly' Brown, Laurence Naismith as Capt. Edward John Smith, Worzel Gummidge's Geoffrey Bayldon as Wireless Operator Cyril Evans (Californian), and apparently Sir Sean Connery as Titanic deck hand. It is an impeccably acted film classic that grips and compels you just as much as the 1997 version. It won the Golden Globe for Best English-Language Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Competent","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a competent movie version of Walter Lord's excellent documentary -novel of the great ship's tragic voyage. The cast is good, with this  Captain Smith resembling the real captain more that in any other movie  version of the Titanic story. The interior sets of the ship are quite good.  The one real flaw in the film, however, is the use of models for the ship  and the iceberg. These models never look like anything other than what they  are. Nevertheless, the film is worth watching. "},{"Title":"excellent movie in that time but ship is too fake.","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" the movie is very straight forward, yes but titanic did not have a bottle of champagne(sorry for the wrong spelling) smash into her hull in the ship naming thing. and when titanic was pulled into the dock, the rudder and the ship's bow is very different and when the ship is sinking, the wrong funnel fell down to make it worst, the break of the funnel is so straight circle, you know what i mean the funnel should crinkle and crumpled like condition. again when the ship is sinking, the shot that was taken from far, there was nobody on the stern (haha a very funny thing) and a lot more which is endless but again, the movie is very nice to watch cos of the amazing special effect at that time "},{"Title":"Powerful Story, Weak Script","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Few real-life disasters capture the imagination like the sinking of the Titanic, and rightly so. But you'd never know it watching this film, as bland and impersonal as its title.The main problem is a script that deemphasizes characterization. Characters mostly consist either of random passengers amid different social classes, or assorted ship officers. We don't see them as individuals. In the film's credits how is Mr. Clarke different from Mr. Murphy? Do you remember the character Mrs. Liz Lucas, fourth down in the list of credits? I don't. Does the captain of the Carpathia even have a name? Except maybe for Lightoller (Kenneth More), the characters are mechanical stick figures affiliated with some group that we analyze dispassionately, and with no real emotional connection.Another script problem is the over emphasis on the loading of the lifeboats. This series of events goes on and on and on. Either the writer was trying to cram the film with filler, or the film editor was asleep at the wheel. And then there's that anti-climactic ending.The B&W cinematography is generally effective. Sets appear to be authentic recreations. Casting seems appropriate. But consistent with absence of characterization, the film doesn't require much acting skill. And the DVD commentary points out all kinds of factual inaccuracies.You have this huge, luxurious ship purportedly unsinkable, with some two thousand people on-board, hundreds of miles out from land, in a part of the ocean that is over two miles deep, a slowly evolving disaster, on a calm, starry night, and no realistic hope of rescue. How could anyone not be moved by this genuinely dramatic event? Yet, A Night To Remember portrays this epic human tragedy in a perfunctory, indifferent manner, without passion or profundity. "},{"Title":"British are better making movies then american","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A night to remember is a classic film about the Titanic on her voyage from southampton to new york till she struck an iceburg in the atlantic ocean badly damage and the unsinkable ship starts to sink slowly taking down about 1000 people with her. This is a 1958 british film with some good speical effects and its as good as it gets to know what really happens to the titanic then the james cameron romantic epic. Well really i like both james cameron titanic and A NIGHT TO REMEMBER but if your looking for a good story and seeing how the people dealt with the sinking then rent or buy A NIGHT TO REMEMBER but if you want a romantic film with the ship then rent titanic 1998. The british comes top and i am giving this film 7/10  "},{"Title":"video","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I liked this film, but my main complaint with it was that it was hard to see some of the parts of the movie because it was so dark. I feel I would have liked it a lot more if it was easier to see. I did change the brightness on the television but this did not help much. "}{"Title":"It makes me wonder ...","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" ... What FOOL was responsible for the `women and children first' policy?  I can't fault the crew of the Titanic for following the policy, since, as the film explains, a departure from the procedure everyone expected would have alerted the passengers much too soon to the fact that something was seriously wrong.  But how was the policy ever formed in the first place?  People now criticise the policy as sexist, which completely misses the point - like condemning the use of mustard gas on aesthetic grounds.  Here's the situation on the Titanic there are 2500 people, and lifeboat space for 1500.  A thousand people will drown.  This simply can't be helped.The amount of suffering caused by the thousand deaths, however, is very much under human control; and so, for some bizarre reason, everyone agrees on a policy designed to MAXIMISE suffering by breaking up families and married couples.  The `women and children first' policy all but GUARANTEES that every survivor will suffer a painful loss.  Almost any other discriminatory method of choosing survivors would have been better than this one.  The decision to let rich people in the lifeboats and let the poor drown, for instance, was a GOOD decision, certainly by comparison.  Poor people form bonds and friendships with one another; rich people likewise with one another; so by letting only rich people (or only poor people) into the boats you  reduce the grief caused by the inevitable 1000 deaths.  James Cameron clearly failed to see this in 1997, which makes me less surprised at the stupidity of people who failed to see the disastrous consequences of `women and children first' in 1912.I seem to have strayed from the point.  It's easy to do, since although the film seems to drift along, hitting the iceberg early and showing us people more or less as they happen to walk in front of the camera, we see quite a lot of what must have gone on in such an enormous, protracted disaster.  We really see EVERYTHING.  I don't know what people are complaining about when they say that there's an implausible absence of panic.  Many people in the film DO panic; but in even the most terrifying situations, people don't MERELY panic.  Calmness and courage under fire are facts of life, too.  The intelligent objectivity of presentation is appealing.  I get the feeling that the writer, Eric Ambler, could have made perceptive points about the tragedy if it had been his intention to preach, which it wasn't.There's very little music; but Roy Ward Baker still hired a REAL composer (William Alwyn) to write what music there is.  The special effects are good, too. "},{"Title":"A surprise a well-written and realized adventure","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" British-made depiction of the infamous 1912 sinking of the ocean-liner Titanic, with a screenplay adapted from Walter Lord's book, crediting some of the real-life survivors of the sea-disaster as advisers. After the standard character-introductions, the film becomes a gripping, harrowing adventure, with surprisingly good special effects and photography. Story was previously filmed as Titanic in 1953 and again years later as Titanic in 1997 (which follows this version rather closely!). Not to be confused with another film entitled A Night to Remember from 1943 which had nothing to do with the Titanic. Fine performances, particularly by Kenneth More as the Second Officer. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Different, but still good","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Watching this right after James Cameron's Titanic, I didn't know what to expect. While not as being as bloated, it is missing some of the richness and texture of Cameron's version. It is still well worth watching for its vivid storytelling. "},{"Title":"Phallic symbolism","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I have watched this film (vastly superior to the blockbuster) many times, but yesterday I noticed for the first time the funnel and steam following the garter embrace, about 2 minutes in.Once seen, this seemed such a clear (and naughty for the time) symbol that I looked around for other references.Anyone else?  "},{"Title":"OK, but I think the Cameron version got it right after all.","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I've just watched this version of the famous sinking, which a lot of critics have said is the best version of the story. While it is closer to the time period, and is more authentically British and polite in it's approach, I actually think the more recent blockbuster by James Cameron works better.To start with, the blockbuster is more technically accurate than this version (particularly with the liner splitting in two on the surface), and of course the special effects are far more convincing in the blockbuster - you can easily tell that the ship going under here is a model in a pool. I'll admit that those criticisms are a little unfair, the film-makers couldn't have made what they didn't know. and were limited by the technology of the time.What I have a bigger problem is the ever-present sense that some of this film feels almost like an apologist version from some of the people involved. Mr Ismay in particular is given a very generous depiction here, almost as if he's an innocent bystander to the whole affair. I think the portrayal of him in the Cameron version is far more likely to be closer to what the actual politics were. And again, the issue with the California seems to have been somewhat more complicated since this film was made.What's interesting to note is the similarities between this and the blockbuster. Shots like the plates crashing and the tea-trolley rolling along the tilted ship are virtually identical. And despite what a lot of commentators have attacked the blockbuster for, this version also has poor little kids being used to illicit sympathy, as well as very melodramatic doomed romances and such plot devices. Plus it's also interesting to note that this version also depicts the gates between the different class areas being locked and barred by the crew; something which has since been officially denied.In fact, it can be said that this and the later blockbuster version are more similar than different. And I think the blockbuster version actually captures the situation far more effectively, both in narration and spectacle, than this version does - despite it's more patriotic heroic stance. "},{"Title":"The Amazing Titanic","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" In general, I didn't like this movie. It didn't had a great writing for me and I didn't got to meet the characters better. The ship sinking wasn't as dramatic as Cameron's. The Captain seemed peacefull as well as all of the characters. Besides, when they show in the First Class Dinning Room the food tray tilting. I thought they could us some other better reference. The sets were hideous, they didn't seemed like a real ship. And although I'm not in love with Cameron's I really think is better, the performances, the screenplay, the direction, the effects, THE SHIP.I wouldn't recommend to watch this movie "},{"Title":"If you want to experience Titanic go see James Cameron!","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A night to remember is a very good movie and I like it. The story is being portrayed well but I miss the characters. Officer Lightoller here played by Kenneth More does a god job. but I don't feel that you get to know these characters in the movie, the main focus is on Lightoller but the rest of the characters are just in the background and you really don't care for any of them. There's no bond between the audience and the people on board. Bruce Ismay is almost a hero and forces women and children into the boats. On the real titanic I don't think this was the case. Cameron captures the peoples actions and feelings during the sinking way better than here. And from my POV he's also closer to what really happened in terms of how people behaved overall. The sinking of Titanic is quite well done considering the lack of modern techniques. But like any other Titanic movie this one doesn't even come close to James Cameron's version. His way of portraying the people and the sinking is by far the most accurate. Even the acting is better for most of the parts. If you really want to come close to the real Titanic Cameron's version is the best movie out there and will probably be the best one ever made about the Titanic. But overall this is a good movie and watchable for those who are interested. "},{"Title":"Big boat bumps bigger berg....bids bye-bye","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The old boy who designed this tub should have kept his plans and sold them to the makers of tinker toys. Inept seamanship and carelessness did the rest, resulting in the loss of many lives. Can anybody spell O.S.H.A.? Then again, some of these snooty, pea brains deserved to be deep sixed. And why didn't the Titanic ask the Carpathia to wire the boat that they saw on the horizon? Woulda been worth a try. Couldn't help wondering, if the chairperson of the National Organization of Women had been aboard, would she have screamed sexist pig! when she  heard the officers refrain 'women' and children only? Dubious. Cameron's film was a direct copy of this one in many areas, but was still a bigger and better production. "}]