[{"Title":"One of the greats!!!!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is a long movie, but it goes by as fast as a giggle!! There are few movies that I care to watch over and over again.  I never tire of Auntie Mame because the screenplay is simply a brilliant piece of work. Comden and Greene are from the laudable days where one was expected to engage the brain when writing comedy!  Practically every line is a quotable classic.  Warner Brothers did us all a service by hiring theater director Morton da Costa to recreate the Broadway stage play.  The movie is classy, sumptuously designed and brilliantly staged with those exquisite blackouts after each scene. Rosalind Russell should have won an Academy Award for this role (she refused to campaign for it) because no one will ever come close to getting that perfect timing that she displays in every scene. You love her from the moment she shakes the monkey's hand in the second scene. The supporting cast is perfection, especially Coral Browne, an undeservedly little known actress who makes a meal of Vera Charles.  Peggy Cass is hilarious as Agnes Gooch; Forrest Tucker a charmer as Burnside. Everything about this picture makes it a true classic of the American cinema; one of those rare movies that makes you laugh, but even more important, makes you feel good!!! They don't get any better than this! "},{"Title":"Perfect? Just about!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Auntie Mame was first published, I read and re-read it (and its sequel, Around the World with Auntie Mame) for several summers. Believe it or not, the books are even funnier than the film. They were not memoirs, though that was the PR at the time. Edward Everett Tanner, or Patrick Dennis, ultimately admitted as much. Auntie Mame was a creation from Tanner's own talented imagination.No one ever has, or ever will, embody Auntie Mame as well as Rosalind Russell, who, by the time her Broadway performance in the role was filmed, had honed her portrayal to one of the finest in American theatre and film.Listen to her vocal technique from high girlish squeals to basso-profundo sarcasm.Or watch her remarkable body language throughout -- from grande dame theatricality to lowbrow burlesque.Russell's supporting players are magnificent -- from the 12-year old Jan Handzlik, through Coral Browne, Peggy Cass, Forrest Tucker, Fred Clark, Patrick Knowles, Connie Gilchrist, Yuki Shimoda, Robin Hughes, Roger Smith, Pippa Scott -- and, my own particular favorites who almost, but not quite, steal their scenes from Miss Russell Willard Waterman, Lee Patrick and Joanna Barnes as the unforgettable Upsons.George James Hopkins' brilliant sets and set design, and Orry-Kelly's amazing costumes, along with Branislau Kaper's score and Morton Da Costa's direction are like Tiffany settings, showing off this flawless cast at the top of their form.Lawrence and Lee's original Broadway script was adapted by Betty Comden and Adolph Green, whose main contribution would appear to be the hydraulic furniture at the final dinner party.The famous line, originally from the Broadway play and not found in the novel, is Life is a banquet! And most poor sons-of-bitches are starving to death! Damn and hell both are heard in the film but sons-of-bitches was apparently too strong for the MPAA in 1958.Is the film dated? I suppose. In the same way that Citizen Kane is dated, or Some Like It Hot. It's also timeless. And Miss Russell's performance, here at the zenith of her long and distinguished comedic and dramatic career (Eugene O'Neill's Mourning Becomes Electra, anybody?) is an acting lesson unto itself. "},{"Title":"The One and Only Mame","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes you see a movie and you know that the actor or actress in it was born to play that part.Clark Gable in Gone with the WindBette Davis in All About EveBarbra Streisand in Hello, DollyRosalind Russell in Auntie MameI love Russell and the parts she played. She was a liberated woman before the rest of the world knew that women needed to be liberated.But in Auntie Mame she reached her peak. Mame is so vibrant and alive. She flaunts every one of Mame's eccentricities without stepping over the line into caricature. She also brings alive Mame's decency, compassion and tolerance. When I watch it, I almost feel ashamed of myself for being such a stick in the mud.I enjoyed the musical with Lucille Ball, but all the way through it - I wanted it to be Rosalind Russell playing the part. It takes very little imagination on my part to hear her singing the songs. Rosalind, you are just sensational as Mame. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best films I have EVER seen, and I watch a lot of films, as I am sure most of you do. First, it is an excellent adaptation of the book. They managed to follow the story line extremely well. Yes, somethings were left out, but all and all, they did a great job. Second, Rosaline Russell rocks! It doesn't matter what character she plays, she is fantastic, but she IS Mame, nobody can do it like her. Forget about the musical version (MAME) with Lucille Ball ( who is a great actress in her own right, but certainly not in the same ballpark with Ms. Russell). Third, it is not only funny, but heartwarming. The relationship between Mame and Patrick speaks volumes about what love should be, completely accepting of who the other person is, even if you don't always agree with them or like what they do. Fantastic family film, fun for everyone. "},{"Title":"Welcome to life's banquet!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosalind Russel in the role of a lifetime. Auntie Mame leads her beloved nephew on a roller-coaster ride from riches to rags back to riches, always teaching the boy to live life to the fullest. The story begins just prior to the great stock market crash of 1929 and spins into present day (1958).There are delightful moments with colorful characters, most noteworthy Miss Gooch, an unwed mother and thus an outcast of respectable society. There are several touching scenes when the family is suffering in the great depression, but just as many funny ones, i. e. where Auntie Mame puts some biggoted snobs in their place.I enjoyed this film slightly more than the later Lucille Ball musical version. Although Rosalind Russel is quite flamboyant, Lucille Ball is completely over the top and thus less credible. I recommend the 1958 original over the remake, although both are wonderful entertainment. "},{"Title":"Roz Shines as Mame","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have no doubts that Mame Dennis' human counterpart must have been a larger-than-life character and Patrick Dennis must have held a huge admiration for this Renaissance woman who could touch anyone with her carefree attitude towards life. Rosalind Russell, who's only other major success in the Fifties (up until then) was a supporting role in PICNIC, single-handedly takes full charge of her comic timing to create a fully-formed person as Mame Dennis and in doing so has created a legacy that will be remembered a hundred years from now.The story of AUNTIE MAME is well-known for both movie goers and for theatre goers who saw not only Roz but Angela Lansbury as well. Mame Dennis is an eccentric character of a woman who is raising a young boy, Patrick, and exposing him to a flurry of her own misadventures, including the loss of her fortune in the stock market crash. Mame, however, perseveres through her own joie-de-vivre and despite working menial jobs and a bit part in a play starring her friend Vera Ralston. She meets and marries Beauregard Jackson Burnside despite the machinations of his family (and especially Sally Cato), travels the world, becomes a widow, and in later years, has to confront that Patrick, now a grown man, is embarrassed by her very personality and is about to marry into conformity.Morton daCosta has created an ageless movie with a dazzling set direction that reflects the passing of time and the evolution of Mame's persona. Clearly not one to value tradition, we see her home slowly go from a product of its time to an avant-guard, ultra sleek place, to a shrine of Eastern civilization. Mame herself evolves despite playing the flake if anything, she is not a twit but someone who is aware of herself and what life is all about, and there is a touching scene near the end in which she is in full, golden regalia, looking like a Hindu goddess, in which we see the real woman inside pouring light onto the set as she prepares for her next journey. Who else could have done such a thing with this character? She, like this film, is perfect. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Performance By Rosalind Russell","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With a perfect match between character and actress, Rosalind Russell's unforgettable performance as Auntie Mame is almost enough to carry the whole movie by itself. The story is also interesting, if quite contrived, and most of the supporting cast helps out when needed. The variety of settings and situations also helps to make the movie an effective portrait of a life.The story works best when taken as an appreciative but light-hearted portrayal of a memorable character. Many of Mame's adventures are stylized, and they work best when not taken too seriously. Given that, there are plenty of amusing sequences, and just enough thoughtful moments to maintain some balance.Russell herself is in her element. With a character whom it is almost impossible to overplay, she gives the role plenty of energy and charm. She also works very well with the other characters, giving believable (given the character) and usually interesting reactions to what they say and do.In the supporting cast, Forrest Tucker and Peggy Cass make good use of their scenes, and Fred Clark works well as Mame's frequent adversary. Coral Browne gets some good moments as Mame's old friend. The filming was approached in a rather stagy fashion, yet much of the time this seems appropriate. All told, the movie has a number of strengths, yet the memory most likely to remain is Russell's portrait of Mame herself. "},{"Title":"A film to watch especially when your spirits are down.","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rosalind Russell -IS- Auntie Mame and there is no doubt in my mind that she being cast in the role was a perfect choice. I read Dennis' book and I have to stress that anyone who loves this film but who has not read the book should read it. I think they did a great job in adapting the novel to film although I could imagine the great temptation to include the very racy parts of the novel. If they did include them, the G rating would probably have needed to be changed to R. One of my favorite lines in the film is delivered so expertly by actress Coral Browne (Vera Charles), who upon being wakened out of a drunken sleep (with bottle still in hand) looks out the window at the sun and says Ohhh---that moon is bright. Another favorite line delivered by Russell (in Mame's comment about Vera Charles' phony English accent) When your from Pittsburgh, you have to do something. Rosalind Russell brought such magic to the character of Auntie Mame so much so, that I wish I had an Aunt like her. Auntie Mame helps stress the point to appreciate diversity in life and to live life to the fullest. I have often chosen to watch my copy of this film when feeling low and I can tell you it is a spirit lifter.  "},{"Title":"Auntie Mame is a perfectly delightful comedy","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is a comedy for all time.  It was released in 1958, and it remains a cinematic treasure for all to enjoy.  Rosalind Russell gives the performance of her lifetime.  She remains quick and witty throughout the film as Mame Dennis, the delightfully funny aunt of Patrick Dennis whose deceased father puts her in charge of his life.  The author, also by the name of Patrick Dennis, deserves kudos for this excellent film adaptation.  One of the more memorable characters, Agnes Gouch, played by Peggy Cass, provides the audience with comic antics that make you chuckle for days after viewing this picture.  It is a perfectly delightful comedy that must be in the serious collector's film library.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Mame is Alive","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  St. Iranaeous said it The glory of God is man fully alive.Auntie Mame in her own way lives this life.  This may not appear to be a deep movie.  But, Mame lives a life that as Agnes Gooch says I see what she's been living.  And I see what I've been missing.   She doesn't miss a moment.  She's a caricature for so many of the things that go wrong with growing up and becoming mature and responsible.  At the end of the day Mame shows the possibilities of a life led to the full.  Of a life that is truly vital and alive. This is a movie everyone who wants to leave this world without leaving money on the table should watch and take to heart. Mame is childlike, fun, and living without fear of what others think.  This is on my top 10 list.  "}{"Title":"She's the Pied Piper!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From the cartoon kaleidoscope opening to the last walk up the staircase for Mame Dennis, this comically-contrived and highly theatrical movie version of the celebrated Broadway success is nevertheless pleasing in almost every sense. Director Morton DaCosta, who also helmed the stage version, uses the theatricality of the piece to his advantage, giving the proceedings the shiny look and feel of a holiday bauble. The movie takes off running, bursting with chatter and frivolity, and Rosalind Russell is a great crazy-quilt hostess, often going in three directions at once. The story of an orphaned lad in 1928 who goes to live with his batty aunt in New York City started life as a book by Patrick Dennis, with Russell playing the lead once it was turned into a play. The film-version doesn't try to disguise the stage origins, but then it doesn't really have to; DaCosta keeps the pacing so brisk, with characters entering and exiting rapidly, that initially the viewer may feel as though something important may have been missed. The picture isn't loaded down with artificial charm. On the contrary, the romantic sub-plot between Russell and oil tycoon Forrest Tucker (which, again, is quick--in and out) is genuinely sweet (this is Tucker's triumph as much as it is Russell's) and the supporting players are impeccably well-cast, bouncing off each other like frenetic ornaments. While the plot does slip into an episodic structure (and does feel a bit lengthy), the smooth maneuvering of characters and quirks and hang-ups and hang-overs is an awful lot of fun. As for Russell, she gives shading and feeling to this woman; her exuberance can be taken as a put-on (for laughs), yet we never lose sight of Mame Dennis as a ballsy, bright lady, and she never lapses into bitchiness. Mame may have been real, or maybe just a literary confection, but she isn't a phony. She believes life is a banquet, and gets us to believe it too. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Auntie Mame is the film for everyone.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is such an excellent film it is hard to describe its excellence in words.  It shows that having a positive outlook on life will take you far.  Mame Dennis is the woman that single-handedly saved the life of her nephew, Patrick, from the depths of petty commercialism and widened his horizons beyond his greatest dreams.  This, in my opinion, should have been on the Greatest Films in American History List but perhaps if enough of you video-renters go out and get this fabulous film it will indeed be counted for consideration.  Go out and buy or rent this wonderful film and live life to the fullest. "},{"Title":"One of Best Movies of All Time","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Roz Russell began her career as a dramatic actress. Early on, however, she claim her name to fame in comedy while performing in the film, The Women when she wisely elected to play her role of Sylvia Fowler in a slapstick way, and from there the stage was set. She grew as an actress in many different roles, so multi-talented, but if you ask me her very best role ever was within this film. In a very real sense, it took so much of her variety of talent to play the role of Mame Dennis - at times the film made you cry, but it usually had you laughing. Coral Browne gave an outstanding performance as Vera Charles - she and Russell were both under-rated actresses. Peggy Cass did a great job as well. To be honest, I never really saw Cass in much other than To Tell The Truth in the 1960's, but she was a great sponge of a secretary that was over 200 in Auntie Mame! Later, I very much enjoyed Roz Russell's Autobiography Life is a Banquet about that Cathoic girl from Waterbury, CT who worshiped at the Parish in Beverly Hills she called, Our Lady of the Cadillacs and although Russell was a devout Catholic, she did not show it off in the obnoxious way that Loretta Young did. Reverend Mother from The Trouble With Angels was certainly a beauty, an outstanding actress, and this was in my mind her very greatest film. From what I understand, she had a long tour on stage with the play before it was brought to the Warner lot. Very well done. I never bore of watching it. Whenever I want to feel good - there it is, so faithful, so there, just like Beekman Place! That's it! "},{"Title":"Breathless appreciation for the best i wanna be like her movie EVER","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MUST SEE. What else can i say? Auntie Mame is truly phenomenal... a story of an eccentric woman who's orphan nephew comes to live with her and is exposed to her unusual ways.the words MADCAP, DELIGHTFUL and UNORTHODOX arise anytime a there's a discussion of Auntie Mame.MAME was a very, very poor remake of this fabulous film. Rosalind Russell IS Auntie Mame. Please oh please see this movie if you don't see any other 'screwball comedies' in your life.Now i lay me down to sleep, the good Lord my soul to keep. If i should die while I doze, let me awake in Mame Dennis' clothes "},{"Title":"Live Live Live","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my top 3 favorite movies. You might say I am obsessed with this movie. I have no idea how many times I have watched it. I have lost count. I can't imagine anyone playing Mame any better than Rosalind Russell. I agree with another reviewer, in reference to the movie Mame with Lucille Ball. I LOVE Lucille Ball, but Ms. Russell was the ultimate Mame. I really did not care for Mame at all. Auntie Mame is a wonderful movie. It will make you laugh, it will make you cry, but mostly it will give you so much joy. Auntie Mame loves life and lives it to the fullest. When she loves, its with her whole heart and soul. Its like her book.. Live Live Live. The movie takes you from Mame as a kooky free spirit with no responsibilities or cares, to now having a child that depends on her. But there are many times that you have to wonder who is taking care of who. Lots of fun and laughs...canapé with tuna and peanut butter, anyone? "},{"Title":"You could practically write a whole book about what happened to her....","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" And so somebody did. And from that came a play, this movie, eventually a musical comedy and finally the movie version of that musical comedy. Why nobody has tried to sitcom her is beyond me. Yet, for some reason, neither the play nor the musical have had major revivals, perhaps because no star today could top not only the original performers but those who replaced them on Broadway. With the exception of the star of the movie musical, it has been a triumph for everyone.Everybody should have an Auntie Mame. I bet Patrick Dennis wishes he did, even though a relative of his claims to have been the model for her. Many people I know claim to have had an older female relative (or older gay male relative) whom they say came close, but the original is the one to watch. As played by Rosalind Russell, Mame Dennis Burnside is a role-model for those who clamor for life, even if they can't afford the wardrobe or travel destinations of this Beekman Place socialite. Mame is a free spirit whose seemingly estranged brother dies suddenly, giving her custody of his young son. Jan Handzlik is the adorable little boy who immediately takes to his wacky aunt, in the midst of affair when he arrives with the stern Norah (veteran character actress Connie Gilchrist). Little Patrick is taken with the many wacky characters she either hangs around with or employs, most notably the effeminate butler Ito (Yuki Shimoda) and drunken stage star Vera Charles (Coral Browne) who just loves little boys. But his father's trustee (Fred Clark) has his own suspicions about Mame's intentions for the boy's upbringing, and upon discovering the truth about the education he is receiving, threatens to take Patrick away from her for good.In the meantime, Mame tries to have a career after the stock market crashes, hysterically destroying a play that Vera is starring in, cross-wiring the city of San Francisco with the wrong party and finally destroying a sales book in Macy's while trying to sell skates to the wealthy Jackson Pickett Burnside (Forrest Tucker). Romance with the wealthy southerner follows yet true romantic happiness is not to last. Content with what she's left with, Mame fixes up the life of her frantic secretary (the delightful Peggy Cass) and turns the older Patrick's (Roger Smith) life upside down when he becomes engaged to the wrong woman. You could practically write a whole book of just the quotes from this wonderful comedy, consistently funny and sometimes heart warming and even briefly heart breaking. You could also write a book describing each and every character who pops in and out of the extremely long comedy that doesn't seem as long as it is. The opening credits, shown through a gloved hand turning a kaleidescope, are a visual gem, as is the musical theme. Each act of Mame's life ends with the camera darkening as if a curtain was going down and cleverly adds to the delightful theatrical feel of the film. The role of Norah Muldoon and secretary Agnes Gooch were combined for the musical, but here, each of them has an important task to fulfill. Gilchrist's Norah is stern but lovable, acerbic in her declaration of why a party didn't happen. The bootlegger couldn't make it that night. Gooch comes on and when asked to describe what horrific thing she is wearing on her foot raspy voiced declares Orthopedic Oxfords!. Many of the clever lines, simply spoke dramatically, were later utilized for Jerry Herman's delightful musical score, and while the film sometimes seems like it is screaming for those songs (particularly Boosom Buddies, the acerbic duet between Mame and Vera, as well as the delightful title tune), but it manages to do even better on its own without them.I have to give kudos to the delightful Joanna Barnes who brings her top drawer attitude hysterically to the role of the pretentious Gloria Upson, dramatically describing the horrific events of a ping pong tournament. Veteran Warner Brothers character actress Lee Patrick adds Billie Burke like silliness to her role of Gloria's mother, and Brook Byron is Southern hospitality with an imperious quality as Sally Cato. Hot damn! My sister's gonna bust a gut! her brother declares after Mame makes a showing while down south. Goodbye Yankee Gal! the enormous Carol Veazie saunters while Mame makes an attempt to ride a not-so-tame horse side saddle. More moments like this should be left for the viewer to discover on their own and truly enjoy with repeat viewings. Director Morton Da Costa repeated his Broadway job and with the success of this film, brought the same kind of theatrical editing to his movie version of The Music Man which ironically starred the movie musical Beaugard, Robert Preston. "},{"Title":"Hardly profound, but an absolute blast","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Going into this movie, I had an open mind but expected a stagy, dated comedy. I was very pleasantly surprised to find a snappy, frank, and surprisingly fresh comedy filled with delightful performances and dialogue, colorful costumes and set designs, and a clichéd but solid message about life. Rosalind Russell plays Mame Dennis, who takes in her nephew Patrick (Jan Handzlik) after her brother unexpectedly dies. What ensues is a very fun romp about the adventures and trials of Mame and Patrick over 9 years as he grows up and they weather the Great Depression. The film is populated by a wide assortment of colorful, entertaining characters and comedic situations. And, for a 54-year-old movie, I actually found it to be hilarious. I laughed out loud several times throughout, for example when Mame at one point tries to mount a horse, and the dialogue is genuinely funny without straining too hard, with jokes rarely falling flat. The film's comedic success is amplified by its enormous heart, which takes center stage during several dramatic, emotional moments. The film wears its heart on its sleeve but never lapses into overdone sentimentality. As the movie's famous line goes, Life's a banquet, and some poor suckers are starving to death. The film's message to live your own way and to the fullest no matter what really resonates, even if it is a bit unoriginal. The film takes thinly veiled shots at the norms, prejudices, and judgments of mid-20th century American society. It has a blast shooting down anti-Semitism, socioeconomic elitism, social judgment (involving such topics as unmarried pregnancy), to name a few, and it's 143-minute runtime flies by. The film itself, especially the cast, seems to be having a great time as it progresses, and I couldn't help but to be sucked right in. The performances are very good across the board. Rosalind Russell is just perfect as Mame, capturing her larger-than-life personality and big heart. She's an ace at spouting out the character's lightning-fast lines with impeccable comic timing. Coral Browne also gives a great comic performance as Vera, although she doesn't have as much depth as Russell. The rest of the supporting cast are all very good as well. Jan Handzlik is endearing and funny as a young Patrick, and Peggy Cass is outstanding in a paper-thin role (she did a good job, but her Oscar nomination is perplexing). I also thought Joanna Barnes was a riot as Gloria, and Lee Patrick and Willard Waterman are excellent as her parents. Overall, Auntie Mame is a hugely entertaining, even uplifting movie filled with wacky characters, spot-on comedic performances, hilarious writing, and a big heart. It's not the deepest movie you'll ever see, or the least conventional, but it's an absolute delight. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Sparkling comedy is in a class by itself.","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From the moment the credits roll with their colorful gems spelling out the title, this vibrant film comes alive, introducing the viewer to one of the all-time unique ladies of the page, stage and screen. Russell (recreating her Broadway triumph) portrays this woman, whose motto is Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death. Living in a dizzying world of endless parties, free-thinking, gin-swilling and general extravagance, her life is irrevocably changed when she inherits her young nephew after the death of his father. Immediately, her dormant motherly instincts kick in, though she has no intention of raising him in the traditional manner. Instead, she intends to raise him with a varied and wide viewpoint, exposing him to all sorts of ideas and expression. This doesn't sit well with the nephew's trustee Clark, who demands a formal education. This conflict is merely the tip of the iceberg as Russell defies Clark, but winds up paying for it. Then the stock market crash of 1929 causes Russell to start from scratch. Fortunately, she lands a southern millionaire (Tucker), but while she's dallying with him, the nephew is influenced by Clark and his socialite friends. So it's up to Russell to clear out the snobby, bigoted set he's settled in with and guide him, not too gently, towards a different life. To say that Russell gives an exuberant performance would be the height of understatement. From the moment she zestfully lands on screen, she is in perpetual motion, continuously flitting around and yammering about anything and everything. It's a tour-de-force that shouldn't be missed. Some take exception to her nosy dominance or to the fact that her character revels in luxury that she hasn't created herself (and can't replace, herself, once it's gone), but the bigger picture is that she encourages people (all types of people) to get the very most out of life. She may be an acquired taste, but few actresses could have brought the same zeal, style and wide variety of vocalism to the part. (Witness Russell's wondrously on-target bits when she lowers her voice from it's airy, high-pitched fire alarm to a tough, gin-joint growl.) Apart from her many comic moments, she is also able to bring true feeling to the occasional poignant aspects of the story. She is aided, not only by a stunning array of elaborate costumes and set pieces, but also a stellar supporting cast, each of whom gets a chance to shine. Tucker is endearing as the love of her life. Haughty Browne is a delightful counterpoint to Russell and brings a lot of brittle, British, bitchiness to the table. As the nephew, both Handzlick (young) and Smith (older) offer up tender and thoughtful performances. Cass is a standout as Russell's frumpy secretary who is enticed by Russell to let her hair down, with shocking results. Waterman, Patrick and Barnes are also a highlight as the folks Russell will do anything to in order to keep them away from her nephew. Scott comes in late as a thoroughly appealing (and startlingly normal!) aide to Russell. Every role in the film is given admirable service by a terrific assortment of actors, but it's really Russell's show. She displays here the rare type of skill and finesse, mixed with heart, that's required in order to enact a role this gargantuan. Her shadow would loom large over Miss Lucille Ball, who had the unenviable task of attempting to fill Russell's shoes in the film of the musicalized version (Mame) sixteen years later. It's a task that, now close to fifty years after Russell's portrayal, no one else has taken on since (apart from Angela Lansbury on stage) despite continuous murmurings of a TV remake with everyone from Barbra Streisand to Cher. "},{"Title":"Grand entertainment!","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never seen AUNTIE MAME until I was a full grown man and have seen countless of films of all sorts, from old Hollywood movies to experimental flicks from Europe to trashy, exploitation films. I've heard of AM but never sought it out. So one day I watched it when it was playing on some classic movie channel and I'm glad I did. AUNTIE MAME is a great film, one of those larger-than-life kind of films that they really don't make anymore. It's most definitely top drawer.After I saw it for the first time, my initial complaint about AUNTIE MAME was that it's basically a filmed stage play. Nothing too difficult about that just plunk a film camera in the middle of an empty theater and shoot the play. But after seeing the widescreen version on the DVD (as opposed to the full-screen presentation on TV), my admiration for it has grown exponentially and now see how special this film is. The folks behind the camera created something more than a filmed stageplay. The look of it (the pastel colors), the acting, everything perfectly suits the movie and they didn't need to change anything about it.The only negative aspect I still have about AM though is the transition between young and older Patrick. The actor who plays young Patrick is very charming and fun and we become accustomed to seeing him (the heart of the movie happens during the first part) so when they change from young Patrick to older Patrick, I'm always jarred about this sudden change (besides, I've never cared much for the older Patrick). They probably should have added some scenes where Mame sees the boy grow up and becomes a young man. But that's my only critique of AUNTIE MAME.The rest, it's just about perfect Rosalind Russell is flawless as Auntie Mame, the craziest aunt you can ever ask for. Her delivery is amazing and I'm always in awe of her complete understanding of the character (as opposed to Lucille Ball in the dreadful musical MAME). The cast of supporting actors are great, certainly Coral Browne (wish she had more scenes though). Again, the look of the film is a revelation on DVD (great use of Cinemascope) and the story is wickedly subversive with endlessly quotable dialogue (Exclusively what and restrictive to whom?) which, in the end, is the main reason why I really like this film. The story is a tad episodic, and like I've said before, the transition between young and old Patrick could have been done a bit better but story is about Mame's adventurous lifestyle and the episodic aspect of the screenplay suits it to a T. In fact, I'm glad the film didn't settle with just one boring storyline.Wickedly funny, heartwarming and great to look at. What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but never escapes it's stage play roots","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A thoroughly enjoyable film about a butterfly minded socialite becoming the mother of her orphaned nephew. At first we are gravely concerned for the boy's wellbeing, Auntie Mame seems exactly the sort of person who shouldn't be allowed anywhere near children, with her scatterbrained ideas of what constitutes a reasonable education for a wealthy New York boy, shortly before the Wall Street Crash and the Depression. Luckily, the boy's father has a Trustee to his will who has the ability to curb the worst of Mame's ludicrous excesses. Rendered poor by the Crash, Mame tries a succession of menial jobs for which she has no aptitude or enthusiasm. Mame is humbled by the devotion of her housekeeper and servants who use their savings to pay the grocery bill. Mame meets a sugar daddy, in the guise of a Southern Oil Man (this wouldn't happen in real life, needless to say) and Mame sets her cap at him, and succeeds, seeing off her rival in a display of (accidentally) impressive horsemanship. They marry and spend the next few years on honeymoon. Hubby gets killed in a mountaineering mishap and Mame returns to write a book about herself, aided by a plain secretary and a pretentious work shy poet who is a con-man.Mame's nephew gets involved with a snobbish girl and her family and Mame manages to scare these people off rather stylishly, after which, the nephew takes up with the secretary, replacement for the plain girl, impregnated by the runaway poet. Forward to 1946 and an elderly Mame manages to talk her nephew and his wife to allow their son to go with her to Karachi.There are some great comedic turns in this film, but it never really steps out of the painted set and spotlight feeling of a stage play. It feels like a series of vignettes in effect. Good fun though "}{"Title":"Magnificent Mame An Essential","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Patrick Dennis novel was a runaway bestseller--and it was soon followed by a stage version starring Rosalind Russell, who was born to play the madcap Mame in this story of an eccentric, fast-living society woman of the 1920s who inherits her nephew when her brother died. The film version is virtually perfect in every possible way. Determined to open doors for her adoring nephew, Mame exposes to him everything from bootleg gin to oddball characters--all the while doing battle with her nephew's ultra-conservative trustee, who is equally determined that the boy's life remain free of certain influences. This is a knockout show, and Rosalind Russell delivers a knockout performance in it--easily her finest comedy performance since 1939's THE WOMEN and 1940's HIS GIRL Friday. She is extremely well supported by the sadly under-acknowledged Coral Brown in the role of Vera Charles, an actress who passes out in Mame's apartment with considerable regularity, and Forrest Tucker as the Southern gentleman who becomes her knight in shining honor; the supporting cast, which includes Fred Clark, Peggy Cass (particularly memorable as Agnes Gooch, Jan Handzlik, Roger Smith, and Joanna Barnes is equally flawless.The infamous production code was still somewhat in force when AUNTIE MAME was filmed, and consequently several of the play's most famous lines had to be re-written--but this scarcely gets in the way of Russell and company, and director DaCosta offers a brilliant compromise between the art of cinema and the set piece nature of the stage show. The production values are rich, the score is memorable, and everything about the show is a tremendous amount of fun; by the time it ends, you'll wish that Auntie Mame was yours.Although there were a few minutes when I felt the film had been slightly cropped, the DVD version offers a visually stunning print of the film in its original ratio, and the sound is quite good as well. The few extras are nothing to speak of--but frankly, it hardly matters this is one film you'll be glad to have on DVD, for you're likely to wear out a VHS in short order. If you need a good laugh, especially one with a slightly satirical edge, you'll adore AUNTIE MAME from start to finish. One of my favorite films, and strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Entertaining But a Little Episodic","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This tale of a young boy adopted by his artsy, eccentric aunt is terrifically entertaining but a little slack for parts of the first hour. At times it feels more like a series of amusing anecdotes than a real story, which may be while I most enjoyed the final part of the movie, which felt more cohesive, and was also notable for terrific small performances by Peggy Cass as the hapless Agnes Gooch and Pippa Scott as an odious socialite.This is not to say I didn't enjoy the rest of the movie, but I wish it had all been as good as that final party.I also wish the character of Patrick had been more developed. He is essentially a prop, an impossibly polite and untraumatized (considering his father dies at the film's start) young boy who grows into a young man who conveniently and instantly changes his mind on a major matter after one incident. But overall I enjoyed this. "},{"Title":"Innovators.","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This story of a boy from the Midwest being raised by his rich and whimsical Auntie Mame in New York at times is funny as hell and Rosalind Russell is the ideal person for Mame. It begins when she takes custody of her nephew, Patrick Dennis, in 1928 and continues through Dennis's adulthood and marriage.There's one scene that is emblematic of Russell's perfection. It's the middle of the Great Depression. Everyone is broke, Mame included. Her Picassos have been pawned. Her house boy and maid are working for no salary. And Mame bumps into a terribly wealthy Southerner, Beauregard Jackson Pickett Burnside. No, nobody knows how that Burnside got in the pantheon. This is Forrest Tucker with a Georgia accent. He loves Russell and appears finally to have built up the nerve to ask her. She's seated, waiting nervously for him to get on with it, and he's on his knee, holding her hand in his, stumbling over the words, while she smiles, fiddles, twitches, her frenzied eyes darting back and forth. It's the most hilarious marriage proposal since the stuttering Eddie Bracken proposed to the eagerly receptive and very pregnant Betty Hutton in The Miracle of Morgan's Creek. It isn't Tucker who's funny. He hits his marks and says his lines, but it's Russell's performance that gives the scene its amazing comedic lift.Most of the movie -- the best parts -- are frantic in a similar way. Something of extreme importance is immanent. Big shot visitors are about to appear, or Mame is late in making her stage entrance, and the preparations must be rushed. The movie is cleaner than the play was. I suppose what was left of the code prevented little Dennis from describing how, in school, he swam among the naked girl students spreading the sperm. The movie just has him swimming among them. The pace slows from time to time and it's here that one of the weaknesses in the script appear.The story gets sentimental. Ugh. The giggling Japanese butler and the earthy Irish maid put their life savings together to buy Mame a cheap bracelet for Christmas. Tears are in everyone's eyes as the musical score turns sappy. Some viewers may have had tears too but because of the slight pain induced by the bathos.Another weakness is that sometimes the frenetic activity is more silly than funny. It's exhausting to see so much rushing about. And Ito the house boy isn't well written. I mean, seeing someone giggle isn't in itself amusing. Another is in the continuity of character. For the entirety of her life, Russell has been an innovator. If a new fad appears, she dives head first into it. In 1928 she and her Bohemian friends are deeply into psychoanalysis and Montessori schools. The decor of her apartment changes with the wind. But when she runs into the family of Dennis's fiancée, she becomes rather too traditional. She's repulsed by her host's daiquiri because it's made with honey, for instance. The earlier Mame would have tossed it off with a wise crack.There's something askew with that whole high-born family that lives in Mountebank, Connecticut. I get the joke. A mountebank is a boastful and shallow pretender. But the Upson family of Mountebank wouldn't have objected to Mame's deliberate planting of avant garde mobiles in her living room. They'd be too dumb to know it was avant garde. The Upsons don't act like the stuffy old money they're presumed to represent. They're nouveau riche and retain some of the crudity of their original class. They wouldn't lead lives of such flagrant ostentation if they were established. Willard Waterman wears a loud sports jacket. If his money were a generation or more old, he would be in subdued clothes, not particularly fashionable, but expensive and made to wear like iron.And the top drawer girl's school that Joanna Barnes attends would have been far more demanding than is indicated, although I must say I knew a young lady who went to such a school, when it was still called Rosemary Hall, and was taught creative walking. As the air headed fiancée, Joanna Barnes has the role down pat. It's hard to imagine how her performance could be improved. And Barnes should know. Her New England family lived in the same house since the 17th century and she herself is a Smithie. She knew whereof she parodied.These aren't major flaws. The scenes in themselves still carry laughs but each break in character, each blemish in the capture of social class, while necessary to produce the laughs, is something of a jolt.The film ought to have a devoted gay following. I'd be surprised if it didn't. The heroine is a tough, willful, and extremely feminine babe who defies age and convention and delivers insults like rapier thrusts. (I'll hold my breath until tomorrow morning, says a rival. Yes, do that, replies Mame.) She's like Margo Channing on steroids. "},{"Title":"Auntie Mame with Rosaline Russell","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh Mame child I just love this movie. When a friend kept reciting lines from this film I became intrigued and asked what film the lines were from. Well, I just had to check it out as I was told as a gay man that it was my duty to do so. I have been reciting lines from Auntie Mame ever since. Now I see Auntie Mame about 2-3 times a year and never seem to get tired of it. I don't know what it is about this film that gets me every time. The set design is so great. I see something new each time I watch this film. I just read about all the goofs in the film, which I now have to try and catch the next time I see it. I just love Rosaline Russell in this. It was meant for her I'm sure. I was disappointed when I saw the version with Lucille Ball. Didn't like it at all. Well I'm off to have a coffee and a side car and dust all my books which are so decorative, don't cha think??? "},{"Title":"Everyone should have a relative like Auntie Mame!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my all-time favorites. This movie is hilarious, witty and big-hearted, as well as being marvelously acted (go Ms. Russel!). It was nominated for five Oscars and didn't win any of them. This just goes to show how the Academy is such a poor judge of greatness. Dig in everyone; after all, life is a banquet and most poor suckers are starving to death. "},{"Title":"My great-grandmother was my Auntie Mame","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She was in her 60s when I was born (in the late 50s), and my great-grandmother always treated me as an adult.  Plus, she shared the experiences of her lifetime with me, but allowed me the freedom to learn and grow without imposing any prejudice or right-wing-type rules upon me.  When I was 11, I spent a few days with her--and she showed me how to ride the bus downtown to the arcade (I was from a very rural area with no such public transportation).  Then there was the time, when I was 14 (summer of 1971) that I went to spend a weekend and stayed for the entire summer.  She taught me to play Scrabble, Euchre, and many other games.  She always encouraged me to be myself and she had no tolerance for stupid and/or bigoted people.  Thank you, Grandma Lafferty for being my Auntie Mame! "},{"Title":"A Ultra-Fabulous Aristocratic movie of Socialites!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was introduced to this classic film by a dear friend,(one whom I have lost contact with over the years,but as a result I remember him fondly for this...)and as such, I fell deeply in love with the characters of Auntie Mame, Patrick, Vera, Miss Gooch especially Ito (hee,hee, hee), it may be rather immature, but I would love to describe this movie as FUN!I watch it over, and over (when time/schedule permits) and each time that I view it over I pick up on something else I didn't catch or notice. This movie is just too fabulous for words..... Live, Live, Live..Life is a banquet and most poor suckers are starving to death...) Auntie Mame "},{"Title":"Should be with the classics","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is literally a perfect movie.  An Oscar deserved performance by Roz Russel, a great story, just everything is great.  This should be with GONE WITH THE WIND, CITIZEN KANE, THE WIZARD OF OZ and all other old, great films at the top of the list as one of the great films ever made. "},{"Title":"Life's a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death!","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Auntie Mame is the hilarious and touching story of an aunt who takes in her orphaned nephew and introduces him to her madcap lifestyle with no restraints. There is conflict when Patrick, brought up around rich snobby people but hardly saw his had, is ordered to go to a private school. From then on you are sent on a journey through good and bad, tears and laughter. Rosalind Russell plays the part of Mame perfectly, with beautiful comic timing. She impressed me more in this than in any of her other movies, including His Girl Friday! Auntie Mame is wonderful bittersweet story that made me both laugh and shed a tear or two. It brings with it a beautiful message and memorable quote Life's a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death! Plus others, such as Live, Live, LIVE!! This movie really has a moral, which makes it for entertaining viewing over and over again (you'll find you pick up a new joke every time you watch it).There are so many funny scenes -- too many to put into an IMDb review anyway. Yes, this is quite a long movie but moves at a rapid pace, and you never want it to end - Mame is a joy to watch! You also get a great look at the beautiful, flamboyant fashions of Mame (who always waits great clothes - perhaps a little inaccurately portrayed for the '20s, but still great).Auntie Mame is a movie that will stand out my mind as one of the most visually exciting, fun but bittersweet movies I've ever seen. Sadly, this movie doesn't seem to be on any top 100 list. It certainly deserves to be. "},{"Title":"Auntie Mame","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful movie. If you have not seen it you have to understand that the fade in and outs which prior review mentioned is because this movie was filmed like it was a stage play. Which it was before it ever became a movie. Rosalind Russell is the star of this movie. I liked this film version much, much better than Lucille Ball's version of Mame.As I recollect, Maude Beatrice Arthur has a supporting role. It is an interesting movie which makes you think about things. I guess in a way, I'd compare it to Harold and Maude.Also this movie is dated in some ways but you have to take into account how long ago it was filmed. It also is risqué in some places. I was surprised that they got away with some of the lines. I would have thought a censor would have snipped snipped snipped. Fortunately for the viewer, it was not censored. This movie is very funny in places. View the movie like you are watching a Broadway play and then you will understand the movie flow and the way the scense fade in, fade out and transition. "}{"Title":"just sensational Mame","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before Jerry Herman got his hands on this story and turned it into the musical, this Technicolor film stars the fabulous Rosalind Russell as the decadent Mame Dennis, and Coral Browne as her boozy friend Vera Charles.  Russell always had a certain sparkle and charm, and this film showcases both to the hilt; Browne is the perfect lush to complement her.Mame is left the care of her nephew, a young kid named Patrick, and proceeds to do as much as possible to unhinge his so-far staid existence sending him to a school with a naturist outlook, and introducing him to her weird and wonderful friends.  Much scope for comedy here, and everyone involved exploits that.Auntie Mame scores over the film of its musical counterpart (a mismatch starring Lucille Ball) because it doesn't take itself too seriously. It is a raucous ride but a fun one!  "},{"Title":"Cher?!?!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is it really true that Cher is to star in a remake? Good lord, the woman is so stretched and botoxed she can't even smile!! A woman devoid of facial expression playing one of the most expressive characters in film history? I don't think so. (Have you seen her on So Graham Norton? Yikes! Loved her in Moonstruck though.) I feel rather sorry for Cher here, because no one, NO ONE can ever be Auntie Mame but Roz. And you don't have to have been raised on this film and seen it dozens of times, like me, to feel that way; one viewing will do it. Auntie Mame has more 10's in the voting box than any other film I've ever seen. There's a reason for that--it's pure magic! "},{"Title":"A Banquet!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the best comedies of all time! The story is perfect, the script is faultless, the characters are wonderfully cast, and....well, you get the picture. But what you never forget is Auntie Mame herself, Rosalind Russell. She was absolutely  beyond beautiful! No one will ever be able to match that superb timing that she had, or make it all look so easy and graceful.  The warmth she had, which she kept in every scene, was so loving and genuine, that you could have warmed your hands with it. And although she was a wonderful actress, who played many great characters in many great movies, (i.e. `The Women,' `Picnic,' `A Majority of One,' ect.) she really WAS Auntie Mame. I can see no one else in the part but her. And when she says those magical words, `Live, live, live! Life is a banquet! And most poor suckers are starving to death!' only she could say it in such a way, that it swept you away into Mame's fairylike world where no dream is ever to big, and every day is a banquet. "},{"Title":"Roz Russell's finest hour...there will never be a more satisfying Auntie Mame!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The perfect blend of star with role came when Rosalind Russell signed on as 'Auntie Mame'. Her comic timing is priceless from beginning to end--as the woman who lives up to her favorite slogan, Life is a banquet! As a madcap Aunt teaching her nephew to live life from her liberal viewpoint, she is a comic marvel.While others in the film shine in support, it is Russell who carries the main burden and does so with a delicious sense of humor that makes us realize how fortunate this film was to have her as the title character (when you think of how poor the Lucille Ball screen version was!) I never saw Angela Lansbury in the role on Broadway--but can't imagine a better Mame than Russell for the film.For me, the funniest moments of the film are when Mame decides to join the fox hunt and gets herself ready for the saddle so that her fiance (Forrest Tucker) and his snooty family can watch. Her attempts to even mount the horse are hilarious! Many side-splitting scenes of laughter make this one a sheer delight. Especially good is Peggy Cass as Agnes Gooch, who gets her inspiration to live from Mame--with disastrous results! Joanna Barnes as Gloria Upson delivers one of the funniest bits when relating what she thinks is a funny story at Mame's house party. All in all, splendid laugh-filled entertainment with some one-liners that are drowned out by laughter when seen in a theater.Morton Da Costa directed much of it in the style of a Broadway play fading to blackouts, an effect that works on the screen since the film's structure is composed of a series of vignettes.Needless to say, the uproarious antics of a madcap Aunt make for great entertainment! You'll want to see it again. "},{"Title":"I can't tell you how pleased I am to make its acquaintance...","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  These days the PC establishment has pretty much blacklisted Mame, which is rather ironic for the story of a woman mame is another direct antecedent of the modern movies' heroic single mom, yet who scandalized and delighted in deflating the pompousness of the ancien regime of the USA's Northeastern 1920's and 30's aristocracy.I would not call the story dated, in the usual sense of the word as tired and overdone.  It is, I would maintain, a reasonably accurate time capsule view of an era-- it should be, as it is based on actual memoirs.   In fact, I think it's all too human, for example, that while Mame is happy to flout restricted anti-jewish zoning, she is still aloof and perhaps snobbish toward her social inferiors.  Less snobby than the other aristocrats, but hardly the common touch...As a film, Auntie Mame is built on solid performances and timing.  Rosalind Russell is masterful in her portrayal, and makes Lucille Ball look as graceful as a musk ox by comparison.  The script is a mixture of clever comedy-of-manners banter with crucial, more slapsticky moments.  The minor parts are well played, from the nouveau-riche aristocratic-wannabe Upsons, to their empty daughter, to the artsy set of Mame's friends, to the introverted and whining secretary played by Peggy Cass.  The indoor settings are adequate, but the outdoor ones are laughably cheap-- don't expect eye-popping cinematography.I admit to hating most movies that a lot of people love, but not this one. It's a 10.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful comedy and wonderful performance from Rosalind Russell","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has scenes and one-liners that will keep you laughing for days. I swear!  It's that funny!  Rosalind Russell gives the performance of a lifetime as Mame.  She has great dialogue and great costumes!  Not only that, but she handles the more serious scenes very well.  The warmth and love she has for her nephew is very much in evidence.  I guess I do wish I could be like Mame (a life-loving, freewheeling person) but I do still wish I could have had an Auntie Mame.  What a wonderful woman!  There are other great performances in this movie, too.  Peggy Cass is an absolute riot is Mame's hopelessly out-of-it secretary, Agnes Gooch.  Coral Browne is also good as Mame's friend, the first lady of the American theatre, Vera Charles.  I really can't think of a truly bad performance in this movie, but those too, as well as Jan Handzlik (sp?) and Joanna Barnes as the older Patrick's airhead fiance, really stand out among the good ones.  This really is a wonderful movie.  It was made into a Broadway musical in 1966, with Angela Lansbury playing Mame.  The musical sounds great on the soundtrack, but avoid the film version of the musical with Lucille Ball.  That's every bit as bad as Auntie Mame's good. "},{"Title":"Amazing sets and crisp photography, but a forced, 1950s plot and humor. Very.","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Auntie Mame (1958)Rosalind Russell is a marvel, and she rules the ship here, thankfully. As a movie, overall, it hasn't worn well. The humor (and it is a comedy above all) is a product of some uptight 1950s Hollywood stuffiness, and the filming (the photography and editing both) are stiff. The movie is filled with rich color, and is sharp as a tack (it uses the superior Technirama lens and camera equipment, as well as newer one-part Technicolor color), but this is hardly compensation for a really dull product.Worst of all, I think, is the story. It attempts to spice up things (mainly, at first, by exposing a child to adult humor, which doesn't totally slip past him) before the Hays Code fell away. It has a kind of How to Marry a Millionaire or Pillow Talk kind of obvious, forced story line, and if you love those movies, you might truly enjoy this one. But even if you do, you might find that many of the jokes are old, even for 1958. There really are portions, in small spurts, that are touching, or even (I do admit) funny, and some of the music is so period and scintillating, it works. Above and beyond all complaints, I find, popping back and forth through it again (and avoiding the story per se), the set designs are really about as good as it gets. Scenes are color coordinated with exquisite perfection, like the department store scene (the one with the Tinker Toys) where it's all grey and red. Great stuff. And the modern apartment with the rising and falling benches (you'll see) is amazing 1950s stuff, pure Moderne. Love it.But that doesn't mean you'll love the movie. Go prepared. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but to what audience?","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like many, in fact most of the people here, I absolutely adore this extremely funny and heart-warming movie and could watch it repeatedly. The performances, the theatrical sets and cinematographic techniques, the episodic nature, the historical sets and costuming, and above all the script were all phenomenal.But being a strong damned lib'rul myself, I wonder; can a sincere right wing conservative really enjoy this movie? While it makes no overt political statements, it seems to ooze liberal values from every pore, and if the hideous trustees, fiancée and in-laws wouldn't have been right wing, Christian Republicans at least today (if not in the period of this film), I'd eat the movie reel by reel. It's movies like this that make me think that the conservatives, at one time at least, had some justification for believing that Hollywood was a bastion of liberals. Of course, that kind of movie is much less common or overt today.Yes, Auntie Mame was a snob herself. But it wasn't snobbery based on birth, money, or religion. It was based on what you were and what you had to offer in the way of being interesting - not who you were, who you were connected to, or how much money you had. She was extremely generous when she was wealthy, but she was also extremely generous when she was poor. Admittedly, she wasn't competent to do a damned thing productively herself, but she was clearly highly intelligent, cultured, well-read and well-informed, so I don't believe she was a total waste of the resources she was consuming by living.It was just something I was sort of musing about... "},{"Title":"Stagey but charming","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this again recently and was enchanted with Rosalind Russell who is full of flare and glamour. The supporting cast is also excellent, Forrest Tucker, Coral Brown and Roger Smith all shine.  Peggy Cass also does an incredible turn as a repressed secretary who gets pregnant. The only drawbacks are the lack of depth to Mame's character, i.e. her dead brother was conventional why isn't she, and the fadeouts of each scene with a floodlight on Mame's face which consistently reinforces the stagey settings. Great cast, great costumes and sets. Weak on motivation and dialogue. A must-see for fans of the Great Roz.7 out of 10 overall. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Auntie MameEccentric family members are usually less so once they've taken their meds.However, no pill could quell the verve of the outlandish aunt in this comedy.Sent to live with his free-spirited Auntie Mame (Rosalind Russell) in Manhattan when his father dies, Patrick (Jan Handzlik, Roger Smith) is exposed to her lavish parties and eclectic friends.But the trustee to Patrick's inheritance (Fred Clark) insists he go to boarding school, only visiting on holidays.One Christmas Mame meets a millionaire at Macy's and is whisked off around the world, when she returns she's troubled to find a fully-grown Patrick is engaged to a vapid debutante.The 1958 film adaptation of the book that also inspired the musical Mame, this somewhat seasonal gem forgoes the Broadway ditties in lieu of a life-affirming performance from the voguish Russell. Incidentally, boarding school will turn you gay faster than any flamboyant aunt ever could.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "}{"Title":"A fabulous 143 minutes that you'll never regret!","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Auntie Mame (1958) is a triumph of American cinema and a personal favorite. With its wit and charm, it will no doubt win your favor and succeed in touching your heart. At its core, it is a story about family and love. It tells us that family &#x96; despite the traditional conception &#x96; is not so much about blood as it is about unconditional love.Rosalind Russell is absolutely marvelous in her portrayal of this legendary literary, Broadway and Hollywood heroine! She brings such passion to the screen, capturing that joie de vivre that is so characteristically Mame. She is positively hysterical, and as Diana Vreeland would have put it, she really brings pizazz!Russell is without a doubt the star of this film, as she carries the whole thing, however, the performances of Coral Browne, as Vera Charles and Peggy Cass, as Agnes Gooch are priceless. A true comedian is fabulous on his or her own, but there's just something about a comedy duo that is incomparable. The chemistry between Russell and Browne and consequently, Mame and Vera is phenomenal, a true gem in the history comedic achievements! The bedroom scene is, to me, one of the funniest moments in cinematic history; I've seen the film countless times, yet I still laugh as hardily as I did the first time I saw it.Though some may write off Auntie Mame as another campy 50's comedy, it is most certainly not that. It is a special film of many dimensions, and it is as touching as it is funny. I can think of few films that have made me cry in all the three ways, from overwhelming laughter, joy and empathetic sorrow. Perhaps Auntie Mame will not provoke such a response from all its viewers, but I guarantee that it will unexpectedly warm the hearts of everyone who sees it. It is a delight that everyone should experience at least once, perhaps more. It's a largely forgotten treasure that uplifts and still stands the test of time. It belongs to that glorious breed of film that has no targeted, niche audience and that is appealing to all. P.S. For anyone considering becoming a parent, you must watch this film; it will surely inspire you! "},{"Title":"Auntie Mame is always fun!","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is such a unique concoction! The novel by Patrick Dennis was very funny, the stage play was wonderful, and so is the movie version starring Rosalind Russell. I have very much enjoyed this film through the years since I was young and have always looked for it on television and at last bought my own copy on VHS and finally on DVD. I have enjoyed all the reviews here on IMDb and salute them all. I find Ms. Russell peerless in this film, Lucy woefully miscast in the musical version, and the other performers charming. Jan Handzlik was perfect as the nephew and I am only sorry that he didn't continue his acting. But considering the toll that show business takes on the young performer he probably made an excellent decision. And he seems to have had a fine life in the legal profession so I salute him for his accomplishments and thank him for his work in Auntie Mame. This is one film I don't tire of watching. The DVD version has a unique feature...you can watch the film with only the wonderful soundtrack by Bronislau Kaper playing. I love his music here...at times very sentimental and melodic and a perfect accompaniment to the images on the screen. "},{"Title":"Live!","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Auntie Mame is a movie which appeals to my sensibilities about as much as a movie could. Two and half hours of zany histrionics with a central character who is a liberal, non conformist and constantly has a joyous, optimistic outlook on life. Oh, and did I mention she is a total screwball. If I could choose to be a fictional character from the realm of the movie world, it would be Auntie Mame, or if I ever amass a huge fortune then perhaps I can try to emulate the lifestyle of Mame. OK even with a huge fortune that probably wouldn't be possible in this mundane realm that is reality, but I can at least try. So yeah, in short, this is such a me movie. Of course I am a huge Rosalind Russell fan, and I know it's a cliché expression but it usage couldn't be any more adapt here this is the role she was born to play! How is it possible of a human being to talk at such a voracious rate? But then again, do you ask a fish how it swims, or a bird how it flies? Of course not; they do it because they were born to do it! I wonder how long the script for Auntie Mame must have been. There are probably more words in this movie than the Encyclopedia Britannica. Whenever there is a moment free of any dialogue I have little think to myself, of yes, silence, I forgot what that feels like. When Roz's motor mouth isn't running, she's pulling at my heart strings; there are times when I wish I could just go into the screen and hug her. I can't stress enough my love for the actress, the performance and the fictional character Auntie Mame is an encapsulation of pure unmitigated joy. When I'm feeling down, I know what movie I'll be turning to. "},{"Title":"Cult-ure Clash","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Forrest Tucker was an acquaintance of my adoptive father's. Pa adored him in the Crunch & Des TV series from the mid-'50s but could not understand why he ever deigned to be a part of this West Hollywood weirdness. (Dad spent a lot of time in WH in those days, but was very much a stranger in strange land.) I was too young to get all this in '58... BUT a lifetime in and around La and Palm Springs -- and their eccentricities -- was enough to elevate my consciousness. One might not wish to share in =all= the fun, but let's face it A little time outside the common cult-ural box most of us are forced to live in to make enough to pay the rent is good for everyone. They used to call shows like this comedies of manners. Any wonder? "},{"Title":"Mame Eisenhower era","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reveals its stage origins, which in this case, benefits the more theatrical aspects of the story. When Mame and Beau are on their honeymoon, all the scenes are shot indoors. It is clear that the plantation scenes were done inside a studio, too. There is also the lighting-- a pseudo- spotlight that silhouettes Mame at the end of each major scene, to remind us that the producers are bringing Broadway culture into suburban movie theatres.As for Rosalind Russell's performance, she is definitely in command of the role, and her interactions with the other cast members seem rather congenial. While Russell is aware of her above-the-title status, she confidently plays off the others and lets all the actors have their moments. When she plays Mame, she sometimes throws lines away. She comes through with flying colors, though, because she juices it up with a nervous, chaotic energy that makes the character seem larger than life, but not necessarily sane. "},{"Title":"Loved it, but...","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Orphaned boy is raised by flamboyant aunt (Rosalind Russell) and we see him go from child to man. The whole movie is basically a hurricane performance by Russell, as she blows away everybody else on screen. The rest of the cast is fine (with one noticeable exception), but Russell is on a different planet. The exception to the fine cast is Peggy Cass as Agnes Gooch. I couldn't stand this character or the performance. It was so theatrical it felt out of place. One could argue Russell's performance was theatrical as well, but being a screen vet she knew how to strike the right balance between the two. I could picture Cass doing this shtick in the play and it would go over big. As a matter of fact, it did go over big as she won a Tony for it. But, to me, it does not translate to screen well at all. Regardless, it's a good movie. Fun, witty, and full of heart. I preferred the first half most. Once Gooch and Robin Hughes' character enter the picture it loses a little of its shine. I am sure my opinion on that is in the minority, but it's how I feel. See it for yourself and decide. "},{"Title":"I like the stage play setting,but it's bit longer than it needs to be.","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What I like about this film is the way it is presented.It takes on the atmosphere of a stage play,which,having performed in two plays in my distant past,is something I can appreciate.Rosalind Russell's comedic as well as dramatic timing as Mame Dennis is excellent,and she is supported well.The only two problems I have are as followsThe deep southern accent portrayed by Forrest Tucker's character and others seemed to me to be a bit over the top and somewhat overacted,and the film's overall length.I couldn't help but feel as though the story could have been told in a much shorter time effectively.Two minor flaws to say the least.An overall good film. "},{"Title":"Zany comedy","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story of an orphan who goes to live with his eccentric Auntie Mame, played by Rozalind Russell.  This fun story originally by Patrick Dennis became a bestseller and an amusing film which drove everyone wild with glee. Auntie Mame is such a free spirit and you'll also love Peggy Cash who plays Miss Gooch, the poor girl she takes in to help. Miss Gooch sings a cute song called I Lived!  She lived all right; she got pregnant.  HaHa 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  I am a fan of Rosalind Russell, but I particularly love this movie.  I've seen the 1974 version with Lucille Ball and really don't like that one very much.  Ms. Russell just had an air of eccentricity about her that fit this role so well.  Somehow, I don't think the new version Barbra Streisand (as executive producer) is making with Cher will compare in any way to the 1958 version. There are just some things that can't be recreated. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time Favorites","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rosalind Russell is perfect as the hilarious and zany Auntie Mame.Only she could convince us that, Life is a banquet darling and most poor suckers are starving to death! Auntie Mame embodies pure fun. "}{"Title":"superb performance by a brilliant actress in peak form","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  yeah, i had a bit of an auntie mame.......my aunt rose.  she travelled and educated herself to appreciate original thought, and avoid prejudice and ignorance.  anyway, the movie is totally fun; and if it doesnt put you in a great holiday spirit.....well, youre dead!  so sweet, and fuuuuunny......... and fyi if you love roz russell, she does another awesome turn in 'gypsy', along with a gorgeous and affecting natalie wood.live, live, live.   i never forget the line.........lifes a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death.  im kinda still starving, but im working on it!  ENJOY!  START WITH THIS MOVIE.  THANKS ROZ! "},{"Title":"A long movie but enjoyable.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I was younger, I remember seeing Mame the musical in the movie theater. I did not know at the time that it was based on this movie. Auntie Mame is better than Mame. Comedic timing evenly flowing from beginning to end of the film is wonderfully paced. Rosalind Russell is perfect cast as the eccentric aunt, who adopts her nephew after his parents dies. Her interior decorating of the apartment and fashion sense goes through changes but stay true to character in the story. Peggy Cass is a gem playing Agnes Gooch in the film. I wished that she made more movies. If you want to see a good acting comedy without the music, it is worth a look.   "},{"Title":"I'll join the accolade chorus","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is no other Auntie Mame.  Try as they might, other actresses are but pale shadow figures compared to the magnetic Rosalind Russell. There are so many one-liners that it takes at least 3 viewings to catch them all since you find yourself laughing so hard (or crying) that the next line can sail right past.  Agnes Gooch (as played by Peggy Cass) is a prototype character that most everyone will meet through life - sad, uptight, afraid to live. Jan Handzlik as the young Patrick does not receive enough credit for playing young and innocent without drowning the viewer in cuteness - and is a perfect foil for Mame. One of the most common comments is I wish I had an Aunt like Mame - but, I think, most of the real fans really wish they had the courage to BE Mame. "},{"Title":"Russell is Ravishing...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rosalind Russell perfectly plays the famous eccentric, given charge of her impressionable nephew, teaches him to live life to the fullest. Peggy Cass (who will be missed) is delightful as Agnes Gooch. Morton DeCosta directs the famous comedy with flair and elegance. Made into a musical in 1966 starring Angela Lansbury, then into another film version with Lucille Ball in 1974.     "},{"Title":"Recommended.  But it could have been more.","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I agree with the general theme of the film--live life to its fullest--I cannot say that I find the film very successful. I had a grandmother who was rather flamboyant--artistic, outspoken, colorful, free-thinking. And genuine. It may be a minor point, but I find Mame's willingness to pretend to be what she is not ungenuine.Would I want to know someone like Mame? Probably not. She is entertaining, but I think I would find her flightiness and exaggeration annoying.I still recommend Auntie Mame, but I cannot agree with those who place it among their pantheons of cinema. One wrote that Rosalind Russell was born to play the title role. She probably plays it as well as anyone could, but I must point to her role in Picnic as her crowning cinematic performance. One writer said that it's a long movie, but it goes by fast. I cannot agree. I felt it lagged, especially in the second half, and mostly during the fox hunt scene, which was out of place, as if purloined from It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.I think the director wanted to maintain a reference with the (so successful) stage play by opting to end acts of the film with the stylish fade outs. I think the method is slightly too precious and self-conscious. The ending feels a little contrived in that manner. For comparison, I prefer the ending of Camelot, with Richard Harris' touching lines.The bottom line is that I think the film could have been more. There is plenty of acting talent on the screen. "},{"Title":"Rosalind Russell Dresses Up Mame","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ten-year old orphan Patrick Dennis has come to live with his nearest relative, and in the high times ahead, he's not going to believe his luck. Nor will you, because Patrick's relation is played by one of Hollywood's greatest dames. Reprising her Broadway triumph, Rosalind Russell won her fourth 'Oscar' nomination and third 'Golden Globe' award as the marvelous madcap who lives life to the hilt. 'Auntie Mame' brings to bubbly life the mayhem Mame and her cronies create while guiding Patrick's fortunes. 'Life is a banquet,' Mame says, 'and most poor suckers are starving to death!' With wit, style and a seasoned cast to dish humor and heart with gusto, 'Auntie Mame' is a full course meal of entertainment magic, according to the DVD sleeve description...It's difficult to believe the play was this long... but, an intermission and the change to see Ms. Russell perform the role live world have more than made up for the duration. Energetically recreating her stage hit, Russell is the best thing about this film. This ended up being her most critically acclaimed role, with the award notices above bolstered by Film Daily (where Russell placed second) and the New York Film Critics (she was ninth). The former organization's Supporting Actress winner Peggy Cass (as Agnes Gooch) enlivens the film's second half considerably. In what may be perhaps her best role, Ms. Cass is hilarious. She lived, with her noisy dog, next to a friend of mine on the east side of Manhattan, and did not like us blasting loud rock music... ******** Auntie Mame (12/27/58) Morton DaCosta ~ Rosalind Russell, Coral Browne, Peggy Cass, Forrest Tucker "},{"Title":"A Paramount Experience","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is a film gem over 50 years old that still has a way of delighting. Viewed last evening in the company of several hundred Mame Dennis devotees in the art deco splendor of the Oakland Paramount theater. When Rosalind Russell made her first entrance swooping down the staircase at Beekman Place, the audience broke out in spontaneous applause. Though Rosalind Russell was nominated that year for Best Actress it is hard to imagine a role more suited to the delivery and talents of this versatile actress. It must have been delicious to have seen her on stage in this role. What followed last night was non stop laughter at those witty lines and not one four letter word was uttered. Ah, when dialogue really mattered! If you get the chance, see it in a theater with adoring fans.Fun like that doesn't happen often enough! "},{"Title":"Growing Up With Auntie Mame","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When his parents are killed, young Patrick Dennis now orphaned is delivered to the tender care of financial trust adviser banker Fred Clark and to the guardianship of his only living relation, his irrepressible Auntie Mame.I'm not sure that young Patrick played by Jan Handzlik would not have wanted a normal childhood, but if fate makes you an orphan, you can do a whole lot worse and most have than to be raised by an Auntie Mame. She's well fixed and like a lot of people in the Twenties lived like there would be no tomorrow.But Russell is made of stern stuff and she meets the Great Depression head on and in the process marries Forrest Tucker who leaves her a wealthy widow with more than she ever thought possible.Mame Dennis is one of those larger than life roles that takes a larger than life personality to fill it. She's certainly done well with those who have played here. Rosalind Russell who played Auntie Mame on stage for 639 performances from 1956 to 1958 made the role her big career role. Certainly Angela Lansbury and Lucille Ball who did the role when Auntie Mame became the musical Mame operated under a tremendous handicap when they were compared. Russell dominates the part, the part never dominates her however.Director Morton DaCosta who directed Russell on stage brought two other Broadway cast members for the screen. Young Jan Handzlik who played Patrick Dennis as a child and Peggy Cass as her mousy secretary Agnes Gooch who goes out and experiences life all too well. Russell's rapport with young Handzlik is an integral part of her performance and DaCosta was wise indeed to make sure he was cast.Best part of the film is when grownup Patrick played now by Roger Smith wants to marry bubble-head heiress Joanna Barnes and Russell takes steps to make sure that doesn't happen. Her intimate dinner party for Barnes and her WASP parents Willard Waterman and Lee Patrick who are proud that they live in an exclusive and 'restricted' part of Connecticut is a swinging affair for the ages.Russell got her fourth and last nomination for Best Actress, but was unfortunately up against Susan Hayward that year for I Want To Live who many in the Academy also considered way overdue for recognition. In fact that year no one was going to beat Hayward for that particular performance.Still for a play set in a particular time, Auntie Mame is frequently revived today both as a play and as the musical Mame. Rosalind Russell made it a classic for the ages. "},{"Title":"..everyone got it right..","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ....surely, it should be rated as a 50....There is not anything that can be written about Auntie Mame that is not already written here. I just wanted to be on record to agree ANYONE who hasn't seen it should break their necks to find it; and, those who have who find flaws in it are nuts.Mame Dennis (Roz Russell) is one, no doubt, the very best comedy committed to film....how many actresses must have yearned to repeat, but wouldn't dare. Lucille Ball (Mame) tried, and was good, but could not jump the hoop Ms. Russell set for this ridiculous, zany, heart-warming character. I saw Ann sothern in a live tour in Hawai'i, but it wasn't even the same story ! Truth is Auntie Mame is the wildest drag-queen you've ever known - if you don't know any, what a lot of living you've missed ! I'm sure Ms. Russell knew many. How cleverly Morton da Costa filmed it as he directed it on Broadway - no possibility of making it better.Read some of the other comments posted here to get the facts - if you don't own Auntie Mame, then get it immediately. I must admit I don't own it, but I don't think I need to - it's so indelibly stamped on my brain. This tromp is one that every role played in it was stellar.By the way, I saw The Trouble with Angels the same night TCM presented their tribute to Ms. Russell - great contrast. Don't miss this masterpiece...... "},{"Title":"Worth Remembering for Great Rosalind Russell Performance","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosalind Russell tears through this film like a force of nature, giving one of the best and most underrated performances of the 1950s.The film revels in all of the excesses that make much of cinema from this time period seem so tacky now, but somehow the excess here works. Garish production design plastered across a mile-wide CinemaScope screen; cameras that don't really play a role in the film but rather sit in one spot and record action; over-the-top acting; and a running time that stretches a wisp of a plot out to 140 minutes -- it's all here in its 1958 glory, and damned if it's not a pretty good time.Director Morton DaCosta makes no effort to make his movie feel like a movie -- he even resorts to stage lighting blackouts to transition between scenes. But a movie like this doesn't need fancy direction or even cinematic direction. It just needs a leading lady who can do the role of Mame Dennis justice, and with Roz Russell, it has that in spades. She's a hoot (just watch her trying to mount a horse for a fox hunt) and single-handedly makes this artifact of a movie worth treasuring.Grade A- "}{"Title":"Life is a Banquet...and so is this movie!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosalind Russell turned in the most dazzling performance of her career in 1958's AUNTIE MAME. This classic was released the year I was born, but it has become one of my favorites and is part of my permanent video collection. Based on the memoirs of Patrick Dennis, this brilliant episodic film chronicles the relationship between Mame Dennis, a stylish, eccentric, and bombastic Greenwich village socialite and her young nephew, Patrick, who is brought to live with Mame as a child after the death of Mame's brother. It is evident from the beginning that Mame hasn't a clue how to be a mother but her immediate unconditional love for Patrick is evident as well and even though we know Mame would walk through fire for Patrick, we also know that at some point Mame will screw up or suffocate Patrick in her loving but iron grasp. Russell is perfection in what seems to be a tailor-made role and was clearly robbed of the Oscar that alluded her for her whole career. Coral Browne garners major laughs throughout as Vera Charles, an alcoholic actress and Mame's best friend. Forrest Tucker is a charmer as Beaurogard Jackson Pickett Burnside, an oil millionaire who romances Mame and Peggy Cass steals every scene she is in with her Oscar-nominated performance as Agnes Gooch, the stenographer hired to write Mame's memoirs. This long, episodic film, lovingly directed by Morton DeCosta, was later turned into the Broadway musical MAME which won Angela Lansbury a Tony Award and that musical was later turned into a movie starring Lucille Ball, but my advice is...stick with the original. Life is a banquet...and most poor suckers are starving to death! "},{"Title":"You'll love it!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie to be seen over and over again... I have seen it dozens and dozens of times. The humor is sophisticated, witty, and just so funny. Watching it will make you feel good and lift your spirits, and hopefully encourage you to at least try to enjoy life to its fullest. This is such a positive film which can even serve as a form of therapy for people in need of a spiritual lift. I'm so glad it exists, and wish that Rosalind Russell were still around today so that I could thank her for it. For me, this film is a part of her legacy...something that she left behind which has brought so much laughter to so many people, and which hopefully makes them feel so grateful for being alive.One of my favorite lines (there are so many) Will it mix with Dr. Pepper? He'll love it! "},{"Title":"Coral Browne is a winner.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Coral Browne in the role of Vera Charles is a winner. Her scenes are spread sparingly throughout but every time she is there, you know it though she is far too intelligent to attempt to upstage Ms Russell. I'll never forget that brief glimpse of her being carried up the stairs, dead drunk, or her Swedish maid impersonation, or that highlight of the movie - the stage play where Mame gets her jewelery entangled in Coral's costume. Watch Coral at work - she stays completely in control and allows Roz to make the laughs. A great actress, who had only recently wowed New York with her performances as Lady Macbeth with London's famous Old Vic Company at the Wintergarden Theatre, Browne had infallible comic timing which is seen to advantage in this movie. Three cheers for Coral Browne! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies ever.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite comedies ever. Rosalind Russell shines as Auntie Mame, the nutty aunt that I wish I had been stuck with. Some people might find it corny. I find it funny and charming. The love for Patrick is real and sweet even if it is a little naive at times. Anyone that has been around upper class snobs would love the portrayal of the mindless airheads in this movie. Some of these people I think I have met in my short life and some of these mistakes I have made! Two short lessons in life are do not make daiquiri's with honey and avoid peanut butter and tuna fish at all costs! I also loved Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday with Cary Grant.  "},{"Title":"A good movie depends on the right actor/actress to bring the character to life and draw the viewer in.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rosalind Russell's version compared to Lucille Ball's version has far more weight and depth in character.  Rosalind's  acting ability, and energy shines in this movie, and brings the story to full life, and the viewer actually feels a part of every emotion. To fill love for a child and life experience can truly be felt in this movie "},{"Title":"This is one of my all-time favorites.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've enjoyed this film since I was a child. Rosalind Russell's portrayal is the signature performance in a truly amazing run for this character (book, play, film, musical, musical movie). I say this even though I never got a chance to see Angela Lansbury in Mame onstage.  Auntie Mame touches me like no other character and in no other film.  Just recently, I showed it to my fiance and was glad to see we now share a love of this movie.  "},{"Title":"I loved it....!!!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My mom was an avid watcher of Movie for a Sunday Afternoon with Harold B. Cohen.  I have watched this movie over the years as a child, pre-teen, teenager, etc. and it never fails to entertain me.  It's vibrant and magical.The costumes are incredible and my 11 year old daughter had a gazillion questions during the movie and about a gazillion laughs too.Because of the way she really loved this movie too, I will make it a part of my once a year viewing from now on. "},{"Title":"Watching Auntie Mame is the cure for what ails you.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never tire of seeing this movie.  Whenever I've had enough of prejudice and stuffy attitudes, this film makes me laugh.  I've always wanted to be Auntie Mame.  She is one hell of a woman.  Even though it's an older film, it still has a lot of social relevance and it's a total feel good movie.  "},{"Title":"If I had to choose one movie to see over and over again....","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...it would be this one.  Great script, great charm, great camp AND a truly great, delightful performance by Rosalind Russell.  A classic performance if you ask me.  And a classic comedy.  Filled with delicious one-liners that I, for one, use quite often!  Oh, that we all had an Auntie Mame like this in our lives!! "},{"Title":"Desert Island Movie","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If once had to pick only three films for eternity...This is on my list. Rosalyn Russell lives forever as the free-spirited and outre Auntie Mame. Every line in the film is honed to razor perfection. Even the apartment has a starring role.The movie, gorgeously shot and laid out in episodes, never flags for a second.The scene in which Gloria Upson (Joanna Barnes)recounts her ping pong story is the non plus ultra of camp.As with all the greatest comedies of manners, such as the works of Jane Austen, this story exudes its own special oxygen. One can pick up any scene at any line, and find oneself in a world where the laws of gravity do not apply. "}{"Title":"A Very Nice Film, More 60s Than 50s","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mame Dennis (Rosalind Russell) is a wealthy older woman who has earned her fortune by marrying well-off men, each of whom have met deadly fates. She cares for her nephew, but a problem arises when he sets his sights on marrying a wealthy, very conservative woman. Mame is a bit loose in her morals and does not approve.This film was based on a play, and interestingly enough the creative forces behind the movie decided to keep it very much in that style. The scenery is relatively minimal, with characters walking in and out of a large apartment's main room. Also, after each scene, the lights noticeably dim, giving the character of that scene a few extra seconds in their own light. I liked this approach.The film's lesson is pretty simple stay true to your roots and be true to yourself. Whether or not the main character learns that... well, you have to watch to find out. "},{"Title":"Just great fun...Ros Russell excels!","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is labeled as a comedy/musical and I must say that it also qualifies as a wonderful and fun drama.Rosalind Russell is luminous and perfect as the unsinkable Auntie Mame, an intriguing and flamboyant character to be remembered always. In this indelible role she inherits custody of her nephew (young Patrick very well-portrayed by the child actor Jan Handzlik). We see her in various stages of wealth (and the Great Depression as well, where she has the good fortune to meet prosperous oilman Forrest Tucker!(priceless quote as he leaves the NYC taxicab meter running ...I cant help it m'am the oil just keeps gushing!...).You will enjoy this superb and uplifting musical which played Broadway for years, and the role which Rosalind Russell (happpily for audiences) made her own, in her most unique life-affirming role. 9/10. "},{"Title":"The Greatest of the Great Hollywood Classics","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is Rosalind Russell at her best, but the fact that the story is so good doesn't hurt. This is not only an amusing movie for its comedic value, but is also a divine way to look at life. If you haven't seen this movie, you are missing out. If you see this movie and don't fall in love with Auntie Mame, then you are surely missing the point.Life is a banquet and most poor suckers are starving.There is a reason why Rosalind Russell titled her autobiography Life is a Banquet.So eat up. This movie should be your first course, followed by living a life as fabulous as you can for dessert. "},{"Title":"Tummy tickler!","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is hilarious, without being too in-your-face with sarcasm or slapstick. It combines a little of every comedy element, and with Rosalind Russell's wonderfully dry way of making her opinion known, you'll giggle continuously, rather than guffaw once every half hour. Most everyone knows some unfortunate like Agnes Gooch, and can certainly identify, and those of us fortunate to have had a very eccentric older female relative (from young Patrick's point of view), it's great to sit back and say, Oh, my god! Aunt Jessie used to do the same thing! It's definitely one of my top comfort movies. (Pajamas and a large pile of junk food included.) "},{"Title":"Life is a banquet - and most poor suckers are starving!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Patrick Dennis clearly loved his Auntie Mame. And she loved him. And that is the central message of this movie, that no matter what else was going on in Mame Dennis' life - and there was a lot going on, no doubt - she loved Patrick and was determined to do right by him. This tribute shows that she did.The movie opens with the Dwight Babcock (Fred Clark) bringing the newly orphaned Patrick Dennis (Jan Hindzlik) to live with his Aunt Mame (Rosalind Russell). Mame lives a rather madcap existence, never reads her mail, and has no idea Patrick is coming to live with her. She's in the middle of one of her raucous parties when Babcock and Patrick arrive. Already prejudiced by what he has been told by Mame's brother, Babcock is somewhat less than impressed with Mame's lifestyle, and vows to keep an eye on her. Eventually, he does manage to get Patrick away from Mame and into boarding school, but not before the two bond, a love that lasts a lifetime for both. Along the way, we meet, with Patrick, a cast of characters that include loyal servants Norah (Connie Gilchrist) and Ito (Yuki Shimoda), famous actress Vera Charles (Coral Browne), and southern gentleman Beau Burnside (Forrest Tucker), who eventually marries Mame, and comes to love Patrick as much as she does. Unfortunately, Mame's happiness is cut short when Beau falls off the Matterhorn, and she returns to New York to find that Babcock has set Patrick up with snobbish Gloria Upson (Joanna Barnes), and that they are to be married. When Mame meets Gloria's parents (Lee Patrick and Willard Waterson), she realizes that she must put a stop to the marriage. Can she do so without losing Patrick in the process? This is a wonderfully written movie. The dialogue sparkles. And the pace is absolutely madcap, which is what makes it such fun. But beneath all of that is a portrait of a very determined woman, who puts her nephew's happiness ahead of her own, who tries to provide him with everything he needs, and who, in the end, realizes that she needs to let go of him so he can live his own. It is this gesture that ensures that she will always be part of it.The acting is superb. Russell's performance is a tour de force, and she gives Mame an ingenuousness that allows her to get away with the audacious things she does. Hindzlik as the young Patrick is charming. Roger Smith as the older Patrick is equally well done. Barnes' spoiled airhead of a young woman is perfect, as are Patrick and Waterson as her prejudiced parents. Clark's Babcock bristles with malice, while Browne is delightful as the supportive friend, and Tucker charming as the loving husband.This is a delightful offering, sure to entertain, as well teaching a thing or two about how to live. "},{"Title":"Nothing Like Roz as Auntie Mame Sizzles ****","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosalind Russell received a well deserved Oscar nomination for Auntie Mame in 1958. True to form, she lost the coveted award. Miss Russell did so much better with the New York Film Critics. She won the latter award several times but yet never garnered an Oscar.Needless to say, Russell is Mame in every sense of the word. From that cigarette holder to her talk on screen, Miss Russell captivated movie audiences with a gem of a comic performance. O Oscar, you need to have both a musical and drama award for acting like the Tonys on Broadway. When will you ever learn?Forrest Tucker is effective as Beauregard Burnside, her ill-fated husband, who brought joy to a tumultuous life.Peggy Cass was nominated for best supporting actress Oscar as Agnes Gooch. She did well but was not given enough lines as in the 1974 film.A great film, wonderfully acted and performed by all. "},{"Title":"There is no September 31st!!","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thank God for film producers who know when not to tamper with success. I think this is all, if not most, of the original stage cast. You can see it in the sophisticated nuances in the performances from Coral Browne (Vera), Peggy Cass (Agnes), and most of all, Rosalind Russell (Mame). Also nice are the stylish Orry-Kelly costumes, the art direction, and the Morton DaCosta direction- with no apologies whatsoever for the stage-like flourishes the spotlights at the end of each scene, and so forth. The center of the film remains the eccentric, stylish, but loving relationship between Mame and nephew Patrick (brought to life by a surprisingly mature performance in twelve-year old Jan Handzlik). And I must give a nod to Forrest Tucker's genteel and loving millionaire Beauregard Jackson-Pickett-Burnside. Everyone sparkles in this one, and Ms. Russell just paves the way for her equally magnificent turn in GYPSY. One last comment the poster before me mentions the wrong date on the telegram. Technically, it isn't a film goof; it's consistent with Mame's flighty character. At the beginning of the story her nephew and his nanny are brought to her while she's throwing a decidedly adult party, and she INSISTS that they came on the wrong day- September 31st instead of October 1st. But it goes by so fast, most are likely to forget the lapse (since there isn't a September 31st). So Mame doesn't know her months from the beginning of the film. Brilliant consistency of character and direction. "},{"Title":"Wrong date in movie?","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was well ahead of its time. The more I watch it the more I see topics that even today would raise an eyebrow (naked groups teaching students, etc.) I love her fabulous costumes and interior design tastes. Oh to have the money to do such changes on a whim!This may have been mentioned elsewhere, but when Mame is returning to New York towards the end of the film. We see a shot of the letter/telegram she's written telling everyone she's returning home.If you look at the top, the date is June 31st! Unless Mame is able to add days to a month in her magical world then this is a blooper since there is no June 31st.....But I love this movie and can watch it over and over.. "},{"Title":"Classic Character; Bohemian Warmth Vs. Button-Down Minds","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Auntie Mame is Mame Dennis, in the important fictionalized biography by Patrick Dennis. His role is that of a little boy during the scenario who grows up, who as an orphan is sent to live with his aunt newly impoverished thanks to the stock market crash of 1929. The fine script buy Betty Comden, Adolph Green, and Dennis then traces a number of years of the little boy's life with his eccentric and 'liberal Aunt. She tries acting, with a friend of hers, and ruins the production; she has to send him to school, so she sends him to an ultra-modernistic group. She has to contend with her brother, who wants the boy to go to someplace more traditional. Enter the millionaire Southerner who sweeps her off her feet; and he invites her to his mansion, Peckerwood; over the objections of his stuck-up family, he marries her and then dies during their honeymoon, enthusiastically taking photographs. At least Mame never has to worry about money again. But the time comes when young Patrick must go off to get an education. In the meanwhile, Mame is writing her memoirs, and her secretary Agnes Gooch, is made pregnant by her flamboyant author. Reenter Patric, where he has been turned into a rich little snob. Mame is taken by him to meet his fiancée's family, the Upsons of Upson Downs, Connecticut. Mame finds them hopeless and arranges a party at which she uses rising planks on chains as seats that cause the family to run away in horror from that and from the guest list, chosen by Mame. The nephew realizes his mistake and falls in love with Mame's lovely new helper. And the end of the film comes when they bring their son to meet her years later; she takes one look at him and is already talking the boy into seeing the wonders of the world with his Auntie Mame. This is a splendid comedy, one that skirts fantasy at many points but always comes down on the side of humor; it has above-average dialogue, very funny situations and lovely comedic characters well-played in every case. the colorful production has production and art design by Malcolm Bert, Bronislau Kaper's music, cinematography by Harry Stradling Sr;, set decorations by George James Hopkins and costumes by Orry-Kelly. Under Morton DaCosta's able direction, the cast I find was generally outstanding. Rosalind Russell is one of the best of all possible Mames, intelligent, warm, brave and eccentrically interesting. As her husband Beau, Forrest Tucker is very strong. Others in the cast include Coral Browne, Henry Brandon, Fred Clark as her banker brother, Pippa Scott, Roger Smith as the grown-up Patrick, Willard Waterman, Lee Patrick and Joanna Barnes as the Upsons, Brook Benton, Carol Veazie, Connie Gilchrist, Yuki Shimoda, Patrick Knowles, Robin Hughes, Peggy Cass as Miss Gooch and Jan Kandzlik as young Patrick. This is a funny, sometimes moving and fast-paced script which has been turned into a memorable movie. here as in Gypsy, blackouts are used to indicate a scene end and passage of time; and again the gimmick works in this case. A very-well-liked classic, later made as a musical with less success starring Lucille Ball. Many people quote Mame's philosophy, Life is a banquet--and most poor suckers are starving The first part of this quote became the title for Miss Russell's autobiography. "},{"Title":"Every Generation has its Upson Downs","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a flat-out comedic effort, this film has few peers.  It is easily among the top ten comedies of the 20th century.  As social commentary, however, it shines even brighter.  About ten years ahead of its time in that regard, it aims not only at the Upsons and Babcocks of 1958, but also their clones who began to reappear in America in about 1980 and seem still to be in the ascendancy.The novel on which this film version was based had even funnier scenes, one of which had Auntie Mame driving around the Princeton campus in her Lincoln Zephyr shooting bystanders with a water pistol.  Patrick Dennis was a pseudonym, but his collected work is ably discussed in a number of places easily found on Amazon together with some of his other publications.Finally, as several people have written here, there has never been and never will be anyone other than Rosalind Russell in this part.  Every movement, every tone, every nuance is authentic and correct. Look no further for the definition of classic. "}{"Title":"Live, Live, Live!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one fantastic movie.  I love this movie since watching it on television last year.  Rosalind Russell was born to play the part of Mame. The rest of the cast is great in their roles.It is one of those movies when you're feeling depressed and by the time the movie ends, you feel much better.  You have to Live, Live, Live!! "},{"Title":"Rosalind Russell Shines","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely a worthy showcase for the unique talents of Rosalind Russell, this movie only seems to improve with age, somehow. Mame Dennis is an eccentric, kind-hearted & free-spirited woman who lives a rather bohemian life in Greenwich Village of the 192O's.  When Ms Dennis is appointed the legal guardian of her little nephew, Patrick, she doesn't inhibit her zany self, but rather, this vastly colourful woman shows the young lad that life is a banquet...In the role of Mame, Russell is perfection personified surely even fans of Lucille Ball (like me) couldn't give her later musical version more kudos than this original gem.  As Mame's self-indulgent best-friend, Vera Charles, Coral Browne does a great job.  As Gloria Upson, Joanna Barnes is hilariously annoying (this versatile player also played Brian Keith's girlfriend in THE PARENT TRAP) and Peggy Cass is likewise as Agnes Gootch.  I get tickled at the part where Mame is offered a daquiri from Mr. Upson - which is made with honey (ugh) and his wife's canopies made with tunafish and peanut butter...The movie is wisely filmed as a pseudo-play so the audience knows that the funfest isn't supposed to be taken at all seriously.  Fred Clark and Connie Gilchrist excel in their supporting roles, and Forrest Tucker has perhaps his best film role as the likeable Beauregard. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made!!!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie... for so many reasons. The biggest being she reminds me of my Mom-Mom. Always full of love for the ones she holds dear, full of adventure, and full of LIFE! This movie is long... but NEVER boring, as we follow the highs and lows of two lost souls thrown together by circumstance, and how each end up better for knowing one another. If everyone had an Auntie Mame in their life i KNOW the world would be a better place. I'll leave the plot line for others to explain... (and over explain). This is simply a fun movie to watch over and over again. I love the story... sort of a male Cinderella story, as Patrick, a quiet, somewhat neglected boy is sent to live with his free-spirited Auntie Mame. I can sum up this movie with a line from the original trailer... All the JOY in the world, for all the world to ENJOY!!! "},{"Title":"Praise for an excellent movie","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this film so many times that I can now recite the dialogue word for word, beginning to end.   If you want to see a light hearted movie, have a good laugh and learn to look at life in a different light this movie is for you.   You can't help but like Mame and all of her shenanigans.   I recommend this movie to anyone that wants to get away from all the swearing, violent, bloody movies of today and wants to just relax and laugh with Mame, her tittering house boy, loving maid, nutty Miss Gooch, precocious nephew and new beau.  A+++++ all the way.  As Mame would say, Live, Live, Live! Life is a Banquet and Most Poor Suckers are Starving to Death! "},{"Title":"This film is the one most all time trip.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a vhs copy of this sly and wonderfuly funny movie. There is almost no picture left on the tape. It is worn to the backing and beyond.  I am delighted to see that it is now available on DVD. I have been searching the databases for years looking for it to show up. It is the next addition to my library of favorates. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rosalind Russell is fantastic and the ONLY Auntie Mame for ever! One of the best films in her career.  This one is quite advanced for the time it was filmed.  It is quite a long film, but I guarantee you will not be looking at your watch!  The humour is fantastic and the drama is very touching.  You may have to watch it a few times to catch the full wit and every detail, but chances are you will want to! This remains one of my most favourite films of all "},{"Title":"Best movie ever","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to have my Mame fix at least once a month. Are we all lit? Patrick, you didn't tell me your aunt was literate! Peckerwood? Who's Peckerwood? Get those horses out of my bougainvilleas! Just a few of the many quotables that Auntie Mame is chock full of. After the family saw this film, Mom and Dad immediately became Mums and Daddums. I recommend it to all my friends and so far have not been disappointed with their reactions. I've never met anyone who hasn't enjoyed at least some part of it.  "},{"Title":"my favorite movie at Christmas time","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie so much because it makes me feel great.  I love showing it to friends at Christmas time and will do so again this year.  I finally decided to own it.  Just remember, life's a banquet and most poor suckers are starving to death.  The immortal words of Auntie Mame. "},{"Title":"Life is a Banquet and so is this Gem!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's impossible to add anything to the already wonderful reviews here for this movie (except one sourgrapes).Auntie Mame is simply of the most enjoyable movies ever made and Rosalind Russell is the queen of a special place in my heart.Live, live, live!  and watch this movie.  It will cure a thousand ails. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie from start to finish.  It sticks pretty close to the book written by her nephew.  Rosalind Russell is the perfect choice for the lead character.  She delivers the witty lines with great ease.  Auntie Mame is so funny that I watched it during labor and delivery and I forgot about my pain! "}{"Title":"A Distinguished Event","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is an event you do not want to miss. Rosalind Russell issues a galvanic performance as Mame Dennis, an affluent, eccentric aunt, charged with the task of caring for her recently deceased brother's son. The supporting cast compliments Russell's performance superbly, especially Peggy Cass, playing Agnes Gooch, the nebbish, socially awkward assistant and Coral Browne, responsible for the portrayal of Vera Charles, Mame's best friend and cold hearted social lush. Conversation throughout the film is brisk and witty. The sets are extravagant, but scaled well. The transmogrify of Mame's house throughout the film is spectacular. A true classic. Never forget...live, live, live!   "},{"Title":"Bright, cheerful, delightful!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is a movie that makes me willing to break my own 20 minute rule  if a movie started 20 minutes ago, I pass.  However, I caught the last 45 minutes of this last night while flipping channels and had to stop. It's still a laugh-out-loud movie, filled with believable people in real situations.  Rosalind Russell is captivating as Mame, her smile and charm totally irresistible.  I sometimes wonder what the weather's like in her world, but I always find myself falling in love with her.  Like her nephew Patrick, I was a little uneasy when I was first introduced to her but her magic didn't fail. "},{"Title":"Good reminder to LIVE LIVE LIVE!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Auntie Mame for just being her.  Her philosophy of life is simple Live live live!  She's a little crazy, but I think she's the perfect person to raise Patrick.  She is exactly what EVERYONE needs; someone to show them that life is a banquet.  It's also important though, that she eventually realizes that parties are not what life is about, but loving the people around is very important. She and Patrick learn that together--and through the movie, the world can learn with them. "},{"Title":"Still a laugh riot!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has always been a favorite of mine, and Rosalind Russell's tour de force performance is only one of the reasons I love it so.  Both Coral Browne and Peggy Cass are simply magnificent in it, but the character I just love is Gloria Upson, Patrick's snooty fiancee (played by Joanna Barnes). I can quote verbatim her famous scene about the pingpong ball!  I never fail to fall down laughing after Joanna's big scene.  To see how Gloria Upson might have turned out in the 90's, check out Joanna Barnes' brief scene in the remake of the Parent Trap (and any true fan of Miss Barnes will realize she played the snooty fiancee in the original Parent Trap).  I can't tell you how many times I've wanted to walk into someone's apartment for the first time and say (in Gloria's perfect East Coast voice) what a stunning apartment it is and admire the decorative nature of all the books. Auntie Mame is a comic gem! "},{"Title":"Rambunctious, rip-roaring fun!!!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one great comedy!!! Rosalind Russell is the title character and portrays her in a way no one else can. Originating the part on Broadway in 1956 and then bringing it to the screen two years later was no small task but it was well worth it and none of the magic of the stage production was lost in it's transfer to film. The supporting cast is first-rate as well Jan Hanzlik is Patrick Dennis (as a child), Mame's orphaned nephew who comes to live with her after his father dies, Roger Smith is Patrick as an adult,  Peggy Cass (the original Agnes Gooch on Broadway-who won a Tony award for the part) returns and Coral Browne is Mame's best friend Vera Charles-the First Lady of the American Theater-a native of Pittsburgh with a false British accent; Fred Clark is Dwight Babcock, Patrick's trustee and something of a threat to Mame, Joanna Barnes is Gloria Upson, Patrick's obnoxious, spoiled and prejudice fiancee. The story moves at a good pace especially when Roz performs a scene with her famous speed talk and never drags; plus the sets and the costumes are very nice as well. Auntie Mame! The name in laughter, fun and an all-around good time! "},{"Title":"Don't Starve.......","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is the definitive `feel great' film, the springboard to `worthwhile'. Here's `Auntie Mame'. I defy you not to feel exalted after experiencing this wonderful cinematic treat and the incomparable performance of the brilliant Roz Russell.You'll laugh. You'll cry. You'll live!!  "},{"Title":"Great comedy, and great performances by Rosalind Russell and others","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Auntie Mame is filled with scenes and one-liners that will have you laughing for days.  I swear!  It's that funny!  It also has many great, funny performances.  Of course, the best is Rosalind Russell's, who has great dialogue and great costumes and uses them both to wonderful advantage.  Not only that, but she really shows genuine warmth and love for her nephew, Patrick.  Peggy Cass is a scream as Mame's hopelessly out-of-it secretary, Agnes Gooch.  Coral Browne is also good as Mame's best friend, the first lady of the American theatre, Vera Charles, and Joanna Barnes is pretty funny as Patrick's airhead, upper-class girlfriend.  A wonderful film, based on what seem to have been a wonderful book and play starring Russell, and later turned into a Broadway musical with Angela Lansbury.  The musical sounds great on the soundtrack, but the film version of it with Lucille Ball is every bit as bad as this film is good. "},{"Title":"Parties","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A truly interesting production, this. First, its a filmed stage show, so the lines are better polished than usual, and it features its original stage player. It isn't just the lines and a certain staginess that are carried over, but two specific stage effects. One is the damping of all lights at the end of a scene except those on Mame's face. The other is the reuse of Mame's apartment over the twenty-five years, changing the decor. It serves the double purpose of showing time has moved and displaying her supposed caprice.Its interesting because it is folded It is a movie of a play of a book by the nephew (who is featured in the thing) of his Aunt who also writes a book, recording what we have seen and incidentally triggering the climax of what we see.And its also interesting because of the main device. The world here is divided into three parts. There are the bumpkins, naturally from the south and only have money by accident (here oil). They are simple people and largely good, except for a jealous redhead.There are the enlightened, like Mame, who know what life is all about and know how to grab it. But she's actually depicted as a sort of nitwit, one of those dumb, moneyed women who wear big jewelry and give parties in their east side apartments. Their enlightened state is that they have interesting people at their parties. Mame does redeem herself a tiny bit at the end in doing one unselfish thing combating prejudice. You see, the third type are the uptight, moneyed crowd who are boring, simpleminded and prejudiced. Here, they have an obsession with living a restricted life in restricted places. At the time, that meant no Jews, blacks and immigrants being sufficiently well controlled I suppose.Mame's notion of Jews is rather one-dimensional, it seems Jews are artistic and clever. But in the end, she wins over the bad class and seduces her nephew (who remember, is writing this part) into a satisfactory marriage. I know women like this, and they are every bit as much of a scourge, and very, very much like the people they belittle because the patterns are the same. Only the long cigarette holder is different.There is one hint of true radicalism here, and I'm surprised it made it into the film. The preteen nephew is sent to an experimental school where the children and teachers are nude and the kids are taught and practice sex. Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"required watching for homosexual aspirants","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching, Roz float through these scenes is every gay boys right of passage.The dialogue, the pace is what every queer boy, coming to New York will have to learn. What is there to learn from this film ?Dress, style, carriage, voice and mixing a martini. The dweeb kid, Patrick grows into his heritage and adopts the world view of Auntie. He does however opt for the maiden chick as his wife but Mame approves and pulls the newbie into her nest and the story continues.The sets, costumes and overall style of Beekman Place are timeless.  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosalind Russell is very good as the title character in this film, scoring an Academy Award nomination, and Peggy Cass, also nominated by the Academy, delivers fine in support. It is an entertaining film, but other than the acting there is not much else that is strikingly good. It has little in the way of a solid plot, with episodes of different events mainly slotted together, and this leads to the film dragging where the segments are not too exciting. It is not helped out by an over-generous length or by colour schemes that are harsh on the eyes either. It is a good film though, but maybe a shallow one, full of amusing rather than touching scenes. There is interesting fade work, in which everything other than her face turns to black in between scenes that involve Russell. Definitely worth a look, but it probably had a much bigger impact in its day than it is likely to have on viewers today. "}{"Title":"what happened to the second half of the film?","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked the first portion of the movie when the little boy went to go live with his flamboyant and fun Auntie Mame. Watching all the interaction between her and the boy was really sweet and fun. And, when other do gooders tried to make her be a more conventional parent, this provided some wonderful moments as well. And so, up until towards the end, I really loved this film. And then, out of nowhere, the kid suddenly grows up in the space of only a few minutes and the film ends?! It was as if someone in charge said hey--they public doesn't need a three hour film--just stop here and no one will be the wiser. And so, the story just seems to abruptly stop and left me very unsatisfied. It's too bad, as Rosalind Russell was in top form as the amazingly odd but lovable Auntie Mame. "},{"Title":"sanitized and lukewarm adaptation","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm giving this movie two stars instead of zero because Rosalind Russell is beautifully cast, but it hasn't got a lot else going for it. It can be added to the very long list of films based on books which strip the original of every quality that made it a story worth telling to begin with. It's not only a rotten adaptation, it's a pretty dim excuse for a movie in its own right.Patrick Dennis's novel *Auntie Mame an Irreverent Escapade* is not only hysterically funny, it is also very sweet and touching. But -- and this is what the movie missed -- it never gets drippy or sentimental. In the book, Mame has a lot of good points, but she's also really rather wicked. Her relationship with her nephew is largely based on bribery, blackmail, and deceit, even though they really do love each other. They just express it in unconventional ways.For some reason the film makers decided to portray Gloria as unattractive -- beautiful, but insufferable -- making you wonder why Patrick fell for her to begin with. They also leave out his dalliance with a gold-digging prostitute while in college. I guess including that would have made him look like he had a sleazy side, which wouldn't fit with what the movie was going for.The movie also ends up making very little sense as a narrative, because it greatly compresses the plot, which should take place over the course of over twenty years, down to about nine years. The film begins, as it should, right before the 1929 crash, but since they rush everything else, it ends well before the war, instead of several years after. So Patrick is only about nineteen when he gets together with Pegeen. Plus, he and Pegeen fall for each other right away, instead of hating each other on sight, then grudgingly growing to like each other after a while. Pegeen's frank disapproval of Mame is also left out.Naturally films based on books need to do some streamlining and cutting and leaving out, but that's supposed to make the storyline hold together better, not make it fall utterly to pieces. And in this case, the film makers also cheated themselves and their audience out of the chance to dramatize some of the book's most entertaining plot situations.A complete list of things the film makers changed, left out, or watered down would be far too long for an IMDb review. But to my mind, the movie's chief sin is that all the lovable wickedness, all the depth, all the pathos, and all the personality has been removed from Vera, Pegeen, Brian, Agnes, and especially Mame and Patrick themselves. The political aspects have also been pretty much nixed.A great deal of effort went into sanitizing Mame and making her merely eccentric, rather than immoral. For instance, she doesn't actually have an affair with Brain -- instead, he hits on her and she heroically wards him off. And Brian turns out to have married Agnes when he runs away with her. Please.As for Patrick, they portray him as basically a sweet kid who at one point commits the forgivable transgression of dating a debutante. He's a far cry from the wise, perceptive, fallible, smarmy-yet-urbane narrator of the novel.Over all, this is Patrick Dennis's novel after having been chopped up with an axe and soaked in disinfectant. As other reviewers have noted, the film is dated. The novel, with its sophisticated and irreverent elegance, is timeless. "},{"Title":"Shapeless but good-natured.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a sprawling, self-indulgent, shapeless comedy that milks the main character to death, but you can't help loving it, even because of its shortcomings. It's perhaps the most charming and good-natured comedy ever made. There is an innocent self-satisfaction that touches your heart. I don't expect comedies to make me laugh, just to make me feel good about the human race. Auntie Mame succeeds wonderfully. Too many comedies are too clever and too vicious. This one is pure honey, and embodies the notion that kindness is the highest wisdom. And there is a real life happy ending Jan Handzlik became a distinguished attorney listed in Who's Who in America.  "},{"Title":"Not that good if it's not your bag","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosalind Russell does a wonderful job playing a local city playgirl / high society figure who spends most of her day smoking cigarettes and talking about current events that don't seem to matter the current events. Her life changes, to a degree, when she has a young child move in with her. She soon finds herself playing auntie as well as teacher. Not much of a comedy, then again, not much of a movie either. While many will laugh and consider Auntie Mame a great movie, others won't understand what kind of comedy this is. For 1958, this is an interesting movie, shot in color! Today, this is an old comedy that is unable to stand up against comedies of the present. Still, knowing the time period, Auntie Mame pushes issues and showcases a lot of stuff that was kept hush hush from the 1958 audience. A nice little comedy that is remembered for not its level of comedy but its subject matter. "},{"Title":"A terribly dated And dreary movie","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a little kid and I thought it was wonderful. So after watching it again recently, I've come to the conclusion that it is a highly overrated movie that is extremely dated. The actors in this film are all excellent in their own right but here they seem to be in competition to see who can eat the most scenery. Rosalind Russell's attempt at portraying a warm and wacky character is ruined by her phony aristocratic accent and her snobbish treatment of others in the film. The kid that plays Patrick is a whinner, I wanted Mame to spank his rear after listening to him drone on for most of the film. And those black-out used to convey the passage of time. They really got old after the forth or fifth time. I know this movie is loved by many people out there, but for me it was a major disapointment.   "},{"Title":"Subversive","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it had its moments, and yes, Rosalind Russell was absolutely flawless in the role (and beautiful to watch, too). But I can't help watching a movie like this and wishing it had never been made.In spite of the pleasure to be had in watching Mame express her laudable joie-de-vivre and put the smack-down on boring Puritanism, there was a silly old, bad; new, good subtext and a benevolent attitude toward the decadent things that have harmed the world (Freudianism, modern art, 'free' love, nudism, general anarchy). We're expected to identify with Mame against the repressive, typified, tellingly, by St. Boniface School.Well, the world listened to old Auntie Mame, and look where it got us. While I won't, to steal a line from Rita Hayworth, put the blame on Mame for our culture's woes, there's no doubt that entertainment like this fueled the fires. Very sad.  "}]