[{"Title":"Never be the same again...","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  To a lot of critics and non-fans of the Master of Song or King of Rock 'n' Roll, to give him his correct title, Elvis Presley was merely a wooden celluloid freak who just sang to children, animals, and everybody's Grandmother on a movie set. That might have been the case during the mid-'60's when Elvis didn't know how to perform on a movie set any other way than to follow the less than mediocre script which was getting more tedious and morose as the previous one. This trend was set by the formula that started with G.I. Blues and finally reaffirmed with the classic, Blue Hawaii, from then on in with the exception of Flaming Star, it was a pretty poor rag-bag bunch. However, King Creole was Elvis' jewel in the crown. The film is a testimony to a time when rebellion amongst teenage life was coming to the fore and the struggle for a young person's individuality in society was a constant threat to many parents of the 1950's genre. If Elvis was to be a big movie star this is the one that certainly went a step further than Jailhouse Rock to ascertain that position. Elvis' acting improved over the three film period of 1956-57, and in King Creole you can see the transition. He brings to the screen all the grittiness, excitement, tension that his character, Danny Fisher, is all about. This great quality movie really pays justice to a classic piece of film making by Director Michael Curtiz and a great supporting cast that Elvis gained so much from performing with in this story. Another transition also happens in this movie and that is one of the music. Apparently, Elvis never really liked Jazz music, but he certainly forgot all about that when he cut the soundtrack to this movie. I'm sure that Jazz music featured slightly higher on his list after he realised what he could do in the studio with this kind of music and blending it with his own rock rythmns and blues orientations. To me, this is one of the greatest films ever made, by one of the most underrated actors of our time. To the critics and non-fans alike Watch it and Weep! "},{"Title":"a good Elvis movie","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Elvis Presley can act!  This is perhaps his best movie and certainly the one with the strongest plot.  Based on the Harold Robbins novel &#145;A Stone for Danny Fisher', Elvis plays Danny with that teenage angst you'd associate more with James Dean or the young Marlon Brando.  The music too is exceptional, with the sexy title track alongside of such gems as &#145;Steadfast, Loyal and True', &#145;Crawfish' (that unusual of things, a duet between Elvis and Kitty White), &#145;Hard Headed Woman', and &#145;Trouble'.The supporting cast is also eminently watchable &#150; Dean Jagger, Walter Matthau, Vic Morrow, Carolyn Jones &#150; and help to move the pace along.  The look of the film in its non-musical moments is strictly noir, and the whole piece is slickly directed by Michael Curtiz.  &#145;King Creole', and a handful of other Presley movies, hint at the movie career that he could have had without his manager Col. Parker's constant greed to display his peacock client in an ever-grating role of innocence to make money.    "},{"Title":"Probably one of Presley's finest movies!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Elvis Presley plays Danny Fisher, a misunderstood teenager who is forced to live in a neighbourhood frequented by hoodlums because his father's business went bankcrupt and lost their other house. Danny flunks out of high school and does several dead end jobs in order to make ends meet, but it is discovered that he has a talent for singing and he is hired by nightclub owner Charlie Le Grand. However, sadistic blackmailer and criminal Maxie Fields (Walter Matthau) also has corrupt designs on Danny's talent.Probably one of Presley's finest movies with a fairly strong storyline and assured direction by Michael (Casablanca) Curtiz. The acting is good from Presley in one of his better roles and Matthau scores as the ruthless gang boss. The film is shot in gorgeous noir black & white and the memorable tunes include King Creole, Trouble and As Long As I Have You. "},{"Title":"Elvis at his Best","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I've heard it said that this was Elvis' favourite of his own films.  And no wonder.  It's about the only film he ever did that allowed him to be an actor.  And let's remember, Elvis had no formal acting training, and sure, the film is, as usual, peppered with great Elvis numbers and no-one doubts his talent there.If only the Colonel had chosen to exploit the acting side a little more, perhaps we would have a lot more memorable stuff like this to remember than some of the later films, such as.....er.....er....well, there you go, I don't remember any.  Perhaps Elvis would have been a lot more proud too.Anyway, alongside Elvis is a wonderful Carolyn Morticia Adams Jones and a fairly early Walter Matthau, showing us that he didn't just make us laugh in his movies, but he was able to impress us with dramatic roles also. "},{"Title":"Elvis in One of his Rare Good Films","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  An unusual Elvis Presley vehical which actually gives him the opportunity to act.  Elvis was a talented actor who was put in crap for most of his career. The Hollywood system always put him in films where he sings without doing much else.  Its only when he worked with talented directors such as Michael Curtiz and Don Siegal that his abilities as an actor were fully used. King Creole(1958) is such a film where he is given the chance to act and he passes with flying colors.  King Creole(1958) and the western, Charro(1968) are my two favorite Elvis Presley films because of their dark tone and the excellent acting performances by Elvis.  One of the better directed Elvis films by veteran filmmaker and Casablanca(1942) director, Michael Curtiz. One of the people who wrote the story was Michael V. Gazzo, who would later play an important role in The Godfather Part 2(1974).  Walter Matthaw is terrific in one of his pre Odd Couple and comedic roles.  A musical Noir done during the final year of the genre before becoming extinct. "},{"Title":"My favourite Presly film","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  King Creole is not only a great Elvis Presly movie, it's a great movie period. Elvis is simply terrific as hard-edged Danny Fisher, a street wise punk who hits it big time as a singer in a flashy New Orléans club, run by sleazy Matthau.   The overall look of the film is excellent, it's fast paced and gritty, moody and athmospheric, and directed by the same man who brought us Casablanca.  The dialouge is good and seems authentic enough, Presley is excellent and Matthau is great (as always).  Plus, the songs are good. 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"King Creole (1958) ***","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Adapted from the book A Stone for Danny Fisher, Elvis Presley plays a rebellious kid with a wimp of a father (Dean Jagger) who quits school and takes up singing at a night club in New Orleans, only to get mixed up with a group of thugs (headed by Vic Morrow) and their crime boss (Walter Matthau). Elvis considered this melodrama his best film and I happen to agree. It's nicely photographed in noirish black and white and directed by Michael Curtiz, featuring Elvis' most cultivated performance. It's a good story too, complimented by good actors in their roles. Walter Matthau is ideal as Maxie the heavy, who practically owns the whole town. Carolyn Jones is properly pitiful as his pathetic tramp, and Vic Morrow does well as the lead hoodlum who caters to Matthau. The songs Presley sings fit nicely into the action and are pleasant, though I don't believe any of them were signature biggies for Presley outside of, possibly, Hard Headed Woman, and King Creole itself. It's a real shame that the best hit rocker, Hard Headed Woman, is really given a raw deal as we only get to hear the end of it within the movie. The best music performance is Elvis' rendition of Trouble as he dominates the nightclub stage with authority and toughness while fearlessly singing it at Maxie. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"To Watch 'King Creole' is to See the Light","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I had an epiphany tonight. 'King Creole' is a better film than 'Jailhouse Rock'. 'Jailhouse' may contain King's best acting but 'King Creole' is his best film. Why? I would say King's acting is only slightly less convincing in 'Creole' but two things make it a better film the cast and the story. 'King Creole' boasts the finest cast by far of any Presley film. Only Ann-Margret is sexier than Carolyn Jones, Vic Morrow has that ferocious mouth, Dean Jagger is almost perfect as the beaten father and Walter Matthau is deliciously vile. Harold Robbins' novel 'A Stone for Danny Fisher' is gritty and at times hard to read. Although the screenplay (co-written by 'Frankie Five-Angels', Michael V. Gazzo) is quite a bit more tame it is still tough. Think about it King plays a character who kills a man in an alley with a switchblade. Here he is not 'Jailhouse Rock's amoral Vince Everett. Instead he is, at times, IMmoral. Forget all you think you know about the icon, Elvis Presley, and watch his eyes when, as Danny Fisher, he tells his father 'you go to school. I'm goin' out to make a buck'. If you don't see it, if you don't see IT, you're just not looking. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Whether you are an Elvis fan or not, this is just a great movie. It shows that Elvis had that natural acting ability which unfortunately didn't matter to the money hungry corporate jerks. After this movie I think is when all his movies were just made to make money, which they ALL did. Elvis unfortunately became a joke in comparison to other actors all because of the terrible scripts. There was one movie (can't remember which one, there were over 30) in which he reportedly told the director after filming was done Hey nice movie, maybe I'll read the script sometime . In other words, Elvis hated the fact that he wasn't getting good scripts. He was the first real money making star which is what ultimately lead to the atrocious film roles. Well except for maybe 4 or 5 of his films. Anyway if you never saw Elvis in a movie before (which I find hard to believe with all the Elvis marathons on tv), see this one! "},{"Title":"And He Goes By The Name of King Creole","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" By this time Elvis Presley was a big movie box office name due in no small measure to the astute management of Colonel Tom Parker. I have no doubt that the Colonel got him Michael Curtiz as a director and a top flight supporting cast consisting of Oscar winners like Dean Jagger as the King's father and Walter Matthau as the villain of the piece. And other such outstanding players as Carolyn Jones, Vic Morrow, Paul Stewart, and Dolores Hart. Presley steps into James Dean territory here, had he lived I'm sure Dean would have played the part of Danny Fisher in what would have been a non-musical story or one where Dean's singing would have been dubbed. Danny Fisher is just the kind of troubled youth searching for himself that Dean excelled with in East of Eden and Rebel Without a Cause. In fact in the relationship between Presley and Jagger you can see a lot of the dynamics of Dean's and Jim Backus in Rebel Without a Cause.Elvis has had to go to work because his father has been unable to hold down a job ever since the death of his wife. So's Elvis's sister, Jan Shepard, also had to work. He gets a break in Walter Matthau's club with an impromptu audition, but it's rival owner Paul Stewart who hires Elvis. That sets the stage for a lot of the action to come.For those who are used to seeing Walter Matthau as the lovable grouch starting from The Odd Couple it would surprise many to learn most of his early roles were bad guys. He's an exceptionally nasty bad guy in King Creole.The title song became one of Elvis's early best sellers and it is also the name of the club Matthau owns in the New Orleans French Quarter. Presley has some other good numbers in this film as well.Some other reviewers have mentioned that Elvis should have done more dramatic stuff like King Creole. Maybe he should have, who knows. But I think the point should be made is that first and foremost Elvis was a singing icon, not an acting one. As were the idols of former generations Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra. I don't think Elvis was willing to push himself as player in the same way they were. Neither Crosby or Sinatra also had a manager with as tight a control over them creatively as Colonel Tom Parker. Both Crosby and Sinatra got Oscars, but it was for parts that they knew they could handle and went after, especially Sinatra. Maybe Elvis in the words of another icon, knew his limitations or the Colonel did.King Creole also was one of the first of Harold Robbins's novels to be made into a film. Yet it's never thought of as a Robbins film like The Carpetbaggers or The Betsy. It's an Elvis film, first and foremost.And that's good enough for fans of the King and others. "}{"Title":"Without question Elvis' best","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Made early in his career when he was still bursting with promise and not strait-jacketed by an image this is the best film Elvis ever made and probably his best performance. Based on one of Harold Robbins few good novels the film gives him a real character to play and shows that had he been allowed he could have progressed to becoming a fine actor. I'm not trying to knock him, in most of his films he's an enjoyable presence but except for Wild in the Country and this none of them required much in the way of stretching his ability.While he is memorable in the lead there are several other factors that help make this such a strong picture. Chief among them is the presence of the master of any genre Curtiz in the director's chair lending his firm hand to keep the film focused and compelling. Something else that adds to this is the cast. Elvis usually was supported by one sometimes two strong veteran actors or actresses but here the film is loaded to the rafters with talent. Walter Matthau, Dean Jagger, Paul Stewart, Vic Morrow and Dolores Hart all contribute strongly to the texture of the film with best in show honors going to Carolyn Jones as a fragile, damaged woman with a good heart. It's a standard role but she makes something quite lovely out of it. "},{"Title":"KING CREOLE (Michael Curtiz, 1958) ***","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" If LOVING YOU (1957) seemed to me at times to play like a lighter version of A FACE IN THE CROWD (1957), this reminded me of another Elia Kazan masterpiece, ON THE WATERFRONT (1954) which is quite appropriate since this is one of Elvis Presley’s better and most popular vehicles and one of the few with genuinely talented Hollywood craftsmen behind them.This was one of the earliest film adaptations of Harold Robbins novels – the most notable of which would prove to be THE CARPETBAGGERS (1964), THE ADVENTURERS (1970) and THE BETSY (1978; which I have on VHS but have yet to watch) – but, Hollywood being Hollywood, it had its Chicago setting relocated to New Orleans; the screenplay was co-scripted by Michael V. Gazzo who was then still fresh from the Broadway success of A HATFUL OF RAIN (later filmed by Fred Zinnemann in 1957) but is nowadays perhaps best-known for his Oscar-nominated performance in THE GODFATHER PART II (1974).Elvis is backed by a rather stellar cast once again, lovely Dolores Hart is featured as his love interest – when he’s not being ensnared by long-suffering gangster’s moll Carolyn Jones, which doesn’t sit at all well with vicious kingpin Walter Matthau (effectively cast as the sleek heavy of the piece); the older generation is represented by Dean Jagger, appearing as Elvis’ submissive pharmacist father and Paul Stewart playing the owner of the “King Creole” establishment (who eventually hitches up with Presley’s older sister) and the only one who’s unafraid to stand up to Matthau’s control of the territory and who signs up “busboy”/failed graduate Elvis when he’s revealed to be a talented singer. Other cast members making notable contributions are Vic Morrow as Matthau’s chief lackey/thug and an uncredited Gavin Gordon as Jagger’s bossy superior.At almost two hours, the film is slightly overlong but the meatier-than-usual plot line, the tawdry atmosphere of the Deep South (vividly-captured through exemplary noir-ish lighting by Russell Harlan), the star’s own instinctive performance (clearly modeled after his Method-trained heroes Marlon Brando and James Dean), dazzling musical interludes (whose sheer power remains undimmed) and occasional bouts of violence keep one watching. It is said that KING CREOLE was also Elvis’ favorite among his own movies and, having now watched it myself, I can easily understand why. "},{"Title":"New Orleans film noir with Elvis Presley.","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Danny Fisher (Elvis Presley) was a pretty good kid but not very smart. Three years earlier when his mom died, his pharmacist dad (Dean Jagger) became a borderline bum so Danny had to work mornings before school, and evenings after school to earn money for him and dad and his sister Mimi (Jan Shepard). He was supposed to graduate from high school the prior year, but instead had to repeat his senior year. A hot head, he found it hard to turn the other cheek, and as a result was always in some sort of scrape it seemed.This was Elvis' 4th movie, and made right before he was drafted into the Army at age 22. Although much of the movie has a staged feel to it, Elvis does a credible job, and his singing is featured when he gets a job in a New Orleans FrenchQuarter night spot. A somewhat young Walter Matthau, doing a decent Bogart impression, plays the heavy, Maxie Fields, who always bends the rules, often breaking them, to get his way. Carolyn Jones, who later was popular on the TV series The Addams Family is good as Ronnie, who belongs to Maxie but longs for Danny. Dolores Hart, who left the movies and became a nun just a few years later, was 19 here playing Nellie, the good girl that falls for Danny too.SPOILERS FOLLOW. Danny's first scrape in this movie comes in the morning before his last day of school, cleaning up at a night spot, two men are bothering Ronnie, so he breaks a bottle for defense, and gets her into a taxi and out of there. At school some guys tease him for kissing her and Danny punches him out. The school decides to fail him again, no graduation! Discouraged he vows to get a job, he's had enough of school.Charlie LeGrand, who owned a night spot called the 'King Creole' and was a rival of Maxie's, heard Danny and offered him a job singing for $85 a week. Meanwhile dad went back to work as a pharmacist, and one rainy night taking the day's money to the bank was mugged by 'Shark' (Vic Morrow) who worked for Maxie. Dad ended up in the hospital for 4 weeks but recovered. Maxie tried to blackmail Danny into working for him but Danny beat him up instead and went on the run. A knife fight in the alley and 'Shark' was dead. Injured, Danny was taken by Ronnie to her hide away near the lake. Maxie finds them, is gunning for them, hits Ronnie, but 'Dummy' whom Danny had treated nicely before runs and tackles Maxie, who shoots himself while falling into the water. Mortally wounded, Ronnie dies in Danny's arms on the wooden walkway. Which leaves Danny and Nellie to each other. "},{"Title":"Probably The King's Best","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" That Elvis Presley's film career gradually petered out after years of making trivial,hackneyed,fluffy and empty-headed movies is to be regretted,yet in several early films (JAILHOUSE ROCK,FLAMING STAR),he showed he could give a perfectly decent acting performance alongside good scripts,directors and actors.It is arguable that KING CREOLE was his best overall film,and perhaps his most effective big screen performance.Disillusioned youth Danny Fisher (Presley) lives in New Orleans' French Quarter with his recently widowed father (Dean Jagger) and sister (Jan Shepard).His pharmacist father is finding it tough to cope without his wife and cannot find regular work,while Danny flunks his college studies to work in a nightclub owned by sleazy crook Maxie Fields (Walter Matthau), and begins to take romantic interest in a boozy if pitiable tramp,Ronnie,used by Fields as a mistress (Carolyn Jones).He toys with joining a gang of hoodlums led by Shark (Vic Morrow),and attracts the attentions of a sweet-natured shopgirl,Nellie (Dolores Hart).With his talent for singing,Danny decides not to work in Fields' venues,but of his rival Charlie LeGrand instead,the King Creole,where he is a great success.Fields resents Danny's behaviour and is determined fair ways or foul to force Danny to work for him,but Danny will make his own decisions who he works and falls in love with.Elvis Presley had some good scripts offered in his earlier film career like the above fore-mentioned,and KING CREOLE was possibly the best of them.He not only had a good script and story but a top-class producer (Hal B.Wallis),legendary director (Michael Curtiz),fine actors (Matthau,Jones,Jagger,Morrow,Paul Stewart),accomplished cameraman (Russell Harlan),good production and musical numbers too.Presley is very good as the mean,moody but sympathetic youth veering from delinquency to hard work,recalling the ambiance of a younger Marlon Brando or James Dean.He is well supported by Ms Jones,making her somewhat trashy character into a three-dimensional,tragic near-heroine,Matthau as the crooked nightclub operator,Jagger as his vulnerable father,Morrow as a streetwise thug,and Hart,Shepard and Stewart doing efficiently in minor but interesting roles.Wallis and Curtiz of course worked together on one the all-time greats CASABLANCA (1942),and although KING CREOLE is nowhere in that class,a certain moody,smoky atmosphere like the Bogart/Bergman classic is successfully evoked by Harlan's shadowy,noir-like lighting and angles in scenes set in the French Quarter and clubs,and is immeasurably helped by some high quality songs such as the haunting opener 'Crawfish' (where Elvis sings in a duet),'Trouble','Dixieland Rock','Hard Headed Woman' and of course the peerless title track.Occasionally,there are one or two uncomfortable dramatic moments that Presley struggles with,and the film is somewhat overlong,but KING CREOLE is generally a fine crime drama with musical and noirish elements well handled by the master of versatility Curtiz.Pre-1961,The King made a number of fine films like this,but under the influence of Colonel Tom Parker,he was forced into garishly coloured and obviously contrived entertainments which utilised the same banal plots,dull and repetitive scripts,uninspiring actors and ageing or mediocre directors which caused Presley to call a halt on his film career by the end of the 60's.Had he managed to work with the kind of script,story and crew he collaborated with on KING CREOLE,who knows how better his tarnished reputation on movies would've been;as it is,we can be grateful that KING CREOLE shows us how good Elvis was with such top technical and artistic backing,and how better he may have become as a screen actor. "},{"Title":"Elvis could act just watch","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I have a confession I watched King Creole before I ever became a die-hard Elvis fan, and it was one of the first Elvis movies I saw. Ask anyone in my generation who the King of Rock n' Roll was and you'll get the best description of an impersonator with gargantuan sideburns, white bedazzled suit and an exaggerated Southern drawl. I know because I thought that was what I was going to get in King Creole Hmmm, okay, an Elvis movie. Sure, why not? No other expectations besides a vague thought it would probably be nothing great. I ended up watching it three times and liking it more and more.Elvis plays Danny Fisher, a 19-year-old who juggles time between school and busboy job to help make ends meet for himself, his sister and his incompetent father. Mr. Fisher's bankrupt pharmacy following his wife's death has resulted in the small family moving to the poor French Quarter of New Orleans, where rich mobsters like Maxie Fields operate. Saving Danny from a criminal career after failing graduation for a second time is Charlie LeGrand, the owner of the respectable but small King Creole nightclub, who hires Danny as a singer. Trouble ensues when Danny's previous boss Fields plots to trap him into singing at his joint instead, using call-girl Ronnie and eventually Mr. Fisher as bait.I was surprised how capable the entire cast was - even Elvis, who here is the realistic youth who has to cope with a world of troubles surrounding his existence. Walter Matthau's Maxie Fields is properly bad, downright slimy even, and Carolyn Jones's Ronnie has that perfect balance of pathetic angst and bitter view of the past. Dean Jagger is the failing father to the letter, and Vic Morrow's smarmy Shark makes me want to beat him up. Dolores Hart, who starred with Elvis in Loving You, again plays the nice girl who is almost embroiled in the vague and dark happenings in the French Quarter. The gritty atmosphere is beautifully punctuated by the stark black and white film noir format (a pity they don't bring it back, film noir was such an art form).Anyone who doubts Elvis's capacity for acting should see this one. Since King Creole I've gone on to watch every one of his movies - yes, all 31, and each one TWICE - and now understand some of the stigma against Elvis as actor. What people should understand is that most of them contained almost every ingredient that ensured a horrible film bad, greedy, controlling manager (the notorious POS Col. Parker), bad director (Norman Taurog, who else?), bad/cheap scriptwriters (too many), bad camera personnel and the bad songs (who wrote them?). Out of all 31, I'd say one-third of that could be called very good or watchable - Jailhouse Rock, Follow That Dream, Flaming Star particularly - but King Creole is hands-down the BEST. "},{"Title":"King does King Creole","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Presley's acting career may never have been able to fully be utilized but King Creole shows promising possibilities that if given the opportunity, Presley could have acted well.As Danny Fisher, Presley combines good acting talents with excellent songs. His character is both convincing and talented through the entire movie.Danny, his sister and his father have been forced to live in the lower class area of town. By coincidence, Danny's singing talent is discovered. He is given the opportunity to sing in two different night clubs but he may have to choose between his new career and his family.The entire cast provide a fully powerful and sometimes emotional support to Danny. The songs that Danny sings are second to none.This movie should have been nominated for academy awards but if it had we would never have the later Presley vehicles to watch and perhaps Presley's career would have been taken into a different area. "},{"Title":"Elvis and his roots","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Sure, Elvis is the star, but the real force making it a great movie is Michael Curtiz. King Creole has a great cast, great acting, a solid script and many interesting musical numbers, not to mention excellent cinematography. Without all this, it might have just been another Elvis vehicle. Look at the list of Curtiz' movies -- Yankee Doodle Dandee, Casablanca, Mission to Moscow, to name three in a row -- can you find a more versatile director? I don't think there is any Curtiz style; each is unique, in each he fits the movie to the material. His work begins in the silent era, 1912, yet King Creole epitomizes the 1950s. And Curtiz, 72, knows how to showcase the talent and energy of Elvis, presenting him as an artist. Yes, Elvis can act. There isn't a wrong note anywhere, and it is a relatively complex role. I suppose the next question the studios would have asked is whether he had the depth to play a wide range of characters. Could Elvis transform himself into someone else? That is great acting. I'm thinking of someone like Paul Newman -- or Walter Matthau. Elvis never got a chance to find out. Perhaps the studios looked at King Creole and decided not to push their luck and stick to the Elvis persona?To do good acting you need a good cast to react off of, and he had it here. We see some real chemistry and sparks flying as they interact with Elvis. Here is Matthau at his finest. This is no mobster don caricature; we see cruelty and cunning, but also rays of kindness and genuine appreciation for Elvis' talent. And who would guess that Ronnie -- Carolyn Jones -- was also Morticia in the Addams Family or Julie Rawlings in How the West was Won? I am not a big Elvis fan, though I do respect the emotional energy of his style. Those who are not familiar with Elvis should watch King Creole to understand why he was so influential.At first I was disappointed that there wasn't a broader range of musical styles displayed, given the title King Creole and the fact that Elvis's musical roots are in the black jazz and blues of Memphis, Tennessee. It appeared to be all all high octane Elvis. But then I looked closer and realized that Elvis' musical roots are, indeed, on display in the movie. Even in the slower numbers, the Elvis intensity just made them seem high octane.The only Creole influence is seen in the opening number of street vendors calling out their wares, Crawfish, similar to the Street Cries number in Gershwin's Porgy and Bess. But it does set up the musical environment.The first performance number, Trouble, shows Elvis singing with a Dixieland group, but it is actually a solid blues number in a style similar to T-Bone Walker (Stormy Monday). Now this is Elvis' roots. The closest to a slow love ballad is Lover Doll in the Five and Dime, accompanied only by a bass. The closest to jazz is New Orleans, which starts slow like W.C. Handy, and shows a connection between Elvis' style and jazz, including a banjo and some Dixieland riffs. In the number King Creole, the only connection to the movie's title aside from the club's name, we see typical Elvis energy and tempo, but also some of the blues and jazz roots we saw more clearly in earlier numbers. Later, we have a somewhat gratuitous Dixieland Rock, which sounds a lot like Jailhouse Rock, and is closer to pure Elvis than most numbers here. The distinctive double clapping by Elvis that sets up the number, echoed by the band, corresponds to the sound of a car driving over a loose manhole cover. If you'd ever lived with one outside your window, you would recognize it. Don't Ask Me Why is a slow number in the style of many Fifties pop songs, and a takeoff of O Sole Mio, an old Italian song that's seen many permutations, including Elvis' later It's Now or Never.What stands out, at least to the modern listener, is the high energy, fast beat Elvis style that became so famous. But actually Curtiz does a good job of mixing styles and tempos, and of providing a sort of chronology of musical influences on Elvis in the various numbers. The range could have been a bit broader, but this was 1958 and the movie was helping to establish Elvis' musical identity. The influence of black jazz and blues is there to the observant viewer, but not fully highlighted. This was the Fifties, and displaying too much black influence would have been risky. What we do see was a actually a bold move (though setting it in New Orleans makes it more acceptable), and probably enhanced Elvis' edgy, bad boy image with the teenagers and James Dean crowd. (Now, if they had made Elvis' role truly Creole, part black and part French, that would have been ballsy for the time.)I suppose you could say the best Elvis movie is the one that was never made, the mature actor singing in a broad range of styles rock, jazz, blues, creole and ballads. It's too bad he didn't return to his musical roots in later years, as well as acting. But King Creole comes surprisingly close to providing Elvis' musical testament. In the end, Curtiz delivers not only fine acting and a fine script, but also some fine music in an assortment of Elvis' style. Once again, Curtiz fitted the movie to the material. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is not your typical Elvis movie!!! It is pretty dark, not the light hearted romps that most of his movies are, and the songs are few and I guess because this takes place in New Orleans, they are bluesy. Which I think Elvis had a great voice and presence for the blues. Walter Matthau plays the heavy here. He has the stereotypical Hollywood gangster image. A woman beating, murderer. Carolyn Jones, well before the Addams Family, plays the gangsters girl and she looks pretty good and acts well. The family dynamics of Elvis's screen family, the Fisher's, is a little weird. The actress playing the sweet kind of naive girlfriend is nice to see compared to today's way too smart about everything young girl roles that get cast now. "},{"Title":"Great Noir","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is not a typical Elvis movie.I believe that this is the first serious attempt of the King to became a real actor.The film located in New Orleans reminds a lot the 50s Rebelion movies like Rebel without a Cause with James Dean or the Wild One with Marlon Brando.Elvis in King Creole is not the good guy,but an outsider kid with problems to finish the school, who fights,steals,cheating girls,became a part of the underworld,only because he don't wont to be a working man with the head down,like his father.The cast is superb,not only the King,but an excellent Walter Matthaou as the bad guy and Dean Jagger as the Father of Elvis.King Creole was the favorite movie of Elvis and i believe one of his best together with Wild In the Country and Flaming Star "},{"Title":"Wonderful acting makes this movie 8/10","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Danny Fisher, young delinquent, flunks out of high school. He quits his job as a busboy in a nightclub, and one night he gets the chance to perform. Success is imminent and the local crime boss Maxie Fields wants to hire him to perform at his night club The Blue Shade. Danny refuses, but Fields won't take no for an answer... Awesome plot, great acting and a brooding Elvis is what makes this film a classic, a mix of crime, drama and musical. This is Elvis' greatest movie so far, well it's a tie between this and Jailhouse Rock, and he is amazing as Danny Fisher, the young delinquent who gets mixed up with crook Maxie Fields (the incredible Walter Matthau) and the lovely Carolyn Jones. This is probably the one movie where all leading, and supporting, actors give great performances all over. It's a must see for any Elvis (or classic film) fan. And I promise, you won't regret it. "}{"Title":"This is the big get-even day!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Not being an Elvis-fanatic, I watched this film more for the story and the eclectic cast Matthau, Morrow, Jaegger, Jones. I was pleasantly surprised to find the visual style and story progress (based on a novel) was quite good and rewarding. Jones really re-defines a femme fatale role and as a male viewer I was touched by the pathos she brings to the 'Ronnie' character. Jaegger as the pathetic father-figure is also excellent and is touching in his scenes w/ Elvis and Matthau. I think I liked Morrow the best. His 'Shark' is a tragic character with his soulless eyes that just tell you his life will get cut short. The director conveys a good sense of atmosphere especially towards the end when Jones and Elvis are hiding in her cabin. The sequence as Elvis emerges from inside and joins Jones as she opens herself up to him personally is dynamite in lieu of the fact that Matthau will soon shatter the almost-lover's brief tranquility.My only dislike is the tacked on 'happy ending' which is out of place w/ the rest of the gritty New Orleans ghetto story. "},{"Title":"Elvis and Harold Robbins come up with a good movie-Huh?","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A good movie taken from one of the novels that Harold Robbins wrote back when he was actually a writer, and not just a manufacturer of adolescent sex fantasies.  The original novel was about a JD turned mob-owned boxer; the movie makes him a musician and gives the story a happier (i.e., cleaned-up) ending, but the New Orleans atmosphere is surprisingly strong, the songs are great, and Elvis Presley gives a real performance as the angry, mixed-up, but decent hero, who discovers that he has more backbone than he thought.  And Walter Matthau is very, VERY scary as the mobster who tries to buy Presley body and soul and gets nasty when he discovers he can't.  And it's all given a nice, punchy treatment by director Michael Curtiz, who proved that his career didn't end just because Errol Flynn was too old to be jumping around in tights any longer . . . "},{"Title":"A troubled youth tries to escape the shady side of life.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Filmed in the French Quarter of New Orleans, Elvis plays a brawling busboy that becomes the brightest entertainer on Bourbon Street. Mobster (Walter Matthau) and his boy toy (Carolyn Jones) fill out the plot and subplot. Vic Morrow is a convincing thug. Dolores Hart plays the good girl love interest. This song filled flic is highlighted by numbers like Trouble, Hard Headed Woman and of course King Creole. I agree with anyone that thinks this is one of Elvis' greatest movies, if not the best! "},{"Title":"A Hip-Shaking Good Movie","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" King Creole is actually a good movie with pretty good story. It's one of Elvis' best films. The movie is a crime-drama with some hip-shaking songs thrown into the mix. The singing in the film is actually a part of the story line since the character Danny is a singer - it's not just some random musical interlude which is the case with most of Elvis' movies.The soundtrack is actually a nice one if you like Elvis and the songs fit the movie very well. Although the music is not the only reason to watch or ignore the film.King Creole is a must see for Elvis fans and movie goers alike. It is one of Elvis' best film and character roles.And let's not forget that Carolyn Jones is in this flick! Another reason to watch the film! She is great in this movie as the floozy Ronnie that Danny falls for.9/10 "},{"Title":"King Creole","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Elvis Presley's last movie before he was drafted. It is his best movie and offers the best soundtrack. Songs like Dixieland Rock capture the early essence of Elvis. Crawfish, the duet with the black girl at the beginning, is a treat. Walter Matthau plays crime boss Maxie Fields. Liliane Montevecchi is showgirl Forty Nina, all decked out in bananas. King Creole is set in the French Quarter (Vieux Carre) of New Orleans. No one will be able to watch this movie again without thinking of hurricane Katrina and the destruction it unleashed on this legendary city. King Creole is based on the Harold Robbins novel, A Stone for Danny Fisher. "},{"Title":"definately his best pre army movie","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Excellent movie. This movie like Jailhouse Rock and Charro! is also a dark movie in places. Elvis does a wonderful job acting in this, and once again he has a strong supporting cast around him, the late Walter Mathei, the late Carolyn Jones,the late Dean Jagger and the late Vic Morrow. The movie also has a strong plot. I give this movie five stars.   "},{"Title":"Elvis Presley's best performance","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"    Undoubtably Presley's best acting job in the movies. He plays a brawling busboy who becomes a hot singer in the French Quarter of New Orleans.The troubled relationship with his father,a tragic affair with a call girl and his involvement with the local crime boss complicate his life.  Elvis Presley delivers a very good performance in which you can see the great potential he had as an actor.But the movie's best performance is given by Carolyn Jones as the call girl. She is simply outstanding.Walter Matthau also handles his lines well.The rest of the cast performs well under the sure direction of veteran Michael Curtiz.The movie's only trouble is the story,which is sometimes laughable melodramatic.       Rating ***1/2 of ***** "},{"Title":"Elvis at his best","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  For anyone who doubts that Elvis' acting talent was wasted during his film career, cast a critical glance at 'King Creole'. The film, based on the Harold Robbins novel, 'A Stone for Danny Fisher', is very well directed (by Michael Curtiz) and acted by Elvis, ably supported by the talented Walter Mathau and Carolyn Jones.King Creole was filmed in New Orleans and tells the story of Danny Fisher, a young busboy turned nightclub singer who gets involved in street gangs and inevitably with Maxie Fields, a ruthless nightclub owner.Elvis always said that this was his favourite film, and it is not too difficult to see why, given his encouraging performance and the fact that the material he was handed after this outing did not allow him the opportunity to develop as an actor. It is unfortunate that the Studios only interest in Elvis was as a short term moneyspinner. "},{"Title":"Elvis Noir as Rock N Roll comes to the King Creole","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" King Creole is directed by Michael Curtiz and adapted to screenplay by Herbert Baker and Michael V. Gazzo from the novel A Stone for Danny Fisher written by Harold Robbins. It stars Elvis Presley, Carolyn Jones, Walter Matthau, Dolores Hart, Dean Jagger, Vic Morrow, Paul Stewart and Jan Shepard. Music is scored by Walter Scharf and cinematography by Russell Harlan. Plot finds Presley as Danny Fisher, a high school student struggling at school who falls in with the wrong crowd just as family matters of the heart start to take a hold.He said anybody that disagreed with you got a punch in the mouth. Is that what I brought you up to do, to fight?The last film Presley made before going off to do his service in the army, King Creole is his best film. It's one of only a small handful that showed the star actually had some acting ability, here he gets a top director to work under and a very tidy cast put along side him for him to respond too. Presley immediately warmed to Curtiz (Casablanca/Mildred Pierce), wilfully doing as he was told by the wily old director, rewarding the film fan with a performance of some merit. Presley would often say it was his personal favourite of his own films, and it's not hard to see why. Though packed with musical numbers, many of them belters as well, the film always stays dramatic, in fact the tunes form part of the narrative, they are not frothy interludes slotted in purely for fan appeasement.Everything he touches turns to drink.It's not unreasonable to expect King Creole to be a fun movie, the kind where Elvis flies a plane, speeds around on power boats, or saves the word during a treasure hunt, because the poster art and DVD covers lend you to think that. Honestly, one shows the King with guitar wrapped around him, hips bent and a huge smile on his face, the other has the same Elvis pose but along side him is a smiling beauty bedecked in a banana patterned dress! I mean really, would you think this film is shot in moody black and white, features murders, theft, family upheaval, drunks, knife fights, wasted life and all round dirty tricks? That the King is snarly, aggressive and channelling Jim Stark from Rebel Without a Cause? Because all these things reside within this potent and most agreeable Elvis picture.Now you know. That's how you get into it.With the drama relocated from the New York of the novel to Bourbon Street New Orleans, and Danny Fisher changed from a boxer to a singer, atmosphere needed to be tight to the emotionally battered story. And it is, very much so, with Harlan (Ramrod/Riot in Cell Block 11) doing a great job of making The Big Easy come off as The Big Seedy. This is a world of back alleys where hoodlum youths dwell and of wet tinged streets barely lit by gas lamps, many of the night scenes shot here are worthy of film noir status, with a rain sodden mugging sequence truly top of the line. Conversely Curtiz also paints a bustling Orleans picture, with song clubs and street sellers proving to be the heartbeat of the city. It's a twin viewpoint of Orleans that matches other duality themes that drive the narrative forward, because Danny is caught between two girls and two night club owners.Cast are very good across the board, with Matthau menacing, Morrow weasel like, Jagger and Jones sad and pitiful, Stewart elegantly honest and Hart doing a neat line in confused love. Stand out tunes include the title song, Hard Headed Woman, Trouble, Steadfast Loyal and True, Lover Doll and the quite beautiful As Long As I Have You. It's not perfect, serious crime goes unpunished, the main motive driving on Matthau's club boss is rather weak and the two love interest girls are written lazily as love sick puppies. Yet this is still a cracker of a movie, where Presley bristles with magnetism and emotional conflict and Curtiz and Harlan rack up the requisite amount of impressive atmospheric visuals. 8/10 "},{"Title":"King Elvis","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" King Creole (1958) Starring Elvis Presley, Walter Matthau, Carolyn Jones, Dolores Hart, Dean Jagger, Lilian Montevechi, Vic Morrow, Paul Stewart, Jan Shepard, Brian G. Hutton, Jack Grinnage, Dick Winslow, Raymond Bailey, Leon Tyler...Direcor Michael Curtiz...Screenplay Herbert Baker, Based On The Novel By Harold Robbins By 1958, when this film was released, there was not a single American (unless they were Amish or lived in a cave) who didn't know who Elvis Presley was. The popular singer's albums sold fast and his concerts and performances in Las Vegas and on TV drove dozens of young teenage girls crazy. He fancied himself an actor as well or he opted to make movies to cater to his fans. Back then if you wanted to see Elvis shake his waist and hips (which you couldn't see on TV because of censorship)you could see it if you went to see his movies. Director Michael Curtiz was a fine director with great films (better than this one) to his credit- Santa Fe Trail (1940) The Sea Hawk (1940) and of course his masterpiece Casablanca (1942). The director of Casablanca was a noted Hollywood moviemaker and to engage Elvis in a film must have been awfully good for his career. In King Creole, he plays Danny Fisher a New Orleans rebel, the son of a well-to-do and respectable politician (or something like that) who flunks out of high school and decides to sing in nightclubs instead. His father wants him to marry the wealthy and sweet Nel (Dolores Hart)and to change his life for the better. But in his nightclub, Danny discovers a seedy world of corruption and danger. He encounters the beautiful, seemingly comfortable but unhappy Ronnie (Carolyn Jones) the sweetheart of a powerful mob lord. He's drawn to her on an emotional and physical level but he's torn between both his own sweetheart and Ronnie. A young Walter Matthau plays mob lord Maxie Field, with a degree of nastiness and abusive dominance, fueled by alcoholism. There are songs but this is not a musical. The songs are featured in the appropriate scenes in which Danny sings in the nightclub. This was a style of movies that Elvis did at the time although he was also in musicals. But this is one film in which he attempted to act. For fans of Elvis, he's wonderful in this role which suits him but I personally don't think he's much of an actor and he was the first celebrity to prove that singers should not transition into film acting. Later on, singers like Madonna would do the same thing in the 80's and 90's and fail miserably. But this type of a film is a time capsule of the 50's and therefore has value. Elvis would do several films in color in the 60's as well but quit after he began to age visibly. Carolyn Jones is his leading lady in this film. Sadly, she's not a well-known actress. She is known only for her role as Morticia Addams in the memorable and much loved TV comedy series The Addams Family (1964-1966). Give this woman some credit. She was an outstanding actress with tons of films and TV series in her resume. Here, she is subtle next to the more dramatic Elvis but she shows moments of angst in a very dramatic, sort of soap-opera-ish way. She's really good. Her voice is especially essential in her acting and it helped that she was very beautiful. This is a lovely film with an emotional core and with lots of great singing, especially the last song. "}{"Title":"Great movie, killer soundtrack","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is, as you have read a number of times already in these user comments, the best Elvis movie.  It is Elvis' best acting performance, and a great story, mindful of Rebel without a Cause in some points.  Moreover, it is beautifully photographed and directed by the great Mr. Curtiz.  And the songs!  King Creole, Hard Headed Woman, and, my favorite, Crawfish, which is one of Elvis' best vocals.  What else is there? "},{"Title":"Presley's best film by a mile","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I watched this again recently and loved it. This film clearly shows that Elvis Presley can act! Elvis plays Danny, a rile that was originally meant for James Dean, but in my opinion Elvis is a much better actor than Dean ever was.OK there are the obligatory singing bits but even then the music is well in keeping with the story and shows Elvis at his very best.The title track 'King Creole' as well as 'Steadfast, Loyal and True', 'Hard Headed Woman', and 'Trouble'. In fact the beginning of this film is truly remarkable and one of the finest I have seen. Kitty White and Elvis sing 'Crawsish' along with an unknown bass singer. I believe this showed how good Elvis was as a white singer with a Black man's soul.Dean Jagger, Walter Matthau, Vic Morrow, Carolyn Jones are all good and play their parts perfectly.Such a shame that more of Elvis later films could not have been directed as well as by Michael Curtiz does in this film.Sadly he never made another film as good as this one, mainly due to his manager, Colonel Parker, forcing him into silly musical films.As another poster here rightly says this film is a hint at the movie career that Elvis could have had without his manager Col. Parker's constant greed to display his peacock client in an ever-grating role of innocence to make money. Brilliant film! "},{"Title":"An all-star cast delivering all-star performances.","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A high school failure and a desperate prostitute fall in love. Some story. Nothing contrived here. The movie includes an all-star cast that turn in powerful performances. Carolyn Jones's performance is outstanding, absolutely deserving of official recognition. Her performance dominates the movie. Walter Matthau is impressive as a racketeer and thug who will stop at nothing to get his way. Elvis Presley gives a strong performance as the young man who has to make difficult choices. He also sings several songs, all of which are excellent. In fact, the movie is worth watching for the musical soundtrack alone. But what makes this movie great is the story. It starts off slow but then the dramatic tension builds. The movie is surprisingly dramatic, engaging and entertaining. Filmed in black and white, that adds a film noir element to the movie which further intensifies the story. "},{"Title":"Cut my hands off and call me Shorty - Elvis Presley can act...","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Widely regarded as Elvis Presley's best film, 'King Creole' was originally called 'A Stone for Danny Fisher'(based on a novel) with James Dean in the lead role, but the project was shelved in 1955 following Dean's tragic death. This film was what could happen when you gave Presley a serious role with top quality actors around him such as Dean Jagger and Walter Matthau. Presley plays Danny Fisher, a 19 year old in a struggling family of three (he, his sister and their bumbling, struggling father Dean Jagger - who played Mr Land in Game of Death 20 years later.) Danny becomes a nightclub singer at New Orleans dive 'The King Creole' and turns the joint into the hottest club on Bourban Street, much to the annoyance of rival nightclub owner and local mobster Maxi Fields (Matthau) who attempts several underhand tactics to get Danny to join HIS Club as the singer, including having Danny's father beaten up and hospitilized so that he can take care of the medical fees, get Danny onside while also have something over his head - for it was Danny's gang who performed the mugging. In the midst of it all, Danny is torn between two lovers (a typical theme for later Presley movies!) including young Delores Hart (his 'Loving You' co-star.) and Carolyn Jones - Maxi's unhappy girlfriend. The result of it all is a bloodied combat as Danny tries to battle his way -and Carolyn Jones way - out of the mob gang and the lifestyle, so that in the end he can return to the King Creole. Again this is not MY personal favourite Elvis movie, same as 'Loving You', despite their high regard...Presley won rave reviews for his performance and this was the kind of role he craved but would rarely get upon his return from the Army in 1960. "},{"Title":"Elvis Presley's greatest movie as an actor !","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is Elvis Presley in 1958 at the peak of his movie career. King Creole is Elvis's greatest movie for good reasons. In addition to the great songs he performs he's also given a very demanding role of the tough rebel singer & fighter Danny Fisher. The superb excellent cast speak for themselves & it was also directed by none other than the great Michael Curtiz who's credentials include The Mystery Of The Wax Museum, Doctor X, Captain Blood, The Adventures Of Robin Hood, Angels With Dirty Faces, Casablanca & Mildred Pierce to name a few. But you get the general idea & to top it off it was Elvis's own favorite of all his films & it's easy to see why... even the critics loved it.This classic movie has everything going for it & it shows the ability Elvis had as a dramatic actor & it was his dramatic performance that impressed me the most rather than his musical moments. I already know he can sing & perform on stage & I've heard his records. But in the movies I want to see him act. The only way this movie could've been better is if it stuck closer to the book & was a non musical with Elvis as a boxer instead of a singer. The role of Danny Fisher was originally meant for James Dean & Elvis steps into James Dean's shoes & handles the role extremely well. After King Creole Elvis would disappear for 2 years & in 1960 he would return & impress us again in the excellent western Flaming Star in a very serious dramatic role that Marlon Brando turned down. King Creole & Flaming Star were evidence showing Elvis really could act with the best of them !! If you like quality movies by all means watch this classic !! Highly recommended ! "},{"Title":"Elvis plays high school dropout Danny Fischer who gets mixed up in the mob scene of New Orleans while singing in night clubs on bourbon street.","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" One of Elvis's best performances on screen. King Creole was originally written for James Dean were Dean would have played a boxer rather than a singer. Great performances by Walter Matthau and Carolyn Jones. This film has a great plot and some of Elvis's best film music including King Creole, Young Dreams, Lover Doll, Don't Ask Me Why, New Orleans, Trouble and Dixieland Rock. King Creole explores the relationship between the troubled young man Danny Fisher (Elvis Presley) and his widower father who wants him to return to school after failing his senior year. Danny wants to help his family out by working due to his fathers inability to maintain a job. While working in a night club as a bus boy he goes on stage one night and sings a song. He later becomes the biggest act on bourbon street and mobster Maxi Feilds m(Walter Mathau) wants him for his own club. Danny refuses because of his loyalty to his boss Charlie LeGrand. Through blackmail and threats Danny is forced to work for Maxi were he falls in love with Maxi's woman. A must see for celluloid fans of all ages. "},{"Title":"One of Presley's better movies.","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Considering he spent the last thirty-odd years of his career in comedy roles, it's strange to see Walter Matthau as bad guy Maxie Fields, the New Orleans racketeer who feels compelled to own everyone around him. He's pretty good though, a mix of avuncular good humour and steel-willed calculation. Presley is a singer with home problems. He's torn between good girl Nellie (Dolores Hart) and damaged good-time girl Ronnie (Carolyn Jones), tormented by his father's lack of backbone and led astray by Vic Morrow and his pals. Presley was a singer who made films rather than an actor who sang, and the proof of that is right up there on the screen. Nevertheless, he possessed so much presence and charisma that he dominates nearly all of his scenes. It's Carolyn Jones who steals the show, though, with a nuanced performance as bad girl Ronnie. "},{"Title":"The King Starts to Do It, and It's as Good as Done","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" New Orleans singer Elvis Presley (as Danny Fisher) gets into a scuffle on his last day of high school, and is deemed unfit for graduation. Rather than try to pass the 12th grade for the third time, Mr. Presley decides to drop out. With his mother dead and father unemployed, Presley must concentrate on earning a buck. Presley gets involved with hoodlum Vic Morrow (as Shark), who is impressed with his dirty street-fighting skills. Next, Presley becomes the featured singer at his nightclub; but, gangster rival Walter Matthau (as Maxie Fields) wants him to sing at another joint. King Creole, Hard Headed Woman, and Trouble led RCA's single and EP albums to #1 million-selling status. Crawfish (sung with Kitty White) is another great track.Presley pursues two women innocent Five and Ten cent store clerk Dolores Hart (as Nellie) and luscious Carolyn Jones (as Ronnie). A failed songstress serving as Mr. Matthau's moll, Ms. Jones later became Morticia  on The Addams Family. Harold Robbins' novel A Stone for Danny Fisher translates into high-strung melodramatics for the rock 'n' roll superstar; he is automatically ELVIS when he takes the stage, but otherwise contributes one of his best overall acting characterizations. An excellent director (Michael Curtiz), photographer (Russell Harlan), and supporting cast help. There were couple of attempts to build on Presley's worth as a dramatic actor, but the studios never really exceeded the effort you'll see here.****** King Creole (7/2/58) Michael Curtiz ~ Elvis Presley, Carolyn Jones, Walter Matthau, Vic Morrow "},{"Title":"Good acting by Elvis in a rather bland movie.","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" First of all this movie is definitely different than other Elvis movies I've watched.The majority of Elvis' other movies all seemed to focus on comedy with him being a playboy with swooning girls in bikini's and really corny dialog and plots. This movie takes on a more serious and dark tone. I've read a lot of other user reviews and critic reviews. Most of them praising Elvis' acting in this movie and I agree. Elvis is good in this movie, finally getting to stretch his acting chops in a more serious role. A shame that Elvis's agent was a total controlling idiot otherwise we may have seen some gold statues on Elvis' shelf. Elvis does sing and the songs are very nice but what's good is that the songs don't overshadow his acting.Even Walter Matthau praised his acting and was upset that he didn't get an Oscar nomination.Now on to the movie itself , while Elvis shines , the movie does not. It is very slow paced and the plot itself rather unbelievable. Elvis plays a young man who is trying to find his place in life after getting kicked out of high school for fighting so he wont graduate. He has a destitute father and has to work to support him. He is a busboy in a club owned by a mobster Maxie Fields(Walter Matthau) - he sings one night and the owner of the King Creole-Charlie LeGrand(Paul Stewart) likes his singing so he hires him to sing.Of course he's a smash and now Maxie wants him to come back and sing at his club ,pretty much a sing for me or else thing. Then subplots of Maxies floozy Ronnie played by Adams Familys Morticia(Carolyn Jones)and a waitress named Nellie(Dolores Hart) ensue along with some street tough gang fights. It seems rather unbelievable that a wealthy mobster who owns half the city of New Orleans would go to such great lengths over a nightclub singer. That's where it loses me , the mob after a guy just to get him to sing in their nightclub? I think the movie is more about the mob leader Maxie's jealousy than actually giving a hoot about Elvis working in his club. The gist I see is Maxie jealous of Elvis sexually -esp since he knows Ronnie is obviously attracted to Elvis so he wants to keep Elvis in his sights and also to let others know that he can have/buy anyone he wants. Also Ronnie used to work for Charlie until Maxie bought her out.Notice how he treats her, like crap. I just got bored once it turned into an If i cant have you then no one will type movie. The ending of the movie is rather abrupt and wrapped up with Elvis singing a ballad. It could have been better with a more serious writer and script. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Simply Elvis' Greatest Movie!","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" About a year and a half ago I bout the DVD for about 2 Euros and I don't remember just how often I've seen this film ever since! It simply makes you an addict, and that's because it's not an Elvis film but a serious film with Elvis in the lead role. It has the King and his music, but it has so much more - the New Orleans set, the great cast (you'll simply have to love Carolyn Jones! And you'll simply love to hate Vic Morrow - nearly as great as in The Blackboard Jungle - and Walter Matthau as the mob boss!). The whole atmosphere is dark and gritty thanks to Michael Curtiz' noir direction. And finally the plot - an adaptation of Harold Robbins' novel A Stone for Danny Fisher - is dramatic and exciting! There are more films whith great performances by Elvis - Jailhouse Rock, Flaming Star or Viva Las Vegas - but this one really is the cream of the crop! My favorite line - a comment on the Elvis character - is Vic Morrow's Good boy! Fights real dirty! "}{"Title":"Very good movie.","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" One of Elvis' best. Here you had all the necessary ingredients top notch supporting cast (Morticia, Walter Matthau, Vic Morrow, etc.), interesting plot(street kid trying to stay afloat between singing, working, family drama and thugs), locale(New Orleans) and good music(even Craawwwfish..c'mon who didn't like that?) too.Oh yeah, you don't wanna forget Director-Michael Curtiz, only the guy who did 'Robin Hood' and 'Casablanca', one of the best period. Elvis had something to work w/ and something to shoot for, and here, I think he delivered quite well.It's also shot in black and white, which to me, works in it's favor. Too bad he didn't make more like this, his last pre-army movie.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"King Creole is Elvis at his finest!","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" King Creole is definitely my favorite of all of Elvis' films. This was a perfect role for him that showcased not only his ability to sing but to act as well.The Crawfish musical number has to be one of the coolest beginnings to any film I've seen. Elvis as Danny Fisher sings a duet with a street vendor, their voices echo through the streets of New Orleans. The shot of Elvis leaning out the window singing as he is getting dressed for the day is amazingly cool. From the way he casually combs his hair to how he puts his shirt on without missing a beat, simply classic.The film is in black and white, which I feel really adds to the movie and doesn't take away from it at all. It gives it that real film noir feeling. It is a lot darker and more gritty than any other film Elvis made. Of all his movies, this was the one Elvis himself called his favorite. I can most definitely understand why. Not only was it directed by Michael Curtiz of Casablanca fame, but the script is sharp and Elvis also had some great co-stars to work with, particularly Walter Matthau who played local gangster, Maxie Fields in the film.Matthau is very effective as the primary villain of the story. Carolyn Jones as Ronnie and Delores Hart as Nellie serve as Elvis' two love interests in the movie. Vic Morrow plays Shark a street hustler and member of Fields' posse. As good as the supporting cast is, no one outshines Elvis as the star of this picture.2008 marks the 50th anniversary of the release of King Creole, and it truly is a must-have for any Elvis fan, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Elvis playing an almost James dean role??","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" First off i would like to say i love that movie, it's my favorite Elvis movie along with loving you. However, I heard that the movie king creole was originally made as a James dean movie to be about a boxer but, upon his tragic death the role was given to Elvis and changed to fit as so. Does anyone have any facts about this or is it just a rumor?? I heard from that ! guy on TMC on cable Robert Osbourn so, I don't know what to think. I think though that if it is true it would have been a hell of a movie still with James dean playing that role ( with the changes I listed above of course ). anyone who has information about this a response is greatly appreciated because i looked all over the net and i cannot find a thing, thanks, Dennis... "},{"Title":"King Creole is the best Elvis Presley movie I've seen so far","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" On this, the 30th anniversary of Elvis Presley's untimely death, I choose to watch what The King himself mentioned was the favorite of all his movies King Creole. After seeing it, you can figure out why No silly plot lines that permeates many of his '60s pictures, no below-par songs to perform, some of the best actors Elvis had ever worked with, and perhaps the best director he ever worked under-the legendary Michael Curtiz. In fact, this was the last notable work of the, by then, nearly 40-year veteran of some of the most classic movies ever made like his Oscar-winning Casablanca. About the rest of the cast Dean Jagger, Vic Morrow, Dolores Hart (in her second Presley movie), and, especially, Carolyn Jones and Walter Matthau as the moll and her mobster lover are all excellent. And the musical performances of Elvis are perfectly staged especially on Trouble. The role he played here, Danny Fisher, is perhaps his most three-dimensional since it was supposed to go to James Dean before his untimely death. Also, as someone who's lived in Louisiana for a long time, I loved the New Orleans location shots presented here especially the beginning when we see various workers singing with Elvis joining in on a number called Crawfish. All in all, the best Presley movie I've seen so far and I've yet to see Flaming Star and Viva Las Vegas! "},{"Title":"Perfet master piece","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" King Creole is the most greatest rock 'n' roll movie ever made, and beats up also many other music movies.Michael Curtiz has done fantastic work in directing. Actually this is his last masterpiece, and also one of the best works. Personally I enjoy this more than Casablanca.Elvis Presley is great in the film. If you have seen his stupid music movies from later years, you won't maybe believe it. Love Me Tender, Loving You, Jailhouse Rock, King Creole, Flaming Star and Wild in the Country are great drama movies from the King. Follow That Dream and Kid Galahad are great comedies, and Charro! is great western.10/10 "},{"Title":"Presley is a good actor. But he is not the only one here.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I read the book and I liked it. The movie only take a small part of the book and change Danny´s profession from a boxer to a singer.Nevertheless there is a lot of atmosphere in the movie. New Orleans, French Quarter, Bourbon Street, nightclubs...Michael Curtiz did a good directing job.There is a wonderful cast. Elvis Presley shines in the leading part. He gives an outstanding performance full of power, action and sensibility as the unlucky, angry young man. Danny is a victim of the circumstances. Presley is supported by Carolyn Jones, Walter Matthau, Dolores Hart, Dean Jagger and Vic Morrow. They all play very well and convincing.There is a lot of music in this movie. But no matter if you are a fan of the King or not the music does not disturb the plot.I think this movie is worth to watch and Elvis Presley never was a better actor. "},{"Title":"Elvis' Best Performance, But...","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In King Creole The King gives probably what is his best performance, but the film itself is far from my favorite.Whenever I feel the world is getting the better of me, I pop an Elvis film such as Girls, Girls, Girls, Fun in Acapulco, Clambake, or my personal favorite, Double Trouble on my DVD player. These films are embarrassingly bad, but in a very harmless way. They are so far removed from reality that watching one of these light-hearted films takes my mind off of my sorrows and into a pleasant, tuneful world that never existed, and never will exist.King Creole, as good as it is, is high melodrama, and high melodrama is not where I like to see Elvis.Then there is the presence of Walter Matthau. After seeing him in the many comedies he did in later years, it is very hard to take this extremely talented actor seriously. Although Matthau does a good job, knowledge of his comic abilities and watching his round-shouldered, slue-footed walk bring back memories not of the heel Maxie Fields that he plays in this film, but of the slovenly, sloppy, but lovable Oscar Madison in The Odd Couple, and The Odd Couple II. I give this pre-Clambake and pre-Odd Couple film an A for effort.The photography by Russell Harlan is magnificent. "},{"Title":"Great picture","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" As the lad himself might say, cut my legs off and call me Shorty! Elvis Presley can act...Acting is his assignment in this shrewdly upholstered showcase, and he does it. Howard Thompson. Review of King Creole, New York Times, 1958This was one of the few Elvis movies in which he was able to show his talent as an actor. Micheal Curtiz a great director of the 30s and 40s was skeptical at the Elvis casting which required the rewrite from a boxer to singer. But after production began he saw that one Elvis was a hard dedicated worker and two that he had acting talent. The story was at one time a James Dean possibility and Elvis must have been aware of it. The shame is he was not given more scripts and directors like this movie. "},{"Title":"The best?","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This just has to be the best 'Elvis-movie'. Elvis himself thought that too. The songs are good, Elvis plays better than he ever will, (and he looks so good!) Everything is just so good. I like the part (does'nt everybody) were he sings Trouble. Even th ow the background sound is quite annoying. I can just watch it over and over. Ronnie Maybe we'll meet some place by accident Danny Will you tell me where you think the accident will take place and I'll make sure I'm there Elvis also got to shake hands with one of his biggest idols, Marlon Brando. "},{"Title":"Even the cinema snobs like this one","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I think a lot of people enjoyed saying that all of Elvis' movies were garbage. This one is accepted by those people cause it has a good supporting cast, is from the best book Harold Robbins ever wrote, and the guy who directed Casablanca directed it. None of this matters, as the only thing that is important is the music and the man. "}{"Title":"Best Elvis movie. You'll like it even if you're not an Elvis fan.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Elvis was very proud to get the role in this film. The role was originally written for his movie idol, James Dean. After James Dean's death, the script was rewritten with Elvis in mind. There are some powerful scenes in the movie. One such scene where Elvis shows his potential to become a great actor is when he chews out his father for being a coward.The casting and cinematography of the film are excellent.It's too bad that Elvis wasn't given more challenging roles like this one. It seems as though it was inevitable that Elvis would never be taken seriously as an actor since money and not Elvis' happiness was the top priority of his manager Colonel Tom Parker.  "},{"Title":"One of the King's best and most solid films","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  One of The King's more solid efforts, thanks to a fairly good story and the steady direction of pro Curtiz.  Elvis does the best acting of his career here as misunderstood youth Danny Fisher -- too bad they had to make him keep singing all the time, breaking up the flow of the story irreparably.  To the movie's credit, the music of New Orleans is integrated into the film's fabric from its opening moments -- I just think maybe they should've had Elvis sing 2 or 3 songs (in Flaming Star, Elvis sings one song and does not break up the atmosphere of the period film, which is quite effective).  The 5 or 6 songs he does sing end up inevitably slowing down the story too much.  Matthau is suprisingly convincing as a lethal mob boss determined to control Fisher's budding career (shades of the Colonel?), and Jones is fantastic as the femme fatale with a heart of gold who Elvis falls for.  Morrow is sharp as Matthau's crony who will do anything to please his boss (though his performances in these stock types were already growing a bit stale by 1958), and Jagger is perfect as the ineffectual father -- a part he would undoubtedly have played in the film if this had been made, as planned, with James Dean, and his chemistry with Dean would have been even more impressive than it is here with Elvis.  Every character has at least 3 sides -- one viscious, one scared, and the third hopeful or ambitious.Elvis noir par excellence! "},{"Title":"Michael Curtiz directed, but it's no Casablanca for Elvis...","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Disappointing Elvis Presley drama concerning a young delinquent who becomes involved with gangsters who hang out at a popular nightclub. Adapted from the Harold Robbins book A Stone for Danny Fisher, the movie transplants the action from Chicago to New Orleans and is now structured as an acting/singing vehicle for E.P. (here trying out his James Dean impression). Although certainly not terrible, the story fails to be intriguing, and the males in the supporting cast (Dean Jagger, Vic Morrow and the always-reliable Walter Matthau) outshine the women (Carolyn Jones and Dolores Hart), who are colorless. More grit was required, but film is still worth noting for Presley's appearance as well as his songs, the title tune and Trouble. ** from **** "},{"Title":"pre- Hal B. Wallis Elvis movie is pretty damned good.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Said to be Elvis' personal favorite among all his movies, 'King Creole' truly is one of the best movies he made, and should delight his fans and other movie lovers as well.  Made (I believe) just before he was inducted into the Army, it's much, much, much, better than, for instance, 'Speedway', or 'Paradise Hawaiian Style'.Walter Matthau, Dean Jagger, and Carolyn Jones compliment Elvis (or maybe Elvis compliments them, actually) as, imagine this, a singer.  Black and white treatment adds a sinister element to the small amount of violence in the film, and the music (if you like Elvis, as I do) is superb.  "},{"Title":"Long live the King","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Undoubtly this is his best movie from the 50's, when Elvis was ELVIS (in the 60's he didn't made movies, only trash). And here he is playing the rebel James Dean just like everybody was in real life. And that was what everybody wanted to see, the real Elvis, our Elvis. Only he was better than James Dean just because he could sing like nobody else. And if everybody wanted to act like James Dean also everybody wanted to sing and look like Elvis. Among many other things in this movie the most outstanding element is naturally the music. And since the story is set in New Orleans the music is Dixie, but since this is Elvis it turned out to be dixie-rock and it sounds great. All the songs are complete (unlike the girl can't help it) and Elvis really rocks. Sadly to me this was the last time I saw the real ELVIS. Whoever came back from the army 2 years later was somebody else, but I'm happy that at least came back. A similar fate had most of the R&R idols from the 50's, only some never came back. Seems like the object was to kill R&R. So if you are looking for trouble, you came to the right place. I bet Michael Curtiz was a big fan of Elvis too. (I only gave it a 9, because I missed the complete  hard headed woman song) "},{"Title":"He sings some blues about New Orleans","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  King Creole takes place in New Orleans, unlike in the book A Stone For Danny Fisher, which takes place in New York. That gives the movie a different turn. Because, can you fish in New York? Also, the fact that Danny Fisher isn't a boxer in the movie but a singer gives the story a new meaning, it won't spoil the book. And that's mostly because the movie starts later than the book, but also ends sooner. How it will end? Well, let's say it's not a good ending, but not a bad ending either. You'll have to see for yourself, especially when you have read the book. If you didn't read the book, I suggest reading that book too, even if you've seen the movie first. And the movie truely is his best work ever. Oh, and by the way, the soundtrack is great too. Dub dub dudududub dub... "},{"Title":"the best Elvis movie.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  King Creole is not just another Elvis movie, it's a movie where Elvis actually acts decent in.  I like this movie because of 4 reasons.  1. Elvis 2. A decent plot with decent acting, something you rarely see in an Elvis movie.  3. Great music in it.  4. Michael Curtis directed it.  Michael Curtis also directed the hugely popular Casablanca.  In Creole, he uses the same style of directing as in Casablanca.  So if you want to see something good & rare, go rent King Creole tonight.  It's only on Laserdisc at the moment, but it pops up on T.V. every great once in awhile.  "},{"Title":"Melodramatic but moving work that was more than a vehicle to sell records","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Exploring the contradictions of the American Dream and bourgeois aspirations, this work proves that it was the execrable material that Elvis was given to work with that bear the responsibility for his bad rap as a dramatic actor. Some fine writing combined with an atmospheric evocation of the South by director Curtiz are in themselves sufficient to recommend this film. Matthau struggles to convince in a role that he appears unsuited to, but the rest of the cast combine to give an ensemble performance in the best tradition of an era when films actually had to rely on good stories and characters. "},{"Title":"Wow what a great cast.","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Wow what a great cast. I wish Elvis  had staid on course he would have been a lot better off than making those awful movies he made. It is a shame but in this movie you could see what could have been if Elvis had better movies to be in. "},{"Title":"One Word Boring","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Out of all the Elvis Presley's movies, why did Hollywood make this into a amost two hour movie. This is not Elvis Presley's best movie. And the whole storyline is silly. I didn't like this movie for 2 reasons 1 The movie runs 116 minutes. 2 Elvis Presley is cast as a high school student. As the movie opens, Danny Fisher (Elvis Presley) gets ready for his last day of high school. His mother had died, a couple of years before the movie takes place. He lives with his father (Dean Jagger) and his sister (Jan Shepard). But when Danny Fisher gets into a fight at school, he gets told that he can't gradutate from high school. Danny decides not to return to high school for another year. And instead he wants to work. His father tells him when he finds out, the Danny goes to school, and let him to the work. Danny has a part-time job working for a nightclub owner (Walter Matthau). And just a waste for some of the cast in this movie.(1/10)             "}]