[{"Title":"Reely Something","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Indiscreet is one of the great examples of the multiple advantages of film over the live performance. The film was taken from a play on Broadway entitled Kind Sir that had almost a year's run and starred Charles Boyer and Mary Martin. The entire play is set in the apartment of the leading lady.Stanley Donen didn't settle for that. He used the entire city of London as a set and the day and night life of London is glitteringly photographed in technicolor. This film has only seven speaking parts, but all the glitz hides that beautifully.We're talking here about romance among the very upper crust. Ingrid Bergman is a world famous actress getting on in years, but still looking sharp and looking for love. Cary Grant is a sophisticated diplomat who avoids marriage by making up a fictitious wife that he says will not divorce him. Now those roles are hardly an acting stretch for those two leading players, but I defy anyone to come up with better casting.Indiscreet has a nice title song that is only heard instrumentally, but Frank Sinatra fans will find the James Van Heusen-Sammy Cahn song on one of his albums. Too bad it wasn't sung in the film.Cary Grant has always been one leading man who has never been afraid of doing some very physical comedy in his films. Arsenic and Old Lace and The Bachelor and The Bobby Soxer come immediately to mind, but Indiscreet has one of my favorite Cary Grant moments. During a black tie and tuxedo affair, a foursome reel is called. Grant doesn't have the foggiest idea how to do the foursome reel, but he does one grand job at trying to fake it and the other dancers enjoy his impromptu efforts as did this member of the audience.No deep messages in Indiscreet, just good old entertainment brought to us a by a leading man and lady still with fans the world over. "},{"Title":"Cary!Bergman!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Average romance/comedy made above average by the mere presence of two legendary movie stars.The story moves along quite slow but romance comedy fans will be rewarded during the second part of the movie as the complications stir up the energy a bit.The script and screenplay could have been much better but the cinematography,despite limited settings,was good enough to capture the charm of the two lead superstars.Only for fans of the lead stars and big fans of romance/comedy movies.......  "},{"Title":"lovely film, lovely stars","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You can't get much higher on the star ladder than Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, and these two are reunited for the light comedy, Indiscreet, based on the play Kind Sir. It's about a successful actress in London who's through with men and suddenly becomes very interested in them again when she's introduced to Cary Grant. He could sure shake me out the doldrums, too. The trouble with Grant is that he's a married man...he says.Bergman is charming and quite funny. I especially love the phone call when Grant calls up from the lobby - all for the benefit of the apartment staff - and she makes faces, rolls her eyes and indicates that this charade of oh, well, just come up for one drink then is only for the sake of her reputation - meanwhile, she's found out about a charade of his own and is ripping mad at him. She plots to get even with him - and what a plot! I love the way this film was done - these two are having an affair but it's only assumed, never actually shown. Grant is his usual stunningly handsome, elegant self, and few actors had his turn of a phrase or panache. He and Bergman, as in Notorious, make a beautiful, magnetic couple. This is not a laugh-out-loud comedy, but it is a delight. This film was remade for TV with the gorgeous Lesley-Anne Down and Robert Wagner, but it wasn't the same without the stars and Stanley Donen's touch. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, light comedy-no messages, no meanings, just enjoy!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have been reading some of the comments about this film. Everyone needs to lighten up - This movie is basically what movie making is supposed to be about ENTERTAINMENT! This is a light comedy. It stars two of the screens finest Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant. It has no hidden message, no hidden meanings. Just sit back and enjoy the performances. The entire cast is splendid - and directed very, very well. It was intended to be a fun film. It is fun to see the relationship blossom - it's fun to see the chaos that ensues. I have always adored Ingrid Bergman - I have always loved Cary Grant. You'll love them, too. Stanley Donen made very adult films, meaning subject, not content in this case. There is nothing in this film that children should not see - they just won't understand it. But it was not made for kids anyway, so, pop some popcorn, grab a soda, put your feet up and have fun watching this film! "},{"Title":"Magical, Magical, Magical","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my very favorite movies.  Why?  It's such a perfect little gem of a film that it's almost impossible to take it apart to see how it works.  It is undeniably a slight film, but it has the elegant simplicity of a fine Swiss watch.  Bergman and Grant's characters live in a world of wealth - fine clothing and food, casual international travel, servants but always come across as real people in a real romance - funny, tempermental, charming, silly, scheming, brilliant, irrational and clever.  The film is one of the great treasures of the romance/light comedy genre. (Oh.  With all due respect to Ms. Down and Mr. Wagner, the fact that this film was remade in the 1990's with Robert Wagner and Lesley-Anne Down is one of the great sins of Hollywood.)   "},{"Title":"How Dare He Make Love To Me and Not Be a Married Man!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This soufflé of a movie demonstrates what that a film can be entertaining even if it is basically unsubstantial in its story or in any message it may have.Ingrid Bergman is stage star Anna Kalman. She is introduced by her sister Margaret (Phyllis Calvert) and brother-in-law Alfred (Cecil Parker) introduce her to a wealthy American Philip Adams. Alfred works for NATO, and he is trying to get Philip to accept a job with it. There is a dinner that Philip is giving a speech at, and he needs someone to accompany him. Anna goes, and they hit it off. But when they are alone he explains to her that he is a married man. Anna at first retreats from further interest in him, but she changes her mind. And soon they are having a full scale love affair, although she is aware that there is a Mrs. Adams back in the United States who won't give him a divorce.Eventually (due to an police report that Alfred has access to) it comes out that Philip is lying. He is not married he only says so so that he can have what he claims is an honest love affair where both parties know ahead of time that there is no chance for permanence. The problem of betraying a spouse (with whom there is supposedly no current love) is gotten rid of from the first. So the remainder is pure romance.Alfred disagrees with Philip and says that most people want to be married (a rather conventional thought, but Parker's Alfred is a very conventional sort). Later it all becomes a moot point. Margaret saw the same report, and tells Anna. When Anna learns that the man she has come to adore is single (while she thought he was hopelessly tangled in a marriage he could not get out of), she erupts, and yells the line that is in the Summary line above.Rather than simply break with the lying Philip, Anna decides to teach him a lesson - she is going to make him think her fickle with a long discarded lover. The rest of the film follows the revenge that she plans, and what happens as a result.Flimsy as the story line sounds, the casts carries it off. The film is set in an upper Anglo-American setting, of luxury west end flats, private clubs, diplomat dinners and dances, and private yachts. But Grant and Bergman are giving the oxygen to the lead roles (their second film together since Hitchcock's NOTORIOUS a decade before). Parker and Calvert are suitably good as the conservative brother-in-law and sister, with Parker making the statement that he was born old (a comment that his movie watching admirers would certainly feel is correct). Also note Meg Jenkins and David Kossoff as Anna's servants Doris and Carl. Kossoff in particular shows a healthy fear of unexpected reactions that Anna's practical joking never made room for, and adds a little bit to the conclusion of the movie. "},{"Title":"These incomparable movie stars are always worthwatching","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is more than a little irritating that many men improve in looks with age but that only a few women do.  Cary Grant, James Stewart, Paul Newman, Sean Connery, Gregory Peck and many other male movie stars ( not Clark Gable though) seem to develop more charm and sex appeal along with the wrinkles and grey hair.  This preamble is by way of saying that Cary Grant is convincingly cast in 'Indiscreet' as a middle aged Romeo (he was 54) whereas the beautiful Ingrid Bergman is a tad too old at 43 to be playing the role of a beautiful theatrical star with whom Cary Grant falls instantly in love and gives up his bachelor life for.  I could not help but compare 'Indiscreet ' with their last pairing together in 'Notorious' in 1946 twelve years earlier.  Cary Grant is as suave, debonair and handsome as ever in 'Indiscreet '.  Ingrid Bergman's beauty though, has by no means waned but rather matured into middle age -  as well as becoming a size bigger.  Or perhaps it is just that every movie star looks better in black and white.No matter, it is still an endearing film with elegant sets and costumes. If only the comedy element had been played up more and the dewy romance element played down - in the style of the 1930s films such as 'My Favourite Wife' and 'The Awful Truth'.  Cary Grant is at his supreme best in this type of comedy. The best part in 'Indiscreet' for me was the comedy scene when Cary Grant danced in a highland reel - it was hilarious.  I am sure that with more emphasis on the comedy side and with better lines, Ingrid Bergman could have been a match for Irene Dunne or Rosalind Russell.Don't let my comments put you off.  Any film starring these two incomparable and much loved stars is worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"Sparkling as a Glass of Champagne; Dialogue, Romance and Intelligence","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stanley Donen made a habit of whipping up kind-hearted and lovely films, whether musicals or not. This is another well-centered film about people worth knowing. One is a famous actress, played charmingly by Ingrid Bergman; the other is a economics expert, unusually well-played by suave Cary Grant. The entire plot of the film made from a fine Norman Krasna play also sums up its theme in this world you get what you deserve by being yourself. Grant saunters into Bergman's life; she falls in love with him. He tells her he's maritally unavailable, she ignores what he says, then finds out he is unmarried and completely available--and blames him for having deceived her. So she stages a large charade to make him jealous, and he comes too soon, spoils the trick and asks her to marry him. I first saw the movie nearly 50 years ago at Radio City Music Hall; it is still an holiday favorite of mine. The play from which the delightful and only slightly-static screenplay was derived was Kind Sir. Krasna adapted his own play winningly. Music was provided by Richard Rodney Bennett and Ken Jones; art direction was by Don Ashton, cinematography by Frederick Young. In addition to the principals, the fine cast included Cecil Parker, Phyllis Calvert, Megs Jenkins and David Kossoff. The unusual quality of the piece lies in its never looking like a play; instead the skilled performers bring the characters to life before one's eyes. I find the film leisurely in an adult, relaxed sort of way which invites the viewer into the character's minds so that one learns of progress, disappointment or unexpected agreement along with them. The superior dialogue sparkles; and the sense of important lives being lived with some intelligence is a welcome change from the content of most films, then and especially since 1958. Moviegoers need to thank Stanley Donen for yet another cinematic delight. "},{"Title":"True star-power at its best","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Indiscreet is a perfect example of how two attractive stars can save a film. Without the presence of Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, this film would be almost unbearable to sit through. Their magnificent chemistry on the screen makes Indiscreet much more enjoyable than it really is... "},{"Title":"Wonderful comic performances","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I, like many others, I'm sure watched this movie because of the star power attached. Fans of Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman will not be disappointed. Cary Grant is as debonair and sophisticated as ever and Ingrid Bergman is as glamourous and yet down to earth as ever. The leads share wonderful chemistry and their romance is absolutely believable. The complications that need to be resolved from them to live happily ever after provide great comedic situations. Sparkling dialgoue and sure handed direction from Stanley Donen make this vehicle a must see for fans of these two Hollywood icons, 8/10. "}{"Title":"A good old classic!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this movie.  So many movies these days get you into the bedroom with the characters as quickly as possible, you've not even been properly introduced!***SPOILER*** I appreciated the fact that the director gave you time to take in the growing relationship between the main characters.  A perfect example is the elevator ride after they return from walking.  The doors close and you get to watch them seduce each other with only their eyes for all three floors! No grabbing, necking or groping to spoil the moment or to obviously tell you that Grant is going to be invited in. ***END SPOILER***Bergman nailed her character right on as a super-star actress who can be just as dramatic in her personal life as she is on stage.A good chick flick for those afternoons, when on the rare occasion, the kids take a nap! "},{"Title":"Bergman excels as comedienne!!!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that some people thought any part of this film was boring! It isn't an action movie. It's about the developing relationship between two mature people and it is, indeed, a comedy. There are some great lines from Ingrid, who holds one spellbound throughout - with her acting, with her beauty and with those elegant gowns. Sorry, don't even mention those other actresses in the same breath as Bergman! She is in a class of her own - and shows it in this film. She was 42 when she filmed it - and it really doesn't make any difference. She's not pretending to be a young girl with her first lover. As for any comparison with Notorious - no! You can't compare these two films. Both are great, both star Bergman and Grant - similarity ends there! I would like to add that the supporting roles are admirably played by all - especially the brilliant Cecil Parker Alfred Munson, who had me in stitches. Mary Hutchings founder, Ingrid Bergman International at Yahoo Clubs "},{"Title":"Oh, I tell you. Women are not the sensitive sex. That's one of the grand delusions of literature. Men are the true romanticists.","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Out of Warner Brothers, Indiscreet is directed by Stanley Donen and stars Ingrid Bergman & Cary Grant, with support coming from Cecil Parker, Phyllis Calvert, David Kossoff & Megs Jenkins. It is based on the play Kind Sir written by Norman Krasna. Plot sees Bergman as Anna Kalman, an accomplished actress who can't believe her luck when she finally meets the man of her dreams, Philip Adams (Grant). However, Phillip is keeping a secret, a secret that Anna finds out about and promptly sets about getting even with him for.Indiscreet is a very simple movie. Grant and Bergman re-team again 12 years after making Notorious with Alfred Hitchcock. Their chemistry is again sparkling and Donen utilises it to the maximum by naturally building the film around the charismatic stars. There's no hidden agendas here, the movie knows it is breezy and understands that good writing (edgy at times) and two comfortable actors can make for good entertainment. It starts off slow, but the character build up pays off once Grant & Bergman start their romance, in fact the comedy is indeed thin on the ground for the first half of the film. But once the secret at the core of the plot is out, the comedy kicks into gear, with a dancing party sequence joyous and alone is worth watching the film for.Also note worthy is the London location which provides a fitting back drop to the well mannered, well to do, coupling of Anna & Phillip. While the costumes too are pleasing and hang nicely off of the two aesthetically safe-in middle-age actors. It's no screwball, far from it, so any expectation of that will surely disappoint newcomers. And true to say it's very old fashioned and of its time as regards its romantic ideals. But that's OK, we like light hearted well written comedy, especially when it's performed as smooth as it is here. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A splendid movie","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant are marvelous together in this movie. I could not take my eyes off from watching them perform. Cary is great with comedy. Ingrid, I was amazed how she performed in this role. She was absolutely fantastic. Her famous line, How dare he make love to me and not be a married man, is hilarious. Cecil Parker and Phyllis Calvert who played Anna's brother-in-law and sister are very entertaining. David Kossoff and Meg Jenkins who played the housekeepers are excellent in their parts. Everyone seemed to fit in so well which made the movie what it is, splendid in every way. I cannot say enough about this movie. All I can say, is don't miss it. You will enjoy every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Indiscreet","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman give a masterclass in screen chemistry, and look very much like a couple in the throes of new love. That strange fascination you have for each other, the long, almost quizzical stares, comfortable moments of silence - it's all there, given ample time to breathe and play out naturally by director Stanley Donen's unhurried camera.The ending feels a little rushed though, especially in the final moments, and the film as a whole feels considerably longer than its runtime but those flaws are far from fatal. What's a little more disappointing is the lack of any really remarkable humour. It nails the romance, but seems undecided as to whether it wants to be a comedy or not. Before the jarring switch to semi-farce in the final act most of the humour comes from supporting actors and consequently feels like something of an afterthought.Overall this is a class act. A sophisticated, quiet romantic comedy that sees everyone involved at the top of their game. And while it's not a perfect confection it's sweet enough to satisfy even the most helpless of romantics. "},{"Title":"Famous actress meets wealthy diplomat. Object  Matrimony","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fifty years later it's hard to remember that this was the film that returned Ingrid Bergman to the grace and favour of the world. Following what was then a scandalous affair with Roberto Rossellini, it took the star power of Cary Grant to re-introduce her to studios and fans. Moreover, he intentionally fought for her as his co-star when she was effectively black listed. We should be grateful he won.The genre of drawing room comedy has sadly passed but we are fortunate to have this example as to why it succeeded for centuries. If not the funniest film ever made it is consistently amusing and witty. This is a play that is assisted by the stars but has stature on it's own in the dialogue. Unlike American Sitcoms there are no set ups for a joke or a guffaw but it flows down a consistently diverting path with no pauses for commercials or to try and explain itself. The plot about a famous actress who meets a charming diplomat and falls in love isn't much you need worry about. From the opening credits it's clear what the ending will be, it's how they get to the end that holds our attention. Bergman and Grant are both superlative actors who in the process of seeming not to really act turn in wonderful performances. What they say has the feel of reality when the actuality is that it's been thoughtfully constructed. The often quoted line, How dare he make love to me and not be a married man, sums up every one's attitude to a rather casual acceptance of a situation as it is. There's no simpering about matters sexual, but, happily, we're spared the deed done. (If you watch closely there's an artfully directed exchange between the two characters in bed whilst separated by the English Channel. It worked then and, some years later, for Doris Day and Rock Hudson in a split screen with them both in bathtubs.) Director Stanley Donen uses London as a character and does not try and improve on it by having studio constructed interiors when the real things are at hand. And who knew Cary Grant could do an energetic Highland Fling? At base, only six people appear-there are a very few very minor characters-who take full advantage of a droll script and play it as if they were telling the audience, in flash back, of an event that has just finished. It's a wonderful, delicious story and you're glad to hear it particularly as it's so well told. Attractive people doing attractive things in attractive places is a good basis. That they can talk about what they're doing in diverting ways makes INDISCREET a necessary lesson in love, charm and confusion. "},{"Title":"What a little gem","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How could I have lived so long and never come across this gem of a movie before? I found it in a bargain box of dvds, (shame)and bought it because of the names and the price. Well, what a find! I sat down to watch for the first time a couple of nights ago and was glued to the spot. Charming, light hearted and entertaining were my first impressions, but a few laugh out loud moments were soon added. I did get a bit frustrated that she didn't just dump or thump him and start again as a modern woman would have done, but hey, he IS Cary Grant and it WAS 50 years ago.Lovely, lovely movie, not a dull moment - recommend this to anyone who enjoys the above mentioned qualities. Ingrid Bergman, Cary Grant et al - no duds there, not to mention the star quality of London by night.Those misery guts who hate it have to bear in mind that it was a daring movie for its time, and it was never meant to be deep and profound. It's fun, and well done fun at that. "},{"Title":"Has the BEST line ever!!!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not only is this a great movie, but it contains one of the greatest lines ever in a movie. When Ingrid Bergman finds out the Carry Grant is not married and has been lying to her she turns flings her arms in the air and says in a very dramatic and theatrical voice How dare he sleep with me and NOT be married to another woman!! This movie is fun and the dialogue is witty and comical. You definitely have to pay attention and believe it its worth it!! )  "},{"Title":"Cary Grant & Ingrid Bergman have Magnetic Chemistry!","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant & Ingrid Bergman are my favorite movie couple, of all time!!! They have undeniable chemistry together. I wish, they could've done many more movies. ''Indiscreet'' is a very enjoyable, and delightful film. Any fans of Cary & Ingrid must see! Though, the script is not as interesting, as ''Notorious''. Cary & Ingrid's presence, makes that seem invisible. Neither, Cary nor Ingrid, looked 10 years older, since their last collaboration in ''Notorious''. What makes, their teaming so meaningful. Is the fact, that Cary & Ingrid are close friends in real life. Cary has commented, that Ingrid is one of his favorite leading ladies. In 1957, Cary also accepted the Oscar for Ingrid, as Best Actress. ''Indiscreet'' is probably, Ingrid's first US comedy, and proves she's a very versatile actress. She's very sweet, and charming in this movie. Not to mention, funny. Unlike some actresses, who are in comedies, but still acts like, they're in drama. Cary, was debonair and suave, as usual. What surprised me, was that he looked younger, than when he was in ''To Catch a Thief''! Which was made earlier. One reason could be, the pairing with Ingrid. The bedroom scene in ''Indiscreet'' is most memorable. Ingrid, shows-off her comedic ability. I just can't, get enough of Cary & Ingrid, they were superb in ''Notorious'', but because of the plot, their relationship seemed bittersweet. ''Indiscreet'', makes up for that, the characters are warm, funny and romantic. Most importantly, Cary & Ingrid looks gorgeous in Technicolor!!! "},{"Title":"Saved by Star Power","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A British-based light romantic comedy,adapted from a stage play,INDISCREET is basically a gossamer-thin opus which is often constrained by it's theatrical origins,but is totally redeemed by the incomparable Cary Grant and the almost-as-incomparable Ingrid Bergman.The settings,story and characters are frightfully upper-middle class,an often resistible brew,but Grant's matchless skill as a light comedian and actor,allied with immense charm and ever-youthful handsomeness,and a surprisingly deft comic performance by Bergman,not at her peak of attractiveness but still striking in her early forties,give the sometimes under-nourished script a resonance it didn't really have.The result is a enjoyable and very pleasant hour and a half.It dosen't provoke guffaws or hearty roars of laughter,more a lengthy,admiring smile throughout it's running time,but this is not to it's detriment.Stanley Donen's direction is perfectly adequate,though a greater opening out and use of exterior scenes would have reduced the sometimes static quality of the narrative.The supporting cast consists of familiar British character actors like Cecil Parker,Megs Jenkins,Phyllis Calvert and David Kossoff,always welcome contributors and they add invaluably to the fun.But it is Grant and Bergman who carry the film all the way,also making a potentially maudlin final scene(despite ending rather abruptly)rather sweet and touching. "}{"Title":"Sparks from Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fun fluff from Bergman and Grant. It takes a while, but the two definitely create sparks on screen. Not quite as much chemistry as they had in Notorious, but it's still fun to watch. The story leaves something to be desired and there is far too much silence between them - when we would rather hear them banter. But just watching these two on screen together is reason enough to enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Ingrid Bergman as Doris Day (Ingrid was more beautiful).","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I read several previous reviews and agree with everything they say about this film being very entertaining, gorgeous leading protagonists, etc.Fine.Once a friend of mine said to me I'm OK with watching a film tonight, but PLEASE, don't make me watch an OLD film!!!. Watching this one made me recall that friend's plea, and understand it too. 1958 was the date in this case, and when you get to see the hypocritical social conventions those people lived --and dyed-- for, one trembles at the idea of conducting such type of living conditions...The woman over twenty five, our leading lady (Bergman was 42 when she made this movie, but she represented 30, jaw-dropping beautiful) was constantly looking --and starting to get desperate-- for a... HUSBAND, because apparently to be single was one of the original Capital Sins at the time.IF she found a candidate, it was verboten for her to be the one making overt declarations of love, even of amorous interest!In this case she had a younger sister (Phyllis Calvert, born the same year Ingrid Bergman was born, and looking quite stunning herself) a sister that was more level headed but brainwashed also with all the prejudices of those days, that tried all the time to find a candidate for her unlucky sister (unlucky because she was getting on in years and wasn't married yet), creating some mildly funny dialogs.Cary Grant's character suffered a similar persecution (it WAS a veritable, obsessive persecution at the time) from people asking him WHY wasn't he MARRIED and with children at HIS AGE... (he looked older than Bergman but was exceedingly handsome and incredibly elegant).A fascinating detail of upper-crust luxury living we'll never experience was in that night scene where from the moment they leave the theater and start walking fully in love with each other and her chauffeured personal Rolls Royce --black and white-- silently and slowly keeps pace with them at their disposition whenever they could decide to stop walking...Wow!! (They arrived at her place walking all the way from the theater (she was a famous actress), totally oblivious of the Rolls, that stops silently in front of her building, its chauffeur waiting for new orders). ***SPOILERS AHEAD*** Since we discovered that Grant's character had the nerve to coldly lay out his theory of enjoying women without the responsibility of marriage and children suffocating his bachelor freedom, invents a wife impossible to divorce as a pretext to always escape any uncomfortable situations (why he cannot get a divorce, is never explained in the script) poor Bergman would be socially ostracized because they... HAD SEX!!! (not on the screen please, one only gathered that by seeing a softly closing door (bedroom door) with both of them behind it) and that scene dimming down to black, probably to allow you to recover your breath after watching such salacious and daring situation.And since the male star protagonist of this kind of movies couldn't possibly end the film as a total villain (enjoying women without..., etc, etc.), everything is finally explained and they get happily married!! Isn't that nice? Wow! and I watched the whole concoction to the bitter end!!! (I was forced to, since a friend asked me very politely to watch this movie that previously he enjoyed immensely).Yes, it was superbly played by everybody involved in the film, the sets were gorgeous, the women dresses were out of this world, everybody's manners SUPERB (from that point of view one aches to return to those gone with the wind days) but otherwise, compared with practically ANY contemporary movie... it's just another Doris Day movie, but with Ingrid Bergman replacing her.One thing that stroke me from the very opening scene was the close up of those magnificent roses... being ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS!!! Same in another scene where he sends her a bouquet of flowers and they are again ARTIFICIAL!!!Why? they worked with a superb budget, certainly could afford two dozen of beautiful REAL roses. I could only understand such a situation in the Latin American movies of the time, where we were accustomed to these type of faux pas as part of very-very low budget movie making, but unpardonable in a De Luxe Hollywood product.Like in a Puerto Rican film with the Argentinian Libertad Leblanc as protagonist where she wears a sleeveless polyester déshabillé with the price ticket dangling from the gown's armhole!! (did they snatched it at a basement sale?!), leans over to smell the bouquet of flowers sent her by an admirer... and the flowers are...PLASTIC!! (it was a serious crime-drama film) we felt down from our seats screaming with laugher in utter delight!! Basta! watch this movie for the beautiful people involved, the beautiful sets and even the beautiful fake flowers, but forget about real life situations because you won't find that here. "},{"Title":"Two great Characters, played by great Actors","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's new to me, that I watch these old Cary Grant movies. Usually I'm more used to new movies and I have my problems finding the great things about old ones. But this one really changed it.The Director came up with four great Characters and each one of them is fun to see while they have time on the camera. Its furthermore great to see, how the characters relate to each others which results in funny and intelligent dialogs. The tip of the iceberg certainly is Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergmann. He's the real Gentleman with good manners and a little sarcastic humor trying to put the woman first. She's the successful Actor taking what she wants when she wants it. It great to see these two different, strong and independent characters getting along with each other. "},{"Title":"Adult romantic comedy","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whenever I want to watch a feel-good movie, I put on Indiscreet. Six fine actors, headed by two of movies' best -- Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman -- and directed by one of our finest directors, Stanley Donen. Grant's entrance (The door was open) immediately announces he is Prince Charming. How could Bergman's Anna Kalman not be smitten? It's clear they're both smitten, but she must take the initiative. Their mutual attraction is handled subtly. The next most romantic scene, beautifully understated, is in the elevator as they return to her flat after the ballet. In it they don't exchange a word.Bergman looks stunning in a marvelous wardrobe of designer dresses, suits and furs, especially a gold evening gown she wears to a dinner dance. Before leaving for that dance she utters the best line in the film How dare he make love to me and not be a married man! Donen ends the film with a brilliant scene, brilliantly played -- almost an operatic duet -- which ends with Phillip tells Anna, You'll like being married, really you will as they are seated on a couch in exactly the same position as Nicky Ferrante and Terry McKay in Leo McCarey's An Affair to Remember. A nice homage by Donen. "},{"Title":"Diplomatic Immunity","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was an inspired touch to begin what is arguably the ultimate Rom-Com with a montage of an unappetising winter night scenes in London which finally settle on the luxurious apartment of Anna Kalman (Bergman) as she enters, alone, after cutting short a holiday abroad. Within minutes she is joined by both her housekeeper and chauffeur (Megs Jenkins, David Kossman) and sister (Phyllis Calvert) and brother-in-law (Cecil Parker) who have arrived - thinking Bergman still away - merely to change into evening clothes before attending a diplomatic dinner. Thus well within five minutes screen time we have established a luxury apartment inhabited by a highly successful actress moving in the highest circles. Clearly the original play ('Kind Sir') adapted by the author, Norman Krasna, was confined to this one set and it does, despite 'opening out' retain the feel of a sophisticated play rather than a film. There is, however, a highly 'filmic' moment well within the first reel (and it may well have been retained from the play) when Bergman, head covered in shampoo, Calvert and Parker, turn to find Cary Grant standing in the open doorway personifying charm, glamor and sex appeal with the clear nod to a similar scene in 'Swingtime' when Fred has just sung the ultimate romantic ballad, 'The Way You Look Tonight' to a Ginger similarly lathered in shampoo, reinforcing the magical cinematic quality. Though shooting in color Stanley Donen elects to downplay the lavish sets and let the performances do the glittering. Wise move. Yes, it's frothy, yes, it's insubstantial but YES, YES, YES, it is pure ENTERTAINMENT. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Classic Rom Com","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This tends to be my favorite times of year, as the Oscars are approaching many of the movie channels have schedules that include nominees and winners of the many Academy Awards. Indiscreet was not nominated for any Academy Awards but was an enjoyable film none the less. The film follows Anna Kalman (Ingrid Bergman), an accomplished actress in her quest for a mate; it seems she has everything but a man. In walks Phillip Adams (Cary Grant), who is charming, funny and married, so she thinks. The two of them have several dates and end up falling for each other but the only thing that stands between Anna and Phillip is the fact that Phillip is married, or is he.Come to find out Phillip tells the women in his life that he is married to protect his way of life. Once Anna finds out the truth she plots revenge on Phillip, she hopes to teach him a lesson. Indiscreet is a classic rom-com with great dialogue delivered by two of the best of that era. The film itself is certainly not great but watching two greats such as Bergman and Grant is a pleasure in itself. The lines of dialogue are delivered with such ease and with such great timing that it is hard not to enjoy the film for that very reason. "},{"Title":"Comedy of love, intrigue, jealousy, tangles, lies, deceit and revenge.","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Indiscreet is produced and directed by Stanley Donen (Singing in the Rain, 1952), and it is based on the play  Kind Sir (1953), by Norman Krasna, adapted by him to the cinema. It was filmed in inner and outer London and the Elstree Studios.The film is based on a play is not anything more than that, a set argument, simple, smooth, shining where good taste and good manners, where the characters come and go quietly to play a romantic work without pretensions. Cary Grant maximum power elegant stands out even sat down to eat at a kitchen table with oilcloth. Their great potential for comic scenes are shown in the ballroom and the end of the film. Ingrid Bergman comes to the effectiveness of their worth as a great actress who is and others met with no mishaps. The pace and the argument is perhaps too simple but the couple becomes the film in a nice ribbon and high class.The action takes place in London in 1957, over several months. It tells the love story of Anna Kalman (Ingrid Bergman) and Philip Adam (Cary Grant). She is a famous actress, about 33 years, elegant and sophisticated, has had several disappointments love and feel disappointed. He, American diplomat, born in San Francisco 35 years ago, aimed at NATO headquarters in Paris, is an expert in international finance and, as he admits, has had a failed marriage experience. He is fond of music and ballet and commitment averse. The meeting between Anna revives lost illusions.The film develops a romantic comedy between two loving people with past experiences and ages over 30 years, who fall in love like schoolboys, which brings elements of humor and reflection on relationships between age ls and true love. The film unfolds in an atmosphere of luxury and opulence that seen with the eyes of today is cloying. It's notably the Christian Dior wardrobe for Anna, who sought to combine the elegance and innovation on the current fashion. The story contains elements of transgression, which raise the tone of the story and arouse public interest. Philip extramarital love is explained subtleties and detours to avoid censorship. This did not allow the inclusion of a bed scene of the lovers, the director replaced by a double image in which they are separated by a thin vertical suture line. The origins of the filmmaker as a dancer explain the references to the ballet, the gay dance scene of the wheel and vibrant solo dance steps of Cary Grant. The tangle of truths and lies inflames the interest of the story.The music provides an original song, Indiscreet Cahn and Hensen. The score offers a wide selection of solo piano, violin and saxophone and string compositions of romantic and classical airs. The photograph, taken care of and well contrasted, is recreated in large interior spaces, Anna's wardrobe and ornate decor and sumptuous. The mats of different colors of the paintings of Anna salon create curious and new colors. We appreciate the consistent vision of a Picasso aquatint. The script is written with skill and contains some splendid dialogues. The interpretation of the characters, reunited after 12 years from Notorious (1946), is excellent. The direction creates a very interesting comedy of love, intrigue, jealousy, tangles, lies, deceit and revenge. "},{"Title":"A love story for adults","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I adore this movie. I watch it every time TCM airs it, usually twice.I think one of my favorite parts of this movie is the age appropriate casting of Bergman. As much as I love Grant and his movies, I get weary seeing him paired with much younger women. (As in North By Northwest, To Catch A Thief, Every Girl Should Be Married and An Affair To Remember.) The script may be a touch weak, but Grant and Bergman are magic together. They were very close friends in real life (Grant was one of the few who stuck by her when she was run out of Hollywood after having an out of wedlock child...while married to another man) and it shows in this movie. Besides the chemistry and spark between them, one can sense a trust between the actors.One reviewer has mentioned that the Phillip/Anna romance seemed sexless. I don't think we watched the same movie because I think there was sex (implied, of course) all over the place! It couldn't be shown (this was filmed in 1958), but if you read between the lines, it is there The coded phone calls when Phillip comes up for a nightcap and the scene in Anna's bedroom when she tells him she has a headache are just two examples. In the latter scene, he's taken off his shoes and gotten on the bed with her (she's in her nightclothes) and starts to kiss her. I think it's pretty obvious that it's not the first time they've been in that situation.The one disappointment for me is the whole lie Anna cooks up once she learns that Phillip isn't married. I realize it's for comedic value, but it just rings false to me. Other than that, I love every second of this film. "},{"Title":"Where can I find a screenplay for this movie","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just thought this movie was delightful. I have seen this movie so many times I start quoting from it in my general conversation to my husband (who understands me)... quotes from the movie like delicious cold cream...you get that brand and thank you kind sir. Anyway I am really into the WORDS of the dialogue. It bothers me if I can't understand what they are saying. I will watch a movie over and over until I get things but some phrases still confuse me. Of course it doesn't help that people have accents and they say them so fast like Ingrid Bergman. The first place I can't understand is where Anna is talking with her sister who is trying to get her to go to the dinner. She says this is a side of you I have never seen, (sort of ) maternal ------ -----. Then when the husband comes in and they talk about Anna going she says really fast I will not ----- where they don't speak Dutch Anyway, it would be nice to have a SCREENPLAY to get everything correct. Yes, I'm strange, I admit. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks! "},{"Title":"A Loyal Friend","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After being ostracised from Hollywood, Bergman kept in touch with Grant, and their friendship is demonstrated in this romantic film with the direction of Stanley Donen. Previously, Grant and Bergman appeared in a Hitchcock film, now they appear together in a Donen film. It is as if Hitchcock were handing on the baton to Donen to take him into the 60's as a serious actor, and qualifies this film to be in the Grant canon simply because of Donen's style of directing that mirrors Hitchcock. "}{"Title":"Wonderful London, in a rainy day.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my preferred movies. Our old friend Cary Grant  and our dear Ingrid Bergman  jump out of the screen. They have undeniable chemistry together! Cary is  debonair and handsome and  Ingrid Bergman is beautiful. The sister, the brother in law, the servant, are perfect, I think. Stanley Donen directed this film with gracefulness and lightness,  almost as a musical and everyone remembers the comedy scene when Cary Grant danced in a highland reel - ( Think, he was 54!) I cannot stop laughin' . Everything is perfect, light and full of joy of living. And, how can I forget that wonderful town, London, beloved London, above all in a rainy day! Agore  "},{"Title":"Grant is always worth watching, wish he had more to work with","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunate outing--there's no one who can compare with Cary Grant when it comes to romantic comedy, or comedy in general really.  But no actor can do it all themeselves--he needs at least something to work with.  There are some scenes here which are undeniably charming, I'd hazard that Cary Grant could make a teeth whitening infomercial seem riveting.I like the sets, I like the supporting cast, I like the general idea of the plot.  I'm not a huge Ingrid Bergman fan, but she's enjoyable to watch.  And the last thirty minutes or so are quite nice to watch.  THe problems come in the first hour or so--long swaths of nothing.  I think what they were going for were long meaningful looks, rising tensions and all of that.  But, no, doesn't work.  The music is intrusive, the scenes of London aren't really that well filmed, (it's hard to accomplish that, in that london such is a beautiful city). And, as it has become clear, I enjoy justing watching Cary Grant walk through a door and putting down his briefcase.  And there's a flash, others have mentioned, of his old physical comedy prowess during the Scottish dancing.  And to be honest, that's probably the worth owning the tape all by itself.  Kind of like the scene from Gilda with Rita Hayworth singing Put the Blame on Mame.  I think everyone should see these sorts of movies, chick flicks though they may be.  THey give a nice counter mood to the testosterone filled movies you'd see with Peckinpah or Milius. It's not on the level of My Favorite Wife, The Awful Truth, or Holiday, and well, Bringing Up Baby should be in the top ten list of greatest movies ever, so it's not fair to compare it to that.  And Ingrid Bergman can't quite compete with Rosalind Russell, Katherine Hepburn, or Irene Dunne.  It's a minor effort during a time when Grant made some good movies, but was coming to the conclusion, it seems, that it was time to retire like he did everything else gracefully.  Which he did after Walk Don't Run five years later.  "},{"Title":"Paper-Thin Drawing Room Shenanigans Provide an Excuse to Reunite Grant and Bergman","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Reunited a dozen years after co-starring in Alfred Hitchcock's most accomplished romantic thriller, Notorious, Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman strike genuine sparks in a soufflé-light drawing room comedy about a love affair caught up in personal deceptions. Directed rather flatly by Stanley Donen as he was making the transition from musicals like Singin' in the Rain and Seven Brothers for Seven Brides, the 1958 film is elegantly mounted but a bit hamstrung by Norman Krasna's uneventful script. The problem is that not much really happens in the story, at least not enough to stretch the expansive talents of the two stars. While Bergman shows what a game farceur she can be with a sharp way of delivering a smart line, Grant seems more on automatic pilot as he applies his naturally debonair manner to a rather idealized character.The focus of the plot is on renowned stage actress Anna Kalman, who has not had much luck with men but certainly gets stalked by overzealous fans every time she is in public. Coming home early from a failed romantic rendezvous, she accidentally meets dashing diplomat Philip Adams. He's handsome, he's successful, he's Cary Grant after all. As an apparent beacon of decency, he admits to Anna that he's married. However, that doesn't stop them from embarking on an illicit affair, which gets stalled only periodically by guilt arising from the adulterous aspect of it. She is resigned to be Philip's back street mistress until she finds out he is not what he quite appears. This is where the film gets a bit more interesting even if it takes over an hour to get to that pivotal point. Simmering anger is followed by a petty act of vengeance as a punishment for the deceit that one character performs on the other, even if the basis of the deceit is well-intentioned.Then in her forties and coming back from exile due to the Rossellini scandal, Bergman exhibits a stylish self-confidence befitting a stage star like Anna. As likable and charismatic as Grant is, he only comes to life as Philip when the deceptions reveal themselves. Cecil Parker and Phyllis Calvert lend able comic support, though I never could buy the premise that Calvert and Bergman could be sisters given their differing accents. For the most part, Donen simply films the story like a play, no surprise since it was based on a moderately successful Broadway play called Kind Sir. If you are a fan of either star, you are likely to have already seen this bauble of a film. Otherwise, the 100-minute running time may stretch your patience. As part of the Cary Grant 4-Disc Collector's Edition, the 2008 DVD unfortunately offers no extras. "},{"Title":"Tidy and talky...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Star trifle wastes Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman on stuffy, inferior material. Derived from the play Kind Sir, plot has a popular stage actress falling for an American Diplomat in London; trouble is, he says he's married. Director Stanley Donen stages the proceedings just like a play (the only exception is a funny sequence involving split-screen). Ingrid is classy and lovely (as usual), but there are no sparks between she and Grant, who is a real mystery; at half-mast for the first hour, Cary suddenly livens up...and perhaps goes too far, becoming hammy and obnoxious. The plot has too few twists, although the last-act is witty and features some clever dialogue. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Ingrid Bergman Returns","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fans of Ingrid Bergman know that she dropped out of Hollywood in 1948, and went to Italy to love and perform for avant-garde director Roberto Rossellini. She performed exclusively for Roberto for about eight years. Ingrid's return to light comedy (after a side-step for Elena et Des Hommes in France)as her marriage to Rosselini was crumbling has produced Indiscreet. What one treasures is the thought that in Indiscreet, Ingrid may have been playing a character not too different from herself. Also, one sees the Italian influence in her acting as she storms off to her bedroom after learning the truth about Philip Adams. Ingrid never got a nomination for this performance, but it is a joy to watch. The breakfast nook scene after Philip announces that he will take the Paris job (and not go to Mexico) is so believable - we see a woman who has 40+ years showing the inner giggling of a school girl. That is worth the price of admission all by itself. "},{"Title":"Grant and Bergman Return","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anna Kalman (Ingrid Bergman) is an accomplished actress who has given up hope of finding the man of her dreams. She is talking about this subject with her sister, when in walks Philip Adams (Cary Grant). She realizes that this is the charming, smart and handsome man she has been waiting for. They begin a relationship, but she finds out that he has been keeping a secret from her. When she learns of his lie, she becomes furious and works out a plan for revenge.Indiscreet was nominated for three Golden Globes, two BAFTAs and one Writers Guild of America award, but failed to win any of them. This is unfortunate. While not the best work from Bergman, Grant or Donen, they are a powerful triple threat... this has the twist and turns of a spy thriller with the heart of a romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"fairy tale","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" irresistible charm of Cary Grant. glamor of Ingrid Bergman. rivers of romance. beautiful clothes, elegant places. short - a new form of fairy tale. but not few elements are important. the seduction secret is the game of director with public. the little conspiracy because a real fairy tale is not only a collection of nice images. the dialogs are heart of its success. a man. a woman. few events. and new beginning for each. old recipes. very special in this case for the smart way to mix spices. part of a dead period, seed for dreams of generations, it is a precious piece from box with souvenirs.is it enough ? maybe ! the love is always interesting. the dreams - every time remains free. "},{"Title":"Audience Discretion Advised","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Indiscreet unites actress Ingrid Bergman and actor Cary Grant, who worked together over a decade earlier on Alfred Hitchcock's Notorious. And like Notorious, Indiscreet is a romantic jaunt, though director Stanley Donen replaces Hitch's psycho-sexual twistedness with much screwball and farce.The film finds the always regal Bergman playing Anna Kalman, a single gal looking for Mr Right. Alongside her is Grant's Philip Adams, a NATO analyst (think of him as an off-duty Hitchcock hero) who pretends to be married whilst indulging in steamy, hotel room liaisons with Anna. The film unleashes a barrage of Hitchcockian double entendres - I love hard currency, Bergman purrs &#x96; before Bergman explodes upon learning that the man she's having an affair with dares to make love to me and not be married! With notions regarding what's sexy, charming, flirtateous and romantic always changing somewhat, modern audiences will no doubt find Indiscreet a dull, stiff, archaic affair. What the film gets right is the reliance of pleasure on taboo and transgression. I.e. you want it because you can't have it, and not having it increases the pleasure of attaining it. Take this further &#x96; studies show that those who masturbate more have fewer nocturnal dreams &#x96; and you can extrapolate all manners of creepiness pleasure, hedonism and the death of discretion leading directly to the wider, societal death of dreams, possibility and even romance itself. On a smaller scale, Grant's lack of a wife results in Anna's failures to sustain her illusions and opens up the traumatic possibility that she may actually possess him. And of course nothing kills the illusion of a happily ever after, than an after.Though marketed as a showcase for mega-stars Grant and Bergman, actress Phyllis Calvert steals the show. The film contains an unintentionally creepy scene in which Grant dances a jig. It's cringe inducing. Like watching your grandpa flirt with choir girls.6.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Almost as magical as falling in love","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not quite sure why, but, when I DVR'd this from TCM, I had assumed it was another Hitchcock thriller along the lines of Notorious. But Robert Osbourne's introduction to the film really caught my ear, and, he was right, I was in for a delightful surprise.The dialogue in most of this movie positively sparkles. It coruscates with intelligence, sophistication, and affection, charming in almost every line.The chemistry between Anna (Ingrid Bergman) and Philip (Cary Grant) is palpable, and never better than during a seamlessly edited scene in which they canoodle by phone from separate hotel suites. (We are right for each other, we are good for each other, my darling.) Wow.Here is an almost-perfect depiction of two people who have been unlucky in love somehow serendipitously, miraculously, finding each other.Though I adored the first hour of this film, I did have some problems with its second half. When a significant trust issue develops between the couple, suddenly we go from perfect, synchronous repartee to coquettish conniving and play-acting. I know this was supposed to be a breezy comedy but I think it could have stayed that way even if the beautiful and intelligent Anna had spoken frankly with oh-so-urbane Philip. Abler writing could have pulled this off.After the far-less-satisfying second half, the audience gets the ending it always wanted, but, because the writers didn't pay their dues to get there, the movie leaves a viewer wanting more. Even so, the first half of Indiscreet is pure poetry, aided in part by wonderfully understated performances by Phyllis Calvert and Cecil Parker as Anna's sister and brother-in-law.I saw this film as I myself greatly anticipated a first date with a charming man, and it proved as almost-perfect prelude to that exciting experience.Flawed, but a gem nevertheless! "},{"Title":"'cheating' first half screws up chemistry, twist makes movie funnier and better","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anna Kalman (Ingrid Bergman) comes home early from vacation. She's a single London actress who can't find love. Her sister Margaret (Phyllis Calvert) and her diplomat husband Alfred Munson (Cecil Parker) is on their way to a hard currency dinner. Philip Adams (Cary Grant) comes up before going to the dinner. Anna falls immediately for Philip and he for her. At first, he tells everyone that there is no Mrs. Adams. Later he tells her that he actually has a wife in San Francisco but just no Mrs. Adams with him. She dates him anyways. He starts working out of Paris for NATO. However he is going to New York for five months. She is beside herself. Then Alfred finds out that Philip isn't actually married. He is lying only because he never wants to marry and this is the only way to ensure that the lady starts without any hope of marriage. Then Margaret lets the cat out of the bag.It would be better if the romance is tone down at the beginning. If only Anna treats this more as a friendship. In general, she needs to show some deference to his marriage no matter what. It would help sell the comedy a lot better. Of course, that may have been too modern for the era. It's a bit early to ask whether men and women can be friends without romance. It's an odd thing to say but the chemistry doesn't work for the first half. Obviously it's not Grant or Bergman's fault. It's the story. The audience is watching a couple cheat without any resistance and little reservations. Grant is so cool in this that one can take it as being cold. It becomes a funnier joyful movie after the secret is revealed. It's like a different movie and quite a better one. Bergman finally finds her voice and the couple discovers their chemistry. Grant is also released to be the fun character that the audience expects. The first half is at most a 5 but the twist saves it a bit. "}{"Title":"Close, but no cigar","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You have to understand that Cary Grant (possibly tied with Spencer Tracy) is my choice for America's finest actor, whether comedy or drama. But this is (along with To Catch A Thief) my least favorite Cary Grant film.First off, more than the first half of the film is just plain stuffy. I almost turned it off. Second, production values may appear to be high, but there are a number of scenes where you see the shadow of the microphone boom; really sloppy film-making.However, the film does have some redeeming qualities, and overall I'm giving it a weak 7. While the first half is stuffy, the second half is mostly saucy and delicious...although the climactic scene seems not very well though out, and -- as is often the case -- I think the films ends too suddenly. Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman have chemistry together' no question about that. Another highlight of the film are the supporting roles by Cecil Parker and Phyllis Calvert as brother-in-law and sister of Berman's character, and David Kossoff and Megs Jenkins as the servants. Parker and Calvert especially shine.So, there's enough here to hold your attention...once...but this is not a Cary Grant film that will end up on my DVD shelf. It couldabeen a contender. "},{"Title":"Silly, Old Victorian Fools","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Both Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant, as well as the grown-ups they play in this film, were all too old and worldly to be acting as fools defending the institution of marriage (and the Hays code), and no matter what Norman Krasna did to turn his stage comedy into cinema and how much the camera was moved, it is static and sort of boxed. The usual multiple settings found in most films with original screenplays are replaced with a few clumsy solutions- as in the lovers' first date sequence first, a scene in a private club they go for dinner; then, a scene at the ballet, where they arrive late and decided to skip it, and then another scene in the boring private club, while it had been better option to go somewhere else, a feeling that is confirmed when they decide to walk back home. All this said (and more that can be said against it), Bergman, Grant, Phyllis Calvert and Cecil Parker all manage the innuendo and little jokes with the appropriate and winning charm of the sophisticated comedy of yesterday, that one does not regret much having spent 90 minutes with these silly and wealthy characters. "},{"Title":"Disappointing and Dull","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A stage actress meets the man of her dreams, but he turns out to be married, which she doesn't mind. Given the talents involved, this one is quite disappointing. Grant and Bergman have the star power to overcome inferior material, but the script for this one is so anemic that even they can't breathe life into it. It also appears that the stars were a bit long in the tooth for these roles as written, as they often behave like teenagers in love. Krasna, who adapted his own play, has a long list of screen writing credits, but this one is mostly dull, although it does pick up some steam towards the end. Donen does little to breathe life into it. "},{"Title":"Charming and beautifully filmed, if rather pedestrian and slight","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In general, I liked Indiscreet. Starting with the film's problems, the story is very slight and some scenes are non-eventful. While not the only film to suffer from this problem, the pacing has a tendency to become very pedestrian, and finally the film's length(100 minutes) may try the viewer's patience, especially with the slow pacing. But even with its problems, it is a charming film, not as good in my opinion as An Affair to Remember but there are a lot of good things about it. Indiscreet is lovely to look at, Ingrid Bergman looks really elegant in her dresses and her apartment is drop dead gorgeous! The cinematography and scenery is also really lovely. I also really liked the score, it was haunting and beautiful and had the hypnotic power than Rachmaninov has in his piano concertos. Stanley Donen directs efficiently, and the dialogue does sparkle. As does the performances and chemistry of Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, who are great together and each of them are believable in their roles. In terms of effective scenes, the party scene was great fun, it was a real joy to see Grant making a fool of himself dancing. Overall, charming if very slight, elevated by the two lead performances. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Charm for miles & terrific cast, but all have done better","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, let's face it. It's hard to go wrong with any film which stars two quintessential MOVIE stars like Cary (PHILADELPHIA STORY) Grant and Ingrid (CASABLANCA) Bergman, and INDISCREET is famous because of them.If you love old fashioned (and INDISCREET is very old fashioned) boulevard comedy as I do, you'll have a lovely afternoon with this screen version of Norman Krasna's successful Broadway play, KIND SIR, where a glamorous stage star has a charming, bantering thing with a successful (almost TOO rich for credibility), glamorous and *apparently* unattached businessman/diplomat. (To quote the film there must be a catch in it somewhere.) The problem isn't the catch (you've already guessed by now what it may be, and there's nothing wrong with that - this sort of thing is all about execution - and don't be so sure it's the *obvious* catch), but that the chemistry is just slightly off this time. It worked better a couple years earlier on Broadway with Charles Boyer and Mary Martin for a season's run, but chemistry is a tricky thing. In black & white for Hitchcock a few years earlier, in NOTORIOUS, Grant and Bergman had it in spades. In INDISCREET, they just miss, and I don't think it has anything to do with the intervening years and Rossellini. Grant would do this sort of thing to *perfection* a few years later in THE GRASS IS ALWAYS GREENER (Deborah Kerr and Noel Coward background music); Bergman would do it *close* to perfection a few years later ('though Bacall had done it better on stage) in A CACTUS FLOWER with Walter Matthau in the Barry Nelson role; and even Krasna would do it better a few years later in Sunday IN NEW YORK, but the chemistry and tone is just a bit off here (Krasna's dialogue which tries to sparkle lies there in the soap suds (too many tries for AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER tears where CACTUS FLOWER laughs are called for) despite everything director Stanley (CHARADE) Donen does to make it shine and, for me, the bubbles burst and soufflé is served flat.As Bergman says of another early in the film, I tried to love him, but I just don't. Good things keep cropping up in the film - when my attention wandered, we heard Bergman's hotel Front Desk man and my eyes would jerk back to the screen. He SOUNDS just like Walter Slezak (the back of his head even looks like him!), and you *have* to love anything with Walter Slezak in it (don't miss COME September if you love boulevard comedy!), but we never see his face and he isn't credited.Ah well. A near miss. A clear miss, but a largely pleasant one. "},{"Title":"Great Entertaining Film","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In this film Cary Grant, (Philip Adams) plays the role as a diplomat who travels from London to Paris and meets up with Anna Kalman, (Ingrid Bergman), who is an accomplished and successful actress and well known. Anna's first meeting with Philip is when she has cold cream all over her face and she sees Philip enter her apartment and immediately falls in love with him, she has been looking for the man of her dreams and Philip is her desire. Over a period of time Philip and Anna become very close with each other, however, it is discovered that Philip is a married man and his wife will not give him a divorce. Scotland Yard keeps tabs on Philip Adams and finds out some very important facts about his personal life which turns this film in an another direction. There is lots of comedy and great entertainment with Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman and it is a great film to view. "},{"Title":"Forget the plot and enjoy the stars.","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" These two together generate a rare electricity that transcends the very weak and preposterous plot. Ingrid is a little chunky yet still unquestionably ravishing. Cary is, well, perfect as usual. Just enjoy them and forget the story line. Another little bit of advise is to make sure you reject the impulse to compare this picture to Notorious. The reason I mention this is frankly there is no comparison other than the fact they appear in both movies. The films are totally different in genre. Lastly it's a good time here to lament the fact there are no longer movies stars like these and sadly there will never be such again. "},{"Title":"Fanning the Flames of Desire in 'Indiscreet'","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fervent desire often overlaps into soft-porn territory in the cinematic language and images of the aughties, to the extent that the old-fashioned spirit in some of us yearns for timeless romantic movies such as 1958's Indiscreet. These films remind us of the importance of courtship in modern times. This reviewer has nary a word against adult nudity on film, when handled artistically and sans embarrassment as in many European films, but even more offensive than today's shock stock are the inane romantic comedies made by directors/auteurs who believe that casting good-looking actors precludes using a well-written script. While not a perfect film, Indiscreet, starring Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, captures the bliss and blush of courtship between two middle-aged adults and the reluctant romance that subtly blossoms between them. Sure, the camera loves Grant and Bergman, but their fine acting combined with clever dialogue outshine their exterior beauty.Courtship, wherefore art thou? Grant as Philip and Bergman as Anna stare longingly into each other'seyes in various scenes in Indiscreet. In the breakfast nook scene in Anna's apartment, Philip lets his meal grow cold while Anna prepares hers at the stove. (It's servants' day off was her seductive phone invite earlier that morning.) One of Bergman's best lines in this scene is Stop. Good manners spoil good food. Once seated, she too finds it nearly impossible to eat because her suitor is drinking in her eyes. More than once they eat, pause to stare at each other, then resume noshing.Also quite memorable are the scenes detailing the first date between the stage actress and the international diplomat. After consuming too much champagne at a private club where Anna's brother-in-law, Alfred, is a member, they arrive too late to attend a ballet performance of Romeo and Juliet and decide to give Anna's tickets to two teen-agers. Here is where Grant delivers one of the most understated lines in Indiscreet I know how the story ends, bad. (That comment, not simply a reference to the Shakespearean drama, could have been meant as a social statement about conservative adults' opposition to young love in '50s America -- i.e. the waltz vs. rock n' roll.) Rather than end the evening with a failed date, Anna and Philip return to the club for more libation and laughter topped off by a nighttime stroll past London monuments, Anna's chauffeur and a few of her fans trailing them.The final scene of Anna and Philip's first night of courtship exemplifies subtly handled erotic fire in Indiscreet. Anna and Philip briefly share banter about a night cap before disappearing into her apartment and shutting the door. When the camera zooms out from the shot of that closed door, the visual effect and erotic impact are more telling than a Do Not Disturb sign hanging on the doorknob outside a honeymoon suite. By stark contrast, many R-rated flicks today are overhanded in the area of sexual content. They prefer lingerie shedding and naughty/scatological word lashing to, say, Bertolucci's early films (think Last Tango in Paris) that treat nudity and sex as moving sculptures and paintings, respectively, and reserve curse words for existential statements.Whenever I need romantic inspiration, I pop Indiscreet into my DVD player and wait for the glances, kisses and innuendos to begin. "},{"Title":"Interesting....","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just a comment on an interesting statement made in the film.  In an elevator scene with Grant and Bergman, when discussing the muggy weather in Paris, he mentions that he recently read and article about how the world's weather is changing ...... and this was filmed in 1958.  I love current event/historical knowledge in films like this one! "},{"Title":"Straight-up romance with no real drama.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know, I'm a typical guy, I don't generally like romance movies.  I dolike good movies, and this is one.  However, the only drama iscreated by the spitefulness of Bergman's character.  So it's almostlike a lullaby.  It's well acted and well directed and pleasing to lookat. . . almost calming.  The redeeming factor for me is the perfectportrayal of those romantic moments over the phone.  I've livedthose moments and it's comforting to know someone has  captured them for posterity.  Beware!  This movie may make yousentimental.  I think it will wear off in the morning. . .. "}{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Indiscreet begins as a very welcome, dry-humored movie aimed at intelligent adults. Here are mature, successful characters who have the style to handle any situation, inhabiting a convincing world of international society. They know when propriety can be wordlessly side-stepped, which provides some shocking moments that Donen's camera pursues up to a point, then pulls away. Here is a world of quiet-toned dining chambers, highly-sought positions and intelligent conversations. The first half of the movie delightedly makes very few concessions to convention. Grant is even allowed to be seen making a speech on a boring topic. Male adulthood, you see, didn't always revolve around the Wii, superhero movies, and skateboarding&#x85; sigh!Sadly the writer avoided the responsibility due to viewers after adopting the central ruse; which in the long term makes no sense, and by the end the movie becomes completely belabored. Grant portrays himself as a married man because it makes him more desirable to women. In the end he will choose to marry Bergman, and exactly how will he explain an ex-wife who is absent from photos, phone calls, documents or friends reminiscences? Perhaps the writer imagined viewers would be so caught up in the present, they'd forget there's a future. This idea is also pretty off-putting. In the modern world Grant's lie is not cute, but very creepy. The last 40 minutes are not very enjoyable because they tease out a revenge that's nowhere near as enjoyable as the light first hour or so. In a final poor choice, a viewer is cheated of a decent resolution, which is irritatingly squeezed into the last 5 seconds.I very much disliked an obnoxious, lame & late attempt at physical comedy in which the characters dance a reel at a social event; it goes on long enough to become lethal, and it's low physical humor (silly dancing from Grant) belongs to some other character in some other movie. Grant is not some attention-starved boor in the better half of the movie.But this is definitely worth seeing, and even preferable to me than Notorious which I find unbearably silly. "},{"Title":"Snore...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a fan of both Bergman and Grant, and am normally very content with most classics, but this film was intensely and unwaveringly boring until the last 20 minutes.My husband and I tried to alleviate our existential angst in the face of all that nothingness by playing cribbage, screaming at the television, but to no avail.We realized we were in a plotless wasteland while watching Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman indulge in pointless pillow talk, e.g., What are you doing? Oh, I'm thinking about getting up, then I'll have a shower, then I'll take you out for a lavish lunch. And then they have lunch.  Given the complete lack of other significant events, you might even consider that a spoiler.I hate to complain, and I want to emphasize that I'm not that difficult to amuse, given some kind of storyline. Perhaps this movie was not made for viewers such as I, but for those hoping to achieve Nirvana by contemplating perfect emptiness. "},{"Title":"Thin on plot and equally thin on charm...","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I never could understand why the CARY GRANT/INGRID BERGMAN fans were so crazy about this movie. It's a big disappointment, coming as it does from a play by witty Norman Krasna and directed by none other than Stanley Donen. But, in my opinion, it fails to deliver the goods in more ways than one.First, the story is so slight you could sum it up in one sentence--which I won't do here because then I'd be giving the whole plot away! Take it from me, the material is gossamer thin. This was true of other Norman Krasna scripts too, but at least they had more comic style going for them than is on display here.INGRID BERGMAN (still lovely but looking a bit matronly in her early 40s) and CARY GRANT simply don't have the same chemistry they did in NOTORIOUS--which is just as much a fault of the script as it is of the actors. He wants to have an affair with an actress (no strings attached) so he tells her he's married (when he isn't). That's supposed to take care of the plot for the length of the film. Please.No, can't say I have any special fondness for this one, except for one scene at a ball where Grant goes into an impromptu jig--showing, of course, that he still had quite a flair for comedy when it wasn't being repressed.Bergman proved in CACTUS FLOWER that she could do comedy when she wanted to--but she really doesn't have much of a chance here to be anything more than modestly charming as she plays a coy game of flirtation with a man she thinks is a married playboy.PHYLLIS CALVERT and CECIL PARKER made no particular impression on me in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"ZZZzzz...","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When famous West End actress Anna (Ingrid Bergman) meets married diplomat Phillip (Cary Grant), sparks fly and the two begin a torrid love affair. Much later, Anna learns something about Phillip that puts their relationship in jeopardy.Superstars Bergman and Grant are stuck with a corny script and it makes for an epically silly and boring movie; in fact, if it weren't for the gorgeous Christian Dior ball gowns, I wouldn't like anything about it. Cary seems to be doing an impersonation of himself, sleepwalking through his cliché mannerisms and speeches. He never seems sincere and keeps his costar at an emotional distance (but it is fun to see him dance a jig). Ingrid seems phony and arrogant and just off-putting. She's supposed to be ultra-glamorous but just looks tired and plain. They have no romantic chemistry at all and in keeping with the time, share only a few tepid kisses, though much more is implied. The dialogue is unbelievably stilted, so ultra-witty and sophisticated that it never sounds like a real conversation. It's based on a play and filmed in a very artificial, stagy way.I was amazed at how dull the movie was and actually dozed off in the middle. Because it's about a man who pretends to be married to avoid commitment and a woman who wants to carry on with a married man, I didn't like or admire either of them. The voluminous gowns are vintage 50s and are the best part of the movie. "},{"Title":"You Can Almost See the Proscenium Arch ....","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Possibly a master-class in why it's not always a good idea to let a playwright adapt his own work for the screen, 'Indiscreet' has endless lengthy static declamations while everyone and everything remains rooted to the spot. The author (and to an extent the director) should have had the courage to cut a lot of the priceless speeches that may have worked on the stage and to have understood that the screen needs an amount of movement, whether of camera, people, change of shot, or all of the above.Unfortunately too, the central conceit of the piece &#x96; that it is quite correct to have an affair with an openly married man but shamefully immoral to spend five minutes alone with a single one &#x96; wears a bit thin, and not for the first time, Cary Grant has to play a charmer who is in fact a rather unpleasant and selfish deceiver. There are however some good lines, with Cecil Parker in particular making the most of them. "},{"Title":"Good if you don't look for depth.........","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You will enjoy this movie if you don't look for depth or try to read anything into it that isn't there. Its light entertainment, very beautifully filmed, nostalgic (or old-fashioned), well-acted. You will really appreciate the good acting if you don't take the film itself too seriously, yet realize that this type of acting requires talent and effort. After noting that it was originally a stage play, I asked myself If this were on the stage, could Grant hold his own and make it a success? The answer is a resounding YES. The guy was a terrific actor. His acting ability makes this succeed as a movie and would have also as a stage play. Of course Bergman is well-respected and honored as a film/stage actress, but this movie proves once again that Grant deserves more respect than he gets.The film is expensively made and oozes class but the wealthy characters seem shallow. It almost seems like a Pillow-Talk style Doris Day comedy that has been lavishly upgraded to wealthy British social circles. I guess that's the point- beautiful, talented stars in a beautifully made film. That's basically all you get here, but it works for me and it will work for you if you want good light entertainment. "},{"Title":"Indiscreet Very Well Needs Discretion **1/2","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You call this romantic comedy? What a farce. Cary Grant, a known womanizer plays a NATO Representative who meets the sister-in-law of a fellow diplomat. Ingrid Bergman is that woman and in the movie she portrays a well-known theatrical actress.The two fall for each other quickly, but Grant is married and supposedly cannot get a divorce. Remember I said the word supposedly.When the Bergman character learns the truth she plots to fix Adams (Grant) but good, but that plot falls apart as well as the picture.This story could have been told in about 20 minutes. Probably, the best part of the movie is when Bergman and Grant participate in a Scottish dance. Grant really kicks up his heels. Bergman is no slouch either, but her silly way to get even is just inane. "},{"Title":"Lukewarm Ingrid & Grant - how can that be?","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First, let me say I am a big fan of both Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant. But my response to this movie is just lukewarm. This puzzles me a little because I really expected to like it more. I think I can attribute my lackluster response to the following1). The whole plot has a negative undertone to me. That a woman would keep herself in a relationship to a married man. But wait a minute, he's NOT REALLY married, only PRETENDING to be. Of course, that is the whole premise that is supposed to set the stage for all the uncomfortable and funny moments later on.2). I never really buy the chemistry between the two. No sparks there for me to even get interested in whether they stay together or not.The only thing I really find funny is the performance of her butler, when he pretends to be a lover in order to make Grant's character jealous. Overall, I guess I was generally let down because I had such high expectations going into the picture. "},{"Title":"Great stars; boring plot.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes plot does matter.  This is a case in point - two dazzling stars on screen with nothing to work with.  Grant is in fine form, Bergman a bit over-the-hill but obviously still competent.  The love story is weak - both stars seem to be held back - chomping at the bit to take the film to the next level, but really have nothing but boring, staged stares, terrible scene locations, and an amusing line every 30 minutes to work with.  It's still better than the average flick of the era because of the stars, but you could watch this one while flipping through a magazine, glancing up every 5 minutes, and you wouldn't be disadvantaged. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first hour of this movie is painfully boring.  It's an endless series of long, meaningful stares between Cary and Ingrid, dinners and other conversations during which nothing in particular is said, and long walks through the streets of London -- all accompanied by soaring romantic music that's supposed to give us sweet, swooning feelings.  The last thirty minutes have some cute moments, but aren't nearly enough to redeem the movie as a whole.  "}{"Title":"Insubstantial","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The star-power, charm & attraction of Cary Grant & Ingrid Bergman just about jump out of the screen in this otherwise slight romantic comedy.It's obviously from a play as nearly all the action - such as it is - happens in one room apart from a few token scenes around Tourist London.As far as plot goes there's just about enough to support a half hour episode of a situation comedy which leaves us with plenty of padding but the central premise is clever and there are some sharp & witty `battle of the sexes' type dialogue exchanges.An amusing, undemanding 100 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Kick it to the curb","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm sorry, I love Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, that's the reason why I watched this movie, but I couldn't stand the movie. The acting was right on the mark, more the reason to dislike the characters and want there to be an explosion at the end. I've never seen a movie where I liked Cary Grant less. The one redeeming part of the movie was seeing Cary Grant dance like an idiot for about 2 minutes. There are a few amusing moments, and lots of very awkward ones. It was also much to long for an average rom/com. Nearly two hours of having to watch to people that I personally would not want to spend much time with in real life. If you like Cary Grant or Ingrid Bergman, and want to keep liking their movies, don't watch this. So once again, avoid at all possible measures. "},{"Title":"A pleasing film, but nothing spectacular","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The movie is overall likable. The on screen chemistry between Grant and Bergman is definitely there! However, there is a stilted quality to the film. There are many silent moments in which the overly dramatic music takes over to a fault. The premise and logic upon which the relationship is based upon is almost laughable.Yet, there is nothing better to see than 2 intelligent and yes beautiful people navigate the romantic waters. However, this movie is not on the level of Hitchock's CATCH A THIEF--the witty banter between Grace Kelly and Cary Grant is not in this movie. Its a more emotional movie, all thanks to Bergman's performance. One moment she is a laughing girl and the next she is an angry woman. Grant comes off a bit wooden, but that it fine here-you don't want two emotional performances.Finally, I have to say something about Bergman's apartment--it is to die for. Yes, I know this is a bit of fluff to comment on set decoration, but the layout, the artwork--its amazing. However, her bedroom is a big disappointment.Overall, I would recommend this movie--only if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Disappointing second outing for 2 great stars","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Glossy melodrama with some light comedy about a rich diplomat (Grant) who pretends he's married while cavortin gwith a lovely actress (Bergman).  Unfortunately, this film misses the chance to include their ages in the story -- even referring to Grant as a young man (?) while he has silver hair.  This is probably because Norman Krasna adapted it, and while a witty script with a nice gimmick (Krasna would call it the genius) it's not all one could hope for the last pairing of these two fantastic personalities.  Donnen proves once again that he's strictly second rate (his only really fine film outside of collaborations with Gene Kelly, as far as I've seen, is Seven Brides for Seven Brothers).   "},{"Title":"Alleged comedy actually just boring","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have been looking forward to seeing Indiscreet for years, as it stars two of my all-time favorite actors.  Was I ever disappointed!  I was expecting Bergman and Grant to equal their stunning performances in Notorious (1946), which I highly recommend, but instead it turned out to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen.It's billed as a comedy, but is actually a dull-a-thon.  Not only did I not laugh even once, the corners of my lips didn't even twitch in a smile.  Not even once!  I couldn't stand to watch it till the end, and turned it off after about an hour of excruciating boredom.  The characters were dull, the dialog was boring, the sets and costumes were commonplace and the plot went nowhere.  Don't waste your time with this turkey. "},{"Title":"Mediocre 50s fluff.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Silly, forgettable typical 50s romantic comedy. Ingrid Bergman has never looked THIS masculine, which tends to hamper the romantic chemistry between her and Grant. Her hands could be mistaken for Charles Bronson's, and the fingers are more like long, thick Swedish sausages than actual human, let alone female, fingers. And her head? Well, not many leading ladies who starred opposite the likes of Grant ever came so close to matching his head size with their own. The arms are thick; this doesn't help either. Also, I fail to understand how Bergman's sister can have a British accent. It's possible, of course, but highly dubious. It's also rather silly how extreme Bergman's reaction is to finding out that Grant lied about being married; the writer(s) needed something to spark a conflict and this is what they came up with?! Would have been more effective with a better-looking actress, though even then hardly a classic. "},{"Title":"Probably A Better Movie 40 Years Ago Than Today","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie, the characters were worth getting involved with and the plot did expand, thicken and add a few twists. BUT ---- although I had never seen the movie before, the plot, by now 2003 seemed tired and very transparent.If one were looking for a vehicle featuring either Bergman or Grant, they both have much better vehicles, though not together. See Bergman in Casablanca & Grant in North By Northwest for instance The movie was well done, but now it does seem a bit like a much ado about nothing type of flick.All that said, it the movie still is a pleasant way to pass a quiet evening with a friend and rates an overall rating of between 6-7. "},{"Title":"An insult to romance","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Two materialistic shallow non entities with as much charm as calculators meet. The romance is flat depressing and full of embarrassing silences such as when Grant stares at her like a moron whilst she eats her breakfast uncomfortable in his stare, it is very similar to Pretty woman as the writer thinks money is romance.If Bacall and Bogart are like introducing Nitro to Glycerin then these two is like introducing Liquid to Nitrogen.Strip away their money there would be nothing left at all.Bar deeps Giddy Grot that's how you say My name's Cary Grant in his voice. "},{"Title":"While clever, it's hard to really like Grant or Bergman in this film","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film was a pretty big risk for Ingrid Bergman to take. About a decade earlier, her very public affair with Roberto Rossellini temporarily damaged her career. Because of this, it seems pretty surprising that in this film she'd play a woman who knowingly has an affair with a supposedly married man. Oddly, however, despite this being an affair, the film seems to imply that they never get around to actually committing adultery! They spend lots of time together and whisper sweet nothings to each other, but their relationship seems sex-less! I'm sure this would have been handled very differently if it were made today.As for the rest of the film, it tries very hard to be a romance--with excellent music and cinematography to set the mood. The problem is for me, adultery (or near-adultry like in this film) is a MAJOR turnoff! You can't get past the fact that Ingrid and Cary seem like very selfish people. Later, however, in a very, very bizarre plot twist, you find out that there is a lot more to the affair than meets the eye. What exactly this is and how the film then becomes a bit more of a romantic-comedy is just something you'll have to see for yourself.The bottom line is that this is a pretty agreeable time-passer but also NOT one of the stars' better films. Call me old fashioned (which I am), but selfish and slutty appearing behavior is not compatible with romance. "},{"Title":"not very interesting","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film stars Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman who star as a couple who are in love but can't get married because Grant says he's married when they first meet. Bergman finds out and tries to get revenge. I didn't like this movie very much, but Grant and Bergman do a good job.  "}]