[{"Title":"John Ford's Civil War","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"43 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Ford probably did more to glorify the old American Cavalry of the 19th Century than any other major Hollywood Director. But while the Civil War is an element that keeps turning up in his movies, he never actually did do the Civil War film he wanted to do - a biography of the career of Ulysses Grant. In his career he tackled the Civil War three times. In PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND he dealt with the story of Dr.Samuel Mudd, who was sentenced to life imprisonment for involvement in Lincoln's Assassination. In HOW THE WEST WAS WON, Ford did the segment dealing with the battle of SHILOH, with Harry Morgan as General Grant and John Wayne as General Sherman. This film was the nearest that Ford ever got to his dream film. THE HORSE SOLDIERS was the only film that was devoted to a full study of the effect of the war in the South, on both Union and Rebel soldiers. While not, perhaps, the best that Ford could have achieved - he was in the twilight of his master career - it is a fine film none-the-less. The story is based on an incident in 1863 known as Grierson's Raid. Cavalry leader Benjamin Grierson was sent by Grant into Alabama and Mississippi on a raid to attack a railway junction, supposedly to destroy it for strategic reasons. While it was important to knock the railway junction out of effective work, the real purpose was to tie up Confederate forces in these backwaters. Since December 1862 Grant was struggling to capture the city of Vicksburg, Mississippi, the last major Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi River. But try as he did Grant kept losing to the Confederates under Joseph Johnston and John C. Pemberton (the commander in Vicksburg). But Grant had noticed how Confederate cavalry men like Earl Van Dorn and Nathan Bedford Forrest had forced him to use men to protect his supply lines, and took valuable time away from him trying to fight off or track them down. He decided that Grierson, a first rate Cavalry leader, could do the same thing to Johnston. A very intelligent Confederate Commander, Johnston was nervous at unexpected difficulties. Grant reasoned that Grierson's men would panic Johnston, and cause him to waste time chasing him down. As it turned out Grierson's Raid worked. The pinning down of large numbers of Rebel troops in Alabama and Missisippi was wonderful for Grant's Vicksburg campaign. It was the beginning of the successful conclusion of the campaign, as Johnston's attention was now split between trying to help support Pemberton and trying to reassure frightened southern populations in the hinterlands. Grierson got most of his men back to Northern lines. Vicksburg was able to hold out until July 4, 1863. It's fall (the day after Lee's defeat at Gettysburg) really marked the beginning of the end of the Civil War.This incident is the basis for THE HORSE SOLDIERS. Ford concentrates on what the experience of the war must have been like in the Southern countryside. Certain things are taken from other incidents and battlefields. When a military school's cadets are brought into the field to try to catch or slow down John Wayne's men, Ford is really picking up on an incident in the war in Virginia, when the young cadets at the Virginia Military Institute came out to fight the Union troops under Sheridan in 1864. One can forgive the transition of the incident. It has been pointed out that one of the characters, Colonel Secord (Willis Bouchey) is a splendid type - the political officer. Men like Secord (usually in the position of General) bedeviled both sides, because of their usually normal level of mediocrity or idiocy. A few rose to the job well - the best of the Northern political generals was Black Jack Logan, who would be a valuable associate of Sherman in the battles around Atlanta. But for every positive General Logan, there were thieves like Benjamin Spoons Butler, who feathered his nest as military governor of New Orleans (he supposedly stole even the silver spoons of the citizenry). Actually Secord is normally intelligent, and follows Wayne's strategy. But he is constantly looking ahead at post-war elections. Towards the end he even wonders if the White House beckons.Another lovely moment shows the fraying of the Southern cause. Wayne and his men come across two Rebel deserters (Strother Martin and Denver Pyle) who have tied up the local sheriff (Russell Simpson). Wayne thanks Martin and Pyle for their unofficial assistance to the Northern cause,telling them which way they plan to go. While Martin chatters away (mentioning the strength of Rebel forces in the area), Wayne carefully knocks out Pyle and then Martin, and then unties Simpson and assists in tying up the two deserters. William Holden is watching this, and later asks why he helped Simpson. Wayne explains that he decided to feed the deserters false information about his own movements, as they would probably give the information to the Confederates later on anyway.All the performances are fine, with Wayne in particular as a man who hates doctors and medicine for a valid personal reason. Holden is in a subordinate role but he gets some nice moments. So does Constance Towers, in a rare leading part, as a passionate Confederate supporter who gradually gets to like Wayne. Carleton Young, as a former friend of Wayne, has a moment trying to rally Confederate forces at the railway depot. It is a good Ford film, and makes one wish that Ford had made his Ulysses Grant biography. "},{"Title":"Good Civil War Adventure From Ford.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Ford's THE HORSE SOLDIERS is something of an underrated cavalry epic from the great director. Produced in 1959 for a United Artists release by John Lee Mahin and Martin Rackin it was nicely written for the screen by Mahin and Rackin and colourfully directed,if a little less auspicious, by Ford. Beautifully photographed in widescreen and colour by William Clothier the picture also benefited from an atmospheric score by David Buttolph which was made up from an array of rousing cavalry songs. Once again John Wayne was the star and making his one and only appearance in a Ford picture is the surprise casting of William Holden who, it has to be said, is much less flamboyant here than usual especially if you consider his marvellous Captain Roper in the excellent cavalry western six years earlier Escape From Fort Bravo. His role in THE HORSE SOLDIERS, as the non-combatant regimental doctor, is almost totally overshadowed by the arrogant and irascible troop commander as solidly played by Wayne. Never reaching the lofty heights of Ford's memorable triptych of cavalry epics Fort Apache, She Wore A Yellow Ribbon and Rio Grande THE HORSE SOLDIERS is nevertheless an engaging Civil War adventure.The story of THE HORSE SOLDIERS is based on a real incident during the Civil War in 1863. Under orders from General Grant a division of Union cavalry, under the command of Colonel John Marlowe (Wayne), are to cross over into Alabama and Mississippi in the South and destroy the railway line at Newton Station deep in enemy territory which is the main supply depot of the Confederacy. On completion of their mission they are to make their way to safety via Union held Baton Rouze. The mission starts out and proceeds with little difficulty until disagreements erupt between Col. Marlowe and the regiment's doctor Kendall (Holden) who has been sent with the division against the wishes of Marlowe who distrusts and dislikes the medical profession. And then there's the beautiful Southern Belle (Constance Towers) who, eavesdropping, overhears the Union's plans and must now be taken along with the regiment lest she informs the enemy. The picture ends with an exciting battle between the two sides - the Union army routing the Confederates and making their escape to Baton Rouze.Performances are splendid from all concerned. Wayne is especially good bringing great authority to his role. His Colonel Marlowe is arguably his best cavalry portrayal. Wayne's presence gives the movie a certain sheen and actually makes the film better than it really is. Holden is good too if somewhat more tempered than in anything he did before (He never handles a weapon throughout the film). But the antipathy between the two men makes for some engaging confrontations (the usually reticent Holden throwing a drink in Wayne's face, squaring up to him and yelling OK section hand - I've had it - strip your blouse). Regretfully though, and despite appearances by Ken Curtis and Hank Worden, there is a noticeable absence of Ford players. Particularly missed are Ben Johnson and Harry Carey Jn. But there is a nice bit of casting for General Grant at the beginning of the movie who is played by cavalry song writer Stan Jones. Jones composed the movie's featured song I've Left My Love. And it was Jones also who, three years earlier, had written The Song Of The Searchers the stunning ballad sung by The Sons Of The Pioneers over the titles of the Ford/Wayne classic The Searchers. Also of note is the casting of Althea Gibson in the role of Tower's coloured servant. Gibson was a champion tennis player. She was the first African American to win the Grand Slam in 1956 and was the first African American to play Wimbledon in 1951 and to win it in 1957.Ford's picture is a handsomely mounted adventure with some blazing action from time to time. Not as good as some of the director's previous cavalry epics but thanks to Duke Wayne for being around and contrary to general opinion THE HORSE SOLDIERS is an enjoyable ride. "},{"Title":"Under-rated American Civil War movie.","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" General critical consensus seems to feel that John Ford's The Horse Soldiers is a bit of a let-down, at least by the dizzyingly high standards of the director. However, it's quite liberating if you try to forget that you're watching a John Ford movie and just treat it as an American Civil War movie like any other. Then, the film's qualities become more apparent. Yes, The Horse Soldiers is inferior to many of the other John Ford movies. But Ford working at half-speed is still better than most directors working at the peak of their powers. And The Horse Soldiers is still a fascinating, exciting and expertly told war film.Colonel John Marlowe (John Wayne) is ordered by the Union generals to lead his army 300 miles into the Confederacy, where they are to sabotage and disrupt the vital railway supply town of Newton Station as much as possible. After a disastrous few months of lost battles and heavy casualties, the Union generals are determined to swing the battle back in their favour before the arrival of winter. Marlowe is unhappy to learn that his orders include allowing army surgeon Major Kendall (William Holden) along on the mission. Since the death of his wife at the hands of two blundering surgeons, Marlowe has had little respect for those in the medical profession. To further complicate matters, a feisty Southern belle, Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers) with Confederate sympathies, overhears Marlowe informing his men that Newton Station is the target, and that once the town has been raided the Union forces plan to head for the safety of Baton Rouge. In order to secure her silence, Marlowe has to take her prisoner and suffer her sharp Southern tongue (plus escape attempts) during the trip.The Horse Soldiers is filmed in loving detail, with gorgeous autumnal backdrops. Its story is very interesting, especially the volatile relationship between Wayne and Holden, and the mission itself provides excitements along the way. In particular, a street battle at Newton Station is memorable, as is a scene later in the film when the Union soldiers come under attack from an army of Confederate army cadets still at schoolboy age. Towers' character is written as a very cunning and feisty woman, who disguises her attributes by coming across as a melodramatic, gossipy airhead. Towers plays the part well, but because of how she's encouraged to handle the role she becomes rather irritating too. One disappointing moment in the film comes when Wayne and Holden reach breaking-point with each other and ride off to a secluded glade to slug it out. The sequence is set to be a real humdinger, but is curiously cut short by the arrival of the enemy forces. On the whole, though, The Horse Soldiers is a good, solid Civil War entertainment, well worth a look. "},{"Title":"The Section Hand and The Croker","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"37 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Wayne's been given a critical job to do by none other than General Ulysses S. Grant. He's been ordered to take 3 brigades deep into Confederate territory and destroy a critical rail supply station at a place called Newton's Station and then get his troops out the best way he can. He's ordered to take along, an army surgeon played by William Holden. Wayne's got what appears to be an unreasoning dislike of Holden and their rivalry professional and personal is what drives the plot of the Horse Soldiers.John Ford always disparaged the films he made after Wings of Eagles, but in my opinion, The Horse Soldiers is one of his finest films. Also in my humble opinion he managed to get one of John Wayne's finest film performances. Wayne's a volunteer officer, in civilian life he rose from section hand on a railroad to an construction engineer. Holden calls him section hand as a term of derision after Wayne consistently refers to him as croker.Wayne and Holden were very close personal friends and friendly rivals at the box office. That's part of the reason that The Horse Soldiers is so good, the chemistry between them. In fact when Wayne died in 1979, Holden was said to have gone on one legendary drinking binge. Who would have suspected we'd have lost him as well two years later.Holden as the doctor has a less flamboyant part than Wayne, but he makes the most of what he was given. I suspect knowing the relationship between Wayne and John Ford, he knew going in his part would be less, but he did it anyway.Anyone who thinks John Wayne incapable of acting should see the scene in the saloon at Newton's Station after the Union forces repel a Confederate attack and are about their business destroying the railroad property. In a great drunk scene he reveals to Constance Towers the reason for his hatred of the medical profession. I won't reveal it, but it's something we can all understand. Wayne did this scene so well that Ford used an abbreviated version of it in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.Ford makes marvelous use of music in there, weaving traditional Civil War era songs with the song written by Stan Jones for the film, I Left My Love. That is one catchy and infectious ballad, one of the best things written for a John Ford movie. Incidentally Stan Jones makes a brief appearance in the film as Ulysses S. Grant and does well by him.There are two in the supporting cast that deserve mention. During the Civil War Lincoln had to deal with volunteer political generals, most of whom were a flop. Willis Bouchey playing John Wayne's co-commander in the expedition captures the phenomenon to perfection. He's argumentative, arrogant, and a general pain in the butt to Wayne. It's probably Bouchey's finest screen performance.And Carleton Young also gives what I think is his finest screen performance as the one armed Confederate colonel who tries in vain to stop Wayne from completing his plans. It's a role that requires dignity and strength and Carleton Young is marvelous. In fact the contrast between Bouchey and Young as soldiers is pretty obvious.The relationship between the Section Hand and The Croker evolves during the running time of The Horse Soldiers. It's a relationship well worth seeing develop. "},{"Title":"William Holden and John Ford, in their first pairing...","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" As the Civil War goes against the North, General Grant (Stan Jones) is unable to take the Confederate fortress of Vicksburg because the Confederates have it so well defended... He realizes necessity of cutting off that city's supply sources.. Col. John Marlowe (John Wayne) is assigned to take a small brigade of cavalry from Tennessee, ride hundreds of miles into the Confederate territory and destroy the railroad at Newton Station, Mississippi, thereby cutting the supply line to Vicksburg... To do it, he will have to avoid all contact with rebel forces until he has reached his target...The first problem Marlowe encounters is Major Hank Kendall (William Holden), an obstinate surgeon who will be accompanying the force... Marlowe has the expected contempt of the combat soldier for his colleague who carries no arms... In addition, when Kendall asserts his rights as an officer in the medical corps to declare unfit any soldier he considers so, Marlowe and Kendall clash...The next problem is Marlowe's second in command, Col. Secord (Willis Bouchey), who makes no secret of his plans to use his military career to further his strong political ambitions...The third problem is the high-spirited belle Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers). This violent Southern patriot gives him an initial hard time... The Yankee soldiers stay at her plantation soon after they cross into the Confederacy... When Hannah learns their plans, Marlow is forced then to take her along with them for security reasons...Holden and Wayne (violently opposing strong personalities) perform their assignment with a consummate force, intensity, and expert teamwork... Constance Towers, too, registers a vital presence... At their first dinner, she passes Wayne a platter of chicken... As she leans over, threatening to divulge her engaging décolletage, she says 'Oh come now, Colonel, a man with a great big frame like yours can't just nibble away like a little titmouse. Now what was your preference, the leg or the breast?'Incorrigibly sentimental and romantic in his big cavalry epic, Ford's motion picture is full of heroic cavalry on the skyline imagery... Among the more affecting scenes is that in which a harsh compassionate Wayne comforts a dying young soldier and the one in which he registers his love for Towers... There is also a compelling sequence, pure John Ford, in which a group of teenage cadets march out from a Southern military academy to take on the enemy, which makes manifest to battle boys and pulls a retreat, leaving the kids cheering... "},{"Title":"Historically inaccurate but otherwise excellent","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" This film has the usual Hollywood-style errors about the Civil War -- men talking about Andersonville Prison months before it was established, minor diversions treated as the pivotal event of a campaign, that sort of thing. The biggest error though was the replacement of the fascinating Colonel Ben Grierson with Wayne's railroad man character. Grierson was a music teacher who was afraid of horses because one kicked him in the head as a child. Joining the Union army to fight slavery (he was a staunch abolitionist) he wanted infantry duty but was assigned to the cavalry by mistake. He turned out to be good at it and stayed in the cavalry after the war, becoming the first Colonel of the 10th Cavalry (Buffalo soldiers). It'd have been nice to see Grierson on screen.Historical inaccuracy aside though the movie did quite well. The film showed multiple viewpoints and a fair degree of respect for most of them. It showed aspects of the war that were generally ignored in other films of the period -- the bloody horror of battlefield amputations, the desire of people to give up on the whole thing (I can't think of an earlier film that talked about deserters and the way they disrupted the southern home front), and the pain of the sheer physical destruction of the war -- a pain that affected the destroyers as well as the victims, something Gone With the Wind never quite admitted.Some posters have complained about southern belle Hannah Hunter's overuse of sex appeal to spy on Union soldiers -- while there was no historical Hannah Hunter there were plenty of southern women who did just that, including Belle Boyd, Rose Greenhow and others. Some posters have complained about the way the film trivializes slavery -- this is unfair. It underplays slavery but never trivializes it. It shows conflicts within the Union army about the institution and addresses the issue of personal loyalty between some slaves and masters without glamorizing the institution as a whole. Does the film go far enough by modern standards? No. But it goes much farther than its contemporary and treats the slavery issue more honestly than modern travesties like Gods And Generals.One poster actually complained about how inaccurate southern snipers were -- this is completely unfair. There was no indication that the snipers were specially trained men with Whitworth rifles or anything like that. They looked more like ordinary troopers out skirmishing, or perhaps the even more poorly trained militia. Ordinary soldiers fired more than 100 rounds for every hit they scored, so poor shooting on either side is nothing to be surprised about.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Possibly Ford's most underrated work","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" The fields, woodlands and rivers of Tennassee drenched in summer sunlight are in stark contrast to the horrors of civil war as depicted in John Ford's The Horse Soldiers. John Wayne's mission to lead a troop of Yankee soldiers behind Confederate lines to destroy a railway base vital to the South's supply lines is fraught with danger. Skirmishes inevitably result in injuries and death, the former often giving rise to amputations. Although made well before the time that the full appalingness of warfare come to be depicted in films such as Saving Captain Ryan, from Drums Along the Mohawk onwards Ford never shirked the unpleasant. Incurable romantic that he was, he gave his work a hard edge whenever it was needed. Although the term road movie to categorise films based on journeys was not then in general usage, this fascinating work, with horses replacing cars, stands as one of the genres finest examples. And yet, judging from many of this site's user comments, it remains one of Ford's most under appreciated films. I find this rather strange as it contains most of the ingredients that are the hallmarks of those generally regarded as masterworks, westerns such as The Searchers, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and My Darling Clementine, not forgetting his glorious Irish romp, The Quiet Man. A shrew is tamed, there is a measure of drunken knockabout and the soundtrack pulsates with rousing cavalry tunes and bugle calls. I have no quarrel with the fact that it is episodic rather than tightly knit. This somehow makes it all the more compatible with its journeying structure. Each episode on the way is brought out in sharp relief, be it the Southern belle's false hospitality and attempted betrayal, the central climax at the railroad station or the delightful interlude of the attack by the boy soldiers from the Confederate military academy (one of my favourite sequences from any Ford film). John Wayne plays what is almost a variation on his Ethan role in The Searchers, his anger here not vent on Indians but on the medical profession which he holds responsible for his wife's death. His embittered relationship with his company's medical officer played by William Holden gives this otherwise picaresque film a strong dramatic unity. I can only advise those who consider this one of Ford's minor works to see it several times. From my own experience I find it emerges stronger on each viewing. "},{"Title":"Holden and Wayne earn their pay","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  The Horse Soldiers is one of many John Ford and John Wayne collaborations.Moreover, it is one of their better. The story involves a daring mission by union  troops into the heart of the confederacy, in order to cut supply lines. Wayne is  leading the daring plan. However, also going on the mission are an insolentsurgeon (played by William Holden) and a Southern Belle, complete with slave(played by tennis star Althea Gibson). Where this film shines are in the excellent  performances turned in by the big two stars. Rumor was that this film had many  shutdowns and stoppages, the kind of thing that can make someone hornery.Well, you see that in the relationship between the Holden and Waynecharacters, they genuinely despise each other. To me, this was one of Wayne's  most underrated performances. He shows real emotion in his rather complexcharacter. As usual, Holden is excellent. Being a Ford film, the story andscenery are both epic. Moreover, it does not take the Hollywood path towardsthe obvious. I really enjoyed this film and was anxious to see just how it would  end. "},{"Title":"great scenes, great story, but the film is not as good.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  When this film starts, you think you are going to see one of Ford's best. The scenes showing the cavalry are on the same level as Fort Apache and She Wore A Yellow Ribbon. The story which is based on a true fact, could not be better. There is a scene showing young southern boys attacking, which is one of the best moments I have ever seen on the screen. Where the film goes wrong is in the unconvincing performance of Constance Towers, and the fact that they tried to give too much importance to the part played by William Holden. which really should be secondary. I also missed the presence of Victor McLaglen, Ford could never find someone to replace him. It is a pleasure to see Hoot Gibson, he is even better than when he was young. "},{"Title":"Where was Maureen O'Hara when casting this one???","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  I have high praise for THE HORSE SOLDIERS, an absorbing, excellent Civil War movie about the Union cavalry during combat and based on some actual battles according to historians. The only flaw seems to be the casting of Constance Towers as the flirtatious, spirited Southern lady who becomes the unwilling captive of Col. John Marlowe (John Wayne) when he discovers that she is a Confederate spy. She goes along for the ride and provides the film's love interest. While she's certainly a capable enough actress, it's the sort of role that cries for a hot-tempered Maureen O'Hara who must have been busy in another role to pass up this choice romantic lead.It's the sort of Ford film that must have been hard on the actors, riding through swamps on horseback and engaging in fierce battles when pursued by Rebel forces. William Holden has some wonderful moments as a doctor who is constantly bickering with John Wayne. Their exchanges provide plenty of tension and humor--and both actors are at their best under Ford's direction.A good Civil War western combining magnificent photography, good performances and some rousing battle scenes. The horrors of war are not ignored and there are some sentimental moments that never strike a false note. "}{"Title":"...and I won't be put upon.","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  The ...and I didn't kill either one of them... speech is one of my favorite Wayne moments. Plainly past his conventionality, the Marlowe character gives breathtaking short shrift to the unending pettiness and fallibility he encounters; Kirby, Kendall, congressional wannabes, reb deserters et.al. It's an exemplar of the 'Duke' personna dubious provenance, grand stature, indomitable purpose and a trace of sentiment. I'l put it with Searchers, Liberty', and Shootist (Wallace Beery impersonation in True Grit aside) as one of his best efforts.Ford's battle scenes are as usual patriotically free of blood and require no reflection but the imagery is great (you want to join the cavalry) and the detail outstanding. We hear the clanking of canteens and cookpots, an argument over the placement of latrines and see the only filmic presentation of the making of Sherman Neckties (warped rails). The Ford family is well represented though we miss Harry Carey Jr (and Paul Fixx must have been tied up with the Rifleman).If we had to have a love interest, Maureen Ohara could have at least tied this to Rio Grande and furthered the Ford library.Normally wonderful Bill Holden has only brief bright moments and is mostly going through the motions and hung-over here. Neither Wayne nor Ford were slouches when it came to curling whiskey but by his own admission Holden aggravated all and threatened production with reckless, drunken extracurriculae, breaking an arm falling from a bridge.This film was an inspiration in grade school and a guilty pleasure since. "},{"Title":"John Ford cavalry entry with two top-notch stars who play well-matched contenders  in the Union Army","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Based on the true-life of Col. Benjamin H. Grierson and a real incident during American Civil War ; it deals with a Union Cavalry army is sent behind confederate lines in strength to destroy a rail/supply post. Along with them is sent a pacifist medic (William Holden, the producers originally wanted Clark Gable for the leading role) who causes instant antipathy between him and the commander-in-chief (John Wayne). As Union Colonel leads sabotage party deep into rebel territory and carries out attacks ans contra-attacks , being accompanied by the doctor who heals wounded people . The secret plan for the mission is overheard by a southern woman (Constance Towers) who must be taken along to assure her silence . The actual deeds are the followings  In the Spring of 1863, Grierson left bases in northern Mississippi, taking 1,700 troopers with him. The film is based on the true raid by Col. Benjamin Grierson who, as shown in the movie, began his expedition--known as Grierson's Raid--from LeGrange, Tennessee, in April of 1863. Grierson drove through central Mississippi, tearing up railroads and upsetting Confederate General Pemberton's troop deployments before reaching Union-held Baton Rouge.This is the following to trilogy cavalry  ¨She Wore a Yellow Ribbon , Rio Grande , Fort Apache¨ , and including glorification of military life , drama , love and sentimental nostalgia with interesting character studio of a varied assortment of individuals . It was considered a minor job , however this classic picture nowadays ranks as one of the best of John Ford's work . It contains Ford's usual themes as good feeling , a little bit of enjoyable humor , friendship and and sense of comradeship among people . Interesting screenplay portraying in depth characters and brooding events with interesting issues running beneath script surface . Spectacular scenes as when the Confederate troops spontaneously attack the town in its last stand and when takes place the final confrontation on the besieged location , surrounding the bridge . The film marked the beginning of mega-deals for Hollywood stars , as John Wayne and William Holden received $775,000 each, plus 20% of the overall profits, an unheard-of sum for that time . The film , however , was a financial failure, with no profits to be shared in the end. Excellent film featuring a magnificent performance by whole casting . Awesome John Wayne in a larger-than-life character along with William Holden. Enticing and intimate Constance Towers in an enjoyable role , giving a sensational acting . Agreeable co-starring cast, as in the movie appears all habitual Ford's friends as Hoot Gibson as Sgt. Brown , Ken Curtis as Cpl. Wilkie , Willis Bouchey as Col. Phil Secord ,Hank Worden as Deacon and Strother Martin as Virgil . Good cinematography by William H. Clothier , John Ford's usual , reflecting splendidly marvelous outdoors .Vivid score by David Buttolph and including an emotive military parade of the boys academy .The movie was stunningly written and produced by John Lee Mahin and Martin Rackin ; of course , magnificently filmed by Ford , being John Ford's only feature film set during the Civil War, although he did direct a segment of ¨How the West Was Won¨ that was set during the Civil War . Director Ford suggested the scene with the boys' military academy, and according to the producers, he ad-libbed it . Rating  Better than average worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"They'll catch up to you and cut you to pieces, you nameless, fatherless scum.","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Colonel John Marlowe (John Wayne) is asked to take his Union calvary troop deep into Confederate territory to destroy the railroad and depot at Newton Station. Much to Marlowe's chagrin, regimental surgeon Major Henry Kendall (William Holden) is also along for the mission. With both men completely at odds with each other as regards adherence to duty and the execution of war. Things are further complicated when the brigade rests at Greenbriar Plantation, because Miss Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers), the plantation's mistress, and her slave Lukey (Althea Gibson) eavesdrop on a staff meeting thus hearing the plans about the raid. To protect the mission, Marlowe is forced to take the two women with him.John Ford's venture into the American Civil War is adapted from Harold Sinclair's novel of the same name. The story is based around the true story of Grierson's Raid and the climatic Battle of Newton's Station, which was led by Colonel Benjamin Grierson who, along with his men, rode hundreds of miles behind enemy lines in April 1863 to blow up the railroad between Newton's Station and Vicksburg, Mississippi. Thus giving Confederate General John C. Pemberton a whole heap of problems.What is at first the most striking thing about The Horse Soldiers is the chemistry between Holden and Wayne, friends in real life they were and my how does it show here. It gives the film a real sense of believability, the characters may be at odds as the ideological conflict between the military and the medical professions shows its hand, but a respectful, almost friendly rivalry shines thru from the two icons of machismo. Tho often described as one of the lesser lights in the John Wayne/John Ford partnership, The Horse Soldiers contains all the stock features that make up the best of Ford's Oaters.The Duke, Holden and bright eyed Constance Towers are obviously well framed in gorgeous settings, William Clothier working his photography magic in Louisiana and in and around Natchez, Mississippi. The lead song is a rousing one as Stan Jones warbles 'I Left My Love,' and the piece is chocked full of interesting characters fleshed with Ford thematics. Respect, strength, a love of your country, all given an observational, and customary, sheen from the master director. Ford even takes time to vent his spleen at cowards, courtesy of an engrossing sequence involving Strother Martin, while a running theme of surgery, particularly the legs, gives the piece a dramatic and honest historical core. The battle scenes are as to be expected, handled with skill, with a poignant moment as Confederate Cadettes are sent out to fight by the besieged superiors being as sad and indicative of the War as it is important in the context of Ford's story telling.Off camera the shoot was not without problems, Ford was battling the bottle and was making everyone's life a misery, particularly The Duke. Things were further darkened when Ford's friend, Fred Kennedy, a retired stuntman, asked for a job in the film on account of being broke financially. Reluctantly agreeing he allowed Kennedy to perform a basic stunt of falling off a horse, but tragically Kennedy broke his neck during the stunt and was dead before reaching the hospital. Ford was shattered, closing down the location site and returning home. The final battle scenes were eventually finished at San Fernando Valley, from where Ford headed to Hawaii and hit the bottle big time. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very decent Civil War film","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Just a few comments to add to the very knowledgeable preceding discussion. This is an excellent Civil War film with fine personal touches. The biggest failing, I believe, is on the matter of race. The Southern belle's faithful slave follows her without question, and there is a very unfortunate shot of a sleeping Black man being pushed out of a wagon before a battle. The physician played by William Holden does treat contraband (historically a term used for freed slaves), but all in all they are ignored. Perhaps Ford realized his error because in the 1960 film Sergeant Rutledge racial issues are faced head on and Black soldiers get full and honorable treatment. (And it is fascinating to watch some of the same actors in both films.) "},{"Title":"Much Underated","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  For some reason, many critics and John Ford fans underrated this saga of the Grierson raid of 1863, in which 1700 Union cavalrymen galloped from Illinois to New Orleans to divert Confederate attention from Grant's Vicksburg campaign. I think it's one of Ford's best films, ranking with his Cavalry Trilogy. The action scenes are the best in any Civil War films and John Wayne's performance is perhaps the best of his career. I don't have any problem with the love story. William Holden is the same cynical character he is in so many films, (this was just two years after The Bridge on the River Kwai and here he is back in a war movie- one that ends with a bridge blowing up!). The sequence with the military academy is great. In the real battle of New Market, the Union forces did not spare the VMI cadets, who would have been older than these boys and were part of a larger Confederate force. One of the last scenes in the film contains tow forgivable historical errors. Dr. Holden is seen boiling his utensils. He tells Wayne that he is staying behind to care for the wounded even if it mean capture. Wayne asks Even if it means Andersonville? Holden answers yes. Pasteur didn't determine the cause of infection until 1879. More Civil War soldiers died of their wounds after battle than during the battles precisely because Civil War doctors did not take the precautions Holden is shown taking here. The Andersonville prison camp was founded in February, 1864, to alleviate overcrowding at Libby Prison in Richmond and to remove the captees from the front lines. It didn't exist at the time of the Grierson raid. Obviously Ford and his writers felt Andersonville would raise an image of horror in the viewers that underscored the sacrifice Holden is making by staying.     "},{"Title":"Doesn' get better","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" I think that this is one of the best U.S. Cavalry movies made, at least concerning one plot line. The fact that it is based on an actual raid makes it that much better. Of course the captured Southern belle and all the drama that entails plus the scenes with the Rebel deserters at the barn and at the saloon turned into a hospital after the not a surprise attack by Rebels from the train had to have been put in for effect. There is some good humor in the movie from the two sergeants who can not seem to keep the woman who must accompany the regiment when she learns the Union plans from trying to run for it to the reactions when the boys military academy charges the resting troops. William Holden plays the smart ass doctor. He does it very well and shows good character by staying with the wounded from both sides when the Union troops have to get across and blow the bridge to get away from Bedford Forest's pursuing cavalry. "},{"Title":"Excellent civil war Actioner","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" A very satisfying civil war movie. John Wayne plays one of his most brutal characters and William Holden is excellent as the kind hearted camp doctor. The movie is colourful and the theme song I left my love is excellent.Although there is a fair bit of talking, the action is very well done as it showcases a shootout between confederates and union soldiers in a dusty southern town and toward the end of the film union soldiers ride across a bride and a battle ensues with confederates which makes good use of cannons and loud noises. There is a comedic scene were colonel Marlowes platoon is attacked by some confederate child soldiers and when one child is caught a union soldier has no choice but to spank him, honestly its one of the funniest scenes in movie history. The end of the film is very sad and will leave you in tears. The horse soldiers is just as good as recent civil war flick Gettysburg. Highly recommended for war, western and John Wayne fans. "},{"Title":"Good Civil War Action-Drama","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" In The Horse Soldiers John Ford returns to the theme of the US Cavalry which he had immortalised in his Cavalry Trilogy made around a decade earlier. As in all three films of that trilogy, the leading role is taken by Ford's favourite actor, John Wayne, although this film is not set in the West but in Mississippi during the American Civil War. (Despite being set in the eastern half of the USA, it is nevertheless occasionally referred to as a Western).The story is a fictionalised version of the real-life Grierson Raid of 1863 in which a unit of Union Cavalry penetrated deep behind Confederate lines in order to destroy a strategically important railroad junction being used by the Confederates to supply their garrison at Vicksburg. Wayne plays the raid's commander, here called Colonel John Marlowe, who ironically was a railroad building engineer before the war. Apart from the battle scenes, much of the drama in the film arises from the clashes between Marlowe and his politically ambitious second-in-command, Colonel Philip Secord, and between Marlowe and the regimental surgeon, Major Henry Kendall. Kendall makes little secret of his dislike of war and sees himself as a doctor first, a soldier second. He considers that his main duty is to relieve human suffering, wherever it may occur, rather than to further the military aims of the Union armies.An additional complication occurs when the unit stops at a plantation house and Marlowe discovers that the plantation's attractive young mistress Hannah Hunter and her black slave Lukey (played by the tennis star Althea Gibson) have been spying on them. To prevent them from betraying his mission to the Confederate forces, and unwilling to shoot two unarmed women in cold blood, Marlowe is forced to take them with him.Ford does not really attempt to explore the causes of the war or the moral issues involved. Three years earlier he had made The Searchers, in which he analysed the nature of racism in the Old West, but here he does not take up the challenge of analysing racism in the Old South in the same way. Doubtless, however, he was well aware of the economics of Hollywood film-making. The most commercially successful films were those that could appeal to audiences both north and south of the Mason-Dixon Line, and in the fifties a film which took too hard an anti-Confederate line would be likely to alienate Southern sympathies.Although the film is essentially a war film, it combines action with other elements, including psychological analysis and occasional humour. There is even an element of romance, something not generally found in films of this type, as Marlowe falls in love with Constance Towers's Hannah, something I did not find particularly element in the film; it struck me as an unsuccessful attempt to import into an action drama that hoary old convention of the romantic comedy whereby two characters start off as bitter enemies and end up falling in love. (As had had shown in films like A Man Betrayed, Wayne was not the world's greatest exponent of romantic comedy). Wayne is, however, very good when he concentrates on being a tough soldier rather than a sentimental lover, and William Holden is also good as the no-nonsense medic Kendall. The Horse Soldiers is not perhaps quite in the same league as The Searchers or Fort Apache, but it is a good action-drama and one of the better Ford/Wayne collaborations. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Thundering Spectacle","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Based on an actual Civil War incident, 'The Horse Soldiers' tells the rousing tale of a troop of Union soldiers who force their way deep into Southern territory to destroy a rebel stronghold at Newton Station. In command is hardbitten Colonel Marlowe (John Wayne), a man who is strikingly contrasted by the company's gentle surgeon (William Holden) and the beautiful but crafty Southern belle (Constance Towers) who's forced to accompany the Union raiders on perhaps the most harrowing mission in the war, according to the film's promotional description.Not his best would be putting it kindly. But, there are many scenes that are nicely staged by director John Ford with obviously helpful cameraman William Clothier. Only Mr. Ford's occasional interludes work, a standout featuring Strother Martin and Denver Pyle as a couple of repugnant Confederates. Neither a swaggering Wayne nor a stiff Holden succeeds with the wartime conflict and love story. Looking great in both a blanket and a wet shirt, Ms. Towers is otherwise unintentionally hilarious. Behind the scenes tragedy, including the death of Fred Kennedy, didn't help.***** The Horse Soldiers (6/12/59) John Ford ~ John Wayne, William Holden, Constance Towers, Althea Gibson "},{"Title":"great horse opera","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Once upon a time, long, long ago, when there were only a handful of TV channels and no vcr, I used to search the TV pages to see if this film would come on. When it did I would sit upon a chair much too large for me, with my feet dangling in the air and for about two hours bask in the knowledge that John Wayne was in the saddle and all was well with the world. No sooner had the last credit disappeared than out came the plastic soldiers and the US cavalry would ride to the rescue again that afternoon.I have since 'put away childish things' and equally childish notions but this film still has me in it's grip. It's not John Fords finest hour of celluloid (but he rarely had a bad one) but there is still much to recommend it. Firstly John Wayne fights hard to contest the screen here - sure he's in charge, but he has to battle Rebels, an over the top Southern Belle (Constance Towers) and an equally feisty Regimental surgeon (ably played by William Holden). It is this latter relationship that gives the film much of it's fizz until the men in gray turn up. It is also somewhat of a juxtaposition in the sense that Wayne plays the gifted amateur officer, in for the duration, whilst Holden plays the phlegmatic, professional.Once again Ford pays homage to the cavalry by his attention to detail, the donning of capes in the rain, the clink-clank of accoutrement's and equipment, the casing-encasing of the colours etc. As usual Ford keeps the brutal aggression to the minimum and the battles are comparatively short in duration. Here's a question though; in the battle of Newton Station, at the very height Wayne refuse a gun with which to defend himself (or use against the Confederacy). Is this in keeping with his portrayal of a reluctant hero, or more in line with his avowed ultra-right wing sympathies? Whatever, it's still rates for me as one of his better performances.Though I might not believe any more that the cavalry will always come riding over the hill just in the nick of time, this is still a worthwhile effort where total realism takes a back seat to military pageant.  "}{"Title":"Hawk vs. Dove","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERHawkish John Wayne vies with Dovish William Holden, both masters of their trade, providing alternating viewpoints on war.  Holden's intellectual surgeon is quite a match for Wayne, and Ford is wise enough to not take sides.  Note how the final decide-all fist fight is interrupted by an enemy attack.This film tries to show that no matter what your attitude regarding war, when push comes to shove you can put your differences aside and do your part.  Both characters realize this in the end with overtones of the buddy film formula.This is one of the few pro-Union Civil War films out there, and it presents a wide array of Confederate sterotypes, notably Constance Tower's southern belle.  She pours it on a bit thick, but makes an annoying character watchable.  And wow what a dress! "},{"Title":"The film marked a personal tragedy for John Ford.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Director John Ford was notably sentimental about the actors and crew who had worked with him over the years in his film 'family.' Among these was an old stunt man and western wrangler, Fred Kennedy.  Against his better judgment, Ford gave Kennedy a stunt ride in The Horse Soldiers.  Kennedy's horse fell, breaking the old actor's neck.  The scene was retained in the final cut.  But Ford was broken-hearted with guilt. "},{"Title":"Underrated John Ford Movie","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" This is usually considered one of the lesser John Ford efforts. Not in my opinion. While technically a Civil War film, I include it in the Western genre. Since this is Ford, it can be considered a prequel to his Westerns, since almost all characters during the classic Western time period were Civil War veterans.Here's what I liked- Wayne's fantastic in this. I'd love him even more as a war leader if he hadn't dodged real service in WW2 (sorry, Duke fans, just keepin' it real).- Great story, even greater since it is largely true.- William Holden does a nice job with a not very glamorous role of the anti-war physician.- I've read a lot of criticism of Constance Towers as the female lead, but I fell for her character hook, line and sinker. Very sexy and believable.- Fabulous Ford military fetishism. The silhouetted columns of cavalry are macho poetry. - Typically wonderful Ford soundtrack, full of authentic period marches and folk songs.- Nice balance struck between portraying the Union soldiers in a positive light, yet remaining respectful of the Confederates.Now here's what kept it from being better- As mentioned above, I have problems with Wayne playing a war hero. Jimmy Stewart, Duke's peer, volunteered for combat in WW2 and flew dozens of almost suicidal bombing missions over Germany. He survived and vowed never to star in a movie that glorified war. In fact, on several occasions, he played a peacemaker (Broken Arrow, for example). By comparison, Duke's legacy is embarrassing. Out of respect to veterans like Stewart, he should have refused war roles.- As is typical with Duke movies after 1950, he's way too old for the woman playing against him in the romantic subplot. He didn't start playing characters his real age until well into the 1960's.- There's no well defined heavy. This can be a problem when retelling real events. Also, Ford wasn't out to demonize the South.- Unusually for Ford, there's no effective comic relief. Guess Walter Brennan and Andy Devine were busy. "},{"Title":"Another John Ford/John Wayne classic","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Another John Ford/John Wayne classic. Pretty good war movie for its time, featuring small unit combat. Constance Towers was quite good as the feisty Southern belle, who first seems a spoiled rich kid, but shows the steel underneath. An interesting bit of casting, Althea Gibson, the tennis player, as the slave handmaiden to Towers. I didn't think her acting was much to write home about, but the role didn't really call for theatrics. Definitely worth while for Wayne (or Holden) fans. "},{"Title":"With all due respect, ma'am, I'm gonna get the hell outta here.","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Union cavalry officer John Wayne leads his men through Confederate Mississippi hoping to reach Baton Rouge. Along the way, he has to deal with Rebel soldiers and spies, as well as clashing with doctor William Holden. While not one of director John Ford's best, this is an interesting movie for a few reasons. First it's a film about the cavalry's role in the Civil War, which is rarely discussed. Second, it takes place largely in Mississippi. Most Civil War movies that take place in the South generally focus on Georgia, Tennessee, Virginia, etc. This is one of the few that I can think of to deal with the war in Mississippi. Third, this is John Ford's only Civil War film. He did direct a small segment of How the West Was Won that took place during the war and he certainly had many characters affected by their Civil War experiences in his westerns. But this is the only full movie of his that actually takes place during the war itself.Duke is fine. It's not one of his more memorable roles, though that's more the fault of the script than his performance. William Holden plays an army surgeon Duke is forced to take along with him. In all honesty, Holden's character seems completely tacked-on to the plot. He could've been removed entirely without upsetting the film much. It might have even improved it. Constance Towers is fun as a Southern belle the soldiers have to take with them on their march. At first she seems flighty but soon shows there's more to her. She also has one of the most provocative scenes from any Ford film, where she bends down in front of John Wayne with her cleavage exposed, offering him some chicken and saying Would you like a leg or a breast? She's probably the only standout in the film. It's not one of Ford's best. It's watchable and interesting enough, but also overlong and familiar in tone to other cavalry movies I've seen, despite the change in locale. Obviously Wayne and Ford buffs will want to check it out. "},{"Title":"Horseplay Galore","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" The Horse Soldiers is an average secret mission war movie about the Union cavalry. Principally, the casting of John Wayne and William Holden, who are at each other's throats throughout most of the action, is reason enough to watch William Clothier's gorgeously photographed American Civil War epic. Fort Apache director John Ford and his long-time lenser Clothier present the eponymous Union troops and occasional Confederate cavalry strung out in formation and skylined against horizon. As with most Ford films, the soldiers warble familiar war-time, folk songs to stress the difference in their nationality. This colorful adventure opus concerns Grierson's historic, 600-mile raid through central Mississippi on the eve of the siege of Vicksburg. Naturally, Wayne plays Colonel John Marlowe, a fictional alter ego of the real-life Colonel Benjamin Grierson, the gung-o leader of the Union Army who led a cavalry brigade on a hell-bent-for-leather foray from northern Mississippi down across the state to Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Grierson's objective was to cut the railroads that provided supplies to Vicksburg on the western side of the state. Interestingly enough, Grierson was a music teacher in real-life before he suited up in Union blue. Comparably, Marlowe is a former railroad construction engineer who rose up the ranks of his profession by the sweat of his brow. Presumably, the author of the novel, Harold Sinclair, must have felt it would be far more appropriate for Marlowe to be a railroad man, since he was ordered to destroy a railroad and all the rolling stock. When the film unfolds, General Grant informs our protagonist that things aren't going well for the Union. Grant complains, To put it mildly, with less men and less resources, the South has whipped us to a standstill. As sensational as the raid was, the action itself was virtually bloodless. The first skirmish with the Confederates occurs about 17 minutes into the raid, with a few of Marlowe's men ambushed. This disturbs Marlowe considerably because the ambush could mean that 'the cat is out of the bag' and every Confederate for miles around will know about this so-called secret mission. No Hollywood movie from the 1950s would be complete without the presence of a heroine. About ten minutes after the initial skirmish, the most memorable scene occurs when Colonel Marlowe and his command ride into Greenbriar Plantation. Plantation mistress Miss Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers of Sergeant Rutledge) arranges a sumptuous repast of southern fried chicken for Marlowe and his officers. During this splendid meal, she offers Marlowe a chicken breast while she hovers above him with his low-cut dress revealing her magnificent breasts. Marlowe blushes in humiliation. The crafty Miss Hunter arranges matters so when Marlowe and his men confer over strategy, she and her maid Lukey (one-time-only-actress Althea Gibson) can eavesdrop. Again, Marlowe cannot afford to leave Miss Hunter behind, so she is forced to accompany them for the remainder of the raid. Not surprisingly, Miss Hunter makes a terrible nuisance of herself. She tries to escape on horseback at one point and her horse spills her in a swamp. Later, she tries to warn a cavalry patrol, but Kendall thwarts her, and she has to give her word of honor to Marlowe to refrain from such activities.The biggest action set-piece occurs about an hour into The Horse Soldiers when Marlowe and his command arrive at Newton Station and receive a surprise when a Confederate troop train trundles in and scores of soldiers pour out of the boxcars. Confederate Colonel Jonathan Miles (Carleton Young of Reefer Madness) is a sneaky, one-armed officer who coordinates the attack and eventually charges down Newton's main street carrying the Stars and Stripes with his men behind. After they repulse the attacking Confederates, Marlowe's men rip up the railroad tracks and twists the rails into bowties. During the lull in the action, we learn the source of Marlowe's rage against Kendall because two surgeons cut into Marlowe's wife in search of a tumor that they never found. When Marlowe's men aren't torching the railroad ties, they are sending contraband cotton up in smoke. In a last ditch effort, the Confederates assemble cadets from a nearby military academy to coordinate with a cannon battery. This takes place when Marlowe and Kendall tangle for a knuckle-buster in the middle of the woods. Rather than ride against the cadets, Marlowe and his men skedaddle away from them after they cadet give them a volley or two. Naturally, forty miles from their Baton Rouge objective, Marlowe and is command encounter Confederates at a wooden bridge. After Marlowe is wounded in the leg, he leads a charge across the bridge and routes the Confederates. For the record, Marlowe and Hunter fall in love, and Kendall remains behind after the bridge is blown up to tend the wounded. Whatever The Horse Soldiers lacks in spectacular action, it struggles to compensate with the friction between Wayne and Holden. Major Henry Kendall, William Holden brings his liberal sensibilities to the fore as the Union surgeon to plies his trade and vents his wrath at the stalwart Marlowe. Despite William H. Clothier impressive cinematography and robust performances by a seasoned cast, the story is just a little too humdrum. Nevertheless, mediocre John Ford is better than no John Ford. "},{"Title":"Searchers theme","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" I noticed in the first review that the contributor wrote that the Song Writer who gave us the Searcher's theme Song was acting in the picture, The Horse Solders. But,did anyone notice bits of the Searcher's theme Song woven into the sound track at points in the movie that concerned Colonel Marlowe and Hannah? Also, there were a great many of the Ford Stock Troupe in this movie contrary to what some have posted. Ken Curtis, Jack Pennick, Bing Russell, Hank Worden, Russell Simpson, OZ Whitehead, Walter Reed, Strother Martin, Denver Pyle, Good Chuck Hayward,and Bad Chuck Roberson just off the top of my head. I agree with most that this movie has been greatly overlooked and underplayed. I saw it for the first time just the other day, and I am researching for a book on the uncredited stunt men and character actors who MADE our heroes. "},{"Title":"Fine Civil War action","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Grant needs to win Vicksburg but the south is fighting him to a draw. Colonel John Marlowe (John Wayne) leads an Union cavalry brigade to destroy a rail supply depot at Newton Station behind the confederate lines. Major Henry Kendall (William Holden) is the newly attached surgeon who is constantly at odds with Marlowe. Marlowe distrust all doctors after his wife was killed in an unnecessary surgery. Plantation mistress Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers) and her slave Lukey (Althea Gibson) overhears their plans and Marlowe takes them prisoner. They plan to fight all the way to Baton Rouge.William Holden is good as the questioning doctor. He could have been played as some pacifist idiot but he shows more depth than that. I do want John Wayne to be harder and darker. His moral superiority keeps bumping against the gritty ugliness of the situation. The kids from the Jefferson Military Academy are a perfect opportunity to up the ante on the war action. Instead, the movie takes the safest route. The action is big but not always the most impressive. I actually like the bending of the rails but that's not really action. It's just something different. For the action, I want it to be grittier and darker. This is fine but not anything superior. "},{"Title":"Possibly my favorite John Wayne flick","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Wayne's a bit before my time so I was late getting on The Duke wagon. At first, I admit, that I didn't really like him (I lean more to the likes of Eastwood, Heston, Rambo and Thomas Jane) but I slowly came to appreciate his unique presence & vibe.Of the approximately 25 Wayne films I've seen some of my favorites include The Cowboys ('72), El Dorado ('66), North to Alaska ('60), The Shootist ('76), The Conqueror ('56) and The Horse Soldiers ('59). Okay, I'm just jokin' about The Conqueror (LOL) but John Ford's The Horse Soldiers is definitely one of my favorites.THE STORY Loosely based on Col. Grierson's 1863 Cavalry raid behind Confederate lines, The Duke leads a cavalry force deep into rebel territory to cut off supply lines to Vicksburg, Mississippi, which was being attacked by Gen. Grant. Along for the ride is a medical officer (William Holden) who is at odds with Wayne. As their journey progresses they are forced to acquire a troublesome Southern belle (Constance Towers).Although the film has some expected dated aspects, like the dreadful opening song (almost on a par with North to Alaska), The Horse Soldiers holds up well, highlighted by authentic Southern locations -- filmed in Mississippi, Louisianna and Texas.What works best is the story and characters. The conflict between Wayne and Holden adds tension and is entertaining, but you just know they'll likely come out of this venture highly respecting one another. Needless to say, Wayne and Holden have great chemistry. Some complain about the Southern belle but she's a good touch and, really, there are no romantic dallyings to speak of (until the very end, that is).The Horse Soldiers is one of those film you enjoy seeing no matter how many times you've seen it. It plainly shows the horrors of war but, somehow, it ultimately manages to be enjoyable and even uplifting.This ranks with the best Civil War pictures, along with Gods & Generals (2003), Glory (1989), Ride with the Devil (1999) and Pharaoh's Army (1995).GRADE A "},{"Title":"Hawk vs. Dove","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Hawkish John Wayne vies with Dovish William Holden, both masters of their trade, providing alternating viewpoints on war.  Holden's intellectual surgeon is quite a match for Wayne, and Ford is wise enough to not take sides.  Note how the final decide-all fist fight is interrupted by an enemy attack.This film tries to show that no matter what your attitude regarding war, when push comes to shove you can put your differences aside and do your part.  Both characters realize this in the end with overtones of the buddy film formula.This is one of the few pro-Union Civil War films out there, and it presents a wide array of Confederate sterotypes, notably Constance Tower's southern belle.  She pours it on a bit thick, but makes an annoying character watchable.  And wow what a dress! "}{"Title":"Historic Fact","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"   The Horse Soldiers was not designed to be an historical movie, therefore one cannot criticize historic inaccuracies. The film is loosely based on Grierson's Raid during the civil war. The movie is typical John Wayne however with several of his standard extras including Ken Curtis, Hank Worden and Denver Pyle who appeared with him in other movies including the Alamo. Even I must admit that Constance Towers's dress which she wore while entertaining the the union officers at her plantation was sensual for this time. What raves did it get in 1959? All in all The Horse Solders is a good movie and it makes me wonder what could be done with that plot today. "},{"Title":"Very Strong But Not The Best","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Ford dismissed this movie but in vain, this is a very decent work, a very dynamic and even humorous take on Civil War. John Wayne did a very good job here as Colonel Marlowe, and his performance is very deep, convincing,often wild, often touching. This is not his best work, as say, in The Longest Day, but still, John did a very candid work in here. Another highlight is William Holden as a military medic Henry Kendall - his play here is one of the real crowning achievements of the whole movie. I was surprised to learn that John Ford somehow rued the work, as the movie is really very enjoyable, a good and healthy combination of war and romance, espionage and cowardice, hate and compassion. The battle scenes are incredibly fine, too, the Confederate Railroad station attack is deeply moving and worth Maxwell's grandeur. Watch this movie and you won't be really disappointed, this take on the War is good, honest and rather dry, but realistic "},{"Title":"Ultimate Pairing - Wayne & Holden","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" It is the performances of John Wayne & William Holden that make this a very good film. They are cast as Commmander & Doctor of a Union Calvary unit behind Confederate lines being pursued & trying to escape. John Fords direction is solid too. It seems like the bridge being blown up at the end of this film is the same one I have seen blown up in some other films. Makes me wonder if this stock footage is used in other films.The support cast is a who's who of character actors from Western films & provide fine support in this film. If you have never seen this one, it is worth a good look. Both Wayne & Holden have fully developed characters which are explored in depth & challenged by what is going on around them.This is a very solid film & runs on television often, though I'd suggest seeing it on TCM without commercials as the best way to view it. "},{"Title":"Not great Wayne/Ford, but good Wayne/Ford","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Wayne and William Holden work well together in this Civil War story of a Northern cavalry unit going behind Southern lines to attack and destroy a Confederate railroad depot. Wayne plays a former railroad builder who is torn between his desire to do his duty and his distaste at having to destroy things that he had spent his life building, and Holden is the army doctor who accompanies the unit, and arouses Wayne's ire because Wayne dislikes doctors even more than he dislikes destroying railroads. This is one of director John Ford's last pictures, and while not on a par with his better known westerns, it's still a crackerjack tale, well acted by the principals and the cast of stellar character actors--Willis Bouchey, Hank Worden, Bing Russell (Kurt's father) and old-time cowboy star Hoot Gibson among them--with Ford's usual top-notch action scenes and somewhat crude but not vulgar humor. The main drawback is the lame romantic triangle among Holden, Wayne and Constance Towers, who plays a Southern belle caught listening in at a meeting where the unit's strategy is being planned, and is forced to accompany them on their mission. It doesn't really work, as Towers' part is too sketchily written and she comes across like a third-string Scarlett O'Hara. There's a touching, and funny, episode when the unit is attacked by the teenage (and younger) cadets of a Southern military academy. All in all, a good action picture that will hold your interest. "},{"Title":"Incredibly lame","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Incredibly lame, and not representative of the genius of John Ford. Very unrealistic and contrived. Just about everything is wrong, militarily. Subordinates question just about every order of their commanding officer, the CO gets drunk in the middle of a raid, US Grant gets called by his nickname by subordinates, after doing well to disguise their intentions the Union soldiers give it all away by showing the towns people the direction they are headed.Then there are the sappy sentimentality's that devalue the movie even more. The doctor who doesn't seem to realise there is a war on, the irritating Southern woman who is just there as a very contrived love interest (and who should have been shot as a spy), the successful attack by a regiment of kids.Add in a few overblown characters that are there just to represent the types of people who fought in the Civil war eg the politician- officer.Usual one-dimensional swagger-filled performance from John Wayne. William Holden is incredibly irritating as the doctor. Even more irritating is Constance Towers as the Southern woman. Hardly a good performance in the whole movie.The saddest thing is that the movie is loosely based on a real event, the Grierson Raid. Though the characters and many details have been changed, this movie is an insult to the memories of the men who took part in that raid. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film About The Civil War","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Based upon a book about an actual Civil War campaign, The Horse Soldiers is a story, not history. But oh what a story.Union troops, operating behind enemy lines, encounter all manner of Southerners and soldiers, illuminating the tragedies and horrors of war. There are light moments, too, and some uplifting stories about the human spirit.A trio of wonderful performances drives this film directed by John Ford, whose photography and framing are considered and sometimes creative. Colonel John Marlowe is played by John Wayne with his usual steadfast solidity. Major Henry Kendall, a physician, is played by William Holden. Like some of Holden's other roles (Stalag 17, Bridge on the River Kwai), Kendall is an irreverent pragmatist. Wayne and Holden complement each other very well. To this mix is added a Southern belle, Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers), who resents the harsh impositions of the Yankees and their disregard for Southern sovereignty. The supporting cast is also wonderful and it includes a wealth of actors who are fun to spot.The script is tight, with no wasted moments. By the final act, the viewer has experienced a microcosm of the conflict. This is one of the best films about the American Civil War. "},{"Title":"Who needs Monument Valley?","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" John Ford and John Wayne made some great cavalry pictures in the Utah desert, but this one set deep in Dixie during the Civil War beats all of them, at least for me. There's more complexity at the heart of it. John Wayne's character is dedicated to soldiering, even though he cares relatively little about the cause he's fighting for and in many ways admires his enemies. William Holden's character is just the opposite He believes in the cause, and is moved by the plight of the slaves, but as an idealistic medical man he can no longer stomach the war. And then a woman comes between these two men, pushing their philosophical conflict to a more basic level. Despite a few historical errors, some of the small details of this movie give it a kind of un-Hollywood realism -- Union soldiers with Southern accents, for example. I could quibble that the soldiers' singing, as in Ford's other military movies, is impossibly good, and I'm sure any veteran would back me up. But gosh, it is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Not without a few flaws, it's still very interesting and compelling","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" While this isn't one of John Ford's best films, it's still very good and well worth seeing. That's because it's one of the few films I have seen that actually talks about the US Cavalry during the Civil War. In fact, now that I think about it, it's amazing how few films Hollywood has made about this supremely important and devastating war. And, fortunately, the film has a strong basis in reality, as the mission John Wayne leads his men on is inspired by real incidents. The battle scenes are excellent and in the case of the battle fought on the main street in one town, quite compelling and sad.About the only negatives are the seemingly artificial animosity between Wayne and William Holden. At times, it seems like this is more a plot device than anything else, though this is hashed out better as the story unfolds. Also, another minor problem is the female lead. Considering how often she tried to escape, that she was a spy and tried to alert the Confederates, I just couldn't buy Wayne in how he treated her. I would have shot her and be done with it!!! What's worse is near the very end, completely out of no where, he confesses to her that he loves her!!! Where did this come from anyways?! Please try to look past these issues and enjoy the film for what it is--a tribute to some very brave men on a seemingly impossible mission. "},{"Title":"A  great historical movie","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" I grew up with a love of the Civic War from the 4th grade on. And to see the realistic sights and sounds of that conflict in a movie with a good plot always made me admire John Ford. I think Ford was ahead of his time. John Ford gave to me in this movie a sense of realism in the military scenes and he captured the feel of size and scope of moving a large number of men with all of there numbers and sounds that they would make in moving across a road or fighting off an attack on the streets of Newton Station. The love story that was a side bar of this movie turned out in the end to be the new life that John Wayne would lead after the war was over. And we all wished that he would live happily ever after. "},{"Title":"A routine movie except for one excellent scene","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  BEWARE THIS INCLUDES A SPOILER. It will blunt enjoyment of the excellent scene described above. During Sherman's Civil War march through Georgia in 1864 when the Confederacy had few men left, the (very) young men of a military academy were marched in a straight line straight into a mass of Sherman's seasoned Midwestern veterans. They were massacred. When the Union soldiers saw what they had done and at whom they had been shooting, they were sickened. You can read about in Volume 3 of Shelby Foote's Civil War. Ford's movie incorporates this incident in a different campaign of the war. (The movie is based on an actual campaign, though I can't remember the details). The doddering semi-senile old man who leads the boys' charge is priceless. The cinematic Union soldiers react exactly as Sherman's veterans did. Perhaps there was more than one such incident late in the Civil War, but if this is the only one, kudos to the writers for discovering it well before Foote's book was published and Ford for including it as a testimonial to the stupidity of warfare.  "}{"Title":"Nice outside, was disappointing on the inside","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Imagine that, a beautiful afternoon, you're on a lonely road, and suddenly, to the contrary, come see a girl (or boy, as your sexual attraction) which draws you deeply respect She has very bright eyes, precious ears, hair beautifully adorning his head, a... that is, the rest of his body will be seen well worth it. But once you start to listen, and just an hour ago, you start to realize that she's frivolous, cranky, repetitive, dull... and two hours later, when she decides to terminate the meeting that took you, you'll disappointed because this beauty will fatuous was insignificant.The same example can have it with you thought buying a house or a car that will dazzle. There are things that have a great looking, but they are hollow or frustrating when it gets into the enclosure. And then completely disappointing and meaningless. So is this movie of our beloved John Ford. It all starts with desire beautiful scenery, a sparkling picture, famous actors... but then, after giving the mission to the shift command, we began to witness a long march in which the only thing interesting is a Southern girl with the air of a traitor (and a little thigh certainly better than wing) that crosses their path. The rest is to see the larger-surgeon Kendall (a bland William Holden) to attend one, two, three, four... to fiiiiiiive patients. And see Colonel Marlowe (an indigestible John Wayne) show rough with everyone who crosses his path.Has spent one and half hour movie... and the enemy remains a ghost. Never we see, the conflict is against the wind, and the has Marlowe himself (although it seems to be against Kendall) because him never forgive what some doctors did to his wife. And I must not talk about what goes on, but could not be more inane.And to top it all, from time to time, and with subtlety, release the reactionaries that leaves a bad smell standing at the anti-slavery, when we see that the single slave in the film, lives happily so, and until her has condemned the Union soldiers. And the smell escapes anti-Indian when I see that Kendall reluctantly applied a poultice in a patient, Marlowe said contemptuously ¡Method of Cheyenne!, ¡Green mold!, Green bullshit!.THE HORSE SOLDIERS... ¡Pure foolishness! "},{"Title":"That's enough, Section Hand! I've heard you; strip off your blouse . . . ","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" . . . William Holden demands of John Wayne halfway through THE HORSE SOLDIERS. I've always wondered what the technical term is for the odd-looking Dagwood Bumstead-style chest garments Mr. Wayne seems to affect for most of his flicks (whether he's supposed to be a civilian, or again if he's supposedly in the Pre-Don't ask, don't tell U.S. Military, as in THE HORSE SOLDIERS). The closest that I've seen any other actor come to Mr. Wayne's iconic upper body costumes has been George Lazenby as James Bond, in ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE. While Mr. Lazenby's top may have had an extra flourish compared to Il Duce's, Mr. Holden's word blouse certainly seems an apt description of both men's upper garments. There's probably enough thanks to split between Mr. Holden, the HORSE screenwriters, and director John Ford for finally setting the world straight about Mr. Wayne's orientation. Even many of today's commentators won't touch this topic with a ten-foot pole, fearing that the reach of Hollywood's most famous Bully Boy (see TRUMBO) may even extend from the Grave. However, a lot of sound bites have been released recently from another of Il Duce's directors, William A. Wellman, which back up William Holden's insinuation in HORSE. "},{"Title":"I suggest you see a doctor. Ding-dong, ding-dong.","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Though both are Union officers, Colonel John Marlowe (John Wayne) and Major Henry Kendall (William Holden) find themselves on opposite sides of an emotional divide while marching their troops to a Confederate supply station with the intention of blowing it up. Marlowe is the no nonsense, get the job done type, while Kendall shows a compassionate side that more modern times might have qualified him as a conscientious objector. Their march to Newton Station is interrupted by a brief stay at Greenbriar, where proprietress Miss Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers) has the misfortune of being caught eavesdropping on Marlowe's plan to destroy Newton Station and continue a southward march all the way to Baton Rouge.Unable now to leave Miss Hunter and her personal servant Lukey behind, Marlowe is forced to bring them along to prevent the enemy from learning of his plans. I was rather surprised to learn that the role of Lukey was portrayed by early Wimbledon tennis star Althea Gibson in her only significant screen appearance. I'm kind of curious how she added this job to her resume, there's got to be a good piece of trivia in there someplace.Played pretty much as a straight Civil War drama, there's a curious segment in the second half of the picture in which the elderly administrator of the Jefferson Military Academy sends his teen-aged cadets out to do battle in support of the Southern cause when Marlowe's troops enter the area. Wisely, though somewhat unexpectedly knowing John Wayne's persona in films like these, his character Marlowe calls for a bugle retreat so as not to engage the youngsters in what would have been a horrific massacre.Oddly, once the objective is reached and mission accomplished, the film ends rather abruptly at a point where it looks like one more stand is about to be encountered, the Baton Rouge objective having been cited more than once. Equally questionable, Colonel Marlowe declares his love for Miss Hunter in a head scratcher of a plot contrivance considering all that went before. If anything, it should have been Holden's character to attract Miss Hunter's affections considering the amount of time they spent together tending to wounded and dying soldiers. "},{"Title":"John Wayne's Finest Movie","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Horse Soldiers ranks with Major Dundee and Twelve O'Clock High in its study of the personality of command. Colonel John Marlowe is the man with the mission break rebel supply lines supporting besieged Vicksburgh. On one hand he must deal with a meddlesome Regular Army Surgeon Major Henry Kendall (William Holden) and on the other an ambitious, backbiting subordinate Colonel Phil Secord who expects the campaign to launch him into politics. Along the way, the raiding force is constrained to internee Miss Hannah Hunter, (Constance Towers) a Southern Belle laced with a poisonous, duplicit charm.Miss Hannah Hunter (bending over with a plate of chicken, revealing ample cleavage) Do you prefer the leg... or the breast? Col. John Marlowe I've had quite enough of both, thank you. The raid must proceed with stealth and speed until it reaches it's target. Any man who can't continue must be left to the clemency of the enemy. Deep in rebel held territory, quarter is not to be expected. With such parameters, there is a constant clash between Dr Kendall and Colonel Marlowe. Behind his back, Kendall calls Colonel Marlowe 'Old Iron Head.' To his face Kendall is generally glib but subtleMajor Kendall That's a pretty primitive outlook; medically speaking, that is. Col. John Marlowe Well, doctor, war isn't exactly a civilized business. ********* Col. John Marlowe (during firefight) I didn't want this. I tried to avoid a fight! Major Kendall That's why I took up medicine. The US Army takes the rebel supply depot at Newton Station and routs a rebel attempt to retake it. The grim work is about to be doneMiss Hannah Hunter You're not going to burn the town down Major? Maj. Richard Gray No ma'am just war supplies; cotton, railroad equipment, contraband ma'am. But Marlowe a Railroad Engineer in civilian life does not revel in the task as does the would-be politician Phil Secord. The plan is to skedaddle South to US held Baton Rouge. Along the way PVT Dunker develops an infection which Dr Kendall treats with tree moss. The photography of the scene is incredibly well done with John Wayne's standing in the shadows looking on in horror. You're putting dirt on a wound?There's a powerful ending. A dramatic Cavalry charge breaks through rebel lines and brings the US Cavalry across a creek and back into US held territory.The skill with which the movie was done cannot be under-stressed. The film accurately shows the terrifying impact of the war on the civilian population and the enthusiastic greeting US forces received from the Black Southerners. "},{"Title":"Ford gets sappy","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Horse soldiers is the last calvary-western movie Ford directed with his pal-star John Wayne. Ford directed three more movies with Wayne, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, How the West Was Won, and Donovan's Reef, but this is the last movie where the 'Duke' is, well the 'Duke'. Liberty Valance is a far superior movie and has Wayne in a pivotal role but less screen time, James Stewart and Lee Marvin are the real stars. How the West Was Won is just a bunch of clips with different director and stars so doesn't count as a Ford effort. Donovan's reef isn't in the genre. Horse Soldiers is in color, Technicolor I suppose, a loud soundtrack and anoying singing with soldiers  off in the background. Some of the movie looks very good as on location some like its on the back lot.(A little research shows that John Ford became very depressed after a stunt man of his died from neck injuries after a fall from a horse that Ford moved the set from location back to California.)William Holden saves the movie from being just a bunch a bugle calls and calvary charges. He matches Wayne star for star and the movie is good when they're in front of the camera. Unfortunately there's a love interest and a war going on that Ford somehow makes dull. "},{"Title":"Great John Wayne Movie","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  This is one of the better Civil War movies to come out of Hollywood.  I rate it as one of the top three John Wayne movies along with The Quiet Man, and The High and the Mighty.  The love interest is rather weak but is overshadowed by the accuracy of the Civil War story.   "},{"Title":"Ford Blockbuster","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" This film is sometimes consigned to Ford's later, increasingly exhausted period, but if it had been made by an unknown it would have been applauded as a stunning directorial debut. It has its flaws, as all movies must, but it's a seamless blend of drama, romance, action, and comedy -- and it's a good example of Ford's major strength, the ability to show you mounted figures strung out across the skyline and then tell you a personal story about some of the individuals in that horde. It's both epic and detailed.Ford began directing in the early 1920s, mostly silent Westerns. A handful of cowboys would ride in one direction while Ford shot the scene. Then he'd tell them to ride back in the other direction and shoot that. Many of the scripts were built around stories that could be described in only a few sentences, and the rest improvised on the spot. In one film he used only members of his family. And he built up a stock company that worked in one after another of his later works, often until they died. (See Hoot Gibson here as a cavalry corporal.) By the time The Horse Soldiers was in preparation, of course, times had changed considerably. The contract weighed several pounds and ran to almost 800 pages. If the strain of location shooting, of directing in general, hadn't been enough to tire him out, the administrative and financial responsibilities might have done the job. He had little patience for these demands. And on top of that, one of the older members of his company, a stunt man and personal friend, broke his neck doing a saddle fall, after which Ford lost much of his interest in the film. It shows in the editing and in the climactic scene that was cut short.But if the 63-year-old Ford was flagging, it's still a good movie packed with interest even for people who never heard of John Ford. For one thing, a lot of money is on display, and is well used. For another there are the performances of the two male leads, who both turn in good performances. Constance Towers, alas, is an attractive woman but an unconvincing actress. (She looks better ungroomed, wrapped in a wet blanket with stringy damp hair, than she does all glossed up with lipstick and modern makeup.) The dialog may fail from time to time. As Wayne says of his earlier transaction with doctors who mistakenly operated on his wife and caused her death, I didn't kill either one of them. . . . Maybe I was too conventional. But for every stumble there is a leap. Two enlisted men have been assigned to keep an eye on captive Constance Towers. She complains about her constant companions to Colonel John Wayne, who calls the pair over to chew them out. The two men feel unjustly accused and one says to Wayne, Yew told us it was awright as long as we could see the top of her haid! Towers listens aghast and slaps Wayne's face. (It's pretty funny.) No point in going on too much about incidents, comic or dramatic or romantic. One's interest in the narrative never wanes. We really want to find out what happened. (Anyone who wants to find out what REALLY happened can find a book about the actual Greerson's raid and its translation into film, easily available on Amazon.com. The attack of the little-boy soldiers from VMI wasn't so funny.) See it if you can. There's something in it for all interests. "},{"Title":"THE HORSE SOLDIERS (John Ford, 1959) ***","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" I had watched this several years ago and recall it being a merely average Ford outing; the film improves on a second viewing (even if it does go on too long – but more on that later) and can be seen as a worthy belated follow-up to the director’s celebrated Cavalry Trilogy with John Wayne.Interestingly, this emerged as his only film to deal with the Civil War (apart from the Ford-directed segment dealing with it from HOW THE WEST WAS WON 1962). Typically, he takes no sides and the narrative resolves itself into a series of vignettes the important sequence at the mansion of Southern lady Constance Towers (she charms and openly seduces the Union officers but doesn’t think twice about spying on them – at which she’s caught and they’re forced to take her along for the ride!); the scuffle between the two armies at the Confederate station (where the latter, badly-equipped, are massacred); Wayne’s drunken confession to Towers at the saloon regarding his aversion to doctors; the climactic resistance culminating with the blowing-up of a Southern bridge, etc.Other incidents, however, feel tacked-on – such as the quirky encounter with deserters Denver Pyle and Strother Martin, and the cornball one in which Southerner Basil Ruysdeal marches his military academy of young boys against Wayne’s troops. Though featuring a number of the director’s stock company of actors, the film displays a distinct (and welcome) lack of overt character comedy – which was something of a Ford trademark. This may be due to the fact that THE HORSE SOLDIERS came in between his most sober Western collaborations with Wayne, namely THE SEARCHERS (1956) and THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE (1962).Wayne, here possibly at his most cantankerous (given to frequent outbursts of rage), seems to function better as an actor when he has a strong ally/opponent. In this case, it’s William Holden (his only film for Ford) as a Union doctor reluctantly assigned to Wayne’s outfit, with whom he immediately clashes over the soldiers’ fitness for combat. Holden is bemused by Towers’ incongruous presence there, but dismayed at the necessity of Americans to slaughter one another (at the station, he’s initially shunned by a mangled fellow West Pointer fighting on the other side) and, finally, opts to stay behind at the mercy of the enemy with the wounded Union soldiers; however, being mostly absent from the action, his role gradually wears thin. Towers’ indomitable Southern belle adds a breath of fresh air to the proceedings (though she’s still involved in a requisite, albeit subtly-handled, romance with Wayne) and the director seems to have liked her enough to feature the actress in his subsequent picture – SERGEANT RUTLEDGE (1960; which I need to pick up on DVD, released as part of a 10-Disc JOHN FORD COLLECTION Set from Warners).Unfortunately, THE HORSE SOLDIERS is poorly served by the R2 MGM DVD I watched – bearing prominent damage marks, dull colors, and defaults to an open-matte presentation to boot! "},{"Title":"Wayne!Civil War!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Well directed civil war movie has an incredible peek into the horrors of that war.Good cast with expected performances delivered which pleases men and women seeking a good war epic.To nitpick,the love story could have been sweeter but still does not cause damage to the film.Also,some scenes had a tendency to drag.Great film for history fans and fans of the lead actors......... "},{"Title":"Even with a bad screenplay, Ford almost makes a masterpiece.","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" First I want to say that this is a really good movie. It's one of the only movies John Ford made about the civil war, and he delivers a very entertaining product.At first you think you might be watching a masterpiece but as it wears on, the flaws become apparent.1. The subplot about Wayne's distrust of the medical profession is way too trifling for a movie this epic and it feels tacked on.2. The female lead is pretty weak, and the whole romantic subplot is poorly written.These flaws are almost overcome by the sheer beauty of the film and the power of some scenes, but by the end of the story, the dramatic weight of the two subplots just drowns the film in tedium. All sorts of terrible, unnatural moments are required to resolve all the nonsense.The overall story is really great and if the subplots had been up to par, we would have had another Ford/Wayne classic.Despite my complaints, this is still a really good movie and it's a must see for fans of Ford or Wayne. "}{"Title":"A lesser John Ford & John Wayne  film","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Let me state first that I love Westerns & Civil War stories. I also consider John Ford as an excellent director. I also have the same high feelings for John Wayne & William Holden's acting ability.I cannot remember if I saw this film when it first came out in 1959. Last night was the first time I saw it since then.As per my 4 rating, one can say I did not like the movie.I now will attempt to tell some of its shortcomings.John Lee Mahin who wrote the screenplay from Harold Sinclair's novel, was a very gifted writer & wrote many fine scripts, This script is poorly written & badly researched. They make mention of the awful conditions of the Andersonville prison, At the time of the movie Andersonville was not in operation. They also use rifles that were not used at the time.John Ford was directing films for over 40 years & won 4 Oscars. He must have been ill during the making of this.His usual style was missing. It could be that this was film in the south & east and not in Monument Valley.He normally had a stock company of players he used in nearly all his film, MOST were missing this time. This time only minor cowboy stars Hoot Gibson & Ken Curtiss have roles & of course Anna Lee has a small role. There were no other familiar faces except for the 3 stars. (see below) Mr. Fords stock company made most of his films the classics they were; sadly missed here.Now we come to the main stars John Wayne & William Holden. The Duke also must have been ill,he seemed out of place here. This sort of role usually fit his style perfectly, he was just adequate here. Wiliam Holden did the best he could, but nowhere as good as he usually was.It was required that there be an actress in this type of movie. Here in her first major role (second film) is Constance Towers, a very beautiful person, But not really an actress, She is still having roles on Television. Let me be kind and say she has had a long career,more based on her looks than acting talent. Also in caas as Ms. Towers servant is Tennis Star Althea Gibson.I am glad she stuck to tennis.The rest of the production credits were far from the usual high standard of other John Ford films There were a few military type songs supposedly done by the marching cavalry, not good at all. The action scenes were good but come at the end of film.Ratings *1/2* (out of 4) 47 points (out of 100) IMDb 4 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The same cast is in John Wayne pic, the Searchers","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Am I the only one here who noticed that a lot of the cast members in this picture i.e. John Wayne, Ken Curtis, Hank Worden played essentially the same roles (except for name of characters) in the picture The Searchers.   I could not believe it.  The other day I was watching The Horse Soldiers and I thought I was watching The Searchers. You have to see this to believe it. I actually thought The Horse Soldiers was a sequel until I checked this out on the Internet Movie Database and saw that the character names were different. This is amazing "},{"Title":"Disappointing John Ford / Jpohn Wayne collaboration","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" Beginning with 1931's Arrowsmith starring Ronald Colman, John Ford had more than his share of impressive directorial efforts. This was not one of them. Likewise, though John Wayne was a somewhat limited actor, what he specialized in he did extremely well (e.g., Rio Bravo and The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence). Unfortunately, for both Ford and Wayne, this film was less than impressive.If I were to pick only one single problem with this film, that problem would be the horrible acting of Constance Towers. One of the worst performances I've ever seen. While she made a few films, she mostly became a television actress (and as of this writing is still alive at 82). Well, no thank you. Her performance in the early phases of the film -- playing the Southern belle -- actually made me giggle. And it wasn't supposed to. Better she ended up on soap operas on afternoon television.Personally, I think there's also a problem with John Wayne's role here. Not with his performance, but with the way the role was written. He seems -- especially in the early parts of the film -- to just be an ass. He seems to insult pretty much everyone, including a doctor who is just doing his job. There is, in my view, nothing admirable in this John Wayne character.When it comes to William Holden, whether I like him or not depends to a large extent on the individual film (although more often than not, I did like him). Here I like him very much in a performance that is, perhaps, a bit more nuanced than usual.And, despite some weaknesses, there are some strong points to this film. Perhaps the most emotional being the young students at the rebel academy being called to fight. It is reminiscent of a later sequence in the wonderful film Dr. Zhivago, though here the results are not quite so tragic.The supporting actors here are not, in my view, particularly memorable, but they all do their jobs.Overall, this is a decent film, but it still falls short of the typical John Ford/John Wayne collaboration. Some of the location photography is quite good. To be fair, this genre doesn't usually hold my attention, but this film did. So while not great, I was going to give it a 7, the ending left me totally flat. Sorry, now we're down to a 6. "},{"Title":"A good Civil War story, but a very weak love story","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  The Civil War story and plot were fine.  The interplay between Wayne and Holden was well acted even if the reasons for their dispute is rather shallow.The movie would have been much better if they had left out the love interest. As a matter of fact they should have left Constance Towers out all together. And the attempt to capitalize on the recent tennis success of Althea Gibson is embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Irritatingly romantic and sentimental, two things war is NOT.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  I know that many people hate nitpickers and viewers who have historical accuracy fetishes, but The Horse Soldiers is just begging for it. I grew up watching this movie and I'll confess loving it as a young boy obsessed by all things Civil War. This was Gone With the Wind for guys!!! Looking at it now, it really is SO romanticized. Sunsets and silhouetts galore. Like many older war movies, the hardships don't seem quite so hard and blood not so bloody. John Fords civil war looks down right fun!!!!Ford fancied himself somthing of an expert on the war, and set out to loosly chronicle a rather obscure expedition by Union Cavalry to harass and divert Confederate attention from Vicksburg Miss. Vicksburg was under siege by Grant and was a very desirable objective. As an all-around civil war buff, Ford wanted to squeeze in scenes that were vaguely reminicent of famous episodes from the war such as the charge of the cadets at New Market and a forlorn Pickett's type charge by the rebels at Newton Station. The latter being the most laughable attack scene. The rebels leap from boxcars and run screaming down the street. Way to go boys!!!! well coordinated!!! The Cadet sequence can only be described as cute but hardley resembles the carnage faced by the real cadets at New Market. As I said erlier, Ford's civil war looks fun!!!I don't care if people regard this as blasphemy, John Wayne was not a very good actor and certainly not a versatile one. The scene when he expresses condolences to Hannah Hunter on the death of her slave 'Lookey' is hilarious. And matched only in hilarity by the fact that rebel snipers, firing on the Union column, managed to only kill 'lookey'. Nice shooting boys!!!I'm laughing just writing this!!! Or the Confederate cannons that fire on the Union encampment and end up lobbing shells into the lake. If the real Confederacy had been as incompetent as John Ford's Confederacy, the war would have ended in a week!!!We live in the post Lee Strasburg/method acting world. As such if this movie were made now the actors would probably willingly sacrafice their glamorous Hollywood looks to achieve a period character. Ford's civil war seems to have been fought by Steve Reeves look alikes. I guess he didn't notice all those long beards in period photos (assuming he ever saw any.) I won't even go into those cheesy wardrobe dept. uniforms.On a serious note, this movie really is a sanitized version of the war. I don't mean just the battle scenes and hospital scenes but the social realities as well. Slavery is glossed over and we're offered only a peripheral view of this 'peculiar institution'. Ford reduces slaves to just another humorous Southern archetype, dim witted, slow, and only loosly connected to the war and it's outcome. Mere bit players in this cavalry caper. The two rebel deserters found hiding in a barn are also Ford's version of another humorous Southern archetype, uneducated yokels drinking moonshine. John Ford's Waiting for Godot I suppose.  "},{"Title":"What Did They Find?  Nothing","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"       The last Ford-Wayne cavalry flick, The Horse Soldiers is the darkest in mood of the whole cycle.  Colonel John Marlowe (Wayne) leads a Sherman-style cavalry raid deep into Confederate territory in order to lay waste Newton Station, a vital railway junction supplying the rebel garrison at Vicksburg.     Marlowe was once a labouring man who helped furnish the growing nation with its sinews of rail tracks.  Now his task is to destroy railroads - a symbolic comment on the evil of civil war.  He takes two 'problem' characters with him on his odyssey, because a story like this needs internal conflict if there is to be dramatic tension.  One is army surgeon Kendall (William Holden), whose West Point background and insistence on the primacy of medical ethics antagonise Marlowe ceaselessly.  The other is Hannah Hunter (Constance Towers), the Southern belle who cannot be left behind because she will pass on intelligence regarding Marlowe's cavalry column.     There is plenty of the usual stuff on display.  Wayne has to contend with a sergeant who is fond of alcohol.  His irritation with Hannah gradually turns to love.  Kendall is the nay-sayer within the otherwise harmonious military unit, a function performed nine years later by David Janssen's character in The Green Berets.  We get a rousing, manly marching song (I Left My Love) and Ford's brand of endearing macho humour (bashing heads on the tent lamp, and such).  There is even a dying boy-soldier to tug at our heart-strings.     The character of Hannah is not handled satisfactorily.  She has to be there, because in a formula movie such as this, the fighting is meant for the young male cinema audience and the love interest is built-in so that the girls taken along on dates will keep from getting bored.  That's the theory, anyway.  The trouble with Hannah is that she has to be sexy AND a Southern lady of 1863.  Thus she wears a spectacularly decollete gown at dinner, and shows her legs during escape attempts in a way that simply would not have happened in real life.  As for her dressing and undressing in the presence of soldiers - comment is superfluous.  Even the 'leg or breast' double-entendre is going too far.     Kendall took an oath when he accepted a commission in the United States Army, but (as he is quick to point out) his Hippocratic Oath is an older and more binding one.  He treats 'contrabands' (displaced negroes) in direct violation of Marlowe's instructions.  The clash of the two temperaments is well done - Marlowe elemental and irresistible, Kendall urbane and ironic.  The film has us assume that Hannah will choose Kendall (he sits opposite her at the meal, and holds back from the banter - he even enters her boudoir).  When she makes a different choice, we see Kendall sluicing-down a table with a bucket of water, symbolically washing her from his mind.     As one would expect from a director of Ford's quality, the film contains some fine things.  The arrival of the fateful train is seen by the viewer in a window-reflection as Miles looks on, conveying the forlorn irrationality of Southern hopes.  The looking-glass image denotes self-awareness on Hannah's part.  She shakes hands with each of Marlowe's staff officers in turn, carefully enunciating each name, outwardly polite but secretly memorising them for espionage purposes.  When Marlowe kicks open the door of Greenbriar, this is the righteous, confident North reclaiming the South.  In contrast, when Kendall kicks open the shack door he represents the arrival of scientific enlightenment to help poor humanity.  Marlowe's shadow is cast across the sitting Hannah, growing as he strides towards her, signifying his increasing influence.  We see two heroic Southern charges against Marlowe's men, both admirable but utterly futile - a comment on the South's cause.     There was a poor edit from the uncasing of the regimental colours to the cavalry charge.  And as for the Confederate artillery pieces, Peter and Paul - shouldn't they be firing solid shot, rather than exploding shells?     The raid ends with Marlowe's men wrecking a bridge behind them and wandering off into Southern emptiness.  Something at the core of the movie remains dissatisfying, and we carry away an uneasy feeling that this expedition (and by extension, the film itself) was a worthy but unnecessary effort. "},{"Title":"Lacklustre John Wayne in a Civil War re-enactment","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" This 1959 movie is not an old Western, but it feels like one. John Wayne plays Col. John Marlowe, the commander of a cavalry unit during the American Civil War. Not surprisingly, he is a coarse, no-nonsense officer, exactly the kind of military leader you would expect John Wayne to play.The story revolves around the adventures and skirmishes of his cavalry unit as it travels through enemy territory (the South) on a mission. To me, the movie did not seem to have much of a plot. Either that or the plot was too complicated for me to follow after a single very casual viewing on the tube. My initial impression is that the screenplay was poorly written in that we were presented with a number of disjointed events.The unit is in enemy territory so they are in a precarious situation. There are a few nicely staged shots of units in formation and battle scenes, bugle calls and all. John Ford's staging and camera work seemed rather good. Really, this film was not much more than a filmed civil-war re-enactment. Civil-war buffs will enjoy this movie for this reason.However, do not expect this movie to deliver any real insight into the cavalry. Despite its name, The Horse Soldiers is not a realistic movie about horses of war or the life of cavalrymen. I still don't know what impression Ford wanted to give about them. Sometimes they were portrayed as slack drunkards; at other times they were portrayed as an effective military unit. This was confusing to me because you can't have it both ways. Col. Marlowe's conduct in the film was inappropriate for any military commander. Whatever cavalry commanders were like in the Civil War, I'm sure they were never like this.There was little character development at all. I never got to the point where I actually cared about what happened to any of them.There were a few battle scenes that seemed particularly unrealistic. It's one of those goreless movies where few seem to be actually hit by all the weapons and munitions being let loose. In one scene, a number of cavalrymen are surrounded by a crowd. When the shooting starts, the cavalrymen are hit but no one in the crowd is hit or even tries to move away.I cannot say that this movie provided any insights into the Civil War either. If it's based on a true story, I suppose the story is just not that interesting to me. I suspect that this movie would be more interesting to Americans who know something about the American Civil War (and enjoy old movies with John Wayne).There were a few interesting scenes involving the unit's contact with blacks in the South. However, this aspect was not really developed in a satisfactory way. I couldn't see the point of these scenes.At first, the movie's tension was focused on the complications of having to drag around an uncooperative, captive Southern belle (played by Constance Towers). Later the drama shifted more to the disagreement between Col Marlowe and an attached medical officer Maj. Henry Kendall (played by William Holden).These relationship conflicts did not seem believable and interesting to me. There seemed to be no relationship between Col. Marlowe and Miss Hunter at all. Many of the scenes involving her were so cliché they bordered on the ridiculous. It was also difficult to understand Marlowe's approach towards the doctor, even after the reason for his antagonism was explained. It just made no sense to me that a military commander would be so antagonistic towards his medical officer. I felt that John Wayne's atrocious acting was partly the reason for these problems.The movie might be enjoyable enough for old movie buffs who like John Wayne and the American Civil War. However, for the rest of you, don't expect much. "},{"Title":"An Episode of the Secession War","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  John Wayne and William Holden together directed by John Ford, I thought it might be an extraordinary western, but watching it sometimes I have doubts whether this is a serious drama about the secession war or simply a comedy about the war. So the result was that I finally became very disappointed with such a film. Acting of Holden was also mediocre, Wayne generally was much better.           "},{"Title":"Excellent Work of Art","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  Great Western Films such as this, will never again be made . For the lack of character and workmanship in actors, directors and producers can never be emulated as they were during this period in film making. We are blessed to have witnessed a great work of art, such as is this classic. "},{"Title":"Compelling civil war drama based on a true event","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  John Wayne as Col. Marlowe is not what Col Ben Grierson would have seen himself as. Grierson hated horses but like Marlowe was not a professional soldier. The insipid love story aside; this movie moves along very well and does portray the Civil War as the tragedy it was.  Highlight of the film is the charge by children from a military school on the hardened U.S. Cavalrymen. Thank Hollywood that the worst casualty is a spanking.  Love this movie!  "}{"Title":"Just Another John Wayne Movie","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":"  THE HORSE SOLDIERS is directed by John Ford and stars John Wayne but anyone expecting something along the lines of THE SEARCHERS ( Not the master work it`s claimed to be )  is going to be very disappointed since the plot is very simple . Set during the civil war Col John Marlowe must lead an Union force to attack a confederate base and that`s the plot in a nutshell . It should also be pointed out that Marlowe`s force don`t actually reach the confederate base until well past the halfway point of the movie so up till that point there`s little in the way of action . There`s something that puzzled me in that Marlowe`s force face little if any opposition in reaching their target but find themselves besieged by the enemy on the return home . I`m slightly confused why that should be . Oh and if you`re not much of a Wayne fan ( which I`m not ) then you`ll not like his performance as John Marlowe simply because John Wayne more or less plays the same character in every movie he plays wether it be a tough cop ( McQ  , BRANNIGAN ) , a special forces officer ( THE GREEN BERETS ) or a calvery officer ( Insert the name of nearly every western Wayne has appeared in ) which is a shame because there`s much potential for some strong on screen conflict between Marlowe and William Holden`s character Maj Hank Kendall A movie for Wayne and/or Ford fans . I guess we should all be thankful that there is no political right wing rhetoric to this movie  "},{"Title":"If only they had burned Tara down","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, War, Western","Review":" As a fourteen year old I was getting really really tired of the heroic Confederacy mythos that permeates movies then and now. Damn near every white male star has portrayed a Reb veteran with issues against the mean old Yankees,capetbaggers,and riffraff in general(DON'T GET ME STARTED ON BIRTH OF A NATION!!!),so when this movie came out on the old drive-in screen showing heroic Union cavalry blitzkrieging through Reb land I was one happy camper. Thirty-six years later the movie can be seen as Ford's setpieces as film. The real Grierson who led the raid stayed in the Army and became the first commanding officer of the Tenth Cavalry(Colored) which must have irked the Duke to no end playing a liberal! William Holden is equally irked with sharing screen time with the Waynester feeling rightly that he could've carried this film by himself. Ken Curtis Festus in training and others in the Ford stock company have some good lines, and Miss Towers and Althea Gibson provide the muted sex and faithfulness that is required in a Ford film. Wayne's reluctant warrior doesn't mesh well with his established screen persona and that battle scene in the town is painfully reminiscent of the one in Birth of a Nation including the bullet riddled officer defiance with the traitors battle flag. Faithful male darkies ride off with massa to get help in keeping them slaves,an uppity darky female gets blasted off her horse, the secondary target is saved by the military cadets who could've been ridden over by the veteran troopers Miss Towers falling in love with Mr. Railroad Builder But gotta Destroy 'em Now Wayne, a sure sign of national reconciliation ( Until Now anyway). The bodycount as in most Ford actioners is low,the attempts at humor hamfisted,and the sentimentality for the 19th century extreme,I wonder what the results if another director more hard boiled had directed. Lewis Milestone maybe? "}]