[{"Title":"The Definitive Holmes and Watson.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Although this version of the story differs from the original novel, there is much to recommend it for. The film is well paced and atmospheric but it's greatest strength is the excellent cast, particularly the three leads. It's nice to see Christopher Lee playing the romantic role as a change to his usual monsters and Peter Cushing is brilliant as Holmes, his performance being the definitive as he makes the character believable and interesting. This film also features the best ever casting of Dr Watson. Andre Morell moves away from the bumbling fool of other Holmes films and makes Watson intelligent, capable and even dashing. Morell's charismatic performance is all the more welcome as 'Hounds' is the story which puts Watson centre stage for most of the plot. It's a shame he never played the part again as he and Cushing make the perfect Holmes and Watson. If only Hammer had made a series of Holmes films. "},{"Title":"Hammer, Holmes, and the Hound","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Director Terence Fisher, actors Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, and Andre Morrell, and the Hammer production crew bring Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's famous story of the legendary hound of the Baskervilles into colour for the first time.  In point of fact, this is the first Sherlock Holmes story filmed in glorious colour, and it does the story proud with its phospherescent glow on the dog, its swirling mists, and the natural tweed colours of Holmes and Watson.  Though some argue that Cushing was miscast as Holmes, I argue most vehemently THAT he is perfectly cast as the great detective.  His features cry out Doyle's character, and his obvious inner quest for perfection resonates strongly through the character as well.  Cushing lends his class to the role and, in my opinion, gives us a fine Holmes, perhaps one of the screen's best.  I always enjoy watching a Cushing performance as he was an actor that loved to play with props, and as Christopher Lee states in his autobiography, a man who could play with the prop and act to perfection, often making it look so very elementary. Watch his Holmes.  Very few scenes go by where he isn't playing with something.  Lee is good in his role, though the part is rather lacklustre.  Andre Morrell is a fine Watson.  He does not do the Nigel Bruce buffoon act, but rather he plays a man capable of having graduated from medical school.  The rest of the cast is good with Francis DeWolff standing out as a doctor in love with himself and the sound of his voice and the ever affable Miles Malleson adding comic relief as a befuddled bishop.  The story stays pretty close to the word according to Doyle.  Fisher gives what you would expect  tight direction, lush cinematography, and loads of beautiful shots of the fog-ridden moors.  The film has a clever prologue about the curse of the Baskervilles as an introduction, and it is wonderfully executed. "},{"Title":"Top notch Hammer Holmes","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best hammer films around and in my opinion the best Sherlock Holmes film ever.  Cushing plays a more uptight Holmes than Rathbone, less tolerant of others and his constant movement suits the overall pace of the film.  Morell's Watson is portrayed as less bumbling and more intelligent than Bruce's and since the middle part of the film revolves around him he is allowed to really shine.  Lee, obviously relishing playing a romantic lead and not a monster, puts his all into the role.  The support is good, especially the comedy bishop portrayed by Miles Malleson.  Thankfully, the hound is rarely seen, but its howling add  greatly to the tension.  Typically Hammer change the original story, and anyone familiar with it will be surprised to see Dr Mortimer being portrayed as the prime suspect. The style and direction of the film is very similar to other Hammer films made at around the same time, the film moves along at such a pace that you don't have time to think about logic and dialog.  The start of the film would make a good film on its own.  All in all a great film and its a shame there were no other Hammer Holmes films.     "},{"Title":"`Mr Holmes, they were the footprints of a giant hound.'","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The 1939 Basil Rathbone/Nigel Bruce production may be the definitive version, but Hammer's sole 1959 attempt at Sherlock Holmes remains the most atmospheric colour remake.Peter Cushing and Andre Morrell make a more than passable Holmes and Watson double-act, and the rest of the cast are just right although Christopher Lee always seemed too stiff as a goodie.Jack Asher's evocative photography is the real delight.  No other version has captured so beautifully the muted greens, browns and golds of Dartmoor in England's myth-laden west country.  What a shame that modern film stocks seem to have lost the softer warmth of Fifties Technicolor.Hammer, as you might expect, played up the horror elements of the 'hound of hell' legend a bit too crudely.  But David Oxley, as the Baskerville scion who brings about the curse, deserves his place in Hammer's gallery of depraved aristocrats.  Accompanied by a crash of thunder in the prologue, director Terence Fisher captures him in long shot at the top of the stairs, possessed with fury as he tells his drunken fellow revellers that the servant girl they had intended to rape has fled.  A hushed reaction shot of the others, before Fisher cuts back to a medium shot of Oxted.  `I have her!' His face lights up with demonical inspiration. `We'll set the pack on her.!'Maybe it does rather fall between two genres, but this hugely enjoyable Hammer yarn has left a footprint in each.  "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes by Hammer","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When the noble Sir Henry Baskerville (Christopher Lee) inherits a property near a swamp, his friend Doctor Richard Mortimer (Francis De Wolff) hires Sherlock Holmes (Peter Cushing) and Doctor John H. Watson (André Morell) to investigate the curse that apparently killed all the members of his family.I have not watched the other versions of The Hound of the Baskervilles to make any comparison, but this one produced by Hammer is a very good low budget movie. The cinematography creates a great atmosphere; the lines are very detailed and intelligent; and Peter Cushing, André Morell and Christopher Lee give magnificent and very convincing performances in their roles. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Cão dos Baskerville (The Hound of the Baskervilles) "},{"Title":"One of Hammer's finest hours and a strong contender as the best Holmes film.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Devonshire GP Dr Mortimer (FRANCIS DE WOLFE) consults Sherlock Holmes (PETER CUSHING) after his long term friend and patient Sir Charles Baskerville was found dead near his home on Dartmoor. Sir Charles suffered from a chronic heart condition for many years and when the body was discovered, there was a terrible look of fear on his face, which suggested that he was frightened to death. The circumstances lead Mortimer to believe that it was a ghostly hound, which according to legend is cursed to bring misery and misfortune upon the Baskerville family that brought about Sir Charles's death. The curse was started after Sir Hugo Baskerville (DAVID OXLEY), an evil ancestor of the family, murdered a farm girl on the moor and was then brutally attacked and killed by a huge hound. On the death of Sir Charles, the family fortune and Baskerville Hall go to the only living relative, the deceased's nephew Henry Baskerville (CHRISTOPHER LEE) who is arriving from South Africa the following day to claim his inheritance. Dr Mortimer is gravely concerned that the heir to the fortune may meet the same fate. This leaves Holmes and Dr Watson (ANDRE MORELL) with a taxing question. Is there really a curse upon the Baskervilles or has someone come up with a scheme in order to get the Baskerville fortune for themselves? Hammer films made the first Frankenstein and Dracula films in colour and this admirable version of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's famous detective story was the first Sherlock Holmes movie filmed in colour. The film was intended to be the first in a series of Hammer-Sherlock Holmes pictures, but the lukewarm reception it got from cinema audiences at the time sadly meant that these plans were shelved. However, in the sixties, Cushing reprised his role in a popular BBC television series in which he remade THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES although that version is nowhere near as good as this one and he also turned up as the Baker Street sleuth again in THE MASKS OF DEATH (1986), a TV movie made by Tyburn. Meanwhile, Christopher Lee would later don the famous deerstalker in the 1962 production SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE DEADLY NECKLACE. But despite a good cast and director Terence Fisher at the helm, the picture proved to be a completely wasted opportunity due to poor production values and the fact that Lee's voice was dubbed by another actor didn't help matters either.THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES is now rightly regarded as one of Hammer's greatest movies. Peter Cushing is exemplary as Holmes, portraying the character as incredibly intelligent, resourceful and at the same time very arrogant when he needs to be. Although when he is arrogant he usually has good reason to be. His performance not only makes him the definitive screen Holmes, but it is another addition to his impressive portfolio of fine performances up there with Dr Van Helsing in Dracula (1958) and his many incarnations as Baron Frankenstein. Andre Morell is also on top form as Dr Watson who wisely chooses not to play the part as a bumbling muddle head, which so many actors have made the mistake of doing in the past. Christopher Lee is also excellent as Sir Henry Baskerville and he makes the best of what appears to be an undemanding role. Terence Fisher's direction is outstanding as he invests the proceedings with a genuine sense of evil and menace that has never been equaled in any other Sherlock Holmes film before or since. Fisher is most ably assisted by cameraman Jack Asher and composer James Bernard who turns in a wonderfully haunting and occasionally romantic score. Today, this picture is considered by some to be the best ever Sherlock Holmes film and it is certainly a strong contender for that title. "},{"Title":"Holmes and Watson are called to save Sir Baskerville from a curse that has plagued his family for centuries","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Correct rendition of the most famous mystery novel written by Arthur Conan Doyle with an awesome Peter Cushing as Sherlock and fairly faithful to the source material. Holmes (Peter Cushing )and Watson(Andre Morell) are contracted by Doctor Mortimer (Francis De Wolff) for the investigation of killing Sr. Baskerville who is now inherited by his niece Sir Henry . Mortimer asks Sherlock Holmes to help protect Sir Henry Baskerville (Christopher Lee), who has returned to England to take his place at the family seat following the death of his uncle, Sir Charles Baskerville. Sir Charles died of cardiac exhaustion and Dr. Mortimer believes he was frightened to death. There appears to be a curse on the family dating back nearly 200 years to when Sir Hugo Baskerville was supposedly killed on the moor by a huge hound. Holmes dismisses the supernatural elements of the case but there are a sufficient number of odd events to pique his interest. Holmes soon realizes that someone is making sure the legend becomes real . Watson goes to the mansion ,there are the servants(John Le Mesurier) and he meets Stapleton and his daughter (Marla Landi). Meanwhile an inmate has escaped and on the moor sound the barking of a savage beast.This is an excellent and thrilling film with horror elements in Hammer style based on the splendid novel by Arthur Conan Doyle .It's a genuine ripping yarn with much suspense and moody intrigue . The film gets mystery, tension, thrills , detective action and packs an exciting deal of outstanding surprises with great lots of fun despite to be a known story . Magnificent Peter Cushing's interpretation although the best Sherlock is forever Basil Rathbone. Cushing plays as Holmes as an intelligent, obstinate, broody, pipesmoking sleuth , his acting is similar to Jeremy Brett for TV or Nicol Williamson(Seven-per-cent-solution) or Christopher Plummer(Murder by decree). Here Dr. Watson isn't a botcher, bungler or clumsy partner incarnated by Nigel Bruce but a cunning and astute pal well represented by Andre' Morell .The movie has a creepy atmosphere specially when is developed on the moor where lives the fearful giant beast ; besides the 223 Baker Street's house is well designed. Spooky and murky cinematography by Jack Asher . Eerie and creepy musical score by James Bernard . This atmospheric motion picture is accurately directed by the ¨Hammer House of Horror¨ master , the great Terence Fisher . Other version about this story are the following  the best version that still can be called a classic filmed in 1939 by Sidney Landfield with Basil Rathbone , Nigel Bruce y Richard Greene ; English adaptation (1983) by Douglas Hickox with Ian Richardson as Holmes and Donald Churchill as Watson and TV rendition with Jeremy Brett and Edward Hardwicke . directed by Peter Hammond . "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a fan of Holmes, I quite enjoyed this film and I'm sure Hammer fans will enjoy it too... but this really messes around with the story a lot , often for no good reason. can anyone explain to me the significance of the knife holmes found on the stone and said that it had been used in some disgusting ritual... It was never explained why that was done? To get rid of the evidence that the hound had killed the convict? And the hound looked AWFUL! really unscary ! The only film version that ever had a truly frightening hound was the 1939 Rathbone film - that prolonged and realistic attack was amazing. This is just -- mehhh.It does have some good points - a brilliantly overdone Hammer musical score and an exciting prologue. And I loved the painful tension during the tarantula sequence... brilliant! "},{"Title":"Cushing was born to play Holmes","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Ah, you can't go wrong with Hammer. On the back of the DVD, Newsweek proudly proclaims The Best of the Sherlocks!, and I have to agree. This is the role that Peter Cushing was born to play, it's a shame he didn't play it as often as he did Van Helsing. His mannerisms, his delivery, even his looks, everything about him is perfect Holmes. The rest of the cast are pretty good too, don't get me wrong, but Cushing puts them to shame. Though he is rather ominous in some scenes, it's nice to see Christopher Lee opposite Cushing as a good guy for a change. I really liked the classic plot, full of surprises, great characters, humor and lots of chances for Cushing to shine. The atmosphere is great, foggy and dark like many Hammer films. Perfect for horror. All in all this is a really fun film, though it does have a few pretty cheesy moments. Good film overall though.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cushing and Lee...their the reason I watched this one.","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I would normally not even attempt to watch a Sherlock movie, but seeing as how Peter Cushing was Sherlock and Lee was in it too I decided to give this one a try. Suffice to say I was not disappointed as both were very good in their respective roles as was the fellow who played Watson. This one has Sherlock investigating a curse that kills the head of a family named the Baskervilles. The next target is Lee's character after he inherits his uncle's house after his untimely death. The movie moves at a very brisk pace and is a bit predictable, but still executed very well (though they never explained the doctors part in the movie). There is also a scene at the end I found rather amusing as Sherlock and a couple of others are standing on a hill and this person is sinking in quicksand. They don't really make much of a movie to save the person even though they clearly could. All in all though this one is a well acted move that was interesting to watch. "}{"Title":"Peter Cushing IS Sherlock Holmes!","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Shortly after their brilliant adaptations of the classic tales of Frankenstein and Dracula, the glorious British Hammer Studios decided to have their take on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's immortal detective Sherlock Holmes with The Hound of the Baskervilles (1959). This turned out to be a splendid idea, as the Hammer formula works magnificently with Doyle's work. Hammer once again teams up Horror's greatest duo, Peter Cushing (as Sherlock Holmes) and Christopher Lee (as Sir Henry Baskerville) in what is another one of many memorable collaborations of the two British Horror deities. In addition, the film features André Morell (who would also star in several other Hammer productions including The Plague of the Zombies of 1966) as Doctor Watson. Hammer's trademark eerie Gothic atmosphere with foggy grounds, dark forests etc. fits the Baskervilles story like a glove. It has been a while since I've last seen the classic adaptations with Basil Rathbone, and I do not wish to discuss which version of this particular tale is 'better', but I can say that this Hammer version is a truly great gem for every admirer of classic Mystery and Gothic cinema.The film begins truly creepy, with a prologue set in the early 18th century, when Sir Hugo Baskreville, a cruel nobleman who likes to play sadistic games with peasants, gets what he had coming when he makes the encounter of a mysterious beast. From then on, the wild, dog-like creature is known and feared as the 'Hound of The Baskervilles'; according to a curse, this hound is supposed to return and kill any Bakerville who dares to enter the moorlands where Sir Hugo found his end... In the 1880s, the great detective Sherlock Holmes is told about the sudden and mysterious death of Sir Charles Baskerville, a descendant of Sir Hugo. Holmes and Doctor Watson travel to the Baskerville estate, in order to investigate and to meet the new owner, Sir Henry Baskerville, who does not believe in what he considers to be 'old wive's tales'... at first...The film does change the plot of Doyle's classic novel in some details, mainly by adding Horror elements that underline the Hammer-typical creepiness and Gothic atmosphere. Cushing simply is the perfect choice to play Sherlock Holmes. This brilliant actor was fantastic in any role he played, of course, but that of the most famous detective in fiction is one of those that he is particularly predestined for. André Morell is great as Dr. Watson and Christopher Lee is, as always, magnificent in his role. Cushing and Lee truly were the ultimate duo in Horror cinema, and this is yet another fantastic collaboration of these two great men. It is easy to see why Christopher Lee and the late Peter Cushing were best friends in real-life, when watching their ingenious work in any of the films and they did together. Directed by Hammer's Nr. 1 director, Terence Fisher, The Hound of the Baskervilles is another great example for Hammer's glorious style of eerie yet beautiful settings, haunting atmosphere and suspenseful storytelling. The settings and photography are wonderful as in most classic Hammer tales, and the entire film is greatly crafted. Many years ago, this was one of the first Hammer films that I saw as a kid, and, after many re-viewings, I still immensely enjoy watching it as an adult. This great little gem only ranks slightly below the brilliant Dracula and Frankenstein adaptations, and definitely is a must-see for all Hammer fans. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Do as the legend tells and avoid the moor when the forces of darkness are exalted.","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" From what I understand, The Hound of the Baskervilles was to be the first in a series of Sherlock Holmes films from Hammer Film Productions. For whatever reason, the film didn't do what Hammer was expecting and they decided to scrap any further Holmes movies. Too bad, because I really enjoy this version of the famous story and would have enjoyed seeing Hammer take their turn with some of the others. And I would have enjoyed the opportunity to see Peter Cushing again play the famous detective while still in his prime. I can only imagine what might have been.As for the movie itself, Hammer's The Hound of the Baskervilles plays as loose and free with the original story elements as any other I've seen. It doesn't necessarily hurt my enjoyment, but those seeking something that follows the book to the letter would be better off looking elsewhere. Because this is Hammer, the horror aspects of the story are quite naturally highlighted &#150; and to good effect. Cushing makes a wonderful Holmes. Not only does Cushing act the part, in my mind anyway, he looks the part as well. I often go back and forth about which Holmes' portrayal I enjoy more &#150; Cushing or Rathbone. Andre Morrell makes for as good a Dr. Watson as you're likely to find. The rest of the cast, including Christopher Lee and Francis De Wolff, is as solid as any that Hammer ever assembled. I get a real kick out of Miles Malleson's delightfully forgetful Bishop. Finally, and unlike a lot of the more stage-bound Hammer productions, The Hound of the Baskervilles benefits from some excellent location shots. All together, this is one very enjoyable film. If it weren't for Rathbone's The Hound of the Baskervilles, this would be my favorite version of the story &#150; even with (or should that be because of) the numerous deviations from the source material. The Hound of the Baskervilles is also in my top 5 favorite Hammer films as well. A 9/10 seems about right to me. "},{"Title":"Different spin, equally effective.","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson are requested to keep an eye on Sir Henry Baskerville, who has inherited an estate out on Dartmoor. With this estate comes danger as his family is known to be threatened by a wild dog that stalks the Moor.Holmes in colour for the first time as Hammer give it the full blown costume drama pizazz. Great production as Peter Cushing Holmes, Andre Morell Watson and Christopher Lee Baskerville act it out with considerable aplomb. Cushing and Morell are particularly effective, Cushing's Holmes is sprightly and never staid, while Morell's Watson is resourceful and a bona fide detective sidekick to the intrepid Holmes. The supporting cast is also filled out with quality British talent, John le Mesurier, Miles Malleson and Francis de Wolfe are involving and integral to the story. Whilst it wouldn't be a Hammer film without the obligatory heaving bosom, which here comes in the form of Marla Landi.The deviation from the source novel may offend some purists, but it works and is actually a pleasant surprise. Hammer were clearly intent on breathing a new life into Sherlock Holmes, and they did so, thus paving the way for the element of surprise. Still holding up well after all these years this is still an essential viewing in the pantheon of Sherlock Holmes adaptations. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best Holmes film that I've seen","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An absolutely brilliant film which is deservedly regarded as one of the jewels in Hammer's crown. Peter Cushing and André Morell are perfectly cast as Holmes and Watson while Christopher Lee is as wonderful as ever as Sir Henry Baskerville. The film has an extremely strong supporting cast including Francis de Wolff, John Le Mesurier, Marla Landi, Ewen Solon and Miles Malleson. From what I can gather (having never read the novel), it takes some liberties but the storyline is essentially the same.This was originally to have been the first in a series of Hammer Sherlock Holmes films but apparently the idea was dropped because the audience didn't want a Hammer series without monsters. That's a terrible shame as I'd have loved more films of this calibre starring Cushing and Morell. However, I'm glad that they chose the best known and one of the most popular stories to adapt for their only Holmesian outing. While this was the only time that he ever played Holmes on film, Cushing reprised his role on television in 1968 and 1984. I also liked the fact that Christopher Lee played a good guy and that he and Cushing were on the same side for once. This is the first film that I've seen them both in which neither of them tried to kill the other even once! "},{"Title":"Hammer's attempt at Holmes","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't understand why Hammer didn't attempt to make more Sherlock Holmes movies. Peter Cushing was a natural at the role (even though he isn't in half the movie.) He's much closer to the way Doyle wrote the character. Unfortunately, people couldn't get used to a Holmes not played by Basil Rathbone any more than they could accept a Frankenstein not played by Boris Karloff.Hammer could teach today's directors a thing or two about how to make a movie for not much money. I doubt this film was all that expensive to make, but the monster (a dog with a mask) was far more effective than some fake CGI monster who would probably play the beast in a modern version.Yes, it is interesting to watch a film with Cushing and Lee where neither of them is playing a monster or a mad scientist ... which is how most team ups with them went.No spoilers, if you are a HOlmes fan, you know how this goes... The movie is largely faithful to the book, even to the point of having Holmes absent for about half of it. "},{"Title":"The Hound of the Baskervilles","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have seen the Basil Rathbone version, and personally this remake from British Hammer (Horror) Studios deserves its 10 points (and five stars from critics) because it is much more exciting (especially in colour), from director Terence Fisher (Dracula Prince of Darkness). Basically, the Baskerville Manor has had many members of the family being victim to a legendary creature, known as the Hound of Baskerville, and the opening scene with Sir Hugo Baskerville (David Oxley) is an example of this monster. Famous detective Sherlock Holmes (Star Wars' Peter Cushing) and his assistant Dr. John Watson (André Morell) are brought in to investigate, and keep an eye on who seems to be the last family member, Sir Henry Baskerville (Christopher Lee). As characters ignore the rule of stay away from the moors after dark, more clues emerge in the investigation, and Holmes thinks he is getting closer to finding who, or what is responsible for these attacks and deaths. In the end, there really was a hound (dog-type creature, I expected a werewolf), and Cecile Stapleton (Marla Landi), feary daughter of Stapleton (Ewen Solon) is part of this terror that hunts the family on the moors, she is also victim to die when the hound is killed and the case is solved. Also starring Francis De Wolff as Dr. Richard Mortimer, Miles Malleson as Bishop Frankland and Dad's Army's John Le Mesurier as Barrymore. Cushing and Morell make a great double act as Holmes and Watson, Lee is good as Sir Henry, and the film has great moments of case solving and questioning with the many clues that pop up. The line I was hoping to hear, Elementary, my dear, Watson was in it, and it is number 65 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Thumbs up for Cushing's performance","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After reading Doyle's book to my kids -- the quintessential Sherlock Holmes novel -- I promised to get the movie so we could all watch it. I was a fan as a kid of Basil Rathbone's Holmes' series for Universal, and I tried to find that version on video. The VHS is out of print and surprisingly, it is not on DVD. So I bought the DVD of the Hammer version with Peter Cushing, Andre Morrel and Christopher Lee without having seen it before. I enjoyed the film, so did my kids and we would  recommend this version. Cushing surprised me as Holmes -- he enjoys  himself from start to finish. He is clever in a self-satisfied and almost playful way, not as intense as Rathbone. He's simply terrific to watch. Too bad Hammer didn't continue with Holmes because this could have become his signature role. Morrel also is a better Watson than Nigel Bruce for all the reasons stated by others. Christopher Lee seems a bit out of place here, but nonetheless he's so young in this film -- he looks like Nicholas Cage! -- that it is nice to see him a different role. The movie itself is uneven and the departures from the Doyle story struck me as odd. But if you one of those who believes Rathbone is the preeminent Holmes, I would encourage you to see this film. You may change your mind.  "},{"Title":"The Hound of the Baskervilles","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Baker Street detective team of Sherlock Holmes(Peter Cushing, in fine form as the studious, sophisticated, unflappable intellectual with a nose that knows)and Dr. John Watson(André Morell as the always-surprised good physician who often inspires the answers Holmes needs through out-loud observation)are called on by Doctor Richard Mortimer(Francis De Wolff)to protect the well being of the last remaining relative of the Baskerville family line, the tall& dashing Sir Henry(Christopher Lee, with not much to do except for looking like a wealthy aristocrat). It seems that an old family curse has taken Henry's uncle Charles through a hereditary heart ailment causing failure at what seems like something that elicited shocking fright. Henry also has a weak heart so it provides Holmes and Watson with an opportunity to not only cease the death of the last aristocrat left while also solving a mystery of what has taken the lives of several of the Baskervilles. Various sub-plots develop which may provide a key to the mystery's being solved, father and daughter poverty-stricken farmers, Mr. Stapleton(Ewen Solon) and Cecile(Marla Landi) who live on the moors near the Baskerville Hall, a tarantula that was stolen from Bishop Frankland(Miles Malleson whose priest really loves his sherry)a renowned entomologist whose stolen spider was placed in Henry's boot to possibly kill him, an escaped convict who was found butchered and mutilated wearing some of Henry's clothes, and a dagger used by Sir Hugo to kill a servant girl which has been found by Holmes at the sight where the convict's body was first found. As Holmes and Watson pursue the answers that unravel as the case develops clues, the howling of the moors enhances as does the possible love affair between Sir Henry and Cecile.Important aspect in the tale has Holmes finding an abandoned old mineshaft where a bone, important to the mystery of what it howling, lies inside. While looking and finding the bone(with Mortimer and Mr. Stapleton guiding him inside), a cave-in collapses almost killing our sleuth begging the question..who would want to silence Holmes? Is Holmes finding a specific bone in this mine detrimental to a certain discovery someone wants kept hidden? Hammer studios provides fans of atmospheric horror another colorful, flavorful flick with the Moors an exciting setting for a Holmes/Watson mystery. With Cushing and Morell a fun team, and the fog shrouded moors providing an eerie mood, this is a ton of fun for fans of Conan Doyle and Hammer horror. "},{"Title":"When you are poor no one wants to know you. Hammer studio's attempt at the classic Holmes mystery.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Hound of the Baskervilles starts in the mid 18th Century as Sir Hugo Baskerville (David Oxley) is enraged after a peasant girl escapes his lecherous clutches, Hugo chases after her & murders her but ends up with his throat torn out by a Hound from Hell that has been said to terrorise the Baskerville family ever since... The most recent Baskerville, Sir Charles, has also been found dead with a look of terror on his face although it has been officially put down as a heart condition, however Sir Charles best friend Dr. Richard Mortimer (Francis De Wolff) thinks other forces may be at work & asks the worlds foremost detective Sherlock Holmes (Peter Cushing) & his trusty assistant Dr. John Watson (Andre Morell) for help in discovering the true nature of Sir Charles death. The last of the Baskervilles Sir Henry (Christopher Lee) is set to inherit the entire Baskerville estate & fortune, after an attempt is made on his life Holmes is convinced that he is facing great evil & that Sir Henry is in grave danger. Sir Henry, Watson & Dr. Mortimer travel down to Devonshire where the town of Grimpen & Baskerville Hall are located, as Sir Henry introduces himself to the locals & Watson starts to investigate it seem almost everyone has a strong motive for murder...This British made Holmes mystery was directed by Terence Fisher & produced by Hammer who are perhaps both better know for their Dracula & Frankenstein series of films & a fine adaptation it is too with plenty of Hammer horror overtones & aspects. Maybe this version is not for the purists though, the script by Peter Bryan based on the novel by Arthur Conan Doyle changes quite a few things in an attempt to add a bit of tension, a few dramatics & quicken the pace up considerably. The film opens with flashback to the Sir Hugo incident unlike every other version I've seen which opens with Sir Charles Death & subsequently Dr. Mortimer tells Holmes about the legend later. While Watson & Sir Henry travel to Baskerville Hall on their own Holmes absence is probably only a few minutes as he turns up almost immediately again unlike other versions where he virtually disappears for the majority of the film, I think the idea behind this was to have Holmes on screen as Hammer thought audiences wanted to see him rather than Watson. Sir Henry is no longer American, the relationship between him & Cecile Stapelton (Marla Landi) develops in a different way & is barely touched upon, there is a scene in a mine shaft in which someone tries to kill Holmes & the ending is slightly different to any version I've seen. None of this makes it a bad film, far from it in fact as I rather enjoyed seeing Hammer taking the basic story & trying to make a commercial film out of it that the paying punters would flock to. This version still retains the strong story elements that make this such a timeless & entertaining tale but tries to spruce things up a bit. Director Fisher presents the typical image of Holmes complete with deerstalker cap, cape & pipe, I'm not sure what happened to the Hound in this version as it only gets about 2 minutes worth of screen time right at the end. Technically The Hound of the Baskervilles is solid, this was the first Sherlock Holmes film to be filmed in colour & it looks a little garish at times, the sets are great & the Hammer horror influence shines through with fog enshrouded ruins, dark Gothic type castle interiors & creaky old mines & as a whole it's well made throughout. The acting is good with Hammer regulars Cushing & Lee always fun to watch with the rest of the experienced cast doing a good job. Not the best version of The Hound of the Baskervilles but by no means the worst & if your familiar with the story then this may throw a few surprises & those without the patience to sit through a 2 plus hour adaptation then this is the one to go for as it runs for less than 90 minutes & considerably condenses things yet still manages to retain the ingredients that make the story such a success. Definitely worth a watch for mystery & Hammer fans. "},{"Title":"Hammer version goes for suspense rather than mystery","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A good cast takes a stab at Sherlock Holmes and, mostly, succeeds.  the only thing really bringing this movie down a bit is that it's not put together to be a good mystery, just a good suspense film.  Cushing's Holmes is very good; he brings across Holmes' pettiness out of his attention to detail and the shrewdness that helps him catch criminals in the first place also represents a darker (and, certainly, more annoying) side of his own personality.  This is similar to the way Cushing had played Van Helsing and Dr. Frankenstein in previous Hammer Films, so it's not surprising they tried it here, but it is a little surprising how well this goes along with the Sherlock Holmes character.  Cushing brings enough warmth to the character (effectively through his action with a solid Watson, Morrell) to make an audience still like the old blighter.  Good visual look, photography, B. Robinson's sets (recognizable from the later Curse of the Werewolf) are sufficiently gothic.  Often laughable script.   "}{"Title":"A well done mystery thriller from Hammer studios","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After their success with The Horror of Dracula, Terence Fisher, Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee would come together again to great success with this fine entry into the Hammer series. I have to confess to never having read the original novel or ever seeing another Hound of the Baskervilles film, so this tale of mystery is completely new to me. Peter Cushing stars as the eccentric Sherlock Holmes; one of the most famous detectives ever written. He is called in when the lord of the Baskerville family is found dead on the moors, in a way that appears to be reminiscent of the way the former lord of the family was found dead. This ties in with a mythical curse on the family, which tells of a vengeful ghost known as the hound of hell. The film starts as it means to go on; with an atmospheric and mysterious telling of how the curse on the family came about and from the beginning until the end; this is a macabre, but not violent, tension filled tale of terror that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat.Peter Cushing has had the pleasure of playing many of literature's finest characters - Baron Frankenstein and Van Helsing among others, and he brings just the right amount of eccentricity, panache and arrogance to this one; Sherlock Holmes. In fact, this is arguably his best performance ever as this role fits him like a glove. He is given excellent support by André Morell (Plague of the Zombies), who brings class to the role of Dr Watson; Sherlock Holmes' friend and fellow investigator. The fantastic Christopher Lee tops off the cast excellently, and as usual approaches his role with the great charm and charisma that horror fans have come to expect from him. Lee wasn't as big a star when this film was released as he went on to be, but I wouldn't be surprised to find that this was one of the roles (along with Count Dracula, obviously) that won him the acclaim that allowed him to go on to become the first billed star for many of Hammer's later films. Terence Fisher deserves much of the praise for the fact that this film turned out well; his rural sets and macabre atmosphere help turn this tale into a fascinating ride and he executes all the sequences wonderfully, so that the finished product is an exciting and invigorating piece of film. Well done, I say. "},{"Title":"There's more Evil here then I've ever encountered before!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" (SOME SPOILERS) Back in the 17th century England there was this decadent and evil man who loved to humiliate torture and even murder his servants and those of the lower classes, who couldn't fight back, named Sir. Hugo Baskerville.One evening at an all night orgy at Baskerville Hall Hugo went up to the room where his young maid was staying and in a fit of anger found her gone. Getting his fox hunting hounds together Hugo rode out into the moors to track down the maid and teach her some manners in her unpardonable act of disobeying her grand and noble master Sir. Hugo Baskerville. Chasing the girl into the ruins of a deserted abbey on the moor a terrifying howl rang out in the night. The pack of dogs with Hugo suddenly stopped in their tracks, and turned back in horror, but Hugo continued on after the maid which turned out to be the last thing he ever did. He was attacked by the mysterious hound and found dead the next morning, ripped to pieces, in the moor around the abbey. Some 150 years later the curse of the Hound of the Baskerville resurfaced as one of the two last remaining Baskerville's Sir. Charles was found in the same place where his descendant Hugo was killed dead from heart failure. Sir Charles had seen something so horrific that his heart suddenly stopped. With now only Sir. Henry Baskerville left to carry on the Baskerville name it was now up to the legendary English detective Sherlock Holmes to prevent him from ending up like the previous Baskerville; victims of the hound from hell The Hound of the Baskerville. Entertaining and suspenseful mystery with a lot of surprises along the way until you find out what exactly is behind the curse of the Baskerville family. Sherlock Holmes gets suspicious almost at once when Sir. Henry is almost killed by a tarantula spider, that was hidden in his boot. Holmes deducted that there's someone in and around Baskerville hall who want's Sir. Henry, like his uncle Sir. Charles, dead and for good reason. He's to inherited the Baskerville fortune and the massive Baskerville hall and all the land around it, but who exactly is he, or she? Holmes has to go back some 150 years to find out that Hugo's carousing and decadence lead to a rape of one of his servants that resulted in the birth of a child that was in line to inherit Baskerville Hall only if all the other Baskerville's were done away with. That nightmare, for Sir. Henry Baskerville, was about to come tragically and prophetically true. It takes a while for Holmes to find out just whom that person is. It's with an important piece of evidence being a missing painting of Hugo that reveals a defect, of his body not his mind, that would give the killer away. It was the killer who purposely stole it to keep anyone, like Sherlock Holmes, from finding that startling fact out. "},{"Title":"A colourful, enjoyable version","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sherlock Holmes has the legend of the hound of the Baskervilles related to him but greets the story of the series of murders, starting with Sir Hugo Baskerville and continuing along the line, with derision.  However when he is asked to offer protection to new heir to the manor, Sir Henry Baskerville, he agrees and he and Watson travel to the moors to protect him and uncover the mystery of the legendary hound.To me, the only Holmes is Rathbone and the only Watson is Bruce.  So I had an immediate problem with this film for that reason, although happily not one it took me long to overcome.  The film plays the tradition horror angle against the more logical deduction of Holmes, starting with the legend and jumping to the setting of Baker Street.  The later gory, unpleasant excesses of the Hammer films are happily lacking here and the film puts more emphasis on mood and mystery.  The mood is pretty good and the plot is well delivered, although I will always prefer the early Holmes films more than this.The use of logic and the mysterious air to the film work well and the end result is an enjoyable film.  The cast is good, although the fact that Cushing and Morell both look a little like Rathbone and Bruce, which was a little bit off-putting at the start.  However Cushing delivers a solid Holmes, he is sharp mentally and the only downside of his performance is that he doesn't prevent Holmes from stepping over the line between intellectual and overly superior.  Morell plays Bruce very low-key.  In a way this is for the best but I do actually enjoy the more comedic sidekick played by Bruce, and I missed that.  Christopher Lee is a good presence and, watching it now, he adds more mystery to the film with his inclusion.  The support cast are good including turns from Malleson and the ever-reliable Le Mesurier.Overall, while I prefer the Rathbone/Bruce era, I did enjoy this film and felt it did a good job of telling a colourful and mysterious version of the story that mixes the logical aspects with the meatier horror of the hound. "},{"Title":"Hammer's Hound howls triumphant!","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Master sleuth Sherlock Holmes (Peter Cushing) and his aide Watson (Andre Morell) are engaged to investigate the strange death of Sir Charles Baskerville, the latest in a long line of victims of his family's terrible 'curse'. Watching over the last in the family's line, Sir Henry (Christopher Lee), Holmes ventures onto the forbidding Dartmoor moors to unravel the enigma of the demon hound.The first Holmes adventure in colour, Conan Doyle's most popular story gets the Hammer treatment blood, boobage and atmosphere. The film very effectively creates a sinister atmosphere of dark mansions, foggy moors and the monstrous howl in the depths of night, while ramping up the violence from the original story (including maulings, burning, attempted rape and a cave in), though never to the point of cheap exploitation and tastelessness, but in fact enhancing the Gothic ambiance Hammer is known for.What classes up the production, first off, is the great cast Cushing is a near pitch perfect Holmes from the page mercurial, thorough and a touch arrogant but always aware of the bigger picture and the risks involved. Morrell, the first new screen Watson since Nigel Bruce, ditches the classic bumbling for a stout and reserved military man who, though not as bright as Holmes, is still capable and determined to the case. Lee is in a rare sympathetic role as the last Baskerville, and gives it a fitting aristocratic bearing while making him more down to earth and even a touch bolshy.The second key point is a mostly tight screenplay that effectively condenses Doyle's story without making it a less compelling mystery that straddles the line of the supernatural very well. It does a good job at keeping the Hound as a background menace, building up to it slowly, while taking us through the steps of Holmes' investigation and his methods as we see him piece the affair together. If there are gripes here, is that there are some strands that go really nowhere and are more there just for quick thrills (like an element of human sacrifice, or the dubious portrayal of a key character that is never brought up again), and well, when you finally see the Hound... don't get your hopes up. Even for the time, it's rather a damp squib. Regardless, if you like your Hammer or classic horror in general, and love a suspenseful adventure yarn, this is a good 'un. "},{"Title":"Elementary, my dear Hammer.","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Cracking, deliciously fun Hammer version of the classic Sherlock Holmes novel by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. The great detective is played by Hammer star Peter Cushing, in a performance of style and wit. Holmes is hired by Mortimer (Francis De Wolff), the doctor for the aristocratic Baskerville family. Sir Charles Baskerville has just died, and Holmes must not only solve the crime, but make sure that Charles' nephew Sir Henry (Sir Christopher Lee) is protected from harm.Hammers' typically meticulous recreation of a long ago time and place helps to set a palpable mood. Director Terence Fisher is in fine form, as he guides this horror - mystery genre mix through its twists and turns. And these are solid and believable twists and turns. For people such as this viewer who aren't familiar with the novel, they'll be kept on their toes and not two steps ahead of the story at every point. We're always engrossed, and invested in the plight of the characters. We also marvel at Holmes' cleverness and deductive ability. There's just the right amount of tension, especially in a scene where a terrified Sir Henry discovers an eight legged surprise on his body. (Helping to sell the moment is the fact that Sir Christopher himself had a fear of spiders.) The atmosphere is incredible, especially in all scenes that take place on the Moors. James Bernard once again crafts a thunderous and eerie score. It's also nice to take in the vivid colour that Hammer introduced to the Gothic horror genre.Cushing and Lee are a dream team, as always. Cushing is a very good Holmes, and Andre Morell matches him as a very personable Dr. Watson. Lee is touching as his character falls in love with local girl Cecile. A marvelous supporting cast, too Marla Landi, David Oxley, De Wolff, Miles Malleson (delivering delightful comedy relief as a priest who doubles as an insect & arachnid expert), Ewen Solon, John Le Mesurier, Helen Goss, and Sam Kydd.Well paced and diverting for 87 exciting minutes.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a shame they didn't make any more.","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There have been many adaptations of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Hound of The Baskervilles over the years, but this 1959 version from Hammer studios has got to rank as one of the best, largely thanks to the impeccable casting of Peter Cushing, who is on top form as legendary detective Sherlock Holmes, and André Morell, whose Watson is far from the bumbling oaf of the earlier Universal Studios series. It doesn't hurt either to have fellow Hammer stalwart Christopher Lee on standby as Sir Henry Baskerville, and with wonderfully atmospheric direction from Terence Fisher, and sumptuous production design throughout, there is much here to enjoy.Fisher opens his movie with the origin of the Baskerville curse, as told to Holmes and Watson by Doctor Richard Mortimer (Francis De Wolff), who has come to Baker Street for help after his friend, Sir Charles Baskerville, is discovered dead on the moors, apparently the victim of a terrifying beast. Holmes learns how wicked Hugo Baskerville supposedly doomed further generations of his family by hunting down and murdering an innocent young woman, thus invoking a terrible hound from Hell that lurks under the moors.Of course, Holmes knows that there must be a logical answer to the mysterious deaths that have plagued the Baskervilles, and with help from Watson, he eventually discovers the truth, but only after plenty of danger involving a deadly tarantula, the perilous Grimpen mire, a dilapidated tin mine, and the hell hound itself.While the plot does deviate somewhat from Conan Doyle's novel, most notably with the introduction of Spanish babe Cecile (Marla Landi) as love interest for Sir Henry, any liberties taken with the source material do little to spoil what is an extremely entertaining movie.8/10, although Miles Malleson's very amusing turn as dippy entomologist Bishop Frankland almost nudged my rating to a 9. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous version of the classic story","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hammer Films intended, in this stylish and well-appointed remake of the 1939 Basil Rathbone classic, to begin a whole cycle of Sherlock Holmes movies. Unfortunately the box-office returns were slightly disappointing, probably due to the story being over-familiar than anything they did wrong; and while this remains the only Hammer Sherlock it's certainly one of their finest efforts.Peter Cushing was a natural for the part of Holmes, and here he is re-teamed with Christopher Lee for the 3rd time in a Hammer movie. Andre Morrell is a far superior Dr. Watson to Nigel Bruce's buffoonish turn, and the film beautifully captures the richly Gothic atmosphere of Conan Doyle's most famous story.Of course this being Hammer they introduced even more horror overtones than the story already has; David Oxley's Sir Hugo Baskerville is one of the nastiest aristocrats ever put on screen. In a splendid opening prologue concerning the legend of the hound we discover just WHY the Baskerville family is haunted by a curse, and Oxley plays it for all he is worth.Cushing is ably supported by the rest of the cast from Francis De Wolff's splendidly arrogant Dr. Mortimer to John Le Mesurier's furtive Barrymore the acting is great. Another priceless turn by Miles Malleson as Bishop Frankland supplies the humour.But what really sticks in my mind is Jack Asher's wonderful cinematography and Bernard Robinson's cleverly constructed sets. Terence Fisher again directs with aplomb. I only wish the movie had been more successful so Hammer could have made follow-ups. Splendid stuff. "},{"Title":"A good old story we all know and yet...","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An old production of the BBC, but quite feasible still today. Don't expect special effects of course but the story is told just nice and clean. In this story you have all that could be frightening for the Victorians at the end of the 19th century. A blood line that could get lost or rather spoiled by the unknown son of one of the heirs of a title. The heir himself is dead but the son is coming strong. Then a monster animal of the dog family. The English have always liked dogs, but they seem to be afraid of some of them. A howling dog on a moor is of course quite frightening at night with a little bit of fog. Then a couple of loose women who are ready to do too much for a certain price without asking too many questions. When one of them does then she is nicely tied up clean and tight. Then some faithful servants but with divided loyalties because of a relative that is not very clean and they want to protect. That will reveal the good heart of the aristocracy. Then a few locals, vaguely seen between, two curtains and two doors that add some local color to the screen. And finally know-it-all Sherlock Holmes whose fame isn't to know the criminal but to trap him into accepting his guilt and proving it all by himself. He always succeeds so no problem there again. The only question is the punishment of that criminal. Will the police be brought into the picture or will they not? Will he hang or will he die in a more refined way. You have to go and watch the film pr just read Sir Conan Doyle.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Not the most exciting movie but it's a good watch.","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Even though it is a great shame that the Hammer studios did not continue the Sherlock Holmes-series with Peter Cushing in the lead, I can understand why it didn't got picked up by the audience. It's not necessarily due to the lack of monsters and horror but more because this movie is a bit of a lackluster. It just isn't a very exciting movie to watch.But even so, I still really liked this movie. To me Peter Cushing really is the definitive Sherlock Holmes. I would had loved to see him play the character more often. He did played the character a couple of times again in a BBC produced series and again in 1984, in one of his last movies, The Masks of Death, directed by former Hammer studios director Roy Ward Baker. But of course all of these productions lack the Hammer touch and feel, that made all those movies so distinctive. It was a real perfect combination, the Sherlock Holmes character and universe, Peter Cushing and the Hammer studios. Whenever I think of Sherlock Holmes, it still is an image of Peter Cushing that pops up into my mind first. He was that perfect for the role.It's also really true that it's one of Cushing's best acting roles. Seemed he really enjoyed playing the iconic character and got really into his role. Other Hammer icon Christopher Lee is also in the movie and he played a good and enjoyable role in it as well. It was actually one of the first movies Cushing and Lee appeared together in, after the of course more well known 1958 Dracula version, with Lee as the count and Cushing as vampire killer Van Helsing.For this movie the two also teamed up again with director Terence Fisher, who is one of the most recognizable names from the Hammer studios period as a director. He directed a large amount of movies for the British studios and among them are the very best and also best known ones, such as most of the Dracula and Frankenstein movies. Ironicaly he would also direct a later Sherlock Holmes movie, with this time Christopher Lee as the pipe-smoking detective.The movie its story got based on one of the Arthur Conan Doyle novels. I think that without a doubt the Hound of the Baskervilles is the most filmed Sherlock Holmes novel. I don't really see why really, as it really isn't the most spectacularly mysterious or thrilling tense story. It only has an handful of characters in it, which does not work to well for the mystery and whodunit element of the story. Besides, there isn't always a lot happening in the story. Sherlock Holmes himself is also out of the movie for too long, too often.The movie has a real Hammer studios look and atmosphere to it. Some exterior shots got obviously shot inside of a studio, with fake looking sets, backdrops and of course an inevitable smoke-machine. To me this is no complaint really. It is what makes the Hammer studios so unique and strangely appealing and charming to watch. I also don't think that the modern Hammer-fan will be disappointed by this movie.A good movie and it's a real big shame not more of it got made by the Hammer studios, with Peter Cushing in the lead.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"terror hound mystery","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *may contain spoilers* Hammer's faithful lively film of sherlock holmes 'the hound of the baskervilles' story. This lavish film follows late 1930s film of the story. A good cast, Christopher Lee who played nasty Dracula in Hammer film shortly before this, now playing good guy. Peter Cushing who played vampire hunter in Dracula film, fits into lead role of detective. He brings humour to part. Christopher Lee good as threatened Henry Baskerville. Andre Morell plays senior, more crusty Dr. Watson. John Le Mesurier stars as butler Barrymore and actor plays shifty groundsman Stapleton. In the film, there is big mansion hall beside the moor and mire, howls of hound can be heard at night. A sense of danger there, a threat to Henry's life. "}{"Title":"Delightful adaptation from a master of horror","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Often praised as the best Hound adaptation, Terence Fisher's vision of Doyle's most famous work is truly a beautiful work of art. Being the first colour version, it had a lot to live up to, but Fisher a master of colour succeeds brilliantly in bringing it to the screen. The plot however alters a lot of Doyle's work, Fisher employing wholesale changes of plot and character and as a result the film feels more like a Hammer film than it does a Holmes film, but minor quibbles aside, its still a fun film. Cushing is a very priggy Holmes, his later entries as the super sleuth, would be much less so, but he's still great to watch. Andre Morell is also excellent as Watson, striking a good balance between a knowledgeable man of medicine and a bumbling sidekick. Christopher Lee though, isn't left with much to work with as Henry Baskerville. Like most adaptations of the book, the film can live or die by the size of its Hound, Hammer found the biggest Great Dane they could, but it still fails a little to convince as a Hound of Hell. That said this is a spectacular production, if slightly flawed one. "},{"Title":"Hammer's take on the Sherlock Holmes mythos is as Hammeresque as it gets","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One years after the movie that put Hammer Studios on the horror map for good, 1958's HORROR OF Dracula, Terence Fisher, Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee take on A.C. Doyle's famous story of the last heir of the Baskervilles returning to claim his uncle's estate in England in the midst of rumours about an old curse and peculiar events. You know this is first trying to be a good Hammer horror and then a faithful to the original material Sherlock Holmes mystery yarn, when Henry Baskerville is menaced by a big, hairy tarantula within the first 15 minutes. Liberties with the story are taken left and right, but while Holmes traditionalists will have ample cause for complain, I am content to witness a different approach to the same old story. Peter Cushing plays Holmes like a manic speedfreak, rushing, turning and moving in sudden jerks and jolts. He lacks the affable qualities of Basil Rathbone but makes up for it with spontaneous energy and a grubby attitude that marks him closer to Doyle's original. His sharp-witted deductions are as marvelous to behold as they've ever been. Dr. Watson on the other hand is the weak link but again Christopher Lee as Henry Baskerville restores the balance on the acting department. A good old Hammer horror flick with bundles of foggy atmosphere, an okay Sherlock Holmes adaptation that misses out to Rathbone's version, but still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A Vigorous Retelling Of The Classic Thriller, HAMMER-Style...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The initial version of HOUND, released in 1939, was the first to introduce Sir Basil Rathbone as the immortal detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, eventually resulting in the actor being the most identified in the role. Twenty years on, his contemporary, Peter Cushing took a stab at it as well, and the results are equally as gratifying.It's interesting to note as well that Andre Morell's interpretation of Dr. John Watson, Holmes' steadfast companion and confidante, paints a more capable and robust picture of the cultured sidekick than the cloud of befuddlement that always seemed to surround Nigel Bruce in his performance. Like Old Faithful, Hammer vet Terence Fisher directs HOUND as more of a stunning crime thriller with horror elements than an out-and-out costume romp, much like the others that the studio became famous (or infamous) for. Allegedly the start of a planned series, the idea was scrapped when Holmes didn't catch on with latter audiences, who were more drawn to Hammer's Monster movies with werewolves and vampires.The best treat of all in this case, though, besides seeing British character vets in action like Morrell, John Le Mesurier (Barrymore, the manservant), Francis De Wolff (Doctor Mortimer) and a hysterical turn by Miles Malleson as Bishop Frankland, (worthy of Barry Fitzgerald), is seeing Cushing and Christopher Lee as Sir Henry Baskerville sharing scenes together, no matter how briefly, in a non-Dracula-inspired context.If you love old-school mysteries, and Hammer films especially, be sure to add this one to your Must-Rent list. "},{"Title":"Holmes Gets Hammered","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Two great things that go great together Sherlock Holmes and Hammer Films! This is the first Holmes film shot in color, and it has a lot to offer. First of all, Peter Cushing is a remarkably good Holmes and quite faithful to the Conan Doyle conception of the character. He was a huge fan of the original stories and knew them quite well; it certainly translates onto the screen. Equally important, Andre Morrell does a superb turn as Dr. Watson, probably the most faithful and accurate portrayal of the doctor up to this point. The supporting cast is peopled with various Hammer stalwarts, foremost among them none other than Christopher Lee as Sir Henry. There are a few changes made to fit the novel into the Hammer style of horror a bit more closely (Sir Henry is menaced by a tarantula!), but they don't detract from the overall effectiveness. The Hound looks suitably menacing, fitted with a demonic dog mask to increase the spookiness, Cushing has a fun scene flinging a dagger into a table top while interrogating a suspect, and, to their undying credit, the filmmakers mount a ripping re-enactment of the events that began the legend. In most productions of the THOTB, this is omitted entirely or scanted. Not so here, and David Oxley is a most unnerving Sir Hugo. You can see why the neighbors thought he was possessed. Recommended. "},{"Title":"The Hound, in Color.","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An above-average spinning of Conan-Doyle's familiar tale. Sherlock Holmes (Peter Cushing) and Dr. Watson (Andre Morell) are called in on the case of an enormously wealthy squire who has died of fright, the death perhaps being connected in some way with the legend of a gigantic hound that has plagued the family for generations.Holmes and Watson travel to the swampy moors and gloomy Arthurian ruins of Dartmoor to visit and advise the new squire, Sir Henry (Christopher Lee), recently arrived from South Africa.Neighbors are few in this desolate wasteland but all of them are quirky and suspicious. There is a mad murderer at large on the moor. A dreadful howling is sometimes heard at night. The two servants are of no help. In the end, the legendary hound DOES appear and attacks Sir Henry. I won't spoil the ending, even though I figure that anybody who purports to be literate or into pop culture to any degree must know the bare bones of the story. Remakes and parodies abound, a sure sign of iconogenesis.Well, Peter Cushing is a splendid actor. He had a small role in Olivier's Hamlet, and in interviews he comes across as a thoughtful, somewhat sentimental, thoroughly grand guy. The problem is that he's too short for Sherlock. Now, Basil Rathbone was just right, and, here, Cushing is too often shot next to Christopher Lee, who is SO tall that he makes everyone around him look short. If it weren't for that, Cushing's bony features and crisp diction would be just about right.As Watson, Andre Morell rescues the figure from the comic buffoonery of Nigel Bruce. Lee himself is a commanding enough character that he would make a good Holmes. (He played Sherlock's brother, Mycroft, in The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes.) Supporting players turn in seasoned performances, but it's not difficult to guess who the villain is. Even Solon is one of those unfortunates who's features have a default setting resembling a sneer. He no doubt scowls in his sleep. And it was a big mistake to cast Marla Landi as the femme fatal. Her Italian accent mutilates the phones of English, and the writers have fecklessly made her of Spanish descent. I mean, really, she's not the respectable and ultimately moral young Englishwoman that would appeal to Sir Henry. She's a veritable gypsy.The plot of the novella has been been transmogrified. There is the exploration of an abandoned tin mine, not in the original story, whose timbers must collapse so that the roof falls on Holmes and he must dig his way out. There are other twists whose points I couldn't make out, but none are deadly.A plus the hound is the scariest one I've seen in any of the versions of this tale. Oh -- and it's nice to have real outdoor shots of the great Grimpen mire. The Rathbone/Bruce version was studio bound and you could hear the echoes ringing among the paper-mache rocks.It has its weaknesses but it's not at all a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"Classic Story Told Well","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Even Hammer couldn't lash-up Conan Doyle's most evocative tale about his famous detective creation.It's good versus evil cast from their classic mould. Peter Cushing almost reprises his Van Helsing role adding a steely edge of Holmes. Whilst Christopher Lee is right up there too, though his fangs have been left in the dressing-room (he's a goody this time). Andre Morell makes a very convincing and likable Dr Watson.Instead of a vampire or werewolf their nemesis is a giant legendary hound. But it'll do just as well. Filmed with typical Hammer economy - or in other words, done on the cheap - there is still a sufficiency of studio and location-work to offer a much broader sweep to its presentation. Though when you bear in mind that the whole of Dartmoor National Park was at their disposal, with its dramatic tors and sweeping moors, a great deal more could have been accomplished.Nevertheless, it's a very nicely realised and atmospheric effort that stands up to scrutiny after all these years. It's almost a perfect horror-noir. The story itself is extremely easy to follow, and the drama simply presented because of Conan Doyle's own craft. Just a handful of very clearly defined characters are all that are needed. Hammer wisely let them do the talking.It's still got their inevitable stamp of strident, ear-splittingly dramatic cords, at least half of which we could do without. But otherwise it's a veritable Holmes-fest arguably the best realised of his many adventures.Lock the cat-flap, sit down and enjoy a golden oldie. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes meets Hammer Films!","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Before England's Hammer Films went strictly horror, they produced this handsome second-version of what became an oft-filmed Sir Arthur Conan Doyle suspense yarn, previously made in 1939 with Basil Rathbone. Sherlock Holmes (a good--not great--Peter Cushing) unravels the mysterious case of an apparent curse placed upon a prestigious family near the Moors. When we do get to see the hellish hound of the title, it's strangely anti-climactic, and the pacing of the film is inert. The Technicolor photography and production design are very good however, and Christopher Lee gives a solid performance as a 'doomed' descendant (his run-in with a tarantula is a highlight). Apparently, this was meant by Hammer to be the first in a Holmes series, but Doyle's trust--and the public's indifference--scuttled those plans. ** from **** "},{"Title":"One of the better adaptations of the book","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This adaptation was really good, on par with the Basil Rathbone and Jeremy Brett adaptations and marginally better than the Ian Richardson version, though that was decent. It doesn't have the slow pacing of the Jeremy Brett version though, or the rushed ending of the Basil Rathbone film and that is a good thing. Whatever minor flaws this film has, I felt the beginning wasn't quite as atmospheric as the rest of the adaptation, this is still a wonderful film with a great atmosphere and cast.It looks good, the sets are detailed, the cinematography is innovative and the costumes are great, painting a sort of romantic atmosphere in a dark way, while the hound is quite scary. The score is also suitably eerie, the story doesn't meander, the direction from Terence Fisher is excellent and the script is well written. And the acting is wonderful. Personally I thought Basil Rathbone and Jeremy Brett are better in the role, but Peter Cushing gives one of his finer performances regardless, and he is well supported by Andre Morell who is earnest and likable as Watson and the great Christopher Lee is on top form as Sir Henry.Overall, definitely one of the better adaptations of the book, if not THE best. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Smashing Adaptation Of The Classic Sherlock Holmes Mystery","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When Sir Charles Baskerville is found dead, apparently of fright, and his nephew is sent for to take charge of Baskerville Hall in Dartmoor, Sherlock Holmes is asked to investigate the circumstances of the death and the Baskerville curse of a hideous hound said to have stalked the family for centuries.This is a smashing adaptation of Arthur Conan Doyle's most famous story, with Cushing on fine form as Holmes, bristling with energy, intellectually brilliant, but also impatient and hard-edged, just the way the character is written. The script makes some unnecessary changes - Beryl Stapleton is turned into a strange revenge-seeking senorita called Cecile, Mrs Lyons is absent and Malleson's character is a fabrication, but the film is pretty faithful to the book. As ever with Hammer Films, the quality of the production is first-rate, with gloriously evocative sets by Bernard Robinson, dripping in brown, green and black. The supporting cast too is terrific, especially Lee as Sir Henry Baskerville, Morrell as a finely-judged Dr Watson, and Le Mesurier as the butler Barrymore. This was and always will be a classic mystery tale to chill the blood, and Cushing's tremendous (and sadly only) performance as Sherlock Holmes is a treat to savour. "},{"Title":"The best version since the 1939 film!","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Hammer Productions had some of the best talent working with them, from their revival of the classic Universal Monsters (tm) like Dracula & Frankenstein to their own brand of excellent originals.Their crown jewel IMO was The Hound of the Baskervilles, especially the recent MGM DVD release of the film in WIDESCREEN.Christopher Lee is still one of the best actors, from his early works to the more recent films like Sleepy Hollow, Star Wars, and The Lord of the Rings - he is a force to be reckoning with.  His portrayal of Henry Baskerville was top notched.Peter Cushing another actor that had a long successful career, made for a wonderful Sherlock Holmes!  His presence can be felt in Star Wars IV, even at his signs of failing health.  But as with all his Hammer films, Peter shined well nicely in this film.André Morell thankfully played the most interesting Watson's in film history.  His other works also defined him as a star in his own right.And to think these 3 actors played appeared together in the Hound of the Baskervilles among the other well casted members of the film company.This one is truly the classic to which all film fans can appreciate the acting & film work and style that makes Hammer films an enjoyable and re-watchable medium.  "}{"Title":"House of Holmes and Hounds","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hound of the Baskervilles is probably the most filmed adaptation of Conan-Doyle's Sherlock Holmes lore. There are literally dozens of HOTB adaptations across movies, TV, plays, mini-series, and even video games. There's not much one can do with the material to keep it interesting and fresh, but Terence Fisher mixes up a few of the elements as best as he can, which might have some Holmes purists crying foul.Holmes and Watson are called away to the gloomy moors of Dartmoor where a giant hellhound has been tormenting the dwindling numbers of the Baskerville family. Sir Henry has recently moved in after a number of years living in Africa and his weak heart is about to pack in as the rumors intensify.Watson takes over for the beginning of the case as Holmes vanishes to sleuth on his own. For anyone who has read the novel or seen any of the previous movies all of this will be so far so familiar, as are the next two acts. What this Hammer production does offer is some nice production design and a few striking shots. Peter Cushing is good as Holmes while Andre Morell, displeased with Nigel Bruce's interpretation of Watson, brings a serious edge to the character.As the first Sherlock Holmes movie made in color it does look very slick and it's never boring. It just fails to bring anything truly new to the table. Though I would have like to see Hammer take this series further. Sadly, the movie underperformed and they did not. "},{"Title":"It's a shame Cushing and Hammer wouldn't adapt more Holmes stories than they did","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After successfully re-stimulating cinema audience's thirst for classic horror with re-tellings of the Dracula and Frankenstein legends, Hammer Films turned their attention to another piece of classic British literature, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes. It seemed logical to adapt Doyle's arguably most popular story, The Hound of the Baskervilles, a tale translated to the screen countless times before and since 1959. This being Hammer however, the Gothic atmosphere and supernatural elements took centre stage, and with Terence Fisher in the director's chair and Peter Cushing donning the famous deerstalker, this is not only one of the finest Holmes adaptations but one of Hammer's most memorable works.Beginning centuries ago, the sadistic aristocrat Sir Hugo Baskerville (David Oxley) is enjoying a night of debauchery when a female prisoner escape and flees into the surrounding moors. Outraged, he pursues her with his pack of hounds, and eventually captures her and stabs her to death. Shortly after, Hugo is killed by an unseen entity that causes him to die with a look of terror on his face. Hundreds of years later, and Sir Charles Baskerville has been found dead under similar circumstances, leaving his only remaining heir Sir Henry (Christopher Lee) to take over Baskerville Hall. Now fearing that Sir Henry may become the next victim of the Baskerville curse, Dr. Richard Mortimer (Francis De Wolff) employs the talents of Sherlock Holmes and his trusted partner Dr. Watson (Andre Morell) to solve the mystery.The film has its problems, mainly with Holmes going missing for a large chunk of the running time and leaving Dr. Watson in charge of the investigation, but thankfully Morell proves to be suitably refined in the role and capable of carrying the movie for this period. The hound at the final reveal is also anti-climatic and rather silly, although this is understandable given that there are no true supernatural powers at work here. These quibbles are overshadowed by some sumptuous cinematography by Hammer stalwart Jack Asher, whose smoky moors really drum up a genuinely spooky atmosphere at times, especially during the surprisingly violent opening scene and the tense climax. This being Hammer, liberties are taken with the source material, but it's all for the sake of good old-fashioned entertainment. It's a shame Cushing and Hammer wouldn't adapt more Holmes stories than they did. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes In Color.","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Terence Fisher directed this first cinematic Sherlock Holmes adventure to be filmed in color, which fortunately doesn't destroy any atmosphere, but enhances it. Peter Cushing stars as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated detective, with Andre Morel cast as Doctor John Watson, and Christopher Lee as Sir Henry Baskerville, who consults Holmes, as he is about to inherit his family estate on the English moors, but has been receiving death threats, and is also bothered by the rumored family curse involving a huge hound that stalks the Baskerville descendants... Exciting and well directed film with fine performances; does take some needless liberties with the novel, but still remains a most effective and entertaining Hammer studios adaptation, the only one made unfortunately. "},{"Title":"The Hound vs The Sleuthhound","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've always had a soft spot for this Hammer entry, it was one of their best films &#x96; it had it all melodrama, action, romance, (alleged) horror, story, and fair acting. And they managed supremely well to disguise the fact it was low budget&#x85;it was, wasn't it?Aristocratic Sir Henry Baskerville (Christopher Lee) comes back to olde Devon(shire) to claim his inheritance but is threatened by noisy mysterious evil forces; snooty Sherlock Holmes - excellently played by Peter Cushing - and snooty Dr. Watson are employed by snooty Dr. Mortimer to protect him. Conan Doyle perfectly portrayed a world in which everyone knew their places rigidly, after all the same as these characters he didn't consider himself working class even though he worked for a living. At one point poor old concerned buggy-driver Sam Kydd was chastised by Mortimer to hold his tongue who meekly agreed it was only his (innate) foolishness. Favourite bits from many the warm and atmospheric colour and production values to savour generally &#x96; it helped bring Dartmoor to life whether real or on set; Sir Hugo's manic thwarted lust as befitted a master; Holmes' wild spider-mashing; wild Cecile trying to lure Watson to his death; finding Baskerville still alive after a dramatic chase on the moors; the boozy waffling bishop played by the always dependable Miles Malleson.I liked Jeremy Brett's ponderous version too but overall prefer Basil Rathbone's take from 20 years earlier - however this was marvellous cinema too. And although liberty-taking especially in its pace and Lee's fruitless romance, it conjures up the spirit of the book wonderfully well. "},{"Title":"casting does the trick","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm not sure how this compares entirely to the bulk of Hammer Films output during the late 50's and early 60's (my impression from trivia and other sources is that the film didn't have a real monster - the Hound of the title late in the film doesn't count - and its fan group didn't come like they did to Horror of Dracula), but it can stand on its own as a good Sherlock Holmes movie. Good, not great, as the dialog is often involving and entertaining, and we get to see actors like Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee play their parts very well (Andre Morel as Dr. Watson is also very good). Cushing especially shows for Holmes a lot of keen intelligence and perception in his part, which is important, even if one might find it lacking in the more eccentric and helpless side of Holmes one finds in other portrayals.He's a sharp Holmes, one that appears one step ahead of everyone just when it looks like he can't be found; I loved the moment when he appears out of the shadows in the Moor and calmly explains (with enthusiasm) that he was on the train just after Watson had left to go to the Baskervilles. Some of these moments are funny, but mostly it's a straightforward telling of this story, about the supposed curse on the Baskerville home, and how its made into a clearer story thanks to Holmes and Watson (mostly Holmes). I also liked seeing Christopher Lee as Peter Baskerville, a man who is from good upbringing but has problems of his own with his family heritage. For Lee it's a far cry from the intense and mostly quiet Dracula he played a year before, and it's actually one of his most well-rounded performances not a bad guy but in over his head (and what a tarantula that winds up on his shoulder!) It's a fine little movie, sometimes not terribly exciting (the ending is not so much abrupt but on a dull note of exposition) but it has terrific performances and a fine sense of the dreary and spooky atmosphere possible in the farmlands of England. If only once it's worth a look, though I'm sure fans of the actors and die-hard fans of Doyle's character will seek it out either way. "},{"Title":"Hammering the Horehound","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hammer Studios' version of THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES is a eerie and atmospheric horror tale retold in gaudy Technicolor and with Peter Cushing perfectly starring as Sherlock Holmes, the character simply fits him naturally. As the ever-reliable Dr. Watson stars Andre Morell, and is fittingly not portrayed as churlish as sometimes depicted. Christopher Lee takes on the somewhat arid Sir Henry character with more or less simple competency. Now the story has been drawn so there were room for new viewpoints and adaptations, and luckily this benefits the film. A charming, enjoyable, and moody Hammer Studios version of the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle classic. "},{"Title":"This is, I think, a two-pipe problem.","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Peter Cushing makes a great Holmes, and the Hammer film was much more enjoyable than the other Holmes film.André Morell makes a better Dr. Watson, and is not so much a bumbling fool as Nigel Bruce. But, I will have to get the 1939 version of this adventure to compare apples with apples.I really liked having Christopher Lee in the film. I always enjoy his performances and he does well with Cushing.The story was very interesting and as old as time itself. Even so, It was well into the film before I guessed it. I guess I won't be quitting my day job to become a detective. "},{"Title":"Exciting! Enjoyable! Thoroughly Engaging! Excellent Stuff!","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hammer, Fisher, Lee, Cushing, Morrell. A fine combination of fellows with an equally interesting supporting cast that transfixes your attention right from the opening scene. A brisk pace keeps you alert and awake as your curiosity and interest are instantly piqued and captivated. This film has the makings of a great film. Its atmospheric gloom is gripping. Cushing as Holmes is brilliant. Is he better than Rathbone? Not important! They were both darn good! Both the 1939 version and this one are excellent entertainment. Christopher Lee is dashing as Sir Henry Baskerville and Andre Morrell is a superlative Dr. Watson. But Nigel Bruce is great in his own way too. I like both versions. This one is a fine rendition of the haunting tale that captures the imagination. Peter Cushing was such a fine actor with great linguistic abilities and fine delivery of lines. Did he not speak The Queen's English? I love the scenes where they are at supper or having drinks and cigars after dinner discussing the mysterious occurrences that are going on around them. Such classy, elegant scenes of gentility and politeness. We have lost so much in today's crass world of boorish ignorance. This is great entertainment not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Don't venture the moors alone.","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hammer House. Peter Cushing. Christopher Lee. Not exactly strong horror, but enough suspense and atmosphere to satisfy that urge to be frightened. One of the better treatments of A. Conan Doyle's gripping novel. Sherlock Holmes(Cushing)and Dr. Watson(Andre Morell)are called upon to help protect Sir Henry Baskerville(Lee)from a curse that comes with the family estate. Holmes investigates the legend of a hound from hell that roams the moors at night and favors the blood of a Baskerville. Dark, deliberate and gloomy with spooky cinematography. Kudos to director Terence Fisher. Eerie soundtrack from James Bernard. Also among the players Marla Landi, Miles Maileson, John Le Mesurier and Ewen Solon. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" 1959's The Hound of the Baskervilles is an excellent showcase for the late Peter Cushing's turn as the world famous detective Sherlock Holmes. The plot concerns a curse that is killing off the Baskerville clan, the last of whom, the fantastic Christopher Lee, inherits a country estate when his last relative is killed. Fearing for his safety, he enlists the help of Sherlock Holmes and Dr.Watson. The mood in this movie is very nicely set, as the lighting and sets offer quite an eerie feel. The costumes are also quite extraordinary. It's too bad that the pairing of Cushing and Andre Morrel didn't continue performing in more sherlock Holmes/Hammer movies. Recommended. "}{"Title":"A fine example of craft","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" On reflection, this film was by far the best use of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's novel, and a pity 'Hammer Films' did not use 'Sherlock Holmes' again in their varied use of horror themes.It's not just 'Cushing, and Lee' that make this film the fine example that it is, but 'Hammers' stock actors like Francis De Woolf (Doctor Mortimer), and Miles Malleson (Bishop Frankland). This had wonderful character acting by some of 'Hammers' high-end actors, and the highest marks to 'Cushing' who plays the definitive 'Sherlock Holmes', which puts the American Rathbone version, to shame.How it should be done! "},{"Title":"The best version yet of the classic tale","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is by some distance the most often filmed Sherlock Holmes story ,and little wonder for it has many of the ingredients to tempt film makers -a story of an ancient curse on an aristocratic family ,a curse manifesting itself as a spectral hound that seeks and destroys the eldest surviving male Baskerville .When Sir Henry Baskerville returns from Canada on the mysterious death of his father he calls in the great detective to protect him and ferret out the truth behind the curse . Cue the swirling mists of Dartmoor ,the treacherous swamp land and the eerie cry of a hound in the night .It is pure melodrama but well handled and acted with just the right note of earnestness . Cushing for my money was ideally cast as Holmes ,bringing both the right intellectual air and the coiled spring physical intensity to bear while Andre Morrell is superb as Watson ,avoiding the buffoonery of the Nigel Bruce characterization that so marred the Basil Rathbone series of Holmes adventures , Add an authoratitive Sir Henry from Christopher Lee and atmospheric direction from Terence Fisher and yoo have an exceptional movie which puts subsequent remakes to shame  "},{"Title":"The first colour version of The Hound of the Baskervilles","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In 1958, following Hammer's very successful remakes of Frankenstein and Dracula, they decided to embark on the production of the most famous Sherlock Holmes story of them all.This is a commendable effort, whose most striking aspect is it's use of the sets and locational footage to embrace the mysterious elements of an otherwise picturesque Dartmoor.  This really highlighted Terence Fisher's main strength as a director - in every scene he tries to use colour to magnify or emphasise what is going on.Peter Cushing's first portrayal of Sherlock Holmes perfectly captures the detective's inherent snootiness, sarcasm and and self-assuredness.  His performance is all the more incredible, given the fact that he was playing this character very much in the shadow of Basil Rathbone, who had made the part his own during the 1930's and 1940's (Cushing was good enough to play Holmes later on - in the 1960's BBCTV series and once more on film in The Masks of Death in 1984).Andre Morell is also a fine Dr. Watson - he is portrayed as a well-rounded, self-respecting and reasonably knowledgeable human being.  We get the impression that he can also help Sherlock Holmes and is rarely, belitted by his partner (a fault generally levelled at Nigel Bruce's portayal of Dr. Watson in the 1930's/1940's).In fact, all the acting in this film is sound and contributes to the general all-round effectiveness of the film, although Christopher Lee does not have the most demanding role in Sir Henry Baskerville.  A lot of actors could have ably performed his role.The opening sequences do remind you that this is a Hammer Production, but the horror or gore is very minimal.  Decent entertainment - a very faithful and enjoyable adaptation.   "},{"Title":"just the sort of thing you like, if you ...","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is just what you think it is, assuming that you know what Hammer movies and Sherlock Holmes stories are like. The cast is solid, the set decoration lurid, and the story is suited to this kind of production. It drags a little in a couple of places, and I couldn't follow the dialogue for a few seconds now and again because of soundtrack was a little muddy, but who cares. The treatment isn't as pure as the Basil Rathbone version (which I prefer), but those eerie greens and luminous blood reds are fun. "},{"Title":"Fiddles With The Plot Too Much","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While well played, this (yet another) adaption of SH's most famous novel has the plot tinkered with too much. Yes, Sir Charles Baskerville dies with no marks on his body-in the book there are footprints of a hound, in the film there are none-and his nephew, Sir Henry, comes to Dartmoor to live at Baskerville Hall (in London he loses a boot but the movie says a spider was in the other!)and Watson, played by Andre Morelle, accomnpanies him. Christopher Lee does a great job, and his actng, along with Peter Cushing's as Holmes, saves the film-anyway,Stapleton has webbed hands, his sister is his daughter, Holmes is lost in a tin mine, Henry has a weak heart; it's not as good as some others. "},{"Title":"Cushing and Lee at their finest","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This excellent 1959 Hammer picture starring Peter Cushing as Sherlock Holmes and Christopher Lee as Sir Henry Baskerville was in my opinion one of the best Hammer films they did. I found the film to be very nicely done with a generally spooky setting in the moors. I also found it to keep my attention a lot better than that of other Hammer films such as The Mummy. The acting from Lee and Cushing is of course superb as is the performance of Andre Morell as Dr. Watson. Overall, I would say that this is the best Sherlock Holmes film made to date. "},{"Title":"The Footprints Of  A Gigantic Hound","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee took a break from their usual horror cycle at Hammer Films to do the most famous of the Arthur Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes series, The Hound Of The Baskervilles. It's not as big a leap as one might think because an integral part of the plot has Sherlock Holmes investigating a legendary hound from hell that has cursed the Baskerville family for many generations.Which brings us to the last of the Baskervilles, a rakish sort of fellow named Henry Baskerville played in the best lord of the manor style by Christopher Lee. He's not the usual Lee like villain, but he is a man to the manor born and conscious of all the privileges attached therein.Peter Cushing and Andre Morrell play Holmes and Watson who are brought in to the case after some mysterious deaths that show signs of a brutal animal attack. The legend of the Hound Of The Baskervilles would dampen normal investigations, but we're dealing with Sherlock Holmes and Sherlock Holmes only deals in facts.I'm surprised Cushing did not do more Sherlock Holmes films, he fit quite comfortably in the part and Andre Morrell was not reduced to comic relief the way Nigel Bruce was earlier on as Doctor Watson. It took him 25 years, but Cushing did get a second crack at Holmes in a TV film, The Masks of Death, his next to last film.There's a good performance by Marla Landi as Cecile, the half gypsy woman who gets Christopher Lee's mojo going. She's part of what constitutes the Baskerville Estate and he's exercising his prerogatives with her.Cushing and Morrell fit in nicely the roles that Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce are so identified with and Lee is far more of what Conan Doyle had in mind than nice guy Richard Greene was in the RAthbone/Bruce version. That's elementary. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, yes -- but I can't believe anyone thinks this is the best Doyle adaptation","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie owes a great deal more to Hammer than to Doyle -- the whole Stapleton subplot is completely changed, Dr. Mortimer is suddenly become an enemy instead of a friend and there's this whole sacrifice thing going on (not to mention the tin mine) which has no part of Doyle's book. Oh, and Sir Henry is supposed to be from America(!), not Johannesburg (a tip of the hat to Basil Rathbone's heritage?).If you want to see both fidelity to Doyle and a good movie, the Jeremy Brett/Edward Hardwicke version blows this out of the water. Even the Rathbone/Bruce version is better.If you just want to see a Hammer film and are willing to forget there ever was a book called Hound of the Baskervilles, then this will do just fine. "},{"Title":"Amusing 'free' adaptation of the story","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES - Terence Fisher While it won't stand up as a sterling example of Sherlock Holmes on screen this one was good amusement. In the interests of glossing over what they consider the 'dull' parts of Doyle's manuscript Hammer cheerfully modify a good portion of it. Thus we have episodes like Holmes saving Henry Baskerville from a tarantula attack and Watson plunging into the Grimpen mire. Lots more where that came from.Peter Cushing although a dead ringer for Homes in his looks doesn't quite play it as well as I'd have liked him to. His Holmes is rather bluff and gung-ho even when curled up on a couch in his dressing gown, and often pointlessly rude. He also seems to have been tainted by leftovers of his Van Helsing dialog when at one point he pleads with the Bishop, Can't you see I fight evil as you do? (WHAT Bishop, I hear you say. Aha, that's one of the many surprises that Hammer's version of the story pulls on you).Chrisopher Lee makes a fine Henry Baskerville, although his statesque proportions and baritone make one think that he'd have made a fine Holmes as well. Fisher directs efficiently and there are some fine looking shots even if the backdrops look too prop-like. So long as you're not a Doyle purist, this is a fun ride, with some hilarious detours from the original story.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly poor hound of a different color...","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I disagree with the majority of comments here--I think the film was a major bomb when it opened--and for good reason. It takes the Arthur Conan Doyle story and gives it details that stray from the original with little or no improvement.Furthermore, Peter Cushing is hardly an inspired choice as Sherlock. Best casting in the whole film goes to Andre Morell who makes Dr. Watson a plausible figure without resorting to the comic relief furnished by Nigel Bruce in the Rathbone films. Nor does Christopher Lee have the qualities needed for the Sir Henry role. At times he looks as though he's ready to develop fangs.Story takes a long time in establishing any clues at all--and then the plotline is so diffuse that only those who are familiar with the Baskerville legend will make sense of the proceedings. The business about the missing portrait is poorly handled. Changing Stapleton's sister to his daughter and then having it played badly by a woman with a heavy accent was a poor idea that does nothing to bolster the efficiency of the story.The only really impressive moments are depicted in the prologue to the Baskerville story. What follows after an impressive opening is a distinct letdown.By no means one of the better Hammer films.  Give me the B&W 1939 version with Rathbone, Bruce and the handsome Richard Greene as Sir Henry any day. It had more chilling gothic atmosphere and suspense than anything that happens here, as well as the benefit of Lionel Atwill as Dr. Mortimer.Summing up good color photography and handsome sets does nothing to redeem the overall poor casting, slow pace and changed storyline. "}{"Title":"Cushing is good as Holmes","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I read the book a long time ago so I don't particularly remember the details of the story. But I certainly the enjoyed the Hammer version very much. Here unlike other hammer movies, the violence is a little toned down and most of the events are implied rather than explicit. The movie is quite atmospheric and creepy for the most part. I loved the Gothic style and the scenery of the setting very much. And the women of course! Marla Landi is gorgeous as Cecile. Regarding Christopher Lee though - I am not sure he suits perfectly the character. When I saw him, I always thought there was something menacing about him. Maybe it is the Dracula hangover but still. But here he tries his best to appear calm and gentle. Peter cushing is perfect as Sherlock holmes, the wry humor and the quick deductions being the usual trademarks.The ending is pretty good as well, the buildup and the music doing the job. The one thing I can say about Hammer films is that they never try to extend the movie beyond what is necessary and it is always short and to the point. And they don't try to be pretentious either. There are some cheesy elements but for the most part it is an entertaining thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A labor to watch","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I watched this DVD I kept checking how many more chapters were left. It wasn't the fault of the actors. I loved their mannerisms and perfect ennunciation. Those accents were a thing of beauty. Unfortunately the plot didn't drive through with as much momentum as I would've liked. The DVD also featured Christopher Lee reading Holmes. Outstanding. Overall I would rate this DVD a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"a decent version of the Conan Doyle story","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" While ANY Sherlock Holmes movie WITHOUT Jeremy Brett can only be second-rate in my opinion (he is the best Holmes by far), this is still worth watching. Is it a perfect recreation of the book--certainly not, but at least it is more like the original than the Basil Rathbone versions (they were entertaining but bore very little semblance to the original stories). Peter Cushing is fine as Holmes, though it would have been nice if he'd done MORE Holmes movies to see how he would have developed the characterization.For a movie from Hammer Films, the production values are good--special effects and location shooting was very good. I guess my only complaints were too much emphasis on the silly and needless romance between Christopher Lee and the psycho lady. It was way too unbelievable and histrionic and detracted, somewhat, from the story. "},{"Title":"Neither classic nor classy...","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well, so from the more than 20 adaptations of one of the very best 'Sherlock Holmes' adventures, the two that are probably considered as the classic ones are the 1939 version starring Basil Rathbone - and this 1959 version starring Peter Cushing. Now, of course we should always watch a movie unbiased and without comparing it to another version - but this version is, with or without comparison a pretty mediocre adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's famous novel; and the fact that it's the first 'Sherlock Holmes' movie in color doesn't make it better. Rather the opposite, in fact, because the well-known British Hammer horror movies weren't exactly famed for the quality of their special effects... (If you but take a look at those great AIP 19th century period horror pictures, with Roger Corman as director and renowned stars like Vincent Price and Peter Lorre, which were made at exactly the same time...) And what's worse, the protagonists are REALLY overdoing it and trying to surpass one another at being snobby Brits - both Peter Cushing as Holmes, and Christopher Lee as Baskerville (and they'd already starred together in another remake of a great 19th century novel adaptation which is surely inferior to the b&w version Dracula...); the only sympathetic character is that of Dr. Watson, impersonated by Rene Morell (but even he couldn't reach the amiable type of Nigel Bruce from the 1939 version). The only thing that's REALLY well done here are the set decorations, through which the very synthetic 'fog' flows, and which are unfortunately much too well lighted to create a really frightening atmosphere; REAL fans of Sherlock Holmes may find this film fascinating, while to others it'll probably be a nice little mystery from 19th century England at best... "},{"Title":"Atmospheric","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sherlock Holmes (Peter Cushing) and Dr. Watson (Andre Morell) are called to Baskerville Hall to protect Sir Henery Baskerville (Christopher Lee) from a supernatural hound that has supposedly killed off the rest of his family.1959 Hammer film adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's novel.  It's the first Sherlock Holmes film in color and, while not as good as the Rathbone version, it's still worth catching.  Since it's a Hammer film it plays a lot more like a horror film than a mystery.  It has the typical high gloss look of the early Hammer films and a fairly good script with tons of atmosphere--the scenes of the moors at night and hearing the howls of the hound off in the distance are chilling.  Some of the acting in minor roles is bad (especially the bishop who provides very unfunny comic relief), but the leads are great.  Cushing is perfect as Holmes--as good as Basil Rathbone was in the Universal pictures.  Morell is also good as Watson--he doesn't play him as a bumbling fool as Nigel Bruce unwisely did.  Lee is also impressive as Baskerville--so young and full of life.  It's also a relief to see him play a good guy.There are major changes in the story and the climax isn't as impressive as it could have been (the hound looks silly) but this is still well worth seeing.  This was a major bomb in 1959 which stopped Hammer from making any more--a real shame because Cushing was letter perfect as Holmes.   "},{"Title":"dazzling cinematography.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The pictures are beautiful,the landscapes admirably filmed and it's really a feast for the eye.The moors have never been so spellbinding,and all the settings are tasteful from the Baker's street flat to the Baskerville Castle.The cast is flawless.The content takes a back seat to the formafter a brilliant opening with Hugo Baskervilles's orgy ,the action sometimes drags on.SH -as in the novel anyway - disappears from the screen for half an hour and it's too much.Blame it on the novelthe story has been told and told and told so many times we know it by heart(this is probably the most famous detective story with Agatha Christie's ten little niggers(and then there were none)).The cinematography alone  makes the movie highly commendable.but I was surprised to hear an entomologist reverend call a tarantula an insect. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Hound of the Baskervilles(1959) is the best adaption of the novel by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle ever done for film.  There is more emphasis on the supernatural here than in the 1940s version.  The eariler version may have been faithful in the physical descriptions of Sherlock Holmes, this this movie focus more on the psychological mind set of Sherlock Holmes.  He's shown here as a man who cannot operate outside his life of work and.  Sherlock Holmes is falsely portrayed as a man who thinks in logical terms when in point of fact his methods are anything but logical.  Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee seem at first to be in the wrong roles because Christopher Lee should play Sherlock Holmes and Peter Cushing should play Dr. Watson.This role casting is forgiven because the two actors do a wonderful job as two of the main characters.  Another gem from underrated horror director, Terence Fisher that follows on the heels of Curse of Frankenstein(1957), Horror of Dracula(1958), and Revenge of Frankenstein(1958).  The direction by Terence Fisher is brilliant.  The make up effects by Roy Ashton are well done.  Andre Morell does a comendable job in the role of Dr. Watson.  The Hound of the Baskervilles(1959) was to be the first of many Sherlock Holmes movies staring Peter Cushing(sadly this was not to be as audiences wanted more monsters and less detectives in the Hammer films). "},{"Title":"The Hound of the Baskervilles","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The great detective is given the Hammer horror treatment with this lavish film version of the most famous of the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle novels about Sherlock Holmes. With sumptuous locations of the moor and mist, our story of the curse of the Baskerville family is told with Cushing being charismatic as Holmes but also miscasted, looking physically unable to carry the role. Walters is a stately and genteel Watson and Lee is impressive as Sir Henry Baskerville. Actually, Lee would have been the better choice for Sherlock...he has the physicality needed. (Lee did have a chance to play the great detective himself in a German version of this novel and on television in the early 90's.)  James Bernard's magnificent score is haunting from start to finish, adding the tension that makes this story so spellbinding. Although liberties were taken with Conan Doyle's story, it is still an entertaining film for Holmes aficionados. "},{"Title":"Stylish storytelling! The absolute best Doyle adaptation!!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Out of all the attempts to turn Arthur Conan Doyle's classic fable into a movie, this Hammer version certainly is the best one! Doyle would be proud of this version, I'm sure. The film really breathes the atmosphere like Doyle intended it and it even stands as one of the greatest Hammer productions in general. Unlike most of their productions, the stress isn't on the violence but on the mysterious and macabre storytelling. The dark and dangerous moors of the British countryside are used to the max and provide the film with a unique setting and photography. Both director Terence Fisher and main actor Peter Cushing were at the peak of their careers in 1959 and that is portrayed in the Hound of the Baskervillers perfectly well. Cushing seems to be born to be Sherlock Holmes and he really plays the detective with the exact right amount of arrogance and stylish monologues. Not to be forgotten neither André Morell (leading actor in my all-time favorite Hammer movie Plague of the Zombies) who plays a terrific Watson. Normally this role of Holmes' assistant leads to an overacted and stereotypical performance, but Morell finds the right tone. Christopher Lee as Sir Henry Baskerville completes the ideal dreamcast. The solid and fascinating novel was turned into a perfect screenplay that loses absolutely nothing of the initial tension and magic. Right from the beginning of this film, (when the origin of the Baskerville legend is explained through a flashback) the sublime tone is set and you're off to experience a piece of pure cinema-art that won't stop till the last end-credit rolls over the screen.   "},{"Title":"Curious production","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I see the glowing reviews here, and I wonder if I saw the same movie. First of all, Hammer was not known for their quality productions. Their products are seen more as camp now than as quality drama by all but the fanboys. Let's see where to begin. This movie assumes you already know the story down cold. If not, you'd be puzzled by the parts of the story that are left out. Actors suddenly appear at locations without explanation - but of course we know why they are there, because we've read the book and seen Basil Rathbone's version. Now I happen to favor movie-makers making changes to book plots rather than following them slavishly, but there are some strange changes here that seem to have been made for the sake of change. For instance, Sir Henry comes from South Africa, rather than Canada - what's up with that? It didn't change anything or add anything to the plot. The pathos of the Selden/Mrs Barrymore plot line is really lost here, and the love interest for Sir Henry is kicked senseless. Worst of all, Cushing is a wooden Holmes. Cushing worked for Hammer for a reason - he was a 'B' actor at best, and he's not even at his best here. His Holmes is totally without charm. There is no warmth, no humor no wit. And Andre Morell as Watson is so entirely forgettable that I had to look up his name just now, and I have no memory of what he looked like. So let's see - the acting was weak, the characters were uninteresting, and the changes to the story made it much worse. Other than that, it was fine. "}{"Title":"Wrong Holmes, bad script","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The book has been one of my favorites since childhood. The best thing about this version is the prologue, by far the most impressive visualization of the legend that I have seen. Also, there is much detail to watch throughout. But far too many liberties have been taken with the plot. The ones that annoyed me most were 1) making Sir Henry a heart patient and Miss Stapleton a murderess - so much for their love story; 2) the occult theme that goes nowhere. Who dragged Selden's body to the altar and sacrificed it, and why? I hoped it would turn out to be the Bishop... and 3) making Dr. Mortimer a suspect. Why would he have involved Holmes in the first place, if he had crimes to hide?The casting is really awful. I may respect Peter Cushing in other films, but he is simply the WRONG actor to play Holmes too short, too weak and old-looking. Christopher Lee should have played Holmes (he did in the 1962 film Sherlock Holmes and the Necklace of Death) and Cushing should should have been Dr. Mortimer, if he really was needed here. Andre Morell is bland as Watson, and incompetent too as soon as he is warned about the swamp he steps in it and has to be rescued by the villains! Some protector for Sir Henry. "},{"Title":"Hammer Meets Holmes","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hound of Baskervilles, The (1959) *** (out of 4) Handsomely produced version of Arthur Conan Doyle's story from Hammer has Peter Cushing stepping into the role of Sherlock Holmes and making it his own. In the film, the Baskerville curse seems to be back as Sir Hugo is killed by some sort of wild beast, which puts the fear out there that Sir Henry (Christopher Lee) might be next. Holmes (Cushing) and Watson (Andre Morell) are called in to try and solve the case. This might not be the most faithful adaptation but it's perhaps the most beautiful to look at as the studio certainly got everything right in terms of atmosphere, performances and cinematography. What impressed me most was the actual look of the film, which is so good that you can slip out of focus and catch yourself not paying too much attention to the story. The cinematography by Jack Asher is just a strong of a character as even Holmes. He captures the beautiful fog lit country side as well as inside the creepy mansion. Another major plus is that we've got the brilliant Peter Cushing delivering a perfect performance as Holmes. Yes, I think Rathbone is the best at the role but you can't deny that Cushing gives him a major run for his money. It's rather amazing how Cushing could take any role Hammer gave him, be it Dr. Frankenstein or Van Helsing, and make it his own. He sinks his teeth into the material and really delivers something very memorable. I'm not overly wild with Morell in the role of Watson as I feel he's a tad bit too dry. Lee is good in his supporting role and plays well off of Cushing. The one negative thing I can say is that the final twenty-minutes start to drag but the ending packs a nice little punch. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've seen plenty of film versions of this classic tale, and this simply has to be the worst. Much as I like Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, not even they could make this enjoyable. It wasn't their fault. The script was lousy, the other members of the cast stank, and the director should have been fed to the hound afterwards!Possibly the best version is the Jeremy Brett/Edward Hardwicke TV film from the 80s - though even this is disappointing. The problem with every film version, of course, is that when you finally get to see the hound - it all goes flat. Ultimately, I think this is one tale that is far better left in the imagination, where it truly has the chance to scare. "},{"Title":"Mongrel","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Sherlock was an invention of the times, following the new idea of evolution. The notion of pure reason being able to perceive and comprehend everything in life was especially novel. This was contrasted to the bumbling inductive logic of doctors like Watson. Handling Holmes is easy if you stick to the magic of Holmes working for the reader, making what he/she sees make sense.This production uses the Baskervilles as an excuse to completely reinterpret the stance. Here, the world is the same world as the other Hammer horror films, not inhabited by rational schemers but by scowling evil. Even though the rough facts of the story are retained, the tone is completely transformed. Stay away, lest this color your perceptions of one of the great overblooming ideas that we can really understand life.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]