[{"Title":"One of Tracy's greatest roles","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Arguably the best novella ever written gets both a reading from Spencer Tracy and a dramatization - neither of which quite mesh with each other. There is a great deal of unnecessary narration, probably owing to the fact that no one thought Hemingway's words could be improved upon. I wish this movie had been made ten years later, when the sparse style of the prose could have been matched by the sparseness of the period.All that aside, it's a beautiful movie and Tracy is excellent. You wouldn't think that an old-hand white guy actor would be able to carry off being a old-hand white guy actor doing an old Cuban man without looking silly. But he does, without trying to do anything besides portraying an aging fisherman. This is the key to his performance - he looks so comfortable in the role that you absolutely believe him as that fisherman. One of his greatest roles. "},{"Title":"This is an excellent movie.  I believe that one should read  the book before viewing the movie.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I read the book again before viewing the movie on video.  The book is very short and the movie follows the narration very closely.  Some of the narration is dropped, however, in the version I viewed.  The fisherman is a lot like many of us as we grow older and it is very heartwarming to see how he faces his tribulations with such a wise philosophy.  He does not harbor ill will toward anyone or anything, including the great fish, but accepts life and makes no judgements.Spencer Tracy provides an excellent portrayal, as usual, of the main character.  The boy acted very well and I wondered what his future had in store for him.  I wondered if He would be effected by the Cuban Revolution a few years later.  I told my wife that it would be interesting if he became a revolutionary if the story continued.  It was very interesting to find that in real life, according to the Movie data base biography, his father was an economist and a principal participant in the Cuban Revolution a few years later.A book well written and a film adaption that presents the story as I imagined it while reading the book. "},{"Title":"Mediocre presentation of a great story","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea is a classic literary work but it isn't well suited to screen adaptation. This film has some of the necessary ingredients for success but comes up short in several respects.Spencer Tracy turns in a fine performance as the titular 'old man', one which was rewarded with an Oscar nomination. Felipe Pazos (as the boy), on the other hand, is a dreadful actor and almost drags Tracy's performance down in the scenes that they share. Tracy does double duty as the omniscient narrator as well, though I don't think that it made much sense to delegate that task to the actor playing the main character of the film.John Sturges seems to have had to cobble together footage from various shoots and locations, resulting in a somewhat haphazard look. Budgetary concerns were likely a part of the problem along with limitations in technology.Dimitri Tiomkin's score won an Oscar but I didn't think it was that exceptional. Certainly not nearly as memorable as the scores that Elmer Bernstein provided for Sturges's The Magnificent Seven and The Great Escape.While some will undoubtedly find the story boring I think that it is easily the best part of this picture. Behind the simple story of a man and his marlin there are layers upon layers of deeper meaning. I could have done without some of the narration, though, particularly when the same thing could have been conveyed with visuals.In the end, I give the content of the film high points though the film's technical aspects are riddled with inadequacies. It's worth watching but you should be prepared for some decidedly rough edges. "},{"Title":"A movie about an old man and his marlin.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of Spencer Tracy's top performances; it goes down with Captain's Courageous.  Most often a book is better then the movie but in this case the movie brings the book to life.  This is due to the somewhat larger then life character of Tracy.  The story, although classic and definitely worth while reading, is best summed up by Tracy's acting technique.This was no location film which means the greater portion of realism must come from the actor.  A story about a man thinking and talking to himself while he is on a boat for three days would be difficult for any actor. Tracy brings the truest sense of humility and courage to this role.  It is enjoyable reading but I encourage anyone to see this movie. "},{"Title":"A Good Adaptation & A Poignant Performance By Spencer Tracy","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea is a fine story, but it gives every indication of being quite a challenge to any film-maker hoping to adapt it to the screen. This is a good effort, with a well-conceived approach to getting across the story and the main ideas. Yet it required above all the right leading actor, and Spencer Tracy comes through with a poignant performance that pulls everything else together.Tracy is perfectly cast as the old fisherman. His voice is ideal, not only for the character but also for reading the lengthy voice-over narrations from Hemingway's text. The narration is used to communicate some of the story's key themes, and without just the right reader it probably would not have worked at all. Tracy also seems to identify with the character closely, since his mannerisms and body language almost always seem just right.The action parts of the story rely heavily on stock footage, and sometimes on rather obvious models, but the action is not nearly as important as are the old man's character and his thoughts. Although there are some exciting moments in his battle with nature, it is what these bring out in him, not the events themselves, that are important.What works especially well here are the old man's dreams and thoughts of the past. They are all-important in defining the character, and this adaptation manages them better than you could hope for, with the simplest of means. Once again, Tracy's narration matches the content perfectly.The heart of the story is an honest but compassionate look at a man almost thoroughly ignored by the world, seemingly with little purpose to his life. His importance comes not from any outstanding achievement or valuable talent, but simply because he is a human being, with his own hopes, memories, and worries that are unique to him. This movie version succeeds well in rendering a touching picture of its main character. "},{"Title":"Memory Plays Tricks on Old Movies Such As This","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I must have seen The Old Man and the Sea, with Spencer Tracy in the title role (released in 1958), first when I was in High School or College. A very long time ago! My memory, after so many years away from seeing the film, was definitely faulty. For example, I remembered that there was no dialog, only the music, the sound effects of the watery sea, and, occasionally, the voice of a narrator reading selected passages from Hemmingway's famous novel. That turns out to be wrong, of course. But now, after seeing it again after decades, I wish that it might have been true. I think that scheme might have been better than what is the reality of this old Warner Brothers' movie.I am afraid the film has not aged particularly well.The portions where Tracy is shown super-imposed against an unsaturated rear-projection screen are, unfortunately, all too obvious. And these occur all too often.The music is very Hollywoodish and out-dated, by turns too saccharin or too dramatic.The footage of some famous sport fisherman's champion marlin catch have color cast and focus all too obviously mismatched with the feature film.And yet, one must graciously allow for the 50-year age of this film, and make allowances. If the viewer can do this, he or she may yet appreciate this classic for its beauty and sincerity. I make the effort to forgive it. And I enjoy it once again. "},{"Title":"Remarkable work from Tracy, but hardly grand entertainment...","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" John Sturges directed this reportedly-troubled production, a handsome adaptation of Ernest Hemingway's story about an old salt who wants one last chance to catch a prized fish before he dies. This scenario puts extraordinary demands on lead actor Spencer Tracy, who is forced to hold the screen nearly alone for ninety minutes. Although he manages to ingratiate himself early on to the viewer, one still doesn't know how to take this character--is he likably stubborn or stubbornly foolish? Either way, Hemingway's tale doesn't quite make its mark as rousing cinematic material, however the finish is very satisfying. It gets a helping hand from Dimitri Tiomkin and his score, which won an Oscar. Remade as a TV-movie in 1990 starring Anthony Quinn. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Hemingway's Masterpiece On Film","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Old Man And The Sea (1958) Starring Spencer Tracey, Felipe Pazos, Harry Bellaver, Don Diamond, Don Blackman, Joey Ray, Mary Hemingway, Robert Alderette, Mauritz Hugo, Don Alvarado, Richard Alameda....Director John Sturges..Released in 1958 at a time when audiences were more than familiar with Ernest Hemingway's masterpiece The Old Man And The Sea- a simple, short story layered with complex symbolism about man vs nature - this film by director John Sturges is a beautiful homage to Hemingway's story. There is much to admire about this film even the fact it drags on and seems rather long and boring, especially because there is much voice-over narration and little dialog. An older Spencer Tracey, in the beginning of the last phase of his long career before his death in 1969, portrays the eponymous Old Man, Santiago while also providing the voice-over narration. Filmed in gorgeous color (in the late 50's mainstream films were in color, independent, art-house or lesser quality films were in black and white) this is a wonderful film and would be terrific for viewing in junior high or high school English classes that read the short novel first and compare it to the film afterward. In truth, the film follows the Hemingway story faithfully, save for a few additional changes in the narration written by Peter Viertel. The decidedly masculine performance by Spencer Tracey is outstanding. He was able to get into character so vividly that even Hemingway would have been satisfied. Everything from his attempt at a Spanish accent to the sheer physicality of the role is right on target. For an older man, Tracey is surprisingly vigorous and fit for the part which calls for physical strength. This way, Tracey magnificently represents the spirit of the Hemingway hero. The narration borders on poetry and it is complimented by the beautiful color cinematography. La Mar the sea, in its passive and powerful moods, is beautifully depicted in long shots of the ocean. Sunsets, twilight, clouds, birds, flying fish, boats and the Cuban village - everything just like in the novel. The little boy Manolito (Felipe Pazos) is delivering a fine job but its clear this is Spencer Tracey's vehicle, as if to get Oscar attention. The film was not very successful and it seems it was of special interest to fans of Hemingway or of Spencer but this movie is highly underrated and under-appreciated. It's a fine film overall. "},{"Title":"A good watch","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an interesting movie for someone who is more into Hearing than watching a movie. Its a good adaptation of the book, made almost LIKE a book which makes it both interesting as well as a little boring for viewers with taste for changing scenes. It's about this Old Cuban fisherman who wakes up on an ordinary day after several UNLUCKY days & heads to his beloved sea to find a bite. He gets lucky hooking a big catch that he kept on holding to for 3 days non stop & then how he struggles with his age, sleep & hunger to bring it back home. The story's simple, but for someone with taste for exclusive art, this is a must watch! "},{"Title":"an incredible story","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" i loved this film and the book from start to finish. i have never studied the book like all you students out there but every time i come across this story i admit that i cry every time.not many films or stories out there do it for me but i suggest that you go to the desert or the ocean for a time on your own and the story will become clear.the emotional impact of the sharks eating the catch at the end creates anger and sadness in my soul and if none of you feel that then you are all dead. altogether a great story and a great film. Spencer Tracy is great. I haven't seen the new version but would be interested in any feedback. "}{"Title":"Excellent adaptation that consistently supports that main point of the story throughout","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Excellent adaptation of Ernest Hemmingway's award winning work makes the following point That catching the ordinary one is a function of individual luck. Catching the extraordinary one, however, is a delicate balance of an individual's strength, experience, and skill. Storyline An old, master fisherman, second-guessed by his younger peers for a failure to make a catch in 84 days, nevertheless perseveres day-after-day -- steadfastly driven by a tremendous belief in self, ability, and the anticipation that puts him only one day's luck away from landing the big one. When the big one is finally hooked, it turns out that hauling it in is more important for reaffirming belief in self and disproving detractors than it is for the prize itself. "},{"Title":"The best example I can think of to illustrate the word 'padded'.","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Here is the very simple story in its entirety. An old Cuban man (Tracy) sets out in his small boat to do some fishing. This is NOT fancy stuff--no rods and reels or fancy motors--it's a very simple boat with minimal equipment. Yet, miraculously, the old guy hooks into a HUGE billfish--one that pulls him out to sea and gives him the fight of a lifetime. Once he eventually DOES land the fish, he's very far from shore and sharks attack his catch. The old man is beat and life, apparently, sucks.Ernest Hemmingway's story The Old Man and the Sea is a very short novel. And, it has a plot that is paper-thin. Because of that, the movie version is also very, very thin. How they can pad it out to 86 minutes is beyond me, as the film should have been half an hour long at the most. And yet, despite this, Spencer Tracy was nominated for an Oscar for his performance in this rather dull and dreary film. Perhaps it was a slow year for the Oscars--all I know is that Tracy had dozens of performances that were better than this one--a film that is the best example of the word 'padded' in Hollywood history. It's watchable but nothing more--and is highly overrated. "},{"Title":"Spencer Tracy's turn at Hemingway","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ernest Hemingway's books have been filmed by Hollywood with varying degrees of success. Such stars as Gary Cooper, Gregory Peck, Tyrone Power, Rock Hudson, and Humphrey Bogart have taken a turn at being Hemingway heroes. I guess it was Spencer Tracy's turn to do it now.I'm not sure that any actor no matter how good they are could keep the audiences attention on him for 90 minutes just alone in a boat, struggling to hook the mother of all marlins. But Spencer Tracy is as good as they get and I'm not sure he did it either. But Tracy ought to be commended for trying, in fact an Oscar nomination came in the way of a commendation.One thing I will say, Tracy may have been the least vain actor on the screen. When a whole lot of his contemporaries were still doing romantic leads, Tracy let his age and everything else all hang out in this story of an old Cuban fisherman with two passions, baseball and fishing. His favorite ball player, who else but Joe DiMaggio the son of an Italian fisherman. The old man's passion; to go fishing with Joe DiMaggio. Actually in real life, DiMaggio honed his baseball skills to get away from the life his father and the old man led.Of course there's that epic struggle with the marlin and what happens after. Hemingway goes Melville on us here, the big fish is the old man's white whale. Of course unlike Captain Ahab, it's an individual struggle, Tracy doesn't take a whole crew down with him because of his obsession. It was a great effort and Tracy and director John Sturges deserve an A for effort here in trying to film an essentially plot less story. I suppose The Old Man and the Sea found an audience with fishermen and Spencer Tracy fans. "},{"Title":"Sensitive and slowly paced story about a Cuban fisherman who hooks a a giant Marlin and fights several marauding sharks","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Based on the novel by Ernest Hemingway with screenplay by Peter Viertel about a an aging fisherman (Spencer Tracy won an Oscar nomination for the role) who fights a band of hungry sharks for an enormous Marlin in the Gulf Stream to bring his trophy home . Santiago goes out on his usual fishing trip and makes a huge catch , the biggest of his life . Then a shark attacks and tries to steal his catch . Santiago is making slow progress toward shore, humming to himself . He notices a fin in the water approaching fast . It's a Mako shark, coming after some free marlin meat. Santiago thrusts his harpoon into the shark, but loses hold of the rope and the shark swims away with the rope and the harpoon. The shark had taken a bite of the marlin, releasing blood into the water . Later on , Santiago battles many sharks for days . As several more sharks approach and Santaigo stands up with his new spear and prepares to do battle . They feed, he stabs, over and over, until the blade of the knife snaps off. He apologizes to the marlin and regrets having gone out so far, for both their sakes . He returns to the shore beaten , tattered and torn, and his catch consisting now of mostly bones .Enjoyable tale deliberately narrated plenty of sensitivity , stubbornness , dreams and color . It is an Ernest Hemingway's story of heroism , defeat , obstinacy and Victory . The flick is pretty well , but a little bit boring and slow . Humphrey Bogart attempted to purchase the film rights to Ernest Hemingway's novel through his production company, Santana Productions , Bogart identified strongly with the character of the old man and wanted to play the fisherman ; but the film wasn't made until the year following his death , with his close friend Spencer Tracy . The main starring , Spencer Tracy , is marvelous as Ernest Hemingway's aging fisherman who hooks a gigantic fish that drags him out to sea . He garnered his sixth Academy Award Nomination as as the tough , likable as well as dreamer fisherman . After seeing the film , Ernest Hemingway expressed his disappointment and said that Spencer Tracy looked less the Cuban peasant fisherman and more the rich old actor that he was . Ernest Hemingway himself was initially involved in the production, although the extent of his participation after selling his book was to go marlin-fishing off the coast of Peru to try to find a fish worthy enough for the movie . In the end , the producers used a rubber marlin and stock footage of marlin fishing in which Hemingway didn't participate in . Colorful and brilliant cinematography in Warnercolor by James Wong Howe and Floyd Crosby . Dimitri Tiomkin's wonderful musical score was Oscar winner .This motion picture was well produced by Leland Hayward and compellingly directed by John Sturges who replaced Fred Zinnemann . John began his directing career at Columbia Pictures, where from 1946-49 he he worked on 12-day wonders (B pictures shot on a 12-day schedule). From there he moved on to MGM where he filmed more B pictures, albeit on a larger budget . He established an independent production company in 1959, releasing through United Artists. From 1960-67 he worked under contract for United Artists. His first major hit was the western Dog Day at Black Rock (1955) , which he shot in just three weeks, wrapping up virtually every scene in a single take . He specialized in robust action pictures, particularly westerns . He excelled at bringing to life tautly written stories about tough characters facing difficult circumstances . Throughout his career he regularly alternated hits with misses . He has also been criticized for his lack of stylistic trademarks , though his best films remain exciting to watch . Sturges was expert on all kind of genres , but especially warlike such as  ¨Great Escape¨, ¨Ice Station Zebra¨ and ¨Eagle has landed¨ and Western such as ¨Last train of Gun Hill¨, ¨Magnificent Seven¨, ¨Backlash¨, ¨Law and Jake Webb¨, ¨Joe Kidd¨ and Chino¨, among others . This high-level film will appeal to Spencer Tracy fans .There is a second rendition made-for-TV , ¨The old man and the sea¨ (1990) by Judd Taylor with big name cast , though , unfortunately , this reboot is ordinary and inferior to original ; being starred by Anthony Quinn , Alexis Cruz , Patricia Clarkson , Gary Cole, Francesco Quinn ; photographed by Tony Imi and soundtrack by Bruce Broughton . "},{"Title":"A Fine Fish With Much Dignity.","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spencer Tracy is Santiago, an old impoverished Cuban fisherman who has had eighty-four days of bad luck and is being helped to survive by a young boy of the village. Tracy takes his little fishing boat farther out than usual, lands a giant marlin after a fierce three-day struggle, and then loses his trophy to the sharks who tear the great fish to pieces, leaving only the head, spine, and tail.If it get off to something of a slow start, it nevertheless involves us in Tracy's fate all the way. There are lyrical interludes while Tracy watches the birds, the flying fish, the porpoises, and dreams of lions on the African shore. He follows the baseball in the newspapers and admires Joe DiMaggio.And the battles are monumental. Tracy has to fight the huge marlin, then the multitude of sharks that attack it, and -- constantly -- his own age and fatigue. The viewer gets to feel the desperation behind all of these contests. Tracy pulls it off with the help of Dmitri Tiomkin's somewhat bombastic score, with its echoes of Rio Bravo and High Noon. There are three problems though. First, modern viewers have been spoiled by recent advances in special effects and process work. The marlin, seen up close, looks like the rubber bladder it is, even when disguised by the blurry image representing Tracy's dizziness. After it's been stripped by the sharks, the spine looks like a lead pipe bought at the local plumber's, with a few plastic ribs attached. The scenes of the marlin leaping out of the sea aren't well integrated with the studio footage.Second -- and let's face facts -- Big Ernie doesn't translate well to the screen. His bare-bones attempts at thought-provoking folk poetry come across as stilted and sometimes risible.Tracy (to himself) Do not blame the hand. It is not the hand's fault. (To his cramped hand) You have been a long time with the fish. Third, there is a problem with the casting. Harry Bellaver is a pug, or a cop, or a reporter in Hollywood movies. He is not a Cuban bartender; he is not strong and has no aficion. Most of all, there is a problem with Spencer Tracy, an actor whom I deeply admire. Even my crude Irish stepfather from Charlestown who never had a sensitive thought in his life, was once moved to say, Y'know, he's a good-lookin' guy. I don't mean handsome, but manly. But Tracy is not a poor Cuban fisherman. Ernie himself said Tracy looks like a fat, rich actor. He didn't care for the boy either, who looked like a cross between a tadpole and Anita Loos. I'm certain I've read somewhere that Hemingway was among the spectators at the arm wrestling contest flashback but I'm not sure it's true.Despite these deficiencies, the author, the cast and crew pull it off. Hemingway had Hispanic fatalism down pat. In the face of what we would call bad luck, they become Stoics. That Olympian generalization isn't mine. A Latin American professor devoted an entire lecture to it. It's a moving and tragic story touching on Hemingway's familiar themes of pride and defeat. As Hemingway has the fisherman say, You can destroy a man but you can not defeat him, to which I'm tempted to reply, Like hell, you can't. "},{"Title":"Only Spencer Tracy Could Pull This Off...","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" What this story is about is dreadfully boring. But the way Spencer Tracy pulls you into the boat with him as he's trying to catch his big break is absolutely spellbinding. The fish represents oppression and everything man gets himself caught up in. Tracy's character represents a new hope for an old, tattered soul. No matter how down on your luck you may be, there's always a light at the end of the tunnel... a light that never goes out. A light which Spencer Tracy glorifies and is entranced by. The best (practically) one man show I've ever seen. I found the way the movie was lit to be absolutely breathtaking and the colors are rich and vibrant. Tracy's narration is also first class, and the scenes where the boy helps him out are very heartwarming. Found myself teary-eyed on a couple of occasions throughout... the way this film showcases the strength and fortitude of the human character is inspiring and profound. Minute for minute, the best book to film adaptation I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"An audio book with visual accompaniment","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this film because I was studying the book and hoped it would give me another perspective. Sadly, I was disappointed, as this film is awful.I know it is an old film but, even making allowances for that, the special effects look truly awful. The back of the video claimed that it was shot on-location, this was obviously untrue; White borders are visible around some of the characters and the backgrounds look like they were painted on canvas.It's not just the special affects, either, the majority of the story is told for narration. The acting is nonexistent because the narrator frequently reports character speech in third person rather than the actors speaking. This is a film, so why do we need a running audio description of what's being shown on this screen? In summary If you want to listen to a reading of The Old Man and The Sea with some pretty pictures to look at then this is the film for you. Otherwise, just read the book. "},{"Title":"  There was a time when the old man didn't worry about  luck ","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" From the brilliant literally mind of Earnest Hemmingway, comes the touching story of  The Old Man and The Sea . Spencer Tracy, plays The Old Man and his fine acting in this movie, garnered him an Oscar nomination in 1958. Tracy stars in the film and narrates the story. One follows attentively as he tells his tale of the Old Cuban and the native boy. Felipe Pazos plays the Boy and the two become life long friends. The simple quest of the Old Fishman to go out into the vast ocean in his little skiff to bring back enough fish to eat is a daily chore. What transpires is that many days go by without the Old Man catching anything at all. When the boy reminds him, he can bring the old man some luck, the old man prays earnestly to catch something worthy of his life at sea. When his prayer is answered, the old man is unsure of his amazing luck. The 'Catch of a Lifetime ' sends the old man into a retrospect of his life and it's recollection become the heart of the story. This is one of those stories where, the right actor was chosen to bring life to the novel and succeeded. A great film which has become a Classic to any who enjoy a great movie. **** "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" By the time I read Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea in high school, I'd already read A Farewell to Arms and The Sun Also Rises. Good thing, too, because The Old Man and the Sea is Hemingway's tersest statement about what it means for a male to live a worthwhile life live vigorously, test yourself, fight what threatens to destroy you (within and without), and emerged bloodied, but unbowed. If I hadn't been steeped in the author's themes already, I never would have gotten this message from his last, great, but very thin book. As it was, I still had to rely on Cliffs Notes to alert me to the mythic and Christ allusions.This book would have been a daunting adaptation for any movie maker, since most of the important stuff going on is unseen and unspoken. It didn't help that the beefy Spencer Tracy was cast as a near-starving Cuban fisherman. His bulk and vigor contradicts Hemingway's desire to show the depth of character and spiritual strength that can lie within physical frailty. Tracy projects a certain amount of wisdom, but the problem is that he comes across as knowing he's wise, doling out gems from an his life vein of experiences. The power of Hemingway's fisherman was that he was un-self-consciously wise. The combined effect these two incongruities drove me the online Cliffs Notes, 16 years after the first time, to remind me of the mythic and Christ allusions again.If you want to know Hemingway, read his books. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of the Hemingway novel","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Great adaptation of the Hemingway novel.Set in Cuba, an old fisherman (played by Spencer Tracy) is down on his luck. He hasn't caught a fish in 85 days. Refusing to give up or curse his luck he sets out to sea, as usual. He hooks something big, but it is not giving up without a fight or use of all its cunning...A wonderful story, well told. You would expect that, too directed by John Sturges, based on a classic Ernest Hemingway novel and starring Spencer Tracy. The narration (by Tracy) captures Hemingway's eloquent, sensitive-yet-gritty writing well, and the movie has a poetic feel to it. Good special effects, especially for the time, and great cinematography.Good work by Spencer Tracy in the lead role, for which he got a Best Actor Oscar nomination. Solid support from Felipe Pazos as the boy. "}{"Title":"Brings the story to life, but nothing much besides the basic metaphor","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spencer Tracy acts and narrates in this film about an old fisherman getting the catch of his life. The small boy, the terrace owner and any other characters are really there for a few scenes. The entire story is about the old man and the struggle with the fish a metaphor for life it's hard and it sucks, and then you die. It was funny that my wife was always asking me is he going to die? like there was any chance the old man could be immortal. In the film he doesn't die, but that is clearly besides the point.Tracy was nominated for an Oscar for his performance, but really, it's just a guy in a boat, talking to himself and to a fish and nothing much is going on. The film is just one hour and a half, but its simplistic plot makes it feel a bit too long, especially now, more than 50 years later since the movie was made. I guess it is a nice movie and it helps if you want to not read the written story, just don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Tracy Nominated For Wrong Film??","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Like many, I do not particularly care for The Old Man and the Sea. And unlike the previous year's one-man show, The Spirit of St. Louis, this one, although considerably shorter, is a much more lugubrious slog. It starts out well, with some very warm, authentic grandfather/young boy interactions between Spencer Tracy and Felipe Pazos Jr., who sadly only appeared in this one film. Their palpable, on-screen chemistry is magical, leaving one feeling cheated because it is so quickly replaced by the numbingly boring, poorly matched water-tank phoniness that makes up the core of this film. Based upon Ernest Hemingway's novella of the same name, the story basically delves into what happens when an old man goes out fishing and manages to land 'the big one!' At times very symbolic and allegorical it made for a fascinating, thought-provoking read. But in adapting it to the screen, The Old Man and the Sea loses most of its impact. Partly done in by its apparently limited budget, only the brilliant cinematography of James Wong Howe makes it a worthwhile watch. In the lead role, Spencer Tracy gamely tries to make the 86 minute enterprise interesting. Sadly, for this viewer at least, he can't. Even Tracy's scoring a nomination for a best actor Oscar in a lead performance is undermined by his own brilliant performance that same year in the screen adaptation of Edwin O'Connor's The Last Hurrah!, the film for which he should have been so honoured.Finally, a word about Dimitri Tiomkin's often thundering, bombastic score. I find it quite unfortunate that producer Leland Hayward, who had hired Franz Waxman to score The Spirit of St. Louis didn't rehire him to pen the music for this one as well. Often overblown and over-bearing, Tiomkin's score is more intrusive than supportive, lacking any sense of a main identifiable theme or even much in the way of Cuban rhythms. It may have won the music scoring Oscar in 1958, but why I have yet to fathom. "},{"Title":"Drowning in boredom","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Many of Ernest Hemingway's stories have been transferred to film. Some of them have been very successful and deserve to be called classics. This is not one of those productions, however.It all started when someone thought Hemingway's book would make a great film. It probably could. But for now the best-laid plans have been set aside for a lack of action and excessive voice-over narration. Thirty-minutes into this belabored affair, one scratches his head and asks why are the producers paying Spencer Tracy to read us the entire book, when he is a skilled performer and should be able to act it out? This story deserves more than a stationary old man in a boat submerged in an artificially painted sea. "},{"Title":"Man's struggle to prevail against nature and time","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spencer Tracy turns in a strong performance here as an aging fisherman who hooks a gargantuan marlin after an 84-day-long dry spell.The Old Man pours his soul into reeling in the stunning catch but nature works against him Fish! You're going to die anyway. Do you have to kill me, too? It's not only the fish the Old Man battles but voracious predators of the deep. (He knew this was a shark who had no fear at all and would do exactly what he pleased.) Everyone can identify with this man, especially as they get older. (Anybody can be a fisherman in May, the Old Man wistfully opines.) At the heart of the tale is a warm friendship between the man and a local boy, played with preternatural maturity by Felipe Pazos, Jr. The Old Man had taught the boy to fish, and he loved him is the explanation.In the credits we learn that some of the marlin sequences were footage from when a record-setting marlin was caught at Capo Blanco, Peru, by Alfred Glassel, Jr., in 1953. The fish weighed in at 1,560 pounds, according to Wikipedia. Indeed, Wikipedia also notes that Hemingway caught a 700-pound marlin while on location for the filming of his novella! I was intrigued to read, as well, that the beautiful love story Undertow also was filmed at this remote corner of Peru. (Please see my review.)Afternote It's interesting that the crass tourist seen at the end of the film was played by Hemingway's fourth and final wife, Mary. Her comments plunge us from lofty contemplations to the most mundane -- a dismal coda from a writer who would soon take his own life. "},{"Title":"they don't make 'em like Tracy anymore","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Guess who's coming to dinner,,,,,,,if that one put a lump in your throat, this one will, too. The fisherman's love of the sea, his love for the boy and his desire to keep doing what he has always done. Harder at his age, but still his joy. I think we see an old soul in the boy and a lost art in Spencer Tracy.His time on the sea, alone, was so beautiful and his determination should make us all feel a little wimpy for complaining that minor aches and pains keep us, at times, from our appointed duties. His love for his craft does not lessen with his age or abilities. Every young reader should be required to read Hemingway...especially this one. Every old reader should read it again............or just watch this film It is very true to the spirit of the novel. "},{"Title":"Even without having read the book, the DVD is well worth a look","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's a short story that should be impossible to translate into a visual medium, but surprisingly this quiet drama about an old man talking to himself in a boat works quite well as a movie. This version is moving and thought-provoking in the same ways as the novella. The B-reel of the huge, leaping marlin is real and impressive, and believably integrated with the footage of Spencer Tracy. The story is a great vehicle for Tracy's ability to project restraint and dignity, and his careworn face makes him an ideal choice for the role of the old fisherman even in the absence of any Cuban ancestry. The DVD special features are worth a look, too, as they show author Hemingway observing the production, contributing to it as a technical adviser, and fishing during the shoot. "},{"Title":"parable","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" the Hemingway novel. as seed for a great film. more than an adaptation, it is a impressive parable about hope, fight, desire and limits. each scene - as perfect circle. the fight against sharks scene - memorable. one of the most powerful roles of Tracy. and beautiful nuances of an extraordinary performance.the beauty of images and precise script are keys of this remarkable movie. a parable - movie because it can be a Christian story about faith and will of God. about ambition and sense of a bitter lesson. about yourself. a fisherman in his boat. a huge fish. and the return to home. all - in powerful light and heavy shadows. parts of a movie about small life things. "},{"Title":"Those who love to read should enjoy this movie","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's very rare that a movie is made based on a book while the author is still alive, and the author is an adviser and has an active hand in the shooting and production of the film. Such was the case with this original movie based on the novel, The Old Man and the Sea, by Ernest Hemingway. So, viewers can be sure that the movie we watch is very likely how Hemingway envisioned the story in his mind as he wrote the book. Hemingway was an adviser on this film, and had creative control over the final draft of the screenplay. He also worked as a second unit director for some of the marlin fishing scenes. And, Warner Brothers used his boat, Pilar, for the camera platform in shooting most of the exteriors in Cuban waters. The scenes of the marlin fight were from film footage of the world's record catch by Alfred C. Glassell, Jr., who also acted as an adviser.I can understand how some people would be put off by this movie. Especially a younger generation that has grown up on constant action, CGI, and so many films of make believe, fantasy or of a comic book nature. But to anyone who loves to read, this movie should be a treat. For about half the film, we see just one person, alone in his boat. He searches for, finally hooks, then struggles and waits patiently for the right time to land his fish. Finally, he fights against sharks in his long trip back to port.During all of this we see what the old man does to outwit his catch, and to fight off the predator sharks. He talks out loud to himself, to God and to the fish. And we hear his thoughts as he ruminates about how he will make it back. Hemingway's words come alive in the thoughts of the old man. Haven't most of us at some time in our lives talked to ourselves out loud, and carried on one-sided discussions in our thoughts. The monologue of the old man alone on the sea with his fish, which he called simply, Fish, brought the pages of the book to life. All aspects of The Old Man and Sea were excellent. Spencer Tracy gave one of his finest performances, and the rest of the cast were very good. The Warner Color was spectacular, and the cinematography and settings were outstanding. John Sturges turned in another great film as director, and the music by Dmitri Tiomkin was perfect for this film. The only reason I don't score this a 10 is because of some small details that are distractions. The film couldn't overcome the obvious differences in seas. The sea is almost dead calm or barely rippling in most of the scenes when the old man is rowing or being pulled by the fish. But in the scene when the fish surfaces, and the old man struggles to wear it down, we see fairly heavy seas, with five to eight foot swells and choppy water. In one scene of the village we see palm trees bending and swaying under heavy winds, so there should at least have been small whitecaps on the water. Another little detail was Tracy's appearance &#x96; facial and clothing. He didn't seem to look as haggard as he acted, and his clothes and hat might have shown a little more wear and tear from his ordeal. But overall, this is an excellent movie that will appeal to those who like to read the classics. The Old Man and the Sea surely is an American classic. It earned Hemingway a Pulitzer Prize in 1953, and was cited as the significant contribution to his winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1954. A priceless bonus on the DVD of this movie is a short video entitled, Hemingway &#x96; The Legend of the Sea. It was a film of a fishing trip in the Caribbean with Hemingway and filmmaker Allen Miner. It shows them landing a huge marlin. And one last piece of trivia &#x96; Hemingway and a friend did lose half a huge fish to sharks in real life. They caught a marlin so large that they weren't able to bring it into the boat, and sharks got the tail half of the fish before they got back to port. You can find a photo on the Web that shows the two men standing beside the 500-pound half of a marlin. "},{"Title":"last attempt at greatness","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I should first admit that I've never read Ernest Hemingway's novel. My interpretation of John Sturges's adaptation of The Old Man and the Sea is that the title character, a Cuban fisherman (Spencer Tracy), is making what appears to be his last attempt at greatness. Teased by everyone for his lack of catch over the past few months, the old man sets out with a well defined goal and does everything that he can to fulfill it. I guess that the movie, released in autumn 1958, also served as a last look at Cuba before the revolution (although a full history of the country requires a much more detailed explanation).Anyway, it's definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great Hemingway Classic On Film","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ernest Hemingway's novella,The Old Man and the Sea was probably extremely difficult to film to begin with, but this didn't stop John Sturges from trying to put Hemingway's tight little character study into film.The Old Man and the Sea is a 1958 film starring Spencer Tracy. The screenplay was adapted by Peter Viertel from the novella and the film was directed by Sturges.Spencer Tracy is the Old Man, a Cuban fisherman who tries to haul in a huge fish that he catches far from shore. Tracy's tiny boat is besieged by sharks and by natural elements, but the Old Man stubbornly sticks to his job. In the end, the fish is nothing more than a skeleton, and the Old Man returns to his tiny hovel. In this movie,Tracy did great great for himself as he was able to put to life a movie the features himself mostly with no other characters involved.I personally could say that he was born to play the old fisherman.As for the screenplay,the movie was a great adaptation of Hemingway's novella.The only negative thing I could say was that the film was very poor in its technical aspects as inconsistencies in very obvious all throughout many scenes.I could have given this movie a 10/10 rating if not for this. "}{"Title":"Spencer Tracy plays Go Fish","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" After eighty-four days without a catch, seafaring old man Spencer Tracy (as Santiago) finds his prowess as a Cuban fisherman slipping away. Hero-worshiping young sidekick Felipe Pazos (as Manolin) is advised, by his parents, to seek fairer waters with another mate - but, the boy won't abandon Mr. Tracy. His unlucky streak ends when Tracy's small boat gets pulled to new waters, where he finds the biggest fish in the sea. As he struggles alone against the elements, you'll wonder who caught who&#x85; Like the classic Ernest Hemingway story from which it is adapted, there is much to read into The Old Man and the Sea - and Tracy earnestly tackles some of the reading, in frequent narrative interludes. The award-winning efforts by Tracy, director John Sturges, and cinematographer James Wong Howe (in color, this time) are certainly worth a look. The National Board of Review considered this the best picture of the year. But, this film doesn't catch the wave you can ride in the original story.****** The Old Man and the Sea (10/7/58) John Sturges ~ Spencer Tracy, Felipe Pazos Jr., Harry Bellaver "},{"Title":"Beautiful film with masterful performance by Tracy","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Old Man and the Sea is one of those little, sometimes forgotten about films, that when seen makes you remember how good a film can be when you put your faith in a great story, and have intelligent directors and actors to make them.At only 86 minutes, this film packs more action and has a lot more to say than most movies at almost twice the length. The film is largely, in my opinion, about man's need to be able to prove his worth, regardless of his age. It is the story of an old man, largely forgotten about and ridiculed by others in his town, in search for one last great fish. He spends days at sea trying to bring it in, only to see his catch attacked and eaten by sharks. The old man has made his catch, but at what cost? And in the end, he has sacrificed almost everything, and wound up with only a carcass of what could have been.Spencer Tracy is nothing short of brilliant as the Old Man. While he also supplies the voice over, his performance is incredibly moving. In every scene you can see the years of struggle and disappointment in his face and body. It is certainly one of the standout performances of his great career.Some people may feel that this film is boring, or not the greatest adaptation. They are over analyzing this film. It is simply a wonderfully acted story told in a simple, straight-forward manner. Enjoy.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Catch of Life","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Screen version of Ernest Hemingway's novel The Old Man And The Sea (1952), directed by John Sturges is a great argument to support a thesis that no special effects and big budget productions can make a movie good, without quality actors and brilliant story behind it.Hemingway, born in 1899 in United States, had been awarded Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1953 and Nobel Prize for Literature in 1954. It's simply difficult to think of a better piece of literature to adapt to a film. Hemingway wrote his most successful novel during his stay in Cuba. He had become friends with local fisherman Gregorio Fuentes who is commonly considered as a main influence for the old man character.Santiago is an aged man who has gone 84 days without catching a fish. He's an experienced fisherman and the one who had been respected in the past for his achievements so such a bad luck brings dishonor to him and doubts in his abilities. After almost 3 months without a catch he finally gets the fish. The problem is, the marlin is a giant. The biggest catch ever seen. Santiago, on his own, is too weak to hold the fish on his boat. At the end he looses the battle with the sharks that ate his priceless catch, the catch of his life. Santiago had ruined himself because didn't want to give up on the marlin that lead him to the open sea for two days and two nights.Great narrator's performance makes a film extraordinary. Most of the time it's just one man on the screen. It's Spencer Tracy who was also well known from playing tough characters. In The Old Man And The Sea he shows his best skills that leave many other actors behind him. Tracy won the Academy Award winner for Best Actor two years in a row, for Captains Courageous (1937) and Boys Town (1938). "},{"Title":"The old man and the seathat's it.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The cinematography is splendid indeed.I have got to search my memory to find a movie in which the sea was filmed with so much talent and so much tasteso hats off to M.Wong Howe!Spencer Tracy,although he was not that old at the time (58!),is ideally cast as the sailor man and it is no small feat to be alone on the screen during one hour ,whith a big fish as his only co-star.The voice over is perhaps too much used and sometimes redundant,the marvelous pictures being much enough.It's always difficult to transfer a book without dialog to the screen .A movie which can be watched by the whole family ,it depicts the fight of a man against his worst enemy , himself ,not the fish. "},{"Title":"an incredible story","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" i loved this film and the book from start to finish. i have never studied the book like all you students out there but every time i come across this story i admit that i cry every time.not many films or stories out there do it for me but i suggest that you go to the desert or the ocean for a time on your own and the story will become clear.the emotional impact of the sharks eating the catch at the end creates anger and sadness in my soul and if none of you feel that then you are all dead. altogether a great story and a great film. Spencer Tracy is great. I haven't seen the new version but would be interested in any feedback. "},{"Title":"An unhurried fishing experience","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is Spencer Tracy at his best. The grandest fish story of them all is told in an unhurried fashion with plenty of time for recollection. If you're tired of action this and drama that, check out John Sturges's Cuban and Cuban-esque backdrop for a narrative that bears repeated viewings. My only complaints are the unevenness of the Warner color process and the switch between back projection and original film and 16mm sports fishing film. For me, Tracy makes this easy to ignore. "},{"Title":"Quite over-rated","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm dismayed by the discussion on IMDb relating to reactions to this film by people of today's generations.Sorry, but maybe the youth of today actually know a thing or two about story, and about film, because they have available to them the sum total of human artistic product. They aren't limited to just what certain folks deem appropriate. Sure, if Old Man And The Sea was one of the few things you could access for entertainment back in the day, you might be impressed by it. Well, life goes on, and some of today's classics will be tomorrow's rubbish. That is how it must be.And guess what? Old Man And The Sea, at least as filmed for 1958, IS rubbish. How can you justify a scene in which a spear is thrown INTO THE OPEN WOUND that it is supposed to yet make? How you can you justify a scene where a line is pulled tight, attached at both ends above the water (boat and fish) and yet the line goes straight down into the depths? Even taking into account the usual curve of a line such as this, it makes no sense. And Spencer Tracy as a Cuban? It's too much to bear.If you can't film it, don't film it.The other annoying thing about this film is the narration. If this was books-on-tape, or descriptive-video, there might be a justification for it. But it's just absurd, annoying, lazy, and pretentious. There are better ways. "},{"Title":"Noble attempt at recreating Hemingway's classic, but...","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" For a mid-'50s (okay, that tired phrase, mid-century) film, it is a half-decent depiction of Hemingway's classic, though Spencer Tracy's Cuban accent is obviously forced, if even available, and Tracy needed a good week under a tanning bed if the producer expected us to believe that even a gringo fisherman would look as pale as Tracy's character looked. The scenery was not as much in the studio appearance as I would have expected, except with the fish-fighting scenes looking forward in the boat to the fish. Wasn't the Old Man (Tracy) fighting a swordfish in one scene, or am I mistaken? I'm told by TMC's anchor that it was a fake fish because they couldn't catch a decent fish when shooting for the flick, and Hemingway wasn't a fan of the movie, making comments about Tracy not passing for a Cubano at all. But at least on my old Sony 19 Trinitron television (no digital here), the expired fish, its long backbone exposed, was perfect! And I love the ending shots of the fishermen silhouetted against the sunset, which as a former west Floridian, was totally real. "},{"Title":"Hemingway's classic novella turned into a wonderful film!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I read and seen this film in school, and must say that the story lives up to be a classic book and a classic author, Ernest Hemingway.The story about an old man living in Cuba dreams about catching the biggest fish he has been wanting to catch his whole life. He was born to fish, and everyone thinks he's crazy. If only I had the boy the old man cries in his skiff. A boy lives with the old man on an island and gives good luck for the old man catch big fish.So he sets out to sea and realizes that he is sacrifacing his life to catch this almighty fish. But as the film goes on, it follows very closely to the book. But I do prefer Ernest's novel than the film. Spencer Tracy gives an amazing performance as the old man in the film. A film that need to be shown by younger audiences around, and it's truly a film about determination, and the value of life. "},{"Title":"Dud in the water","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Can a creative team overcome the obvious technical and narrative difficulties inherent in the prospect of filming the Hemingway novella 'The Old Man and the Sea?' Well... no! But if you like your allegories inert, obvious and oh-so-serious, this might be for you. This is a movie-as-literature clunker, in the same vein as John Huston's 'Moby Dick.' The narrative is an allegorical sermon so thuddingly unsubtle that it's impossible to view it at anything but the symbolic level. This movie fails in the same way as 'The Spirit of St. Louis' because solo protagonists require an intrusive amount of narration and soliloquies to advance the narrative. In tOMatS, to preserve Hemingway's language, we get voice-over as omniscient narration (Spencer Tracy). We get voice-over in place of the old man's thoughts (Tracy again). And we get the old man talking to himself (ditto), saying things aloud that no one would ever actually speak. Tracy continually refers to himself in the third person, like he's Bob Dole. And he injects way too much sanctimony into what could have only worked (maybe) with a soft-sell. All these clumsy devices are like looking at plumbing; functional? certainly, but decidedly not art. It's also full of eye-rolling schlock; like a bird that lands on Tracy's finger to listen to one of countless sermons.The movie fails technically too. Rear projection is the overused gimmick decided on for the whole sea portion of this movie; but they cop out, and use it in land-based moments too, out of sheer laziness. Yeah, it's easier to get the footage in the can that way, but it looks like garbage. Why does everyone have an eerie blue tinge? Not once does the light that falls on Tracy match the coloring of sky he's sitting under. Also, if you want to rear-project most of your settings, and the only background is clouds, the cloud types needs to match in continuous moments, because viewers are going to notice that. The production is so sure of its own pure, righteous concept, that it can't be bothered with quality anywhere else. "}{"Title":"Fish, I love you and respect you very much, but I will kill you before this day ends. <the Old Man>","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hemingway's multi-award winning book was turned into this tidy little movie, less than 90 minutes long, mostly on the water, with narration, and it seems to be a character that Spencer Tracy was born to play. My local library has the DVD and for an old movie is nice indeed, with several good extras, including some recently discovered film of Hemingway on a fishing trip for giant Marlins. My comments may contain some SPOILERS, please consider this if you read further. The Old Man has not caught a fish in 84 days, and on this the 85th day he feels his luck will change. Far out, by himself, he hooks a big one. He longs to catch a glimpse of his adversary. He talks to himself, and he talks to the fish. Hungry, he eats raw a small Bonita that he catches. His hand gets cramped, the rope causes his hands to bleed. He fights all night, then all the next day. He is gone three days altogether. When he finally sees the giant Marlin he says, 'He's longer than the skiff!' The Old Man begins to pray. Through the night. Through the rain. He remembers the all-night arm-wrestling contest that he won in Casablanca years ago. Finally the Marlin surfaces, he gets it closer, he harpoons it, he lashes it to his boat and begins to sail for port. But in just an hour the sharks come, he loses his harpoon, he breaks his knife. He kills or injures many sharks, but by the time he gets to port, all he has left is the head, the spine, and the tail. Even though he caught the fish, he begins to feel sorry for it. A majestic fish, tricked into biting a baited hook, and becoming shark food. The Old Man had caught his fish, and everyone admired him.  "},{"Title":"A gentle protest about the use of animals in films.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw The Old Man and the Sea for the first time last night and I cannot say I really admired it. In 2009 we are perhaps more sensitive to the suffering of our fellow inhabitants of the planet and although I suppose the film is a masterpiece, I cannot enjoy seeing an animal given a slow and tortured death anymore than I can bear Hemingway's favourite sport, bullfighting. I realize it was shot with a false looking fish but it is not a good example for the young. There are so many wonderful sports for them to learn about. Teaching children to kill any creature that is doing no harm is, to me, immoral. I realize I am going against the grain somewhat, but I hope opinions are changing about what is acceptable on film. I know animals are better looked after nowadays when in a film and there are stricter rules to protect them. So much the better ! "},{"Title":"The old actor and the lazy script","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has received endless praise from many people. Having enjoyed the book (though not as much as Ernies other books) and realising that it is hardly easy to adapt to film, I avoided this movie. Oh, and I had seen the animated version of the book, which was less than impressive.Anyway, got the DVD, watched it. Acting OK, most of the bit parts seem to be played by people they dragged off the street. Ultimately it lacked the impact of the book, and I never was able to get the feeling of the struggle between this old man and the ocean.The narration was annoying. Obviously you need a narrator, but when the narrator speaks the lines for the actors and tells things you are looking at, you know it was lazy script writing.Read the book, it is isn't long. This movie is a second rate experience to the book. "},{"Title":"One of Spence's Mistakes","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Maddeningly literal-minded distillation of Hemingway, with a screenplay that isn't so much adapted as edited from the page. If you find Hemingway's forced simplicity, pseudo-Biblical cadences, and lack of contractions annoying on the page, rest assured that these qualities are magnified as stentorially delivered on film. The man-vs.-nature, man-vs.-himself conflicts are rendered straightforwardly, and one has to admire the attempt to film the unfilmable. But even master cinematographer Howe is flummoxed by the effort to match the color, match the skies, match the real and fake fishes; and by today's computerized standards, the special effects are cheesy. Physically, it's a challenging role for the aging Tracy, but there's not a great deal to act here, with the narration doing so much of the work; and superb actor that he is, he never convinced me that he was anything but Spencer Tracy. "},{"Title":"Spencer Tracy can't pass it off","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ugh. Despite the fact that he is Spencer Tracy, he cannot pass for an old Cuban fisherman. His skin is too pale, his build is too chubby, and though I've never chatted up a Cuban, I daresay his accent doesn't sound too authentic. And Castaway this movie isn't. Hemingway's novel is primarily about said fisherman's solo struggle at sea against a hooked but unrelinquishing marlin. Hence, Tracy's role consists mainly of yanking on a fishing line and alternating between philosophical facial expressions and determined ones. Zzzzzzzz. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Laughed So Hard I Cried (2 Out Of 10)","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Possible Spoilers I wanted to give this stinker a 1 but the dialogue was so bad that I laughed until I had tears running down face. I killed you fish, my brother. They fed the negro rum. Come on hand, come on hand. Jeez this movie is worth it just to get a few solid belly laughs. I just couldn't take this movie seriously, it was way too cheezy. He said. He thought. Yes, even the narration was so bad it was funny. "}]