[{"Title":"A picture says a thousand words","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is Ray at his best. Its sublime. Its distilled to perfection. You need not hear the dialogs or read the subtitles to follow and appreciate it. The visuals and background score tell the store more eloquently. The movie has a soul which will get destroyed if you make even the slightest change to the story, acting, cinematography, music etc. Ray has brought out the best in his actors. They are not experienced actors though both of the leading pair later go on achieve mega success as movie stars. If you blink an eye, you will miss out on the emotions captured. For example, when Aparna is brought to her new home, there is moment in which she matures &#150; from a girl to a woman &#150; while gazing out of the torn curtain. There are several such brief moments. The dialog is minimalist but enchanting. The letter from Aparna to Apu captures love in all its glory &#150; longing, desire, concern and trust. Its movie-making at its best. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking Beauty","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apur Sansar (The World of Apu) is the stunning final chapter of Satyajit Ray's Apu Trilogy, one of the most widely acclaimed series in film. While Pather Panchali and Aparajito, the trilogy's first two, are extremely well crafted, the lack the heart-wrenching beauty of this installment. These three films revolve around tragedy, and it has an almost predestined quality to it, which reminded me somewhat of Stanley Kubrick's excellent, Barry Lyndon. That's where the similarities end of course, as this film is warm and radiates humanity, and Lyndon (as well as all of Kubrick's work) is cold and icy. Ray's rich lyrical realism breathes beauty in the mundane acts of his characters. The film opens as Apu, now a young man, attempts to eek out a living. He searches relentlessly for work, most of which is monotonous and doesn't pay well. However his pudgy friend Pulu invites him to a wedding, and Apu obliges, hoping maybe this display of love will help inspire him and the novel he is writing. In a fascinating turn of events (which I won't spoil,) Apu finds himself coming back to Calcutta married. Aparna, his new bride, is used to a life of luxury outside of the big city` but she is prepared for a life of poverty with her new husband. In one of the most beautiful sequences in film, Apu and his bride slowly begin to love and care for one another. The beauty of this is that we never see them embrace, or kiss or make love. Instead we see it in gestures, in window curtains, in little notes Aparna puts in Apu's cigarettes reminding him only to have one after every meal. Their love is like a dream of love we've had, one that's so innocent and wonderful we want to dream forever. But like all dreams, Apu must wake up. Happiness is just a fleeting emotion for Apu, one that enters his life at random points and then dissapears. Apu wanders bitterly through the Indian landscape, searching for solace and peace. The end moments cannot be explained in words, and simply must be experienced. One of the greatest films of all time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The final episode of the Apu Trilogy","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The final episode of the Trilogy takes us to a young adult Apu.  Received the British Film Award which Sathyajits' other two episodes (Song of the Road, Unvanquished) also received. This movie together with the other two movies are a monumental work in movie making. The way the story is portrayed, and the use of many details, enrich the emotional experience it provides. One can recall the way the screen of the movie theatre fades into the window of the horse carriage, or the way the hole on the window curtain reverberates with the spotted decorations on the actress face and etc.This a must see movie for all, in the different ways emotions are expressed and the way it takes the audience in a roller coater ride of emotions. It is an enriching and a moving experience. It reinforces and reinvigorates the humanity within each of us.To enjoy the movie most, viewers should see the first two episodes in sequence before viewing Apur Sangsar. "},{"Title":"Superb finale to the saga","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found Apur Sansar, the final part of the Apu Trilogy, every bit as superb as its prequels. I liked the pacing even better than its predecessors, as there was not a single moment that didn't keep me interested. Although the ending wasn't as powerful as its prequels, I thought it was a more hopeful and fitting ending for the saga. However, it did give me the feeling that I didn't want the story to end at all.Soumitra Chatterjee's debut performance as the adult Apu was truly Oscar-worthy (like Karuna Bannerjee who played his mother in the first two films) and a young Sharmila Tagore was also convincing in her debut performance as his wife. Overall, I'd say Apur Sansar is my second favourite in the Apu Trilogy, after Aparajito.Now that I've finally finished watching the Apu Trilogy, I must say this is probably the greatest film trilogy I've ever seen. Although it's a simple story about a country boy's growth to adulthood, it felt like I was watching a truly epic saga. Satyajit Ray really is one of the greatest filmmakers of the 20th century in my opinion.10/10 "},{"Title":"David Jeffers - The cornerstone of Indian film.","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The World of Apu is a tale joy of and tragedy, unmatched in its beauty and profound emotion. Satyajit Ray's final film in the Apu trilogy ranks with King Vidor's The Crowd and Carl Theodor Dreyer's Ordet as a cinema landmark of family life. But it far exceeds those films in its visual poetry. Apu's journey with a friend and his unplanned marriage sets the stage for a story of domestic life in all its simple joy and awful despair. The serene, contented beauty of the girl is a soaring vision, matched in its humanity only by the broken heart of Apu when she dies. The pages of an unfinished novel, a life's work floating in the mountain air like the seeds of a dandelion, become the symbol of Apu's devastation. The rebirth of life and hope realized in the child illustrates a fundamental belief of Hinduism. Beautifully photographed and edited, The World of Apu is a masterpiece of film as narrative storytelling. It is the most Indian of all Indian films. "},{"Title":"One of if not the best movie ever","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this movie was just after it was released in the United States. Ravi Shankar was becoming popular and the fact he did the score added to the movie's interest.But Satyajit Ray is really in a class by himself. The movies -- there are three in the series, this one being the last, are mostly acted by amateurs. The trilogy starts with Pather Panchali, with Apu being a child. Next, Aparajito shows Apu growing up, going to school and learning English because that was the only way to get ahead in the grinding poverty of Bengal.The last of the trilogy, the World of Apu shows Apu marrying, his wife dying, his leaving his son with his wife's parents and then going away to find himself. How the movie ends is your task. But each time I see it, tears cloud my eyes and my stomach turns over in joy and &#133;&#133; Let's just say the Academy gave Ray a long overdue Oscar for his films which are universal in appeal. "},{"Title":"The final episode of the Apu Trilogy","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The final episode of the Trilogy takes us to a young adult Apu. IMdb seems to have missed the British Film Award that this and Sathyajits' other two episodes (Song of the Road, Unvanquished) received.This movie together with the other two movies are a monumental work in movie making. The way the story is portrayed, and the use of many details, enrich the emotional experience it provides. One can recall the way the screen of the movie theatre fades into the window of the horse carriage, or the way the hole on the window curtain reverberates with the spotted decorations on the actress face and etc.This a must see movie for all, in the different ways emotions are expressed and the way it takes the audience in a roller coater ride of emotions. It is an enriching and a moving experience. It reinforces and reinvigorates the humanity within each of us.To enjoy the movie most, viewers should see the first two episodes in sequence before viewing Apur Sangsar. "},{"Title":"A radical departure from the formula films of the 50's.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  About midway through Apur Sansar there is an  interjection of a film in the style of  typical Indian cinema.  The contrast in Ray's approach with his classic trilogy is  astonishing, considering the mileau in which it emerged.  Filmmaking in the 1950's in  Hollywood as well as India was studio-driven with light-weight stories having little  connection with reality.  As another  commentator pointed out, this film is closer to the  Italian realism films such as The Bicycle Thief.  Every shot is a masterpiece of  composition and lighting.  It does not intrude on  the story, but advances it.  Likewise,  the music composed by Ray, is natural and integral to  the  scene.  This ranks with the  all-time greatest  watershed movies. "},{"Title":"I feel sorry for anyone who hasn't seen it....","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apur Sansar is the greatest film ever made.  Ray handles every aspect of storytelling on film with so much grace that it's impossible to resist his masterwork.  Soumitra Chatterjee's performances is easily the greatest ever put on film.  His work is heart-wrenching and haunting, going from a boyish innocence to a matured, cynical bitterness about life and the world. Ray's movie if full of loneliness and heartbreak.  It makes you realize just how fragile human relationships are, how easily people die, grieve and yearn for love and redemption.  The music is incredible.  The combination of the movie's score and Ray's images is magical.  You'll never forget it. "},{"Title":"Great Conclusion To The 'Apu' Trilogy","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *SPOILER ALERT*WORLD OF APU (APUR SANSAR) only suffers in comparison with its' predecessors - it isn't the masterpiece that PATHER PANCHALI is, but it's still a GREAT film. Ray - early in his career - was already a master at balancing human drama and unforgettable visual stylishness, and - perhaps because of this visual sense of style - I didn't mind the slightly elevated level of melodrama seen here. The final scenes of the three films are similar - with one difference here - in WORLD OF APU, Apu is walking into the unknown, with a sense of optimism and hope (compared with the grief in the first two installments), curious as to what life will next bring, and confident that the knowledge he will gain will only make him a richer person. This film, and the entire trilogy, easily stands alongside BICYCLE THIEF or SANSHO THE BAILIFF as one of the greatest human dramas to have ever been made.There are few films that I think everyone should see at least once - the APU trilogy is near the top of my list. "}{"Title":"The third installment in Satyajit Ray's internationally acclaimed Apu Trilogy, The World Of Apu displays all of Ray's trademark restraint and lyricism.","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The World Of Apu is rich and contemplative, and a great, convincing affirmation. The story is set in India, where a would-be writer, stuck in a tedious clerical job, struggles to accept the son of his wife, who died in childbirth.The film is the last part of a monumental trilogy, and a sense that events have moved full circle over the three separate stories. This final episode brings a sense of closure for the members of a troubled family who have known immense hardship and struggle. The World Of Apu is a profound and deeply moving exploration of the human condition, exuding a transcendent wisdom rarely seen in cinema outside of the works of Yasujiro Ozu or Robert Bresson. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For westerners, like myself, the beauty and wonder of the Indian culture and humanity of the people was supremely captured in Ray's masterpiece. I've seen the film three times and each reveals new insights. "},{"Title":"Roads go ever, ever on","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bringing the lessons learned from Italian neo-realism to Indian filmmaking, Satyajit Ray's first project was part one of what would become the famous Apu trilogy, Pather Panchali (Song of the Little Road, 1955). Undoubtedly it laid the foundation of Ray's status as a cultural Indian icon. In neo-realistic fashion the three films were made on actual locations using an amateur cast, shot as close to reality as possible, and due to this approach they show all the unvarnished truths but also the charms found only on the street, addressing life itself. Direct, plain and simple the contained episodes shed light on poverty, anguish, loss and the unending struggle of man to justify his very own existence, the trials and tribulations to transcend one's self and the world one was born in. Central to the continuing story of all films is Apu, a coming of age Bengali boy with the bleakest imaginable prospects. His long journey takes him to many different places, nowhere he is truly at home except in books, and yet despite all that he's contended with the simplest things. But in all the ordeals he has to suffer from there's always a glimpse of hope, an impulse to go on. Until he reaches a dead end...Years after Pather Panchali and part two Aparajito (The Unvanquished) Ray's conclusion of the series via Apur Sansar (The World of Apu) is emotionally the strongest of the three installments. It already starts off with the weight of the first two films on the protagonist's shoulders, lets the now mature Apu question everything he has come to believe in and steers inevitably towards his destiny. Ray has also perfected his directorial techniques in the meantime, and the choices of actors to play an older and finally adult Apu are spot on. Rarely before has poetical realism been so devastatingly beautiful than in this jewel of Indian filmmaking, the pictures often speak for themselves. Like the recurring symbolic image of a train that accompanies us throughout the trilogy first as something magical, then adventurous, even deadly. And it's there in the very last scene as well - as a reminder that roads go ever, ever on. And all a road requires is a first step. "},{"Title":"All the humanity one scene could hold","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The World of Apu is the third and final film of the Apu Trilogy Apu as an adult trying face the realities of his life. He suddenly finds himself at a crossroad that was totally unexpected. What he decides will alter the course of his life. I warn you that these three works are NOT action films and require your patience, but the payoff is great. They plod along from through daily and decisive moment after moment, with all the humanity any scene could ever hold. I was also surprised at the lack of cliché story lines. I was NEVER sure where it would take me next. (P.S. - I remain mystified by the East Indian culture. If anything, these films exhibit more and more examples of thinking that leave me feeling very foreign &#150; and sometimes relieved. People are NOT the same everywhere, unlike what the Koombiyah people would have you believe.) These are great films, should be seen in order, but is not 100% necessary. Maybe only 99%... "},{"Title":"The final... a must see","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a great fan of Satyajeet, i must admire the fact that he is true craftsmen again while watching this one. The visual sense, musical score, dressing and above all words to make dialogs are almost perfect. One can not think of better things to keep the balance. Specially the image/shadow style as shown in other film (Pather Panchali) is beautiful.I think above all it is the script/story which catches you from the start. Apu is carefree and suddenly he finds him in the world where he has to care not only for himself but his wife and the form they are in. It is stunning to see the transformation in a manner that one can't notice.A must see...9/10 "},{"Title":"Good final chapter. 8/10","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have commented on both pather Panchali and Aparajito previously. After many months, I finally got to World of Apu, the final episode of the trilogy. To recap, Pather Panchali = 10/10, absolutely perfect, one of the best films ever made. Aparajito = 8/10, had a few problems, but still a thoroughly involving and beautiful film. The World of Apu I give the same rating that I did for Aparajito, 8/10. For the most part, again, it was involving and beautiful. I however have a couple of problems with the film.SPOILERSAs I complained in my review of Aparajito, when tragedies arise in this series, they tend to repeat themselves. I was most affected by the first two of these major tragedies. The third one, at the beginning of Aparajito, affected me a lot, although its power was diminished. By the fourth one, I knew it was coming from miles away, and I felt unaffected. Now the major tragedy in this film seems a bit contrived. I think the development between Apu and his wife was incredibly powerful. The situation which led them to be married lends to a lot of interesting options. The option that was chosen, to kill his wife off, was definitely the wrong one. I am actually hypothesizing that the novel had some more episodes, or at least some more fleshed-out episodes, than does the final film. The events of The World of Apu, at least after the tragedy, seem crammed into a short period of time. It never feels like five years have passed. Still, this is a great movie. Though I stick by these complaints, the film as it stands is very worth watching, since, once you have watched Pather Panchali, one of the very best films ever made, you cannot help but watch Aparajito and The World of Apu. "},{"Title":"Acceptance","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSApur Sansar is all about the loss of life and acceptance of a new one. In the last part of the truly great Apu Trilogy Apu loses his new wife Aparna (a strikingly beautiful Sharmila Tagore) in childbirth and therefore cannot accept his newborn son Kajal.What follows is a journey with Apu through his mind and his thoughts.Although it is a very powerful and highly crafted film (probably the most crafted and professional of the trilogy) it is my least favorite of the bunch.It doesn't have the greatness,powerful acting and surprises of especially Pather Panchali and Aparajito.Still,high above average.While Pather Panchali was in some ways a little bit amateurish made,which gives also his high charm,Apur Sansar has some great tricks in it.Like the scene after Apu and Aparna have seen a movie and the camera goes almost perfectly from the movie image into a taxi,or the scene in which the wedding ceremony walks by the river and then the camera focuses away from the river and on to Apu.Another very well made sequence is the one in which it seems that Apu throws himself in front of a train,the train is probably the most important symbol of the entire trilogy.Ray created a highly recommended and very well made trilogy,because of his directing and the truly brilliant acting overall but also because of the superb soundtrack by the legendary Ravi Shankar who also contributes in a big way in this last film although I prefer his score for Pather Panchali. Looking at the entire trilogy Ray surpassed my wildest imaginations and I expected quite a lot.Truly cinema history and I am really eager to see more of his work.Pather Panchali 9/10  (number 52 in my all-time top 100 list)Aparajito 9/10  (number 67 in my all-time top 100 list)Apur Sansar 8/10  "},{"Title":"Wake Up Already!","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just got finished watching this, the finale to the Apu Trilogy. I loved the cinematography and some of the music, but seriously, the same conflict over and over, death of a loved one. Don't bathe in and drink from the Ganges already! And have you ever seen anyone have as much trouble waking up as this dude? In movie #1 his mother and sister have to pound on him every morning, in movie #2 it's mostly his mother, and in #3 his wife, but at least she's smart enough to get an alarm clock. In World of Apu, at the end where he goes to wake up his estranged son and get to know him, the kid wakes up right away when he touches him. I thought there was going to be some kind of joke there--that the kid was going to be sluggish about waking up and Apu was going to be all That's my boy! But the kid must have taken after his mother, because he popped right up. The best thing about this trilogy was the old lady (the Auntie) in the first movie. Her role was poignant, and she nailed it. Her song was transcendent. The child actors, both Apu and his sister, were charming. The grown-up Apus, less so. Start there, with Pather Panchali; you can finish there too and not miss much. "},{"Title":"Down and Out in West Bengal","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ray never screamed. He usually whispered, but when he did, it was louder than a thunderburst. - Radha Prasad Gupta Director Satyajit Ray is today best know for The Apu Trilogy, a series of films comprising Pather Panchali, Aparajito and The World of Apu. Released in 1955, Pather Panchali observed the struggles of a family living in rural India. Released in 1957, Aparajito follows the family's young son, Apu, as he attends school in Calcutta. The third film, The World of Apu (1959), finds Apu having graduated from university and struggling to live as a writer.Whilst in India to shoot The River (1951), Jean Renoir met Satyajit Ray, then a young man working in advertising. Renoir's brand of French neorealism, and the neorealism of postwar Italy and Britain, would later influence the aesthetic of Ray's early films, which were gritty, naturalistic, sympathised with the poor, and which attempted to convey their living and labour conditions. Every writer must take a side, the twenty eight year old Ray would write for a Marxist magazine in 1949, either for the proletariat, or against it. The day of the final battle between the camps of the progressives and the reactionaries is nigh! Such overt radicalism would disappear as Ray morphed into a filmmaker, replaced instead with a more soft-spoken humanism.The more autobiographical of the three films, The World of Apu opens with Apu (Apurba Kumar Roy) living in a tiny, decrepit apartment. Apu's landlord demands rent, but Apu's broke and too proud for low paying writing or teaching jobs, let alone manual labour. He sees himself as a novelist, an artist, and the trivial demands of society irk him to no end. Unsurprisingly, Apu depends upon the charity of friends. He looks down upon these friends &#x96; he deems them comformists &#x96; whilst they in turn view Apu as being an irresponsible dreamer, lacking in direction.Apu's shaken out of his cocoon by Aparna (Sharmila Tagore), a young woman whose superstitious family members believe that she must be married off by a certain hour. Though Apu despises arranged marriages and religious customs, he offers himself to Aparna, marrying her as a means of rescuing her from her family's beliefs. This marks one of the many interesting ironies in the picture; Apu, a free, progressive, unattached artist, embracing traditions, not out of fidelity to these same beliefs, but out of a more personal, moral code.And so Apu takes his bride back to his tiny apartment. Here, cute scenes watch as the duo tentatively get to know one another. Now in love, Apu resolves to get a job so as to provide for his wife. In a matter of months, the bohemian Apu has become a fairly conformist breadwinner. This domestic bliss is shattered by Aparna's sudden death during childbirth, a tragedy which sends Apu spiralling into depression.At this point, The World of Apu begins to echo Pather Panchali, the first film in Ray's trilogy. In Pather Panchali, we recall, Apu's father harboured dreams of becoming a writer and poet, yet spent all his time tending to jobs he despised. Apu's father was also always away from home, and seemed to return only in time to catch the horrific deaths of cousins and daughters.In The World of Apu, Apu learns that he has fathered a son, Kajole. Apu abandons this son, and instead embarks upon a grief-stricken odyssey across India, a journey in which he hopes to write a novel about his life of endless suffering and loss. Unable to write, the film climaxes with Apu returning to his estranged son. As father and son embrace, Apu postpones his future novel, and so frees himself of memory's baggage, but in a sense also embraces his own lost self, and so his own childlike glee for an artist's life. Beautifully circular, and with each instalment insinuating and tragically haunting the other, the Apu Trilogy ends with father and son disappearing together, future uncertain.8.9/10 &#x96; Masterpiece. See Frozen River, Wendy and Lucy, The Story of Qui Ju and Bicycle Thieves. "},{"Title":"A Flourishing Finale","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Apur Sansar (The World of Apu) is the concluding part of master Indian filmmaker Satyajit Ray's 'Apu Trilogy.The Indian word sansar may mean both world and family. Both meanings are relevant in the context of the film, as it traces Apu's blooming into a human being, his explorations on the way as well as the phase of his life where he gains a family, again, having already lost everyone in the family he was born into. Loss is a theme which refuses to desert Apu's life but our unvanquished hero lives and grows through, and despite, his recurring losses.Soumitra Chatterjee, later to become one of Ray's favourites, plays the adult Apu in one of his most memorable performances. Satyajit Ray is considered one of India's best ever filmmaker, if not the very best &#x96; and this film is a testimony why. Apur Sansar features several immortal scenes, each of which etches itself in the viewer's mind and any of which could serve as the North Star for a budding director as something to match and inspire. Apu's monologue with his friend Pulu as the sole audience, Aparna's (Apu's wife) discovery of her husband's abode and the final sequence deserve special mention. "}{"Title":"gem","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" impressive. for delicacy, precise art of director, steps of nuances, splendid acting. for the atmosphere as spider web in wind. for few magnificent scenes. for silences. and, maybe, first, for its final message. part of a trilogy, it is , in same time, a subtle lesson about dreams, duty and love. about meetings as letters of self-definition. it is a Hindi story. but its sound is universal. and this is touching. because, more than a good performance, the film gives little clues about profound sense of things. Sharmila Tagore is extraordinary and the passing time is proof than this role was more than promise. Soumitra Chatterjee close the circle of his character searches. and he does more than a good job. its creation is really admirable. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What bold, deliciously reckless storytelling! The young hero is penniless, lives in dirty little room above the railway tracks, owes the rent to his landlord and still, somehow, is a king among paupers. He has the gift of poetry that enchants everyone who gets in contact with him. He's invited, as guest, to a wedding and returns with the bride. Their marriage, under dire circumstances, is a prime example of happiness - till fate strikes and she dies giving birth to a boy. The father does not want to see the little killer of his wife and falls victim to a depression of several years. Till finally the beautiful little boy, his mother's image, and the estranged father reunite. - I liked the deep humanity and strong emotions of the story. The camera work is exquisite poetical realism. "},{"Title":"I feel sorry for anyone who hasn't seen it....","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apur Sansar is the greatest film ever made.  Ray handles every aspect of storytelling on film with so much grace that it's impossible to resist his masterwork.  Soumitra Chatterjee's performances is easily the greatest ever put on film.  His work is heart-wrenching and haunting, going from a boyish innocence to a matured, cynical bitterness about life and the world. Ray's movie if full of loneliness and heartbreak.  It makes you realize just how fragile human relationships are, how easily people die, grieve and yearn for love and redemption.  The music is incredible.  The combination of the movie's score and Ray's images is magical.  You'll never forget it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful poignant film","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am not usually drawn to slow-moving, artistic films. But this film is of rare beauty and insight. I found it much more moving than the first two films in the Apu trilogy. The themes of loss, of running away from grief, and ultimately of reconciliation and responsibility have rarely been handled with a wiser eye. "},{"Title":"Part Three","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This final installment in Satyajit Ray's Apu Trilogy, follows Apu's life as an orphaned adult aspiring to be a writer as he lives through poverty, and the unforeseen turn of events.The World of Apu has been influential across the world. In Gregory Nava's 1995 film My Family, the final scene is duplicated from the final scene of Apur Sansar. The film's influence can also be seen in famous works such as Martin Scorsese's 1976 New Hollywood film Taxi Driver, several Philip Kaufman films, and Key's 2004 Japanese visual novel Clannad. References to The World of Apu are also found in several films by European filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard, and in Paul Auster's 2008 novel Man in the Dark where two characters have a discussion about the film.Personally, I just do not see how this is one of those perfect films that scores 100% and rates high enough to be in the Top 250. I found it rather boring, as I do with most Indian films. What am I missing? "},{"Title":"Never Go to a Wedding in India","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the final installment of The Apu Trilogy. Just when Apu thinks he is finally free to live his own life, now that his mother has died, wouldn't you know it, he gets invited to a wedding by Pulu, a friend of his, and ends up having to marry the bride himself, because the groom turns out to be crazy, and if she does not marry by the appointed hour, she is ruined for life and no one will ever marry her. Don't you just hate it when that happens?Her parents are rich, so you figure that since this is India and everything, there should be a sizable dowry. But no, not a brass farthing. However, Apu and Aparna, for that is her name, end up being poor but happy. She gets pregnant, and so, after about the seventh month, she goes home to her parents to have the baby. When one of her relatives shows up to tell Apu that she died giving birth, Apu punches him right in the mouth. So, if you are ever in India and have to tell someone his wife died, just send a letter.Apu writes to Pulu that because he is now free to live his own life (here we go again), he intends to travel. Presumably, he has learned his lesson about accepting wedding invitations. Of course, we wonder how free he can be, inasmuch as Aparna's baby lived. No problem, he just dumps the kid on her parents.Apu apparently contemplates suicide, standing near the tracks as a train approaches, but it runs over a pig instead. In the end, he settles for just throwing away the manuscript of the novel he had been working on, presumably because he realizes that love as he imagined it turned out to be different from the real thing.After five years of wandering around aimlessly, Apu's father-in-law is getting a little ticked that Apu is not taking care of his own son, Kajal. Pulu, who was Aparna's cousin, goes looking for him. Apu says he cannot take care of Kajal (whose name he did not even know), because Kajal would remind him of Aparna. Of course, Kajal probably reminds Aparna's parents of their deceased daughter every day, but Apu only thinks of his own grief, not what others may be feeling. Five years is a long time to grieve, but Apu thinks it is a good excuse for not doing his duty as a parent when Pulu reminds him of it. Being so reminded angers Apu, and knowing how Apu has a way of punching people out when they tell him something he does not want to hear, we are surprised Apu does not hit Pulu as well. I guess we can call it maturity.He finally relents and goes to see his father-in-law, not to take care of Kajal personally, but to make arrangements for Kajal to go to a boarding school so that Apu can continue to wander around, wallowing in the great suffering of his soul. And then, just like your basic Hollywood melodrama, there is a total narrative rupture at the last minute, when Apu decides to take his son with him and care for him himself, the two of them living happily ever after. "},{"Title":"Beautiful epilogue to a series of transitions","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The little boy who once chased trains across paddy fields with his elder sister now lives next to a bustling train track in grimy Calcutta. The central imagery of the Apu series has to be the Great Indian Railway. The last installment of the life of Apu, strings together many such visual ironies, that revealed to me at different phases of my life so far. I intend to watch it many more times because it has such an endearing quality to it. Apu, having grown up as an orphan without much income is very much his father from Pather Panchali. He dreams of making it big which he does confess in his autobiography/novel that is never materialised.The story of Apu is that of transitions.The last chapter is not glorified. It leaves a lot to the imagination for endless possibilities. Where does Apu go from here? Having lost most of his close ones, his sister, his father and his wife, it leaves you with a worry whether he would lose his son as well? But I am not an optimist, and thank God, there has not been a sequeal to this.I had watched Shyam Benegal question Ray about his conventional editing technique in one of his documentaries. I think Ray has used quite a few intelligent transitions/ morphs. One that comes to mind is the morph of the cinema screen into the window of the horse carriage where Apu and his wife enjoy an evening together as a couple.It is apparently legend that Ray carefully storyboarded every scene in the film but the strength of the film lies in its mundane everyday moments, sometimes making you wonder how difficult it must be to choreograph them and yet make them seem effortlessly natural? You never notice the camera in the film except at moments of confrontation. The rest of the film seems to be you living the life with Apu. "},{"Title":"The last of the trilogy, and should be seen last.","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The more times I watch this film it gets better and better. The story continues very much where the last one ends. Here we see Apu at University, getting very drunk, and shouting poetry late at night, and by happy accident, getting married. The early married scene are the best in the film. The circumstance of the marriage are hard to believe but with the magic of Ray's India Cinema the love between Apu and his beautiful young wife grows by then day. A child is born. And this is the spoiler, but, anyone who watches India films will know there is a death. I watch this film on DVD which I like because it gives me intimacy with the screen, but I know it should be watched in a packed out picture palace. You will not regard watching this film. "},{"Title":"Full circle.","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the third and last entry into the Apu-trilogy and I must say that's definitely the strongest and most emotionally involving one. Things definitely get full circle in this movie, which makes the whole trilogy as a whole complete and this movie forms a fitting ending to it all.Thing that I really like and admire about this trilogy, is that all three movies basically tell a different story, even though it features the same main characters and it does very little else than simply following his life span. In the first movie he was only growing up, the second one was a coming of age story, while in this movie Apu truly becomes a man and has to start to take responsibility for his own life and that of his newly wed wife.For most part the movie is being a quite cute love-story, in which Apu and his wife truly start to fall in love with each other, only after they already got married, which had happened by pure 'chance', or faith if you will. It helps to make the movie a pleasant and emotionally involving one, in which you start to care for the characters, which was just not always the case with the previous movies. It makes the movie as a whole such a good and powerful one to follow.It's also a nicely paced movie, which is also not something I can really say about the previous movies as well. It's actually also being the shortest movie out of the trilogy, so perhaps this also has something to do with it as well. But of course you also have to give the director credit for that. When director Satyajit Ray started working on the trilogy, he was still a very inexperienced one but by the time of this movie, he had obviously gained more experience and also had the funding to back his movies up, which also must have helped him a lot.A really great ending to one fine Indian trilogy.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The World of Apu","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The World of Apu, or Apur Sansar if you want, is the third and final part of director Satyajit Ray's acclaimed Apu Trilogy, all of which features in 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically Apurba 'Apu' Kumar Ray (Soumitra Chatterjee) has grown up, he is now a jobless ex-student living in Calcutta, and he has vague ambition for his future to become a writer. His old school friend Pulu (Swapan Mukherjee) suggests he attends the wedding of a cousin named Aparna (Sharmila Tagore). However on the day of the wedding it turns out that the bride groom has a serious mental disorder, and wedding must go ahead or the bride is cursed. Apu shakes his head at the idea at first, but then he agrees for the sake of the curse thing to take the place of the groom, and he returns with Aparna to Calcutta. They do actually get on really well and are excited to be having their first child together, and Apu takes up a clerical job. Their growing affection however is cut short when Aparna tragically dies giving birth to their son, Kajal, and Apu retreats blaming the child for the birth of his wife. A few years later, Apu has become a bearded recluse, travelling across parts of India, only giving money for the care of Kajal (Alok Chakravarty) living with his grandparents. He throws away the manuscript of his novel he had been working on for years, and his friend Pulu finds Kajal lonely and uncared for, so he looks for Apu, working on a quarry. He advises Apu to take up his fatherly duty properly, and after initially refusing he reunites with his son, who does not care to see him. In the end, Apu plans to leave alone, but Kajal sees him preparing, he accepts his father as a friend, and they return together to Calcutta to start life afresh. Also starring Dhiresh Majumdar as Shashinarayan, Sefalika Devi as Shashinarayan's wife and Dhiren Ghosh as Landlord. The performances are all very well done considering that the cast consists of non-professional actors, and the story combined with good Indian music, a little English language and a marvellous director make this great drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Very good! "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Apur Sansar is a film that delights in little things. In the beginning of the film Apu's apartment is a disheveled mess, like most bachelors'. But, within a few scenes of her appearance there, Aparna transforms it into a place where a woman calls home, by subtle decor. Yet, Ray never calls attention to this. It just happens naturally, and only an astute observer would notice; such as a scene where he is teaching her English, because that is the language that allows Bengalis to escape poverty. At other times, he lets romantic intimacy lead one to a change in Apu there is a deft scene where Apu finds a hairpin between pillows, and then he sees his wife doing cleaning in a hallway, and tries to light a cigarette, only to find a note from her inside his cigarette pack stating that he promised to only smoke after eating. Later, a series of playful letters are exchange between the separated couple, when she is off to her parents' place to give birth. One can sense the delight and excitement Apu gets just from reading the words of his wife, even when interrupted by a co-worker or a man on a trolley. I doubt I've ever seen on screen love portrayed so well without any physical affection nor intercourse shown. Yet this is just an extension of the great human interactions Ray captures. Earlier, in the first sequence with Pulu, we get a sense of the depth of their friendship when, after a night on the town, the two men are returning to Apu's apartment and walking along train tracks at night. They are arguing over women, literature, and the camera just pulls back and leaves the two friends in the midst of their personal comity. Then, after Aparna has died, and Apu is bedridden with grief, Apu is seemingly brought back to reality by the screech of a train whistle- the very thing that, within the bounds of the trilogy, symbolize some greater horizon for him. Yet, we soon see that it is not a call to life that has roused him, but he seems to now be standing on tracks, waiting to be run over, until we learn that the wail we hear, when the camera moves up and away from Apu (as if to let his end come without voyeurism, and foreshadowing a similar scene of pain heard on a payphone in Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver, where the camera looks away from the protagonist who is being dismissed on the phone, by a woman he desires), is that from a pig whose leg has been crushed, not Apu. Such cinematic poesy and mastery are grace notes that abound in Apur Sansar, and make it such a fabulous work of art; and one with many more moments of insight and depth than these few herein described..Oftentimes critics confuse the terms major and great, as if they were synonyms. They are not. There are great works of art that are small chamber pieces think Woody Allen's Stardust Memories, Ingmar Bergman's The Silence, or Curse Of The Cat People. These films are gems, but contain large pieces of cosmic power in their small delineations. Then there are major films, that, while having good moments, and dealing with titanic dilemmas, miss greatness because they do not core deeply enough into things, despite their impact on the culture and their medium think Michelangelo Antonioni's L'Avventura, Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window, or Francois Truffaut's The 400 Blows. Then there are films that are both great and major, for they are technically, aesthetically, and intellectually great while having a major impact on the culture and cinema. These would be films like Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, Kenji Mizoguchi's Sansho The Bailiff, and Taxi Driver. Satyajit Ray's The Apu Trilogy- as a whole, or taken in bits, belongs to both classes.Apur Sansar not only has meaning, but imparts meaning to its viewers, not just of its own internal realities, but those which communicate individually to the percipient. Only humans can bring or gift meaning, for only we can comprehend it. The greatest of artists know this; yet, paradoxically, because it can be so difficult, so few even try to impart it in what they claim as their art. Satyajit Ray had no such worries, and one only wishes more filmmakers followed his lead, one which Apur Sansur so splendidly embodies. "},{"Title":"The weakest of the trilogy","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All in all, this film is the weakest of the trilogy, but that's not such a bad thing, given that the first two are brilliant.The problem with this film is that the thinness of Apu's character comes out a bit too much. The best-drawn characters in all three films are the women (sister, mother, wife), and as this film focuses primarily on Apu himself, the richness of the earlier films is lost. The wife in this film is wonderful and is married to Apu at the same time his sister dies in Pather Panchali. Accordingly, the interactions between Apu (whose development is pretty obviously arrested by the fact that everyone close to him has died) and his wife have the same tenderness and beauty of the interactions between Apu and Durga in the first film, and Apu and his mother in the second.When I call this film the weakest of the three, I refer primarily to the script and the acting. To be sure, it is a rather unsatisfactory conclusion to the trilogy insofar as this third film seems disconnected from the first two (this might just be because no actors carry over).For all this, though, the film is worth seeing merely for Ray's directorial ability which is perhaps strongest in Aparajito but is every bit as present here. "},{"Title":"there's more to Indian cinema than musicals","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Americans hear the name Apu, they're likely to think of the Kwik-E-Mart owner on The Simpsons. Well, here's a different one. Apur Sansar (called The World of Apu in English) tells the story of a Calcutta man and how he has to deal with his various experiences. I should identify that this is not a movie for people with short attention spans. We may think of Indian movies as over-the-top musicals, but those are specifically Hindi movies; this is a Bengali movie. Apparently, it's part of a trilogy. I have to admit that this is the only installment that I've ever seen. But if this is any example, the other two should be interesting. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Why Such an Immature Guy to Conclude the Trilogy?","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (A Little Spoiler Included)It is a big enigma that Satyajit Ray creates such an immature hence unattractive protagonist to conclude his committed Apu trilogy. Apu's idea about a semi-autobiographical novel is boring, his endless worry about his newly married wife's feeling is annoying, his reaction to the news of her death is indisputably disgusting, and his abandon of the work-in-progress novel is self-complacently disturbing. Probably his naive idealism may represent the Indian young generation's hope at the time; probably the film, or the whole trilogy, may be Ray's semi-autobiography; probably, to Ray, the plain story of Apu might have been a suitable vehicle to depict India, which is the actual protagonist of the trilogy.As always, Ravi Shankar's soundtrack is great and probably the best we can enjoy from the film.   "}]