[{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV as a child, and the scenes of the banshee and the death coach scared and impressed me so much, I carried the memory of them all my life.  When I was an adult and saw it on video, I was astonished to find that the scenes are STILL impressive and creepy!  Considering how sophisticated special effects have become since 'Darby O'Gill' was made in 1959, that's quite a tribute to the moviemaking skills of the day.  The scenery is lovely, the actors skilful and wholeheartedly into their work, the music catchy and delightful, and really there's nothing not to like in this movie.  The duels between Darby and his nemesis, King Brian, are wonderfully funny, as each tries to outsmart the other.  The village characters are all well-drawn and likeable personalities.  Pony Sugrue seems more 'American' than the others, but then, he's not supposed really to fit in in the village, and his punishment at the end is an enjoyable comeuppance.  Favourite scenes - the banshee and death coach at the end, as mentioned, and all the leprechauns dancing under the fairy mountain then riding their little white horses out into the night as Darby plays them a wild tune on his fiddle.  Don't be put off by the date on this movie; it's as good now as the day it was made. "},{"Title":"Here's to Darby O'Gill","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I do not know how much I would like this movie if I saw it today for the first time. But, since I grew up on this movie, I have no choice but to absolutely love it. We had this videocassette in our closet for years, it didn't have a cover on it, but it didn't need one. Wow, how I grew up on those colorful special effects. Those leprechauns riding small white horses around an old Irish man playing the fiddle. The horse turning silvery when enchanted by the leprechauns. The Banshee. Oh, that Banshee. You've never seen a scarier Banshee on film and you never will. A fantastic movie. A young Sean Connery is in it, and that old woman with that scary voice is fantastic. And Darby O'Gill...ahh.. one of the best family films and fantasy movies out there. ANd don't forget the scary, black creativity of the Death Cab.Here's to Darby O'Gill. ClinkMy grade 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of Disneys Best","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was 6 years old (I'm 49 now) and it stayed with me since then.  The special effects are so good that I REALLY believed that the little people existed.(I also love Walt Disneys acknowledgement in the credits, thanking the wee folk for their cooperation in making the film). I still watch the film (usually around St.Patricks day) and after 43 years it still delights me. The story is short sweet and to the point, the acting wonderful, especially Albert Sharpe, Janet Munro and a very young Sean Connery(who sings very nicely), and Robert Stevensons' direction is right on the money.  The later scenes, with the death carriage and the banshees scared me silly as a child and are still quite creepy.  This is a film that holds up extraordinarily well and is terrific for family viewing. I have a copy on laser disc but look foward to its eventual release on DVD. "},{"Title":"Make a wish","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a truly enchanting film for all ages. It takes the viewer to the small Irish village of Rushcullen in County Kerry where not much happens except to one person, Darby O'Gill.Darby is a lovable old caretaker for the local Lord of the Manor whom the Lord jokes retired years ago but never told anyone. Darby's wanderings up to the ruins above the village have led him into contact with the 'little people' ruled by the likable but cunning King Brian.The battle of wits between Darby and King Brian are the central theme running through the film but the subplots surrounding Darby's beautiful daughter Katie (played by the English actress Janet Munro who tragically died at only 38) and the competition between her suitor's, Sean Connery and Kieron Moore keep the older viewers interest. Add to this a bit of drama surrounding a death carriage and a scary banshee and you have a film which works on even more levels.This is something of a forgotten gem of the family film genre. With tales of leprechaun's and banshee's all told through the wonderful west coast brogue, it doesn't fail to captivate.It's somewhat idealised version of Irish life in the 1920's is also a delight. Okay, not all Irish people lived in thatched cottages, tipped their caps to the local priest or went to the pub to catch up on the craig, but a lot did.As family films go this is right up there with Mary Poppins and The Lion King, 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unanimously a favourite","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Upon reading comments of earlier reviewers of this title, I find myself in an unusual situation...I totally agree with them all! This is a wonderful movie. And excellent for all ages (except maybe for very small children due to the banshee scenes).I'm very impressed with the effects considering when this was made. Almost flawless! And the story is so delightful and engaging, I can't imagine anyone not getting a lift from this hour-and-a-half of leprechaun fantasy.Sean Connery is a little weak on the singing, but it certainly doesn't detract from the movie.I've had this movie on VHS since way back, but recently I upgraded to a DVD. There are some interesting supplemental items on the DVD Including a 'making-of' that explain the effects; And there is a Wonderful World of Disney excerpt with Darby O'Gill, King Brian, & Walt Disney that's cute.I was surprised how much my teenage boys liked this movie. Usually they are too 'cool' to watch 'kids' movies (as they call them). And they were stodgy at first, but soon they were totally enrapt.This is one of the best family movies I've seen. Get this one and hold onto it because they just don't make em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Disney films ever made","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Like The Wizard of Oz, this is one of those movies that transcends time itself. It is a true family movie that will never go out of style. One of my favorite scenes in this movie is the approach of the Death Coach, coming to claim his sick daughter. Having no where else to turn, the hysterically-frightened Darby calls for his old friendly nemesis, King Brian. See if you feel the same sense of relief at his appearance as I did!This movie covers the entire spectrum of emotions. It's sad, funny, scary, happy, you name it. You might want to shield the arrival of the Banshee from the little ones, as I remember how it frightened me at that age, but don't let that sway you from watching this masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Those Tricky Little People","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As a lad I well remember the kind of campaigns Walt Disney used to publicize his films. He used all the available outlets he had such as his Mickey Mouse Club show or the Walt Disney Wonderful World of Color television shows. If Walt Disney could have worked it out, he'd have plugged Darby O'Gill and the Little People on Zorro.I remember Disney on one of his shows having a formal meeting with King Brian of Knocknasheega to sign over screen rights to the story of the leprechauns. It was all done with a kind of serious pomp that would impress a kid with Disney and Jimmy O'Dea who played the leprechaun king, Brian Conners.According to the Films of Walt Disney by Leonard Maltin, Disney had it in mind to do an Irish story for over 15 years before Darby O'Gill was released. In fact when he saw the original Broadway production of Finian's Rainbow, he had his leading man in mind in the person of Albert Sharpe. Sharpe's Darby O'Gill is a gamekeeper on the grounds of Lord Fitzpatrick who in his declining years spends more time at the local pub, regaling the patrons with his tales of encounters with the leprechauns. As Walter Fitzgerald who plays Lord Fitzpatrick says, Darby retired a couple of years ago without telling me. So he's hired himself a young new gamekeeper, an outsider from Dublin named Michael McBride played by a pre-James Bond Sean Connery. Connery's a decent chap though and he'll give Sharpe time enough to vacate the gamekeeper's gate cottage. Besides Connery's taken a liking to Darby's daughter Katie in the person of winsome Janet Munro.The film alternates and then blends the story of Connery's courtship of Munro with the person of her other suitor, the town bully played by Kieron Moore and Sharpe's adventures with the leprechauns. King Brian tricks him a couple of times, but Darby captures him by getting him drunk and keeping him out until daylight when he has no powers.If Darby O'Gill had been made by someone other than Disney probably Barry Fitzgerald would have played Darby. Sharpe certainly has the elfin charm of Fitzgerald's Michaeleen O'Flynn from The Quiet Man. And because he was not a movie name, he worked a lot cheaper for Disney, always a consideration in The Magic Kingdom.The special effects are really good here considering this was the age before computer generated graphics. Enough to give even a twelve year old a fright with the appearance of the banshee and the costa bower, the death coach.The answer to a movie trivia question is this film if it is ever asked whether Sean Connery sang in a movie. It's in fact him singing, My Little Irish Girl, both he and Janet Munro sing it alone and duet it for the finale. No dubbing, in fact Sean Connery cut a 45 rpm record of it back in the day. Probably worth a fortune if you could find one. Janet Munro did a few films for Disney. She was a wholesome lass in his films, very appealing and her death at too young and age was a real tragedy. Either Disney didn't spot anything in Sean Connery or Connery was too smart to be tied down to a long term contract to that studio. Connery after Dr. No premiered spent the next dozen years or so trying to prove both artistically and financially that he was capable of more than James Bond. But it sure would be fascinating to speculate on what turn Sean Connery's career would have taken if I had starred in a half a dozen or so Disney features. Can you imagine him trying to escape that kind of typecasting?Darby O'Gill and the Little People is a children's film and I think it still has charm a-plenty even for today's generation who might be skeptical about leprechauns. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant, Feel-Good Film With A Touch Of The Old Blarney","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Boy, this is about as Irish as it gets accents, terminology that is foreign to most other people but fun to hear, leprechauns, pots of gold, three wishes (no more), other magic, Irish jigs and a few songs, lush countryside with plenty of green.....and a lot of good-natured blarney. It's old-fashioned, innocent fun, with a love story thrown in the mix.The latter involves a very young-looking Sean Connery. It's a shock to see him when he was in his late '20s, and even more of a shock to hear him sing, too! Three years later, Connery hit the jackpot (acting, not singing) playing James Bond in Dr. No, and the rest is history.In this Walt Disney film, he plays Michael McBride who winds up falling for Katie O'Gill. The latter is played by Janet Munro, a pretty woman who had the opposite screen success of Connery. After staring in a few of these Disney movies in which she played wholesome girls, she did an about-face and played unhappy and edgy characters and that, it turned out, was a poor choice. Alocholism then led to the tragic misfortune of contracting a fatal illness which killed her at the age of 38.The lead character, Darby O'Gill, is played very convincingly by Albert Sharpe. He was definitely the character of the story.This movie is a nice, feel-good film filled with a laughing horse, the good guys winning over the bad, a few dramatic moments, singing and dancing little people, and an assortment of Irish delights. I think kids would still like this film, even though it's dated with the special-effects, but that's to be expected. After all, the film is almost 50 years old. It has a pleasant feel to it and should still entertain folks today. "},{"Title":"Generally shies away from treacle...and Albert Sharpe is wonderful","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Until Mary Poppins came along, I don't think Hollywood took Walt Disney seriously as a live-action movie producer. James Baskett received a special Oscar for Song of the South, as did Hayley Mills in 1960 for Pollyanna. However a great many performances in Walt's early output deserved a more substantial recognition, such as James Robertson Justice in The Sword and the Rose and Albert Sharpe in this film. Playing storytelling Irish codger Darby O'Gill, Sharpe is charming spinning tall tales in a quaint village, capturing himself a real live leprechaun and being rewarded with three wishes before the little King is freed. Colorful outing for older children and nostalgic adults, relying less on sugary sentiment and doting tots than on old-fashioned whimsy. Sean Connery has a nice romance with Janet Munro (who is always a pleasure) and the special effects, particularly near the end, are quite marvelous. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It's just lovely.","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Darby O'Gill is well known for his fantastical stories, he is also known as the man who is constantly seeking the pot of gold he believes exists. When one day Darby tells all in the Inn that he has found the pot of gold, nobody of course pays him much heed, they are further aghast when Darby tells of a Leprechaun King called Brian, and how he tricked Darby out of his three wishes.Fantastical romp that is cloaked by Irish mystical folklore, what's not to like really? It's a delightful tale told with intuitive pacing and containing wonderful special effects. Once Darby (Albert Sharp) enters the magical world of the leprechaun's, we are witness to gorgeous colour and jaunty shenanigans as director Robert Stevenson and his team unleash the tricks of the trade. Based on the Darby O'Gill stories written by H.T. Kavanagh, this production was something that Walt Disney had wanted to make for many many years, even visiting Ireland in 1948 to research for the project. Disney's wait was worth it for it oozes Disneys renowned production values and delivers entertainment for children and adults alike.Joining the splendid Sharpe in the cast is the excellent Jimmy O'Dea as King Brian, Janet Munro as Katie, and a youthful Sean Connery as Michael McBride, all of which are in on the fun and all lighting up the tale with consummate ease. I defy anyone to not be tapping their feet for most of this picture! So go grab all the family and park yourselves in front of the TV and let the magic wash over you for it will, to be sure to be sure. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Who Needs CGI?","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Certainly not Mr. Disney. I loved this film as a child and today saw it for the first time in maybe 25 years. I was astonished at how good the special effects were. The Little People were totally believable! The DVD had a wonderful making of which explained the forced perspective technique and showed exactly how it was done. It also finally cleared up any confusion on how matte painting is used and from a technical viewpoint, this film is remarkable. Disney always went the extra mile. That's why he was such a master of film making. I was also delighted with the accents and the use of real Gaelic terms and Irish expressions and could only wonder if they had confused me as a child until I read that this movie had had two soundtracks and one had been dubbed on after the accents were deemed too difficult for American audiences. Fortunately, the original is on the DVD. With captioning, it's not hard to follow at all. And how Disney, to have a rider where he thanks the leprechauns for helping him make this picture! Of course, the looked so real, you could actually believe it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and Witty Little Movie","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I will begin by saying that I do not know anything about Irish lore and hence cannot tell how accurate this movie is in its portrayal. What I can tell is, it is a charming piece of work. Darby O'Gill (Albert Sharpe)is an old caretaker in a small village. Though he is too old to do his job effectively, he is well beloved by the village folk, to whom he tells stories of his encounters with the King of leprechauns(Jimmy O'Dea). Darby and King Brian are friendly yet are constantly trying to out-fox each other. Their bromance is the best part of the movie. There is another story running in parallel the romance between Darby's daughter, Katie (Janet Munro) and the new caretaker, Michael McBride (a then unknown Sean Connery). Katie has one of the sweetest smiles in movie history and we discover Sean Connery's singing voice. Estelle Winwood plays a devious widow and Kieron Moore plays her son, a local ruffian and Connery's rival in love. They are both extremely entertaining.The sets and the locations are beautiful and full of old-fashioned charm. The effects are pretty good and most of them hold up even by today's standards. The banshee and the death coach are really scary. This is an under-appreciated Disney gem. "},{"Title":"My comments on the movies","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Such movies enhanced imagination, was six then, now 53!!! WOW!!! the name never left me like Walt's Bambi. ) but then, we do have many new ones, latest ones are also very good, they have got better machines to do the graphics and visual effects, however, making in those days when there was so much limitations to production and Fox effects, it enchanted a person with a grand imagination. Treasure Island was one of the wonderful ones, journey to the center of the earth was another which amazed and the list goes on and on, the classics were also made films but without belittling today, excellent cartoons are made today, the colors were amazing. Hope so the art continues to give audience wonderful thoughts. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Oh to be a little person again","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this film when I was about 9 years old and it scared the hell out of me, (when the banshee appeared I was under the seat). Over the years, as a self-respecting Irishman, I should have put this cod stage-Oirish nonsense behind me, (as indeed any self-respecting Irishman should put The Quiet Man behind him). But the magic this film casts is hard to shake off. I still get misty-eyed every time I see Darby O'Gill and wonder is it nostalgia, (for my childhood? for a 'mythological' Ireland or just an Ireland from a happier time?), or is it simply because this is a wonderful film, a great piece of story-telling, beautifully directed by the under-valued Robert Stevenson and splendidly played by a great cast, some of whom weren't Irish at all. (The young Sean Connery at his most handsome and showing the promise of what was to come; Janet Munro as Darby's daughter).The great Albert Sharpe, (the kind of role that comes along once in a lifetime), is Darby, the old gate-keeper about to be put out to pasture by 'his lordship' and Connery is the younger man about to take his place. What plot there is has Darby capturing King Brian of the Leprechauns, (the wonderful Jimmy O'Dea, and the special effects are pretty marvelous, too). It's the kind of yarn that would make a good story around a turf fire of a Winter's night and all the better for downing several glasses of poteen but then we wouldn't have those wonderful effects, (the dancing leprechauns, a banshee out of any child's worst nightmare, the death-coach), and a cast that also includes the magnificent Estelle Winwood as the bad-hearted widow and Kieron Moore as her gombeen of a son. It's a classic and outside of Ireland it really ought to be better known. "},{"Title":"Much more than magic","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie as a small child. My parents taped it for me one evening. Since then and for almost twenty years, I watch every year around St. Patrick's Day. I have been waiting for Disney to re-release the movie so I could purchase it on DVD. It was not available ANYWHERE for the longest time...This is a movie about an old Irish man named Darby O'Gill and how he spends the last years of his life telling stories in the local pub about the little people. Only a fool would not believe him. Darby lives with his daughter Katie. Darby discovers that Michael MacBride (played by a VERY young Sean Connery) will replace Darby in his position of looking after the the Lord Fitzpatrick's land. King Brian, king of the leprechauns, and Darby out wit each other constantly throughout the film. For if you catch a leprechaun, you get three wishes...3 wishes I grant you, 3 wishes are small, but if you wish a 4th one you lose them all! This is a timeless piece you will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Remembering King Brian","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There are a good many reasons why Disney's Darby O'Gill and the Little People remains number one on my list of all-time favorite Disney films. It's the first of director Robert Stevenson's great Disney fantasies (the others being the two Flubber movies; Mary Poppins; the first Love Bug film; Blackbeard's Ghost; The Gnome-Mobile; and Stevenson's last film at Disney, The Shaggy D.A.); it's the first film to spotlight a very young Sean Connery; and also, if you read between the lines, it's a film with a lot of unexpected history.The behind-the-scenes aspect of Darby O'Gill has always been more interesting to me than the plot itself. Walt cast veteran character actor Albert Sharpe in the title role after seeing him, Sharpe, on Broadway in the original production of Finian's Rainbow. Many of the supporting actors were veterans of Dublin's famous Abbey Theatre --- most notably, Jimmy O'Dea. With his harsh genuine Gaelic Irish brogue, it's a piece of cake to figure out why he landed the role that ended up bringing more magic in my young life than I would ever know.What can I tell you? King Brian Connors of the Knocknasheegan Leprechauns had me believing in all Leprechauns before I was even grown up. I was, at the time, only 11 years old when I first saw the film. Curiously, this was the second and last of the only two movies Jimmy O'Dea would ever make during the era of sound on film, the first being The Rising of the Moon, a trilogy of Irish-themed short stories narrated by Tyrone Power and featuring the Abbey Players, as directed (and financed!) by none other than John Ford --- himself an Irishman, having been born under the name Sean Aloysius O'Feeney. O'Dea's film career up to that time had consisted largely of various roles in silent films made in Ireland, that nation's own cinematic history not yet having reached its proper potential.But of course, all I needed at that time was a simple look at King Brian, and there'd be that pure Disney magic, alive and whole and fearless --- as it should be! When I got home from that first time I'd seen the movie (and again, this was when I was 11 years old), Leprechauns were all I'd talk about. I even thought that one day, Disney might make the film again, as a disco musical (this was, remember, the 1970's). In retrospect, it's enough that they didn't.Still, if you want laughs, whimsy, a little bit of drinkin', fightin', romance and the unexpected thrill of a tall tale, you can't do better than Darby O'Gill and the Little People. If you get the DVD, pay particular attention to I Captured the King of the Leprechauns, Walt's hour-long look at his own personal encounter with both King Brian and Darby. The show is another significant link to history it was the only work both Sharpe and O'Dea, reprising their respective roles, would ever do for television; guest star Pat O'Brien even sings a Lawrence Edward Watkin/Oliver Wallace song that was (presumably) cut from the feature at the last minute.Hey, King Brian I haven't forgotten you at all, old friend. Every time I attend the annual Clan MacDuff Scottish Games at Old Westbury Gardens, on Long Island, New York, which is held every fourth Saturday in August of each year, the memory of you and your fellow Leprechauns keeps coming back to me. Just like it does every St. Patrick's Day. Let's face it when you spend a lot of your time being surrounded by bagpipes, chances are Darby O'Gill might have had something to do with it.That said, Bennachtai na Faile Padraig! (That's Irish Gaelic for Happy St. Patrick's Day!) "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film that my Mom took me to see way back in 1959 and I recall it still. It is a greatly entertaining film dealing with leprechauns. Obviously it's set in Ireland. Look for a very young Sean Connery in this. This was several years before James Bond. The film stars Albert Sharp and Janet Munro also. There is music, magic, leprechauns and all sorts of legends involved. There are really decent special effects, especially considering this was before computer generated characters and backgrounds. All the work had to be done by hand back in the old days! I just recall the film seeming very exciting, magical and overall a lot of fun for a 12-year old boy. This was adventure at it's finest (unless you could catch an Errol Flynn flick!) and was memorable. "},{"Title":"A taste of the magic of Ireland...","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  As a third-generation American of Irish descent, I have had more than a little interest in the folklore and mythology of the Emerald Isle. This film wraps up some of the finest Irish traditions in a bright green bow.The plotline of Darby's many humorous battles of wits with the spirits of the night are a wonder to behold, particularly when he interacts with King Brion. And a shiver still goes up my spine when the coachman calls his name and bids him enter the coach of death.A thoroughly enjoyable magical romp that never lets you go. Oh yeah, and a pre-Bond Sean Connery sings(!)Erin Go Bragh! "},{"Title":"Incredible movie!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was very young (I'm 28 as of this writing, so this movie was already fairly old when I came into the world) and really liking it.  The terror induced by the Banshee stuck with me for most of my life.  I recently saw this again for the first time in almost 2 decades, and it's still an amazing movie.I'm happy to report that the Banshee doesn't quite give me the willies like it used to, but it's still scary -- you'll never see anything like this in a family movie today.  The scene where Darby opens the door and the Banshee is there waiting for him is really frightening.  The Death Coach is also really creepy.Anyway, leaving the scary moments behind, this movie has a fascinating representation of Leprechauns.  The special effects are amazing too -- I find myself completely convinced that there are little people standing amongst tall people, like when Darby is playing the violin while leprechauns dance all around him, or when Darby and King Brian are playing their drinking game, or when King Brian climbs onto the headboard of the bed to influence Katie's dreams.  It's absolutely seamless in most places, which is more than you can say for most of today's computer-generated wizardry.Although I get the impression this is one of the lesser known Disney titles, it ranks as one of my favorites.  A lot of Disney movies that I loved as a child have lost some of their charm as I've aged, but Darby O'Gill and the Little People is still a magical film. "},{"Title":"An absolute delight for the eyes and ears for all!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  You'll love this film, even if you're not Irish, because the tunes are so catchy, Sean Connery (and the others) are a delight, and the whole story is just plain fun! The Banshee and the Death Coach still scare me, but then, the way King brian helps Darby out at the end of the film makes the scary segments worthwhile. It really is an excellent film, so typical of Old Disney.  "}{"Title":"Leprechauns, a Sidhe (Banshee) and Sean Connery with an Irish brogue!  What more could you want?","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a charming film with warmth, tenderness, tragedy, love, drama, betrayal and nobility all rolled into one and seasoned with humor.  Albert Sharpe, who plays the lead, is a  character actor whose face wll probably be familiar to movie fans.  Sean Connery with an Irish brogue is worth the price of admission alone, but the story's entertaining, the performances good and the special effects are very good indeed.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Colorful, witty tale with enough punch to keep adults happy","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Amazing special effects, good script and fine cast make this fantasy romp well worth watching.  The interaction between the little people and the real world is great fun(and the effects are startling even 40 years later), and the love story doesn't get in the way.This is one of those rare Disney movies that contains a scene that can scare the pants off a kid.  The Death Coach terrified me as a youngster, and viewing it as an adult it was still creepy.  But watch it anyway! "},{"Title":"It has something for everyone, from love to Leprechauns!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first remember seeing this film when I was about 5 years old, and although I've seen it countless times since, its magic and appeal has remained.The story revolves around the lives of Darby O'Gill, the aging groundsman of Lord Fitzpatricks summer house, his daughter Katy and Michael McBride, the young replacement for Darby's job.As well as this, on the supernatural front, there is also Darby's friendship with the wily King Brian of Knocknasheega, king of the Leprechauns (the little people), who live in the mountain near the village. There is also, on a more sinister note ,the banshee and the death coach, as well as the more earthly villain, Pony Sugrue, the local bully.This is a lovely little story full of lilting music,Irish folk tales, humour, (mild) horror, a love story and some of the best special effects I've seen in a movie. Given that this movie was made 40 years ago, the special effects used for the little people- giant sets and trick photography, are GREAT!There is very little, in fact that this movie does not contain. It is a delight for all the family and will continue to delight for years to come.  "},{"Title":"Supreme Social Message for Adults","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Most other reviews pretty much seem to glide over the compelling social message of Darby O'Gill and the Little People. Yes, the special effects of the banshee and the death coach are remarkable, and it's great to see a young Sean O'Connery making hay (pun intended) with a light role. But there's something much deeper going on.Darby O'Gill is an old man, who almost literally is being put out to pasture in a small village in the west of Ireland. The question is whether there'll be any dignity attached to his being retired. (In other words, how are the villagers, and people of western civilization, going to treat older folks who seem to have slipped into becoming useless?) Darby fights for his dignity primarily by holding the attention of the townsfolk with his tall tales of the little people. For the most part, the older denizens treat Darby with patience, respect, and forebearance. However, the younger crowd &#151; including Sean Connery's character &#151; are losing patience with the story-telling traditions of the older, uneducated guardians of long-standing Western Irish culture. Additionally, in point of fact, Darby has become too old to continue as a manual laborer (the local lord's grounds keeper), and is being offered shelter and a pension for the rest of his days. But, for him, that's not enough; his dignity can not be allowed to be diminished one wee bit &#151; as it will if he is so openly retired forcibly.This is where the brilliance of the movie comes in We, the audience, are allowed to see that Darby's credibility is 100% intact. Everything he says is actually true, even if he is thwarted in every attempt to prove himself to the townspeople. But, even for the townspeople, final proof of Darby's integrity, in the form of love for his only daughter, is ultimately provided &#151; even if in a less than ostensibly noble fashion. (Darby's grief for his apparently dying daughter will be displayed in painfully public fashion, but not exactly for the reason that the townspeople think.) Darby O'Gill's timeless message is how we, the adults now in charge in society, are going to treat the older generation. Shall we practice forebearance, respect, and patience due to those who, though their minds might be rambling a bit, are every bit worthy of our forebearance, respect, and patience? In light of the current demographics of our time, that seems a pretty timely social question. "},{"Title":"Old geezer and half pints romp in fantasy land","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Good special effects and a lively story kept this movie kicking right along. I liked the mischievous, drunken, but kindly old fairy king the best. What a scalawag! He and the boozy old caretaker were a riot with their give and take verbal pokes at one another. And the Death Coach....creepy! This would be a good one for the kids to see.  "},{"Title":"A sheer delight","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For me this is one Disney's best and perhaps one of the more underrated live-action classics. It is a film that makes me smile and happy every time I see it. The special effects are marvellous and hold up surprisingly well today, for me only the banshee is a disappointment, but compared to the rest that's relative. The scenery is absolutely lovely and captured by some splendid cinematography, and the music is always delightful and catchy in how it sticks in your head, and I mean this in a good way. There is also a sweet and imaginative story and witty and charming dialogue. The acting is great, Albert Sharpe is wonderful and Janet Munro is good value. Sean Connery, before the time of James Bond, is dashing and likable, his singing is not great as such but I also don't mind it. In conclusion, this little film is a sheer delight. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wonderful piece of Disney whimsy with the charming Albert Sharpe","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Darby O'Gill (Albert Sharpe) seems to be as full of blarney as any old codger in Ireland, but the stories of leprechauns he tells at the pub are true. In fact, he and the tiny King Brian (Jimmy O'Dea), ruler of the little people, are friendly adversaries, continually out-foxing each other. Darby needs a bit of magical help from the wily king when Lord Fitzpatrick (Walter Fitzgerald) replaces him as caretaker with the handsome, strapping young Michael (Sean Connery) from Dublin. Michael falls in love with Darby's beautiful daughter, Katie (Janet Munro), which is all right with Darby; but the lad has a rival in a local ruffian (Kieron Moore), the son of a devious widow (Estelle Winwood) who wants her boy to be the caretaker. King Brian's supernatural assistance is necessary to make everything come out all right, but the sneaky leprechaun won't play matchmaker without a fight. Finally, real trouble comes in the form of the Banshee, and Darby will need all his quick wits to save his daughter from the wicked spirit.This wonderful piece of whimsy from Walt Disney is brightened by marvelous special effects and supreme film making craftsmanship, helmed by Robert Stevenson, whose name is on most of the best live-action films from the Disney Studios. In his films, major technical challenges and small moments between actors are handled with equal deftness. Today's moviegoers will enjoy seeing Sean Connery before he was James Bond and even hearing him sing (though no one would wish his brief solo a minute longer). Of course, the real star is Albert Sharpe, who didn't make many movies, but whose thoroughly Irish charm is preserved for as long as this movie lasts. "},{"Title":"An understated title from a golden age of Walt Disney","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in nearly 15 years, and I remembered only the terrifying banshee scaring the hell out of me as a child. So now that I'm 25, I felt like I could overcome my childhood fears and finally give it another go.Watching it now, I realise that this is purely Walt Disney at his best. The special effects wowed me beyond anything I've seen in the last few years (and this came out in 1959). These guys were geniuses. Nowadays when you see effects, you can tell almost immediately they're computer graphics. But with Darby O'Gill, and anything predating the mid 80s, you had to guess how they did these effects. They look brilliant and there's NO computers whatsoever.The story is quite good as are the actors, including Sean Connery in his first movie role ever.Darby O'Gill is now among my favourite films of all time due to those two things above and the joy that I had watching it all these years later. "},{"Title":"Disney's Ode to Ireland","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Before he was Bond...James Bond, Sean Connery was in this tale of a little Irish village and its simple inhabitants. Darby O'Gill (Albert Sharpe) loves to tell stories of leprechauns and such, so when he finally catches of the king of 'em all, no one believes him. He is also being ousted out of his job as caretaker and gardener of the village and being replaced by Sean. He is waiting to tell his daughter, played by Janet Munro, at the right time. Then there's Pony Segrue (Keiron Moore) who likes her, but she doesn't like him. Enter Sean. Enough said.All these details make for the plot, but the true star is Ireland itself, with all the magic, folklore, and leprechauns that go with it. Jimmy O'Dea plays a memorable King of the Leprachauns who is kidnapped. This may be a bit frightening for little kids as there is the presence of the banshee and the death coach near the end.But if you want a good Irish movie for St. Patrick's Day viewing, forget all those corny over-the-top 30s and 40s MGM movies about Irish cops and watch the only film truly dedicated to and worthy of the heart of an Irishman. Disney does it best with'Darby O'Gill and the little people. "},{"Title":"Classic Disney Class","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I find it hard to believe you can't always find this movie running on St. Patty's Day! I finally bought it on DVD and can't believe how many people have not seen this flick. Sean Connery is so young and the scenery, songs and effects are so good for the time it still makes me smile and laugh out loud. Of course the characters are classic Disney and the lessons are as relevant and timeless as this movie. We're already planning a screening as part of the St. Patrick's Day events. I really want to watch it tonight, but I'll wait. I'm just about 58 years old now and I'll watch this flick every year as long as I can. Top O the Day to you now!!! "}{"Title":"Shimmering Irish Fantasy","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In old Ireland, grandfatherly Albert Sharpe (as Darby O'Gill) is going to be replaced as castle caretaker, due to his advancing years. Instead of keeping the castle grounds tidy, Mr. Sharpe tells pub tales about his encounter with the little people. Lord of the manor Walter Fitzgerald arrives from Dublin with young and sexy Sean Connery (as Michael McBride), to replace his retiring handyman. While Mr. Connery exchanges come-hither looks with Sharpe's pretty young daughter, Janet Munro (as Katie O'Gill), the old man plots to receive his three wishes from Leprechaun king Jimmy O'Dea (as Brian Connors).While Walt Disney's animated films consistently looked state-of-the-art, some of his studio's 1950s live action features looked a bit cheap - not so with Darby O'Gill and the Little People. The Special Photographic Effects by Peter Ellenshaw and Eustace Lycett and Animation Effects by Joshua Meador are excellent. Director Robert Stevenson and Technicolor photographer Winton C. Hoch compliment their efforts. Witchy Estelle Winwood (as Sheelah Sugrue) and no-good son Kieron Moore (as Pony) offer fine support. The story doesn't know whether to be glossy children's fare, or dark fantasy. With its emphasis on the latter, the last act is especially memorable. The Banshee and death coach aren't too original, but they are very nicely done.******* Darby O'Gill and the Little People (6/24/59) Robert Stevenson ~ Albert Sharpe, Janet Munro, Sean Connery, Jimmy O'Dea "},{"Title":"I'm feeling lucky with this film!!!!!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disney's second 1959 movie (one of three), Darby O'Gill and the Little People, takes place in Ireland, and has many stars, including a very young and brown-haired Sean Connery (before he was 007; before he hated Alex Trebek!!!!! LOL).What I like about this film 3 reasons1. It's lucky. In a film that takes place in Ireland, what else could you possibly expect?2. It's Disney. Their films were always great at the time.3. It's fantastic!!!!!So find yourself a four-leaf clover and feel lucky all over with Darby O'Gill and the Little People! Should the DVD go out of print soon, and most stores don't have it, then finding it is like finding a four-leaf clover!!!!! LOL10/10 "},{"Title":"Magical Irish fun with leprechauns and an endearing yarn spinner","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie several decades ago when I was a child myself, but for me to have remembered it so fondly all these years, it must have been a great movie. My parents watched it with me and also thoroughly enjoyed this tale with its lovely little romance, so it's not merely a story for kids. It paints an enchanting picture of village life on the Emerald Isle back in the 1920's, complete with both fairy folk and very endearing human characters, all of course speaking with magnificent Irish brogues.The Irish Darby O'Gill lives in County Kerry where he serves as caretaker for Lord Fitzpatrick, the lord of the manor. At the village pub he frequently weaves his tall tales of leprechauns and banshees, and the disbelieving villagers humour him by listening. However, one day Darby does indeed capture the king of the little folk and discovers the legendary pot of gold. Of course none of his fellow villagers take his claims seriously. The battle of wills that ensues between Darby and the lovable but crafty leprechaun King Brian is the heart of the story, as each tries to outsmart the other. Meanwhile, Darby also has a beautiful daughter, Katie O'Gill, who has two suitors vying for her affections, Michael McGill and Pony Sugrue. Michael is himself the new replacement for the aging Darby's caretaker job.There are some creepy scenes of the banshee and the death carriage with its headless driver, but overall this movie is just plain magical fun. All the idealized features of Irish village life back then are present here...the thatched cottages, village priest, and local pub. The movie has wonderful special effects for its era, totally convincing me that there are indeed leprechauns! It also boasts lovely green Irish scenery and lively fiddle tunes.While I don't specifically remember the actors, the two main likable but dueling characters, Darby and King Brian, are both very convincingly portrayed. I was surprised to note here that a young Sean Connery plays Katie's suitor, Michael McGill, and even sings in this picture. This actor is one of my favourites and simply grows more appealing with age, but I'd love to watch him again back in this early role before James Bond. This movie is surely one of Disney's best and would make great St. Patrick's Day entertainment. It's pure whimsical fun, indeed right up there with Mary Poppins, and alas, such as they don't make any more. There's no movie I'd recommend more than this Irish fantasy for charming and highly entertaining family viewing. I smile myself just thinking about this tale that captured so magically for me all that Irish folklore back during my own childhood. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorites","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie every St. Patrick's Day when I was a kid. Even now I still love this movie. The plot has always fascinated me. It is about an elderly man obsessed with capturing a leprechaun. This is a very good film for the whole family. It was even better for me when got a little older and started watching The Hunt for Red October and the early James Bond films knowing that Sean Connery was in one of my favorite Disney movies. This movie is definitely worth paying a few bucks to see this movie with your kids. It is a continuous tradition. Your children will be able to show this to their children and talk about how they had so much fun watching it with their parents. It is a movie from when Disney was good. "},{"Title":"Evokes the Irish spirit in my blood","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Disney brought us this very fun Irish tale that I've been watching my whole life. Darby (Albert Sharp) is an aging caretaker who tells many tales of the little people. Michael McBride (Sean Connery) is his replacement who falls for Darby's daughter Katie (Janet Munro). Most people of the town don't quite believe Darby's tales he tells in the pub, though many humor him out of respect. And when he catches King Brian (Jimmy O'Dea), the head leprechaun, no one believes him. I really enjoy everything about this movie. It has some nice songs, including a bit by Sean Connery. As fun as it is, it does have a couple dark parts that could be scary for young children. Though I was able to appreciate it them, even as a wee lad me self. Though this is an American film, it definitely evokes the Irish spirit in my blood. "},{"Title":"Best example of Sean Connery's singing voice!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  He also sang in the shower in the movie 'The Rock' but he didn't have his heart in it. If anyone has a used copy of this movie for sale, I'd appreciate an e-mail. It is very hard to find good used copies of this movie anywhere in Canada. Disney has no plans to re-release in the near future.  "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to check this one out if only to see Sean Connery pre-James Bond. And he sings(not badly), too!  Special effects are quite good considering this is a 1959 film and the spooky elements are also very effective.  For a movie you probably never heard of, this is going to be better entertainment than 90% of the disposable trash that's put out today. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although Sean Connery's accent wavers a little at times, I feel this is an excellent film for the younger viewer. For it's day the mixing of formats was very good. The sooner it is launched on DVD the better. i know that I will buy it upon it's release - and many of you should too.  "},{"Title":"Charming Disney Fantasy","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" An extremely charming fantasy from Disney with accents straight out of an Irish Spring commercial. Darby O'Gill, teller of tall tales, captures the king of the leprechauns and hopes to get his pot'o'gold. The cast of character actors are a delight to watch -- Albert Sharpe as Darby, Jimmy O'Dea as the leprechaun, Estelle Winwood, Kieron Moore, Walter Fitzgerald and Denis O'Dea. Sean Connery and Janet Munro (The Crawling Eye) are the romantic leads. The ending, complete with scary banshees and a death coach, approaches the death of Bambi's mother on the childhood-traumameter, and will possibly leave adults and kids alike teary-eyed. "},{"Title":"Still fun after all these years","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this film as a child, and I still enjoy it at age 40.  Whenever I'm reminiscing with anyone else who saw it as a youth, (as I'm noticing on this message board)--the death coach and banshee scenes always stand out!  I remember the theatre having seats that partially reclined back, and then jumping back in our seats when the banshee revealed itself at the door!  I was also creeped out by the horse that led Darby to the well at Knocknasheega; what a great scene!  Definitely worth seeing, however, I'd hate to see a remake butcher this film like somebody did with Psycho and Flubber--Sorry, but you just can't remake the classics. "}{"Title":"Outstanding FX Fantasy","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Glad to see so many people here who love 'Darby'. i've grown up with this incredible film and it always seemed like nobody else had ever heard of it. it certainly requires more attention than it's got in the past because it's just great.when i was a little kid i saw this film in the theater back in 1970 or so, and it scared the hell out of me. the shock cut of the banshee coming through the door still makes me jump if i'm not alert. this is by far Disney's scariest movie. probably the only film that Walt himself made that could be called a horror film. it's definitely as scary as any of the 'Hammer' horror flicks of the 50's and 60's.film critic Leonard Maltin called this one of the finest fantasy films ever made. he couldn't be more right. and yes, that is obviously Connery and Munro doing their own singing. "},{"Title":"A delightful vintage Walt Disney film","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1959, Darby O'Gill and the Little People, A legendary Irish fairy tale dealing with a poor old man needing money for his daughter and then leprechauns become involved with magical pot's of gold with flying horses.*Special Stars- Sean Connery plays the handsome male lead.*Theme- The world is full of wonder and magic.*Based on- Irish legends with leprechauns.*Trivia/location/goofs- A Disney film with a young heavy eyebrow ed full head of hair Connery. Be sure to watch this Disney film (that brought Connery to American Hollywood for the first time) to see and hear Mr. Connery sing, My Fine Irish Lass'.*Emotion- A delightful vintage Walt Disney film including magic, songs and fun from the Irish legends portrayed by a great UK cast. Very much worth seeing. "},{"Title":"An Irish storyteller captivates his town with his fantastical stories. Then he finds himself in the middle of one of his favorite stories -- he captures the Leprechaun King!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Oh, I loved this movie! I love the King turning into a rabbit, and I love all the little men!! This is truly a classic!! I loved the fiddles. I both loved and hated the Banshee. I used to have the worst nightmares about that Banshee. My brothers used to hide in my closet and scream like that in the middle of the night, and I would freak out!Definitely not a movie if you're into wonderful special effects, but if you're looking for a hilarious, fantastical movie this is the one to see! Does anyone know where I can get a copy of this movie? I have looked in all of our local movie stores and can't find it. "},{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have to admit that I watched this (in re-runs) as a child. It was one of my favorite movies growing up. I just saw it again on cable and could not believe it.......crazy how these type of movies are still worth watching. I actually decided to record it on my DVR so I could see if my kids have any reaction to it (good or bad). Just goes to show there was a time when movies actually made a positive impact on children's lives. Everything I have seen in the last 30 yrs has not stuck with me like movies from this era. Anyway, if you want a good movie night with your kids (without having to worry about some scene popping up that is just NOT cool)......run with this film and it should be at least a good time.Cheers, "},{"Title":"surprised at how awesome it was","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well, I was surprised. An old Disney film didn't fill me with confidence but I absolutely adored this one. I've always been a huge fan of fairy tales, and this film was about as authentically fairy tale as you can get.For the time it was made the special effects were amazing. I doubt they could create a better bannsidhe with CGI, even if it was only a simple camera trick. Having an entire horde of foot high leprechauns running around and interacting with full sized people... incredible (again, for the time).The story was great. Lovable characters, particularly Darby O'Gill himself who was a great eccentric old man. Having the guts to poke a bit of fun at the church with the manipulative priest who guilt-trips everyone to get his way was yet another surprising level to this film. I can't believe this film was made and I can't wait to see another one this good.I hate romance in films, but the flirting and playing coy scenes between Katie and Michael were really enjoyable. I liked the ending as well, (spoiler), it was great for king Brian to get the last laugh and see Darby get everything that he really wanted without even needing a single wish. There was a point where I thought they wouldn't be able to get a good ending out of it, but it proved me wrong.The only downside to the film was Katie suffering from the classic sixties illness I'm at risk of death because I'm a woman who went out in wet weather, but that was excusable. Okay, the only downside apart from Sean Connery trying to sing. Wonderful actor, but I'm glad he didn't join a band.Really fun movie. Anyone who can stand watching older films (and surprisingly few people can) should love it. "},{"Title":"True Disney Magic! One of Walt's best!","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disney created cinematic wonders on his back lot in Burbank, California. Even the church steeple is matted in! So are the mountains, lush meadows, and most buildings and backgrounds. Note the traveling matte with ominous rainclouds at the climax. It's not really there, just like the seaside of Pete's Dragon! Disney magic all-around, utilizing the ahead-of-it's-time sodium bromide yellow screen process, invented by special effects genius Ub Iwerks. This required so much light it caused a true power black-out, in the City of Burbank, while filming the Hall of the Leprechaun King sequence. Truly enchanting with Sean Connery (Michael) and Albert Sharpe (Darby). More amazing special effects such as Cleopatra the horse, the Death Coach and the Banshee. Maybe too scary for real little kids but minor Disneyfied fisticuffs. The use of split screen and over-sized props make the leprechauns look absolutely real! May be too long for the youngsters, but a beautiful blend of charm, magic, music, and fantasy with a very engaging cast. You may have seen it in black and white on TV as a child, but you must see it in Technicolor. It's dazzling! I also recommend the often overlooked The Three Lives of Tomasina, also Disney color and live action, about a mysterious cat that may be magical as well. "},{"Title":"Darby O'Gill of Little Interest","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Old man Darby meets leprechauns but the townspeople think that he's just a drunken fool. The scenery is nice but the story is unfocused and only marginally interesting for the most part, eventually becoming supernatural and illogical, with some scenes that may be too scary for youngsters, who presumably are the target audience for this hokum. One of the biggest problems is that there are no subtitles! For those without Irish ears, most of the thickly-accented dialog spoken by Sharpe, as Darby, and Winwood, as a conniving old woman, is incomprehensible. It is nice to see Connery in one of his earliest roles (he sings!) and Munro is lovely. "},{"Title":"Well, Top o' he Mornin' to all of You Irismen ; be You Honorary or Otherwise!  Today's St. Patrick's Day Special is Disney's DARBY O'GILL & THE LITTLE PEOPLE!","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When we think of a film about Ireland and its people, culture and the masterful use of the English language, which is so widely displayed there; we most often think of mostly the same list of films. Starting off with John Ford's THE QUIET MAN (Argosy Productions/Republic, 1952); with John Wayne, Maureen O'Hara, Victor McLaglen. Barry Fitzgerald and an All-Star cast. It's a film which always seems to head everyone's lists; but, we progress into some much grimmer and far more serious of a fare.AND by grimmer and more serious we mean the Irish Revolution, the April Rising and the I.R.A. or Irish Republican Army (no Schultz, not Individual Retirement Account).The first film that comes to mind is another John Ford Masterpiece in THE INFORMER (RKO Radio Pictures, 1935). This was the second adaptation of the novel by Liam O'Flaherty and it starred Victor McLaglen, who garnered Oscar for Best Performance by an Actor for his interpretation of dimwitted giant, Gypo Nolan.Other pictures featuring stories of the Irish Struggle include ODD MAN OUT (Two Cities Films/General Film Distributions (UK) & Universal Pictures (USA), 1947) with James Mason; SHAKE HANDS WITH THE DEVIL (Pennebaker Prod./ Troy Films/United Artists, 1959) with Mr. Jimmy Cagney (Himself!); and the more recent MICHAEL COLLINS (Geffen Pictures/Warner Brothers, 1996) with Liam Neeson and Julia Roberts.(FLASH!! NEWS BULLETIN We have just got ourselves educated into knowing there are tons more titles involving the Irish Revolt and the I.R.A.; but that's another story, Schultz!) In a real change of moods and genre, we have Walt Disney's DARBY O'GILL AND THE LITTLE PEOPLE (Walt Disney Prod./Buena Vista, 1959). It is a whimsical fantasy based on a series of stories one H.T. Kavanaugh about an old braggart, Darby O'Gill (Albert Sharpe), who claims to have been in contact with the Leprechauns; including having been abducted by them and had audience with their King Brian (Jimmy O'Dea). These fantastic encounters are very well staged and, considering that this was 1959, the Special Effects are outstanding. This was long, long before computer imagery; and at this time a Univac Computer would be probably be as big as half of your house and require enough Air Conditioning for you and all the neighbors on your block! The cast was excellent and featured a lot of Irish Actors from the Abbey Theatre Players in Dublin and one young Scotsman Actor and former Mr. Universe Physique Competitor named Sean Connery in a Pre-007 role. The fine Irish players included Denis O'Dea, Kieron Moore, J.G. Devlin and Jack McGowran*. Brits Janet Munro, Estelle Winwood, Walter Fitzgerald and Reginald Newell.The story, which alternates some serious day-to-day life in rural Ireland and the struggles of widower, father of the fairest Colleen in the whole County (Miss Janet Munro) and game keeper (I think) for some Lord's Huge Estate; with the excellent depictions of Darby's outlandish, tall tales. And those episodes featuring the Leprechauns and Darby are skillfully constructed so as to always to be at a time when Mr. O'Gill was by himself. Hence, the viewer is left to decide if all of this dealing with the Little People was real, or did it occur within the bounds of Darby's highly fertile imagination. It could work well either way.MUCH like all other Disney Pictures' Features, be they Animated or Live Action, DARBY O'GILL AND THE LITTLE PEOPLE had some very scary, even terrifying scenes to contrast to the peaceful, humorous and idyllic storyline that is established throughout the rest of the film.** In this case the spooky sequences are provided with those scenes featuring an animated, yet most effectively disturbing Banshee and the use of that traditional Irish black shrouded Carriage that is said to take the Deceased off to Eternity and his Reward or whatever.NOTE * Irish Actor, Jack McGowran was trained on the Stage of the Abbey Theatre in Dublin and came to international recognition and renown with his role of Red Will Danaher's (Victor McLaglen) stooge, Feeney, in THE QUIET MAN.NOTE ** This use of some brief scaring of the audiences is virtually a Disney hallmark. Just look up and down any list of Disney Films to see; for example BAMBI (his Mother killed by Hunters), SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS (the wicked Witches transformation), DUMBO (his Mother's being shackled and caged), LADY AND THE TRAMP (Trusty run down by Horse Drawn Wagon), THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW (that Headless Horseman sequence) and many others. Check 'em out! That's your assignment for our next session. "},{"Title":"A Kids Fantasy Film without any Kids","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Here is a rare film indeed. A kid oriented fantasy movie without any kids in it. How often due you see that? It is a fun movie for many reasons.1. It takes place in Ireland. 2. It has witty and interesting dialog. It is interesting and fun to watch old-man Darby match wits with the King of the Leprechauns. They each continue to try and outwit the other. 3. It has a pre-bond Sean Connery. 4. It has really good extras on the DVD. It has a 'World of Disney' episode with some added adventures of Darby and the Leprechaun king. Walt Disney is searching for the Leprechaun so he can star in his movie. You learn some more of the myth of the Leprechaun which is Christian in origin. 5. It's a good and fun fantasy film.The only drawback is the on screen depiction of the banshee. Its some lights and vapors. Not really convincing. But this little wisp of pre-computer effects doesn't dampen the great special effects that bring the Leprechaun's to life.This magical movie deserves a place in your video library next to Disney's 'The Gnome Mobile.' Maybe you can pick up the book published by Sophia Press and add it to you library and read it to your kids or to yourself. You can then go and search for Leprechauns on your own. I plan on doing that so I can pay off my student loans. "},{"Title":"Enchanting, But Dated, and A Bit Scary For The Tots","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A wonderfully enchanting live-action Disney fantasy with (oddly enough) some strong horror elements.This is a lovely fantasy featuring, among other well-known at the time thespians, Janet Murro and Sean Connery. The cast is peopled almost entirely of Irish-born talent, lending a certain sense of reality to this charming faerie-tale which would otherwise have been absent.The sets and scenery are really quite lovely, as is the story itself, the music, the atmosphere, the cast, and the finished product. This movie was fine example of premium vintage Disney live entertainment. The cinematography was strong, with lovely shots of the tor and the countryside. The sound effects were realistic as were the visual effects; haunting and darkly beautiful.The horror elements mentioned include, among other things, the family banshee (all of the best of Irish clans had their own, you see), the Celtic Grim Reaper, a Pookha (click My name above and read My review of Harvey starring Jimmy Stewart for more on Pookhas), a village witch (not a nice one), and of course, the Leprechauns. This is one of the best of the old classics, and while it is enchanting just as it is, I would love to see it receive a good modernized CGI treatment. I mean why not? They're emptying out the vaults and remaking everything else. This one is far more deserving than most. This movie was great fun, and is an excellent addition to any Disney collection of an older child (There is more than a lot of alcohol use and a nice bar-room brawl featuring Sean Connery's character, which may be a bit too intense and/or disturbing for younger children). This was a fantastic movie which is now dated and warrants a modern remake.It also belongs in any fantasy collection or horror collection. I fully enjoyed this effort as a child, and found that it still bears the ability to enchant.It gets an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"D'you expect me to talk, Goldfinger, or d'you expect this movie to stereotype the Irish?","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In this day and age, it's no doubt a real shock for us to learn that Sean Connery once starred in a Disney movie...and even sang! As Darby O'Gill and the Little People is a Disney movie set in Ireland, we have to admit that it basically makes a series of stereotypes about the Emerald Isle - namely all the leprechaun stuff - and can probably only appeal to little children. My favorite parts were actually the scenes of the Banshee; Darby really could have used the Ghostbusters there.So, if we can understand what the movie's portraying, maybe we can appreciate it. But given the ever-present situation in Northern Ireland, it just seems inappropriate to happily depict that island as a bunch of jolly leprechauns. As for the wee people themselves, my two favorite representations of them were the Porky Pig cartoon Wearing of the Grin and the horror movie Leprechaun (starring Jennifer Aniston).I know, you probably find it a little weird that I reviewed a Disney movie and mentioned stereotypes, the Ghostbusters, England's continued occupation of Northern Ireland, Porky Pig and Jennifer Aniston. Sorry folks, but the 21st century judges all previous history. Therefore, I judge DOATLP based on what I know about, and based on what has happened since the movie's release.Yeah, when this movie came out, who would have guessed that the young man would go on to play a hunky British agent who goes around bedding the world's hottest babes? And what if someone extended the last name to O'Gilligan? Now that would make some three-hour tour! "}]