[{"Title":"A classic of the bad sci-fi genre","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"196 out of 209 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best of the worst films of all time. When viewed with the right mindset it never fails to entertain. Poor production values, terrible acting, worse directing, and dialog that has to be heard to be believed, combine to create a cinematic gem.When speaking of bad movies, it is important to understand what is meant by bad. There is good bad, and there is bad bad. Bad bad is a movie that combines all the elements listed above--bad acting, bad directing, etc.--to produce something that bores. Good bad combines the same elements in such a way that a highly entertaining movie is made, although not in the way the movie makers hope.Plan 9 is not just good bad, it is brilliant bad. It is unintentionally hilarious, and that's as funny as it gets. This is a movie that has absolutely no redeeming qualities. Everything about it is bad. When George Romero made Night of the Living Dead he did it on the cheap, but still produced a film that was intense, scary, and had a point. Plan 9 is nothing but bad, albeit in a wonderful way.As an example of bad production values, there is a scene where a police car is speeding away from headquarters. As the action begins it is broad daylight. The next scene is the car racing across the city. Now, however, it is night! Next is the car arriving at its destination, a cemetery, and again it is daylight. That is either one huge city, or somebody on the Plan 9 crew was asleep at the switch.Plan 9 is so full of great badness that to detail all the goofs, flubs, and cheesiness would require remaking the entire movie. The cemetery is a weed-infested lot; an airline cockpit set is a shower curtain, some plywood and a couple chairs; a cop scratches his head with the business end of a gun barrel; the outside of the space ship has a ladder that goes nowhere; the plan itself, that is, plan number 9, makes no sense at all. And on and on and on...If you love movies, and want to consider yourself conversant in all genres of film, seeing at least one bad sci-fi movie is a must. Plan 9 is the Hamlet of that genre. See it with a couple people who get it, and have a great time. "},{"Title":"The worst, and therefore one of the best, movies of all time","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"228 out of 273 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Poor poor Plan 9 So bad people just watch it to laugh about how bad it is, yet this fundamental flaw pushes it above bad movies, and so it's stuck in between the bottom 100, and well, no where near the top 250...Anyway, back to the movie. It is as bad as you've no doubt heard. The scene changes from night to day to night, the spaceship is a hubcap (you can see the string it hangs from catch on fire at one point), I could do a better job acting, etc. ad nauseum. But it takes a hell of a lot to be almost universally considered the worst movie of all time, and here is Plan 9's true strength. There are many horrible of movies, but most of them are so bad because they are too bad to be truly bad, and therefore sink into mediocrity. Plan 9, however, has no redeeming quality's, and so it stands out. Few will recognise a movie such as The Medallion, but every movie-goer knows Plan 9.As I said before, it takes a hell of a lot to be the worst. Because of this, Plan 9 is some of the most fun you'll EVER have watching a movie. Almost every scene is so bad I broke out laughing. Few other movies achieve that kind of humor, whether intentional or not. For that I give it a very intentional 10/10. "},{"Title":"Aspiring film makers take note","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"191 out of 227 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone that wants to make movies, Plan 9 is a must see. Not for it's lush style, great dialogue, fabulous production design, nor for the compelling performances given by the players. It doesn't have any of that. What it does have though, is poor production design, continuity gaps you can drive a space shuttle through, and writing that's so bad, it's amazing anyone had the nerve to show it. That is what makes it a must see.Ed Wood, Jr. was not talented, but he was determined. He did something that many extremely talented people have not done. He got it released. He wrote it, produced it and directed it. When his star, Bela Lugosi,  died during filming, he still finished it. Not just this one either, he put out several films, and not one of them is any good.So for all of you aspiring Scorseses or Spielbergs, when the world gets you down, and you just don't know how you can get it done, when you feel like you've lost it, pop in Plan 9. I bet you'll feel better. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Inept But Quite Watchable","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"150 out of 161 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it thoroughly deserves its reputation as a film only worth seeing so that you can enjoy its remarkably amateurish production, on the other hand it seems a bit unfair to label Plan 9 From Outer Space as the worst film ever made.  Most of it is quite watchable, it's not at all offensive, and the story - utterly ridiculous as it is - moves fairly quickly, and gives you some reasons to stick around to the end.  Those qualities put it well ahead of a great many movies that cost a lot more to make and that involved many more recognizable names than you'll find in this cast.To be sure, almost everything about it is of amazingly poor quality, from the incompetent directing and acting to the slipshod special effects to the dialogue that produces countless unintentional laughs.  The story is goofy, and uses ideas and devices that lack credibility even by sci-fi standards. Everyone who watches it has their own list of favorite examples of this film's complete ineptitude.If you have any interest in old movies, you should see this if you have the chance, as long as you can do so without paying for the privilege.  It says something that so many viewers are still talking about it over 40 years after it was made, which is a lot more than will ever be said about most of the movies you could see in a theater today.  Whether you will ever want to watch it again is an entirely different question, although there are those who have managed to enjoy watching this several times.  Take a look for yourself and see what you think about this classic example of inept film-making.  "},{"Title":"A film to be taught","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"111 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, how could a film that has brought so much enjoyment to so many people be called the worst film ever made? I have seen major Hollywood products with major Hollywood stars and some of these films are impossible to sit through even once. Dick Tracy comes to mind, as does Caligula. The very first time I saw Plan 9 in a NYC revival house, just hearing Tor Johnson's struggle with English pronunciation and watching him wriggle out of the ground was worth the price of admission! It was probably the hardest I'd laughed in a movie theatre in many years. I don't know what kind of movie the actor who plays Eros thinks he's in, but he seems to be having a lot of fun. We all know that the comedy of the film was unintentional, then why do we laugh? We laugh because Mr. Wood does everything conceivable to mask his non-budget to give the illusion of a grand sci-fi-horror epic. And he does it with such unabashed gracelessness with so little concern for time continuity or any other kind of logic, that we laugh at just how absurd the medium of film can become, if used in incompetent hands. Ed Wood gives new meaning to the word schlock. The cinematic legacy he has left to enjoy should be called pop-schlock. If the point of the film is to ultimately entertain, this is one of the best films of all time, not the worst. "},{"Title":"Deliciously inept - fantastic for those lonely nights","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"109 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say! This is not a 1 or a 10 movie... and neither it deserves any grade in between. It's simply a guilty pleasure for me... watching the absurd sights... listening to the amazingly inept dialogue, worthy of George Lucas' Episode II (maybe it's a bit better ;), watching Bela Lugosi freeze for a couple of frames, then being replaced by someone else...No, it's not the worst film ever made. No, it's not the best one, either. It is the testament of someone who wanted to leave his mark, made an honest effort to deliver the goods (Ed Wood, of course), and instead delivered a strange mix that works because it makes us perfectly identified with him. As in if I made a movie, I'd surely make one as bad / good / unintentionally funny as this one.Yep. Ed Wood is one of us. Long live Plan 9 and his misunderstood director. "},{"Title":"Mad Genius or just Mad?","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"94 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 was made during the hysteria of Macarthyism. For this reason, there was a myriad of invisible invaders movies that permeated the landscape at the time Wood created this movie. While the script is flawed, the storyline one-dimensional, the special effects non-existent, stock footage galore, and the acting as cardboard as they come, this movie blends these aspects together in spectacular fashion. Had this movie had Tim Burton or the Zucker brothers names attached, and been released 20 or more years later, this movie might be considered one of the greatest spoofs ever made. There is so much to get caught up in, and so many different things to hit the rewind button for, that it may take upwards of 2 hours to get through this short film. This film is bad, but it could be argued that this film was created to be bad! From cut shots that move from midnight to midday and back again, to mattresses readily apparent as fall-aways, to the ever-popularly sighted man in the cape covering his face from the camera, this film has more Easter Eggs in it to search for than Oliver Stone has conspiracies.We sometimes forget that films are created to be enjoyable. We don't always need to have to ponder the meaning of existence after every feature. This is a film from within the era is seeks to mock. Every cliché is used. It's not quite a horror film, and yet holds some of the well-worn clichés of the genre. Same for the Sci-Fi genre. This is a film that rises above it's own limitations to entrench itself upon the cinematic landscape it seeks to make fun of. Remember, this is Ed Wood's idea of the greatest film he could create.This film has to be listed among mandatory viewing for anyone aspiring to work with the industry, as it is a mockery of both the big budget as well as the independent spirit.This is one film you will not soon forget, and for all the right reasons. Is it right to be so wrong? Or is it wrong to be so right? Is this film a great parody? A masterpiece of a spoof? Or was it genuinely trying to be as good as it possibly could? This is all up to debate. The fact remains, your time viewing this film will seldom be thought of as a supreme waste.A masterpiece? Maybe. The worst film of all time? Absolutely not. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of All Time? Maybe, maybe not...","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"78 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Often considered the worst movie of all time, Plan 9 From Outer Space does boast tombstones that are made of cardboard and tip over during the movie, it does feature one shot of Bella Legosi that is reused over and over and over, it does show a cop scratching an itch on his head with his gun, and stars a Swedish wrestler as a California cop, but it is not the worst movie of all time because the story is not that awful. The first 8 plans by aliens from some planet that doesn't really matter fail, so they employ their ninth plan for taking over Earth. At least I think they are taking over Earth, they say they are taking over Earth to save the Earthlings. All I know about the aliens is that they are dedicated to their cause, you would have thought they would have given up taking over Earth after 6 tries. You will have a good chuckle during the movie with the cheesy special effects and the silly acting and cheap props, but the entertainment value does make it better than some movies out there. Maybe 2 or 3 movies, at least. For more on the background to this movie and why it turned out the way it did, check out the 1994 film Ed Wood, and you will appreciate this film, at least a little more. "},{"Title":"What A Hoot!","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"68 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I need an amusing diversion, nothing helps quite like watching one of those dreadful 50's sci-fi flicks Teenagers From Outer Space, The Brain From Planet Arous, or my personal favorite The Giant Claw. Ed Wood's infamous Plan 9 ... is a good choice too. Criswell, in his sing-song voice, cracks me up every time I hear him intone Future events such as these will affect you in the future.I can forgive Plan 9... for some of its, let us say ... imperfections anthropomorphic aliens who speak English; women aliens who wear lipstick; the hammy, sophomoric acting; the dime store special effects ... But there's really no excuse for a mickey mouse script. You get the feeling that the film was put together by a quarrelsome committee of third graders, and aimed at an audience of chimpanzees.Criswell drones on  ... the secret testimony of the miserable souls who survived .... And later, a VO intones The ever beautiful flower she had planted with her own hands became nothing more than the lost roses of her cheeks. Evidently, Wood saw no need to hire a script editor. And yet, specifically because of its technical crudeness, Plan 9 ... is fun to watch. We may not want to admit it, but the film gives us viewers a chance to feel superior to Ed Wood; we get to conjecture that even we could make a film that has more credibility than ... that. "},{"Title":"This movie maybe be awful, but it's the best!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"74 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really love this movie, I have seen it so many times, spotting all the mistakes. But I love it, it entertains, it's funny. Ed Wood was a good film maker, because he made movies because he loves doing it, not because he wanted to make money. The way he made his movies was amazing, the things he went through, he was a legend. I love this movie so much it's in my DVD collection. 10/10 from me!!!! Ed Wood rules!!  "}{"Title":"Edward D. Wood, Jr. was a genius.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  IMHO, Plan 9 is a fantastic film. Sure, it's completely ridiculous, and everything is cheap and nasty with no thought for quality of set design, special effects or really anything that happens in front of the camera- but that's what makes it so special. It's the ultimate corny, silly 50's sci-fi/laughable horror movie.I watched this film after seeing Tim Burton's biographical film Ed Wood, who wrote, directed and produced Plan 9 from Outer Space. Having seen the hilarious making of Plan 9 while watching Ed Wood meant watching the real Plan 9 was immensely enjoyable, as you could pick up on all the arcane humour from Tim Burton's great film.Be sure to watch the documentary Flying Saucers over Hollywood The Plan 9 Companion which is on the Plan 9 DVD. While it probably rates as the worst documentary of all time (bad sound, bad lighting, bad jokes, and more...) it has interviews with the real Vampira and other cast and crew from Plan 9. A must for Plan 9/Ed Wood fans. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made? Not even close. One of the most fun? You bet!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First things first - anyone who calls 'Plan 9 from Outer Space' the worst movie ever made needs to watch more movies! To me the worst would be one that was dull and has no entertainment value whatsoever. 'Plan 9' is the complete opposite of dull, and is it entertaining? You bet! It's still one of the greatest beer'n'pizza and have a bunch of your pals over movies ever made. Hell, it isn't even the most inept and bizarre movie Ed Wood ever made, that would still have to be 'Glen Or Glenda', which for some strange reason still doesn't have a tenth of the cult following 'Plan 9' does. Speaking of cult, in some ways 'Plan 9' is almost THE definitive cult movie if you consider that it virtually vanished without a trace when it was first released and it still lives on because it was subsequently rediscovered by thousands of enthusiastic movie nuts, collectors, journalists, cartoonists, rock musicians (e.g. The Damned), and other film makers (Joe Dante, Sam Raimi, Tim Burton). I think 'Glen Or Glenda' is Wood's most amazing achievement myself, but I still love 'Plan 9'. I've lost track of how many times I've seen it over the years. I wouldn't go so far as to say I have it memorized or anything, but it's always in the back of my mind. It's like part of the collective pop culture unconscious that I carry around with me at all times. As much as I love Bela Lugosi I think the three main reasons this movie is truly unforgettable (apart from the obvious -  silly aliens, laughably bad dialogue and those flying saucers,etc.etc.) are Criswell, Vampira, and especially Tor Johnson. Any three of those people being involved would have made this something special, but all three! Man! This is trash heaven! It's hard to believe there's anyone left alive who hasn't already seen this movie, but if by some strange twist of fate you are one of the uninitiated, you MUST, I repeat MUST watch 'Plan 9' as soon as possible! And remember, my friends, future events such as these will effect YOU in the future! "},{"Title":"It's a plan all right&#133;A plan for perfect entertainment!!","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What are all these people moaning about? I've rarely had more fun while watching a movie as I had with Ed Wood's Plan 9 from Outer Space. Besides, most criticism goes out to the lousy scenery and the goofy decors. Well excuse Mr. Wood for not disposing over a huge budget or funds! He did what he could and sure, the jet cockpit looks amateurish and the Pentagon-offices have the image of being build by a kindergarten-crew but so what? I have a lot more respect and sympathy for this film than for those over-budgeted, uninspired blockbusters! Like in ALL of his films, Ed Wood proves that he's full of good intentions, creativity and a strong will to proceed and purchase his dreams. The only thing you can reproach him here, is the silly and pointless screenplay. Aliens are desperately seeking contact with humanity and in their ninth attempt to achieve this, they even resurrect the dead. Why?!? To make humans aware of their existence and to figure as prophets with a message. This is where the silliness comes in. But it all remains pure fun, all the time! What also makes this film legendary is the fact that it contains the last on-screen appearance by Bela Lugosi. Lugosi died during filming and another guy in a Dracula outfit who constantly hides his face behind a cape (!) replaces him. Am I the only one who thinks this subtle cast-change is absolutely charming and nicely tried? Vampiria and Tor Johnson are credited as main performances but all the have to do is stumble around and look ghoulish&#133;not a difficult thing to do if you have the posture of Tor Johnson.  Overall, Plan 9 from Outer Space remains the absolute top-recommendation to watch with a group of people when there's beer and snacks. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood masterpiece","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Clearly this is a very difficult film, judging from the multitude of critics that have failed to comprehend its intricate fabric of multi-layered symbolism and rich, evocative imagery. That Ed Wood was an authentic American genius is altogether beyond dispute; and like most geniuses, he has continued to be subjected to the rancorous attacks of tiny minds unable to grasp the sheer enormity of his conceptions. That those conceptions, so lovingly crafted and nurtured to fruition, were largely ignored by the hormone-crazed drive-in theater audiences to which they were usually consigned, might have claimed the sanity of a lesser man. But for the peerless and indomitable Wood it was always truly arse gratia artis, and it was this passionate commitment to artistic perfection that set him apart from his contemporaries. Even the inscrutable Federico Fellini was apparently so moved by Wood's work that he was reported to have cried out from his death-bed Merda! Son Morto! Certainly there can be no greater tribute than this, from one dying artist to another.Plan 9 From Outer Space is unquestionably the shining centerpiece of Wood's creative efforts. From the incisive opening comments by the impeccably urbane Criswell, we are transported into an unparalleled realm of cinematic poetry. The perpetually fog-shrouded cemetery is a metaphor for the murky depths of the human soul, while its cardboard tombstones evoke the fragility of man's earthly fame, even as the rapid transitions from day to night proclaim the transience of his earthly existence. And moving silently in the midst of this cosmic desolation, the always elegant Vampira is like the primal earth mother, gathering her wandering children to her bosom, while the brooding figure of Bela Lugosi strides endlessly to and fro, wrapped in unanswerable questions.Veteran Swedish actor Tor Johnson (fresh from a string of triumphant performances as Charles the Wrestler in the Stratford Festival production of As You Like It) is a standout in the technically demanding dual role of Inspector Daniel Clay/Fat Zombie. Who else could have injected such pathos, dignity and depth of meaning into such seemingly trivial lines as I'm a big boy now, Johnny--who but the man that (on two separate occasions) graciously declined the part of Antonius Block in The Seventh Seal, thereby effectively launching the career of his hitherto unknown countryman, Max von Sydow? And who else could have risen so magnificently from the grave as a symbol of man's eternal quest for redemption and resurrection (a theme which is carried forth in the subtle Grail connotations conjured up by the Arthurian garb of the alien leader)? However, in the end, it is Wood's acerbic wit that propels this film to true greatness. Boldly rejecting the vision of his contemporaries (born of human vanity) that superior aliens would actually wish to conquer and possess our ridiculous little planet, Wood shows us that the only aliens that would waste their time on such an unpromising venture would have to be even more ridiculous. Hence he presents us with aliens who, having presumably bungled their way through eight previous plans for world conquest, have arrived at the ninth without even grasping the difference between transitive and intransitive verbs. Their supposedly superior technology is constantly malfunctioning, most of their pilots appear to be flying while intoxicated, and they actually have to tie strings to their flying saucers so they can find their way home again. (Sadly, many unperceptive critics have dismissed these brilliant satirical touches as mere shoddy special effects.) Little wonder, then, that the ninth plan fares no better than any of its predecessors. In a burst of flame, the aliens are gone, and it is just as if they had never been. One may well imagine that the fire that consumes their spacecraft travels all the way up the string to their home planet, and incinerates the whole dreary lot of them (thus effectively bringing to pass their own worst fear). The earth continues on its sad course, seemingly impervious to Criswell's final, angst-ridden plea for divine aid, and we are left with the distinct impression that (contrary to the mindless optimism of the fifties) all may not be well, after all. "},{"Title":"Bumbling Aliens first 8 plans fail, will plan 9 succeed? &#133; I think not","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ed Wood must have been a fascinating man. He had a burning drive and ambition to succeed in the film industry, yet his creative and directorial talents were infantile.Plan 9 is his most famous film and has become a cult favourite. The film is an example of extreme amateurism which creates an assortment of unintentionally funny scenes. It's truly amazing this film managed to be funded and released to the public (then again, The Swarm was too &#133;).Within Plan 9's ridiculous and convoluted story are a number of silly subplots due to the fact that Ed had such a variety of interesting an un-related footage which he really, really wanted to use in the one film. One needs to pay close attention to understand everything that's going on in this mess (although, when you do understand everything that's going on, you may wish you'd have remained ignorant!)Plan 9 has heaps of priceless quirks hub-cap flying saucers, idiotic dialogue, the last gasp of the great Bella Lugosi, and the luscious Vampira (who apparently would have breached an existing contract if she uttered a word in Plan 9).One of the most interesting aspects of Plan 9 is the great variation in performance techniques by the actors. Some speak their lines like they know the script is idiotic while some speak their lines like they don't understand them (which is possible because some of the dialogue uttered by the bumbling aliens doesn't make any sense). But my favourite character is the airline captain played by Gregory Walcott.Greg's a real trooper and attempts to take his role very, very seriously despite the constant lunacy around him. How did he remain so professional? Did he imagine his role in Plan 9 would lead to greater things?Although Ed Wood has been voted by the US film industry as the worst director in history, he lives on as a kind of cult anti-hero. As a director then, he has achieved a level of lasting success.6/10 &#150; For fun value.  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Cult-Trash Ever","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In California, an old man (Bela Lugosi) grieves the loss of his wife (Vampira) and on the next day he also dies. However, the space soldier Eros (Dudley Manlove) and her mate Tanna (Joanna Lee) use an electric device to resurrect them both and the strong Inspector Clay (Tor Johnson) that was murdered by the couple. Their intention is not to conquest Earth but to top mankind from developing the powerful bomb Solobonite that would threaten the universe. When the population of Hollywood and Washington DC sees flying saucers on the sky, a colonel, a police lieutenant, a commercial pilot, his wife and a policeman try to stop the aliens.I belong to a generation that worships the Japanese National Kid, my hero when I was six years old. Therefore, I was raised watching trash movies (LOL). Plan 9 from Outer Space is the masterpiece of Edward D. Wood Jr., a.k.a. Ed Wood, a man without talent that loved cinema.Plan 9 from Outer Space is totally lame the screenplay is messy, with characters that do not have any development; the lines are awfully silly and stupid; there is an absolute lack of continuity, and sometimes the shot begins in the night, the next scene is in the sunlight and then it is night again. The scenarios are very poor and it is funny to see crosses shaking in the cemetery and other errors. But the performances are the funniest part of this film, with unbelievable ham actors and actresses. In one of the last scenes, it is hilarious to see the Colonel Tom Edwards (Tom Keen) with hands on the pocket; the police Lieutenant Harper (Duke Moore) with a gun on his hand; Paula and Jeff Trent embracing each other and the policeman with a stupid face watching the flying saucer burning on the sky. Ed Wood did not have producers or sponsors so his budget was extremely low. Therefore he could not afford to lose any shot and he used footages from the studios, like for example the sequence when the three flying sources are bombed by the army. Another example is the footages of Bela Lugosi, who was drug-addicted, forgotten and poor in 1956, and died three days after the beginning of the filming of Plan 9 from Outer Space. Ed Wood used a substitute actor that partially covers his face with a cloak since he was not alike Bela Lugosi. I do not recall how many times and the dates when I had seen this film, but yesterday I saw it again on DVD. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Plano 9 do Espaço Sideral (Plan 9 from Outer Space) "},{"Title":"The worst SF film ever made","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I give it full rate of points due to unvilling comedy apperance. It is so bad made that it will stand forever as an example. STRANGE that it is worth to see just for that reason but it is. "},{"Title":"Yes, It's Terrible, But Not As Bad As I Had Hoped!","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, at least I finally this famous movie. It took me a long time but so many people have said it was so bad that it was good I finally gave it a shot. Previously, I settled for enjoying the Tim Burton Ed Wood film, which is very good and tells the story of the making of this movie.Well, I agree Plan 9 is bad and, yes, perhaps, the worst movie of all time as many label it, but I'm sure there are worse ones out there. Really! I've seen worse (usually the B sci-fi movies of the '50s, too!)I loved the first third of this film. I laughed many times at the hokey flying saucers, the walking dead and the corny dialog. I thought, Wow, this was a bad (meaning good) as advertised, but then I found the film starting to lag at the 35-40-minute mark and recovered a little bit in the end, but not enough to make me want to watch this again. It got too talking and too preachy. Holy cow, this movie is nothing but preaching for everyone to take flying saucers seriously. Then we got more preaching at the end about the usual how- violent-mankind-is blah, blah, blah. The writers here obviously took themselves too seriously. They should have just kept it as sci-fi/horror flick without all the heavy-handed preaching.Highlights included Tor Johnson's face, the many lines of ridiculous dialog, Vampira's zombie walk with her outstretched hand, and Criswell's incredible speeches and the beginning and end of the movie! All of the above made me laugh almost every time! "},{"Title":"Terrible but amusing","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK--this film is terrible (I give it a 1) BUT I'd be lying if I didn't say I enjoyed it--for laughs! Lousy acting, TERRIBLE sets (LOVE the cockpit of the plane and the obvious plastic tombstones) and the hilarious special effects (the flying saucers were painted pie tins--and it shows). The script is beyond belief! Seriously, did ANYONE think this was written by someone in the right frame of mind? The dialogue was just dreadful. Also the actors were directed all wrong--if they in fact WERE directed. Notice how the police inspector uses his gun to scratch his face, push up his hat, wave in a general direction...and everybody acts as this is perfectly normal.And Ed Wood...he was no director and had zero talent. I love how shots go from night to day to night again for no apparent reason. And poor Bela Lugosi! He was reduced to doing THIS? He has no dialogue and (before filming was completed) he died. So they got a guy ONE FOOT TALLER than Lugosi to play him by holding a cloak over his face! The other actors are (to put mildly) terrible.This is not the worst film ever made (Salo gets that dubious honor) but it's definitely down there. It should be seen with an audience--it's actually funnier that way.Among the amusing lines You're all stupid stupid STUPID! Don't you see? Don't you see? We are all interested in the future for that's where you and I will spend the rest of our lives. He's dead...murdered and someone's reasponsible! "},{"Title":"Totally Inept In Every Way!","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Say what you will about it, PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE is not the worst movie ever made. It is, however, the most incompetent, with unbelievable ineptitude seeping from its every orifice. And that's what makes it fun.The plot concerns aliens and their you-can-see-the-strings-attached flying saucers seeking (gasp!) domination of Earth. To help them in their evil quest, they borrow a page from NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD by raising the dead from their graves to serve as a zombified army. Now it's up to hapless earthlings - led by moronic police, clichéd army officials and feeble-minded airplane pilots - to stop them.The storyline serves as little more than a front for the pure anti-genius of director Ed Wood to shine through. The most famous quirk is the employment of Bela Legosi as a star. Legosi, bless his heart, died three years before the film's release. No matter, said Wood, who sought to base his low-budget creation around a few scant minutes of unused silent footage of the horror icon. Wood is to be commended for his ambitious, if not inappropriate, attempt. What really makes the illusion crumble is Legosi's hilariously obvious stand-in, who, not blessed with much resemblance to the deceased actor, compensates by inexplicably covering most of his face with a cape.The Legosi gimmick may get all of the attention, but the truth is PLAN 9 would have been just as horrendous without it. Take the dialog, which must be heard to be believed. When a laser ray suddenly morphs Legosi's zombie into a skeleton, a bystander is heard to note, He wasn't like that a minute ago! Very observant. Then there's the head alien henchman, smirkingly reminiscent of a '50s TV announcer, who tries hard but is about as convincing as Pauly Shore as Al Capone. You're all stupid... stupid, stupid! he tells the earthlings during an unimpressive temper tantrum. (Thankfully one of the good guys then proves how intelligent we really are... by punching the alien's lights out!).Other absurdities abound. There are times when it appears Wood had to stop the camera so he could think of what to do or have the characters say next. A woman being chased by the zombies trips over nothing not once, but twice. Presumably sturdy tombstones fall over. After being brought back to life, burly Inspector Clay can't climb out of his grave. Policemen belittle a woman for not wanting to be alone with murderous creatures roaming the grounds. The same footage of Legosi walking out of the graveyard is used over and over again. No other film has given the viewer such little credit. Wood simply shrugged his shoulders at the glaring errors and must have thought, Well, heck, who pays attention to these things?What really allows PLAN 9 to succeed (to some degree) despite itself is the fact that it's so damn innocent. It doesn't seem Wood was trying to be campy; he really thought he had a winner. To his eternal credit, he did create something truly memorable, just not in the way he intended. "}{"Title":"how can anyone criticise this masterpiece?","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 from outer space, the worst film ever made. Who dares to utter such pathetic schlock. This film is definitely somewhere among my favorite films. It's the inspiration for just about every Mel Brooks spoof I would say, only it's a million times better because it is intended seriously. Ed Wood is the king, he deserves 20 oscars, he has done more for cinema than Cecil B. DeMille or the Coen brothers. He deserves the same kind of recognition as Orson Welles, and maybe even more. I am not going to give away any of the story of this film, I don't want to spoil it for you. But remember, don't watch this film as a bad film, watch it as a thigh-slappingly funny comedy. And respect Ed Wood with all your mite, the genius. Enjoy! 10/10 "},{"Title":"There's a little Ed Wood inside all of us.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a scene in Tim Burton's Bio-flick/homage to Ed Wood where the director bumps into Orson Welles in a Hollywood watering hole-in-the-wall, and gets a brief spirit-lifting speech from the great one about remaining true to your vision and not letting the clerks and backers (who ARE clerks, regardless where they live or what fate finds them doing for a living) get you down. Maybe we should have to look at that scene before watching this film.If Plan Nine is awful, it is probably so precisely because it IS so grandly ambitious. --If all ambition cannot culminate in a Citizen Kane or a Vertigo, maybe it gives us a moment to mourn quietly for the rest of us, the ones who worship genius &#150;as Ed Wood no doubt did&#150; without being geniuses ourselves. Bottom line, no matter what cards you get, you can laugh or you can cry at life. Ed Wood put on nylons and pumps and, making sure his seams were straight, marched into the fray of life like a true Hero Born. He stuck incongruous, obvious stock footage into his magnum opus, knowing the poetry would arise from the montage; he improvised long stretches, fully certain he would get the same results Welles could working under similar circumstances; he tried valiantly to coax performances out of wretched actors, or fatally self-conscious non-actors, like Criswell and Vampira, and put them in no matter how their work turned out (No time to re-shoot!). No matter what, you have to admire his staying in the game.VanGogh is perhaps the best case scenario of a loser who cranked away, certain he was onto something, who is lucky enough to have the entire world one day concur. Ed Wood's is, sadly, the more often played scenario. He is positive attitude, high ambition and wishful thinking, unsupported. He was certain he was onto something. He could not have been more wrong about anything if he had tried to be.Oh yeah baby. Ich bin ein Ed Wood. "},{"Title":"You need to see this to understand","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Indeed. This IS the worst film ever made. So how come it's not number one on the IMBD bottom 100 list? Because it so horrifyingly awful, it is actually great fun to watch.This film is a text-book example on how NOT to make a film. There is NO scene (believe me, I've counted them) where something isn't wrong. Either the set is falling apart, or the continuity is all screwed-up, or the actors say something REALLY stupid (My favorite Inspector Clay is dead...murdered...and somebody's responsible!), or the sound is completely off or ... there is always something in every single scene.And what about logic? The aliens start resurrecting our dead to gain our attention to the fact that we are about to destroy the Universe, but then they decide to kill those who have entered their UFO, because they might tell what they have seen. HELLO?Ed Wood sure was a funny guy. Don't miss the brilliant film about him and the making of his bad-ass movies. "},{"Title":"Imagine What Plans 1 to 8 were like!","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, 10(excellent) needs the constant reminder - this film is so really bad (textbook stature bad) that it is great. If the cinema created masters like Ford, Huston, Renoir, Hitchcock, Bunuel, Welles, Truffaut, Bergman, Kurasawa....it also created the legend of Ed Wood, a man who was determined to bring his ideas to the screen, and lacked absolutely every degree of ability to make a decent mediocre film. But the result is one of the oddest in film history (and as I write this, I am fully aware it sounds a bit like Wood's horrible dialog for Criswell talking about the future). Wood would have been long forgotten (like the creator of the hideously bad ROBOT MONSTER) if he had not one glaringly good point - he was willing to take chances to discuss material that was slightly out of step. Transvestitism in GLEN,OR GLENDA for example (because Wood was a transvestite). In Plan NINE FROM OUTERSPACE he actually tries to make a case that mankind is playing with nuclear fire that may not only destroy the Earth but the Universe. In the late 1950s, even though Joe McCarthy was dead, this view was not a popular one. Look at the other science fiction stories, and you see that there is a suggestion that more care is required to use nuclear power. Once you destroy the atomic ants in THEM, Edmund Gwenn does not suggest dropping the use of atomic energy. But Wood does question it. Unfortunately he questions it badly.For one thing, Wood was aware of what he had to do with his audience - he had to try to keep their attention by a sense of dread regarding the science fiction threat to mankind by his space invaders. But compare his horrendously bad cast here (aside from Lugosi, who actually died before the film was barely begun, the only other performer of real note was Lyle Talbot as a Pentagon General in one scene). THEM had Gwenn, James Whitmore, and James Arness in the cast. THEM also had various special affects, such as films of ants in their natural background, and even having full scale battles with each other. The result is that one believes what one sees in THEM. One can't believe the cheesy effects of Woods production, nor his cheesy actors and cheesy dialog.Also there is an inherent contradiction in the film. The space invaders are destroying man with an army of the resurrected dead. Its purpose is due to the Earth not heeding warnings about the dangers of their nuclear weapon programs. But from what we see its more a matter of impatience by these same invaders in dealing with us (barely one or two messages get through, and they do not say much about what is the reason for the anger of the space invaders). Furthermore Woods keeps showing how inept the invaders are - their weapons fail and one is almost strangled by a zombie. Later the Earthlings manage to damage the controls (I hate using that sophisticated term for Woods cardboard sets) of the flying saucer, so that while the commander lies unconscious the saucer blows up. Some really effective futuristic foe!!Still Woods views (when one finds them) do strike one as interesting. The space commander points out that Earthlings are not only ones who believe in God. A curious point that was rarely suggested in the 1950s (in fact the next time it pops up was in one of the original STAR TREK episodes with William Shatner, written by Gene Roddenberry - and it was done with far more cleverness dealing with the punning of the term Sun/Son God). On the other hand the space invaders are not fully ready for total female equality. While the commander has a female assistant, he makes comments suggesting that women are supposed to be home most of the time - hardly a futuristic viewpoint.By now perhaps you can see the problem. Production standards are poor. Acting atrocious for the most part. Screenplay is dismal in language content. But those small little fragments of a brain that tried to speak to us remain fascinating. The result is not another ROBOT MONSTER, but a film that will never really die with movie lovers...and a further proof that if you do have some originality you may remain a legend, even with dismal side effects. "},{"Title":"Deaf Person's Review","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I'm Deaf. There are no subtitles in this movie. Usually, I would turn it off after  five minutes because there was too much talking.But this was different... it was hillarious even without dialogue. The hearing  person I was watching it with told me that I could  make up my own dialogue and  it would be better.  Now, I don't know how true that is, but any movie that I can  watch without subtitles is a 10 in my book.Hillarious. ) "},{"Title":"SO bad it's good","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, this is a classic.  Let's face it, it is creative.  Sure the Special Effects are archaic but really when your main star dies two days into filming what's a director to do but bring in the chiropractor.  The Special Effects are truly special. "},{"Title":"Watch it with Friends!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watch about 10 to 30 films a month, from mainstream to independent features, and what qualifies as a great film, to me, is its ability to capture my attention every time I watch it. Granted, this movie wasn't well written, and granted, this film was poorly acted, and granted, if this were any other film with any other cast, it would probably really suck, but remove any element from the film as it stands, and it falls short of perfection. Be it by accident or be it on purpose, this piece of cinematography is pure genius. This is a film worth seeing with friends; trust me, you'll be the life of the party if you dig this film from the vaults.  "},{"Title":"Seeing the whole story around it,you must love it !!!","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  O.K.,I've just seen the movie Ed Wood,listed currently in the best 250 of all time . Being listed there is a hard thing to reach as well as being listed in the worst 100 where Plan 9 surely belongs .Ed Wood is all about a young wannabe-producer/director who is so fascinated and driven by the idea of producing movies that he does everything,sets every wheel in motion to make his dreams become reality,doing movies with a least-cost budget simply because he couldn't afford anything else,but he gave his whole heart to that movies and dedicated his whole life to them .O. K. --- Maybe that movie glorifies Ed Wood a bit.I don't know.Ed Wood is, by the way the director of Plan 9.Having seen the above mentioned movie before, I just cannot help enjoying Plan 9. And, for the record , I was not LAUGHING about it , I have been SMILING nicely, about a film that has been done in a time when computer-effects were not yet invented, and, I enjoyed it. And there have been definitely worse movies.Maybe the director wasn't so bad at all but simply didn't have the money to make it better,maybe he had the talent to do better but not alone as writer,producer,director? At least he DID a movie. And I don't know whether I might be childish here, but that guy at least did what he wanted to do ,and here we are , 50 years later, still discussing his movie. The keyword is fantasy. If you put a little fantasy into the story , you might as well believe in it. A book doesn't give you any special effects at all and you can still enjoy it, can't you??? On the other hand, if you are so cool and so good in discovering any movies weakness and every leak of special effects that even the major 21st century Hollywood movies hardly get to you anymore,you will surely find a lot to complain about in this one. Or you can simply take it as an eyewitness of a time, long time gone, when life wasn't so perfect and peoples' brains weren't so oversaturated yet, that some guys still went to cinemas to see flying saucers...  "},{"Title":"The Gospel according to Ed Wood!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Interesting to read the many varied reviews here. Elements of several combined would most likely cover all the salient points. Personally I believe this is the one film that is beyond rating, there being two many side issues to deal into the equation. Rather than re-hash either the plotline, such that it barely is, or the film's glaring production faults, I just want to add my own thoughts here.PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE has achieved that which many films strive for but few can ever attain - screen immortality. It doesn't matter any more how bad it is, how amateurishly made, how laughable or even how lacking in substance...it IS Ed Wood's PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE, and flying hubcaps or not, MORE people know of this film than of HELL IN THE PACIFIC or even LIMELIGHT.  The film strives to be earnest and I'm sure in Ed Wood's mind it went a long way to achieving this. As someone wrote, having seen Tim Burton's rather rose-colored biog ED WOOD, it would be churlish, even downright cowardly to savage this film, one that is unable to defend itself.PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE is like a lovable and worn out Teddy Bear - you don't toss it and buy a new one. You grow up quietly and keep it in your cupboard of memories. I am proud to have known PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE. Once, I laughed at it - now I respect its limitations. "},{"Title":"Genius without talent","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing the film ED WOOD, I was compelled to rent this film. Granted that it was poorly made despite Wood's intentions behind the production that were both honest and sincere, and it comes across more like an elementary school play, but the attraction to the film is almost like the attraction one has to slowing down on the highway to see an auto accident.In every scene, there is something wrong. Misplaced props, bad lighting, continuity errors, implausible dialogue, almost a training film on how NOT to make a film.Edward D. Wood Jr. had ambition, vision, determination, charisma and imagination. What he didn't have was talent. Instead of being shunned by the world's film aficionados, he has been posthumously embraced as a holy fool of cinema. One whose sincere efforts came out horribly twisted to the point of absurdity.Yes, the spaceship looks as if it came from an IKEA catalog, the acting is so wooden you risk splinters, the plot and continuity has holes you can pilot a battleship through and the production vales are so threadbare, it makes THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT look like STAR WARS. But the film has a charm to itself. A funhouse mirror vision of science fiction, where the distortions are the attraction. "}{"Title":"absolutely horrible but so funny!","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't figure out what was in Ed Wood's mind when he made this movie. The acting was so terrible that it was hilarious. Everything from wobbling saucers to Bela Lugosi's screen double made this flick what it is. I'll never forget the scene when the spaceship caught fire and took off from the graveyard and that military general said, I've got to hand it to them, they're way beyond us. As the scene changes to inside of the flying saucer, we see wooden tables, radio tube equipment, and costumes resembling fifthteen century army outfits. The logo on the uniforms looked like what king Arthur's knight's of the round table would wear. I suppose what really made this film famous was Bela Lugosi's death during the production and the poor attempt to replace him with a screen double (poor Ed Wood couldn't re-shoot the scenes, he was already over budget!). If you haven't seen this movie, your in for a surprize! "},{"Title":"poorly done but not boring!","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this movie got famous for having the reputation of the worst film ever made I really do disagree. Sure there are many continuity mistakes including shots shifting between day and night in the same scene and the unrealistic dialog and silly looking sets but it all adds to the fun. The story revolves around UFO sightings happening in a Los Angeles town. The police and eventually the army step in to blast them out of the sky but can't hurt them. The martians who run the UFO'S look and sound like regular people but with silly uniforms. Their mission is to release Plan 9 on the humans which is a plan involving bringing the dead to life to get everyones attention. The martians want to bring peace to earth by communicating with the humans but all the humans want to do is destroy the UFO'S making it hard for a peace talk. How this weird plan is supposed to work to bring peace is silly in itself. There are so many mistakes and silly scenes in the movie I would take up too much space writing it all. When Gregory Walcott, one of the lead actors, read the script, he told director Ed Wood it was the worst script he ever read but he needed the work. Bela Lugosi appears in some footage shot just before his death with no project in mind. Ed incorporated it in this movie so he can include him in the film. Lugosi was doubled by Tom Mason, Woods Wife's chiropractor, who was inches taller and played the part with a cape covering most of his face. The movie stars Wood regulars Paul Marco and Conrad Brooks. This movie reinforces my belief that the only bad film is a boring film! "},{"Title":"I'd love to see the other 8!","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie..PERFECT! Who cares if they had no intention for it to be this funny, it's one of those movies that cheer me up just by giving me a good laugh. Alright, perhaps a *ten* should go overboard, but then I'd give it a nine. Plan 9 from outer space, the movie Tim Burton made helped me understand in the movie exactly what made it so terrible! Not that Ed Wood had an interesting problem, it was the people he worked with, the actors, and himself! Who cares if you can see the string from the saucers, or that when Vampira raised her hands, for some reason that made the workers die, who cares that this movie, whoever watches it, ignores what it's *really* supposed to be about? What I want to see is the other 8 plans! It's FUNNY! "},{"Title":"If Kurosawa is an AWESOME Genius, Ed Wood is an Awful Genius.","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ed Wood is a genius! During their peak Akira Kurosawa, Ingmar Bergman and Federico Fellini kept on creating cinematic images that can only be called stroke of genius. In this movie Ed Wood Jr. indeed showed his genius. However, his genius was totally opposite of Kurosawa, Fellini and Bergman. If the aforementioned three directors were really, really AWESOME, Ed Wood was really, really AWFUL. He showed a genius in making one of the most awful movie in cinematic history. Nobody else can make such a bad movie. If a mediocre, average person like I made a movie, I will just make a mediocre movie. I can never make a movie which is so bad. One needs a genius of Ed Wood's calibre to make such a bad movie. This is like taking an exam made up of one hundred multiple choice questions. An intelligent or genius student will get 90+ to 100% correct. Even though one has never studied the topic covered in the exam, one will, by statistical chance, get some of the questions correct. One needs a real effort and genius to get everything wrong. Ed Wood is such a genius. He got everything WRONG, WRONG, WRONG in this movie. One needs a tremendous talent to get everything so wrong. His casting is incredibly bad. How can one choose Tor Johnson to be a movie actor? His dialog is so bad. Compared to Johnson, another muscle man turned actor, Arnold Schwarznegger, with his sometimes incomprehensible Teutonic English, sounds almost like a poetry reading by Sir Lawrence Olivier. And what is Vampira doing? Do you call that acting? Somebody said there are no bad actors. There are only bad directors. If that is true, Ed Wood is ba-a-a-a-d!! And who wrote this script? Even grade school kids can write better scripts. Does Ed Wood know what special effect is? I read that those flying saucers are paper plate spray-painted silver. They do look like paper plates spray-painted silver. Ed Woods' special effect makes some of the tackiest Godzilla movie look like masterpieces.Ed Wood seems to have no sense of continuity. That tall actor--really Ed Wood's chiropractor--who is supposed to be a stand-in for the deceased Bela Lugosi doesn't even look like Bela Lugosi even with his face hidden. The chiropractor is much too tall to stand in for Bela Lugosi. Even with all these amateurish film making, Ed Wood had the gall to release this movie. What a gutsy guy!! After Ed Wood screws up everything, the result is something deliciously tacky and fascinating. Many film schools analyze and teach works by Kurosawa and Bergman. Film schools should teach Ed Wood's works. They are prime examples of what never to do! "},{"Title":"A cult classic - so bad it's hysterically funny","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space is placed in the horror/sci fi genre but really should be comedy. I'm a fan of this film and never fail to laugh at its ridiculous characters, dialogue, sets and acting. If a modern director could make a movie like this it would be a huge campy hit. Director Edward D. Wood Jr. didn't intend to make a comedy but he's given us some of the funniest scenes and characters ever filmed. It would be impossible to intentionally make a movie as funny as Plan 9 from Outer Space. Pick any character; they're all equally ridiculous. Tor Johnson, Swedish ex-wrestler, as Inspector Daniel Clay. I'm a big boy now Johnny.Dudley Manlove as Eros the alien who gives the side splitting Solaranite speech. Take a can of your gasoline. Say this can of gasoline is the sun. Now, you spread a thin line of it to a ball, representing the earth...The stand-in for Bela Lugosi who appears holding a cape over his face so no one will notice. (Lugosi died after filming only a few scenes.)John Breckenridge, the effeminate alien ruler, who at one point reads his lines directly from a script he is holding. Plan 9? Ah, yes. Plan 9 deals with the resurrection of the dead. Long distance electrodes shot into the pineal and pituitary gland of the recently dead.Criswell as the narrator. Greetings, my friends. We are all interested in the future, for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives. And remember, my friends, future events such as these will affect you in the future. Vampira, the TV monster movie show hostess, as a zombie who doesn't speak. All the sets are ridiculous. The infamous airplane cockpit with two chairs and a curtain. The inside of the alien ship with a table and assorted radio parts. The alien ruler's desk complete with pen set. The graveyard where headstones routinely fall over. The pie plate flying saucers on wires. You'll either fall asleep during this movie or you'll enjoy making fun of it, probably depending on your mood. See it with friends and get ready to ridicule it.Forget the other Ed Wood films. They are really boring and not funny. Instead, rent Tim Burton's Ed Wood after you've seen Plan 9. You'll appreciate what Burton has done. "},{"Title":"The best bad movie ever made","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't in good conscience choose a number rating for this movie. Yes, it's completely inept on every level, but it's certainly not the worst move of all time, as it is frequently labeled. Hollywood produces dozens of truly godawful movies a year, most of which have hundreds of times the production resources of this...and yet, Ed Wood is so bloody charming in his clumsiness. Honestly, this movie is funnier to watch than most of the lowest-common-denominator driven comedies the studios churn out every year. Never mind that none of the laughs are intentional. This is a movie made by a man who wanted nothing more in his life than to make movies, and refused to let some little obstacle like the fact that his movies were the textbook examples of how NOT to make a film stop him.Is it inept? Oh yeah. Does it have the most awkward dialogue put on film? Almost certainly. Do actors forget their lines? Oh lordy yes.But is it the worst movie ever? No. It's just too damn earnest to hate. Give it a shot sometime when you need a good laugh.Favorite moment of unintentional humor after Bela Lugosi's character gets run over by a car offscreen, the viewer can clearly see the shadow of him standing on the edge of the screen. Oh wait! Then there's the  overweight zombie who needs a push to get out of his coffin! And the part where bullets don't stop the walking corpse, but a good manly slug to the jaw takes 'em out in one blow, and... "},{"Title":"A great watch","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The conventional wisdom is that this is one of the worst movies ever filmed. Well, maybe, but I'll tell ya what ... you won't use your fast forward button. You'll want to savor every moment.Could Wood really have thought this was a good movie? The Criswell intro, the paper plate flying saucers, the movable walls, the sets (I love the cockpit), the gravestones that fall over, the changes from night to day, the cornball speeches, the body double that must be a foot taller than Lugosi, the strange cast of lunatics and misfits.This movie is non-stop entertainment. It is just wonderful fun .. a party in itself. If you've never seen it, you just have to. "},{"Title":"Pure Bliss","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ed Wood is rightly regarded as the holy godfather of bad cinema and Plan 9 from Outer Space is his enduring legacy to generations of crap addicts. While some fans maintain that Glen Or Glenda is Ed Wood's crowning achievement, I find Plan 9 from Outer Space to be more spectacularly incompetent and a more enjoyable viewing experience. This film transcends the so bad, it's good genre like few films before or after it. Plan 9 from Outer Space is so bad, it's utterly brilliant.Plan 9 from Outer Space, like most of Ed Wood's magical output, is either pilloried or praised for its technical incompetence. The film is indeed a cinematic car crash when it comes to matters such as attention to detail, continuity and special effects. However, the exuberance, joy and unrelenting sense of fun that permeate Ed Wood's film-making is often overlooked and undervalued. This man was clearly too much of a visionary to be fussed about anything as trivial as a character holding a gun upside down or an actor reading directly from the script. Plan 9 from Outer Space is a lot of things but boring isn't one of them.The plot is pure sci-fi fluff. Shortly after flying saucers begin appearing in the sky, bodies start to disappear from the local cemetery. It seems that the aliens are re-animating corpses to use as tools against the human race when they invade Earth - not out of spite, mind you, but due to their overwhelming concern that humans could blow up the sun. This is unfortunate for Jeff and Paula, who happen to live next door to the zombie infested graveyard. Ludicrous as it is, this plot is no more outlandish than any number of B-grade movies. What makes Plan 9 from Outer Space stand out from the crowd is the execution - take a bow, Mr Wood! It would be exhausting to sift through the plethora of goofs, gaffs and mind-boggling mistakes that litter this film. However, some are so outstanding that they demand individual recognition. The first blindingly obvious faux pas is the fishing line which clearly suspends the flying saucers. This is only the beginning of an avalanche of blissful incompetence. There is the infamous Bela Lugosi cameo, which was filmed before the script was even written. After Bela's death, Ed Wood had no qualms about using his wife's chiropractor to take over the role - despite the man being a head taller and considerably slimmer than the great Lugosi. In addition to these sublime blunders, there is the detective who mistakenly points a gun at himself, John Breckinridge's shameless script reading - which results in The Ruler not being able to look at the camera or his fellow actors and the blatantly obvious use of a sound stage for a cemetery, not to mention the cardboard set that doubles as an aeroplane cockpit. This is only scratching the surface.The most amazing thing about Plan 9 from Outer Space is not Ed Wood's ambivalence to detail but the fact that this ambivalence never detracts from the film's overall enjoyment. Plan 9 from Outer Space works spectacularly well as science fiction entertainment. The mix of action, unintentional comedy, spectacular ineptitude and camp special effects is intoxicating. The film is well paced and, in its own unique way, strangely logical. There is also the joy of watching Bela Lugosi's final film role (well, until the chiropractor takes over!) and a rare glimpse of the magnificent Vampira at the height of her Gothic loveliness. Plan 9 from Outer Space is an unmitigated pleasure from beginning to end.This film belongs in IMDb's top 250, and I'm sure if people rated films based on the enjoyment factor as opposed to any pretentious conception of artistic quality, it would be. In any case, I'm sure Ed Wood would be pleased to discover that almost 10,000 viewers have taken the time to vote for Plan 9 from Outer Space, which greatly exceeds the impact of many 1950s classics, ranging from Bergman's Wild Straeberries to Truffaut's The 400 Blows. "},{"Title":"so bad...it's fantastic!!!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Credited as Bela Lugosi's last film, Plan 9 has all the makings of a terrible movie. In fact, it's so bad, it's quite amusing. Ed Wood had a knack for writing horrible dialogue, and that's clearer than ever in this here picture. Don't say I love this movie, but consider me a fan. Wood didn't care how the public would take it. All that mattered to him was how he himself thought of it. That, in my opinion, is the trait of a true director. This movie does deserve all the heat it receives...no argument there. But, when there is little to do and an escape from the real world is needed, Plan 9 From Outer Space is the perfect movie to watch and laugh at. However, Ed Wood never intended on it being a comedy (may he rest in peace). Oh well...it's still better than anything Devlin and Emmerich can come up with. "},{"Title":"This film is incredible!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this movie a 10!If you think you know the meaning of bad movie and you have not seen this movie, you do NOT know the meaning of bad movie! Plan 9 From outer Space redefines al your perspective regarding bad movies. A man can't describe how bad this movie is. It's like as in the book of Douglas Adams The Hitchhikers Guide you cannot know the meaning of bad movie and also know the bad movie itself. It cannot be. If you do know, the universe will end to exist.I can hear you think why do you gave this movie a 10?. Well, because it is so much fun to see this movie! It's so humorous to see this movie! You should really see this!You must see this. "}{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made but...","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the worst films ever made but strangely watchable because of it. Anyone who likes bad acting in movies should give this one a go.  As for the plan 1-8 must have been amazing for this one to be the best. "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was impressed by the fact that this 1950's movie gave the aliens the concepts of religion, loyalty to their race and a sense of grievance for saving the universe by killing us lowly humans. The fact that to Ed Wood the concept of day or night in filming scenes weren't important and his major actor (Lyle Talbot Excluded) died before making the picture and was replaced by a taller chiropractor/actor detracted from the overall skill in which the movie was made. I still rate this as a good movie to watch even if it is to only find the many major and obvious flaws. After all it is much more entertaining than a cheap movie about an apostle. ) So watch this to find out that we have stupid, stupid minds. You'll See. "},{"Title":"What plan?","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I felt rather uneasy watching this. Not because of the horrible acting, which I can tolerate, or the shoestring budget sets. It has more to do with the fact that the film has a strange sort of untapped(and misdirected) energy. It is the sort of energy that has been used at other times with much greater power.I'm of the group that believes even the stupidest idea can, with the right approach and presentation, be made into something at least watchable. Alas, the script is embarrassing and doesn't even take a feigned attempt to make connections internally or externally, and as you well know the direction is slipshod. There is nothing here but that misplaced energy.What a thin line there is between genius and mediocrity! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 has become something of a cult classic ever since it was voted the worst movie of all time by the Golden Turkey awards, and it's director, Ed Wood, the worst director of all time. But does it really deserve this?The answer, in short, is YES and NO. Being something of a sucker for cheap fifties and sixties B movies I couldn't resist picking this movie up recently, and I'm glad I did. Perhaps it's just me, but I really did enjoy it! Yes, the dialogue is awful, yes the sets are cheap, yes the special effects are laughable and yes, the acting is as wooden as the movie's fake grave stones, but it still posesses a certain charm. Edward D. Wood Jr put his heart and soul into this movie. He saw it as his own Citizen Kane. and didn't let the fact that he had no talent get in the way.This movie is also famous for featuring the final appearance of the legendary Bela Lugosi, who died before Wood had properly started shooting. With only a few silent shots of Lugosi to base his film around he used his wife's chiropractor as a stand in. He looks thoroughly unconvincing as he stalks the graveyard with his face cloaked, trying to disguise the fact that he was taller and thinner than Lugosi. Wood cheerfully cuts between shots of the two with no thought for continuity.Wood also uses stock footage of military engagements with abandon, intercut with flying saucers on strings posing their latest   threat to humanity (Their other eight attempts failed, hence the title). With his band of Hollywood misfits and cast-offs, including TV regulars Vampira and Criswell, he tried to create something that would make a mark on the film world and that people would remember for years to come. Although Wood was ignored by Hollywood and eventually died penniless he has now achieved that fame and immortality he so desperately yearned for, even if it is for all the wrong reasons. Hollywood has certainly produced a lot of movies over the years that could equally qualify for Worst Movie Ever. "},{"Title":"Classic Ed Wood heart-felt dementia!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen all of his films, but this has to be one of Ed Wood's low-budget masterpieces; even after being tagged as the worst film ever by those Golden Turkey sub-humans. You can see the love and care this guy put into this one (which he never made a dime from). Because of Tim Burton's film Ed Wood, he's now respected, albeit in an left-handed way, and I'm sure he'd enjoy Burton's film. Vampira, Tor Johnson, Criswell and a cast of vapor-ghouls and the incredible Bela - what more can you ask for? The perfect drive-in movie; if anybody remembers those. It's great that everybody's heard of this film now and they should check it out. A high 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I know it's bad quality movie, but it's funny","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know that Ed Wood movies are not about the quality, but we all need to admit that is funny to watch a movie so badly produced! I mean, of course I will not give 10 in a movie like this one, but I laughed a lot with some situations, like the gravestone falling, and the guy that is in Bela Lugosi's place, with his arms covering his face all the time to not show this obvious fact.I agree with a guy who said that this movie is not the worst of all. I found Glen or Glenda MUCH worst!Come on,'Plan 9 from Outer Space 'at least makes you laugh! What I found worse in this movie was not the effects - as the biggest part of the people complains about - but the lines. Many lines are dumb and even a little bit of annoying. (Like the beginning,the shot where shows Ghoul Man (Bela Lugosi) sad about his wife's death. Oh My God, that part was soooo boring!) "},{"Title":"Guaranteed Good For A Few Laughs","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yikes! Believe it, or not, as a young tyke of 8 years, this totally inept, unintentionally hilarious, z-grade Sci-Fi flick scared the hell out of me. Yep. That's right. It was terrifying enough to give me nightmares and have me demand that my mother check under my bed for the monsters.PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE (P9FOS, for short) is one of those unique movies that's so bad that it's actually good (well, sort of). I don't think that it deserves to be labelled as The Worst Movie of All Time.There are definitely much-much worse movies than P9FOS out there. I mean, at least with this one you're almost guaranteed to enjoy some honest-to-goodness bell-laughs throughout its 80 minute running time. Yes. You sure are - Unless, of course, you're a total grouch, that is.Like its spooky graveyard setting of cardboard headstones that wobble in the breeze, P9FOS's plot of an alien invasion (taking place in the San Fernando Valley), is wafer-thin, to be sure.Directed by schlockster, Ed Wood Jr., P9FOS opens with Criswell's priceless, dead-serious My friends monologue in which he refers to future events in the past tense and guarantees us all that what we're about to witness here is (My friends) based on sworn testimony. (Ha! That's a killer!) So - Is PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE (the cheapie of all cheapies) the worst movie of all time? No. I think not. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 is  way above anything on the SciFi Channel!","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On a shoestring budget, Ed Wood made an entertaining and enjoyable movie that's become has a cult following. While we can certainly pick out the weakness in acting, plot, filming et al, this movie STILL is heads above anything made by the SciFi channel (will a million-dollar budget).It's good family entertainment without one single exploding body with gallons of spurting blood; no stupid teenagers (actually 30 year-olds) who even more stupidly enter a deadly situation; no over the top CGI that has Pirhanna or alligators the size of Texas.We have aliens with tacky costumes (one spouting insults); stupid cops who use their loaded guns to push up their hats, and lots of cardboard tombs and tombstones.I've seen Academy Award winning movies with worse acting.At least this one makes me smile and brings up memories of all Cult movies from the 50's. You can have your small children in the room watching this one. Our DOG walks out of the room for any movie on the SciFi Channel. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of all time? Not by a long shot.","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are plenty of really bad low budget movie directors out there. Ed Wood was far from the worst. Now, I'm not one of those people that give this movie a 10/10 because it's funny. That's just another way of saying it's bad, but entertaining. I've seen plenty of really terrible almost zero budget horror films like the Violent S**t series. And yes, it's called Violent S**t. Granted, I don't think those movies got commercial releases, and if they did it was straight to video. But there do exist movies much worse than this one. Especially other Ed Wood movies that are worse. It has an entertainment value like no other. There are movies made today like Devil and 2012 that have a big budget but no heart put into them. It might be just me, but when I watch this I can tell there was heart put into it. Little effort, and a very small budget, but still has heart. Does that alone make it good, not really. But with the aid of other things,it helps.The story, though not well done, is creative. And even if you watch the movie with a serious mindset it isn't boring. If you look at the average Arnold Schwarzenegger movie it really isn't that great a film. The acting is mediocre, the story is usually unoriginal, and there are several other things wrong with it. But many people love them because they're still entertaining as all hell. And that's the case with this movie in a wayThere are people that can't even sit through this whole movie because they think it's so bad. And I really think that's sad. If I can sit through a movie shot on Super 8 then you can sit through this. A lot movies that came out at the time of this movie were B movies with a high camp value and no effort that people didn't say two things about. Maybe they were more forgettable. And isn't that what really makes a movie bad; being forgettable? Being so boring that no one ever payed any attention to it. If this were the worst movie of all time people wouldn't still be talking about it. And there are plenty of Ed Wood films that people never talk about that are much worse than this one.There really is a thin line between famous and infamous. People just don't realize it.All I can say is, it's not really bad. If I were surfing channels and saw it was one I'd watch it. It's entertaining. It's a fun movie. And whether intentional or not it's funny at times. Need I really say more? Just my take on it... "},{"Title":"You are here because you want to read about this film. That is why you are here.","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, my friends, this movie is indeed a movie. And in saying that, I will also inform you that this movie is a very worthy addition to the Internet Movie Database, for it is a Database of movies.In reviewing this title, I have kept in mind it's title, so that I may review it.Plan 9 from Outer Space, which, to my immediate interest, concerns a ninth plan from the horrible dome of Outer Space - it truly is a legendary film of legend which tells an incredibly true and horrifying story, a chilling story that will - my friends I assure you - CHILL you.What will become of the fast moving, simple yet fascinating plot as it progresses? I am not here to spoil your movie night with spoilers. I am a trustworthy and honest person, you see. So go on. If I can be trusted, which I truly think I can be, then you can sit back and behold the picture. Trust me. "}{"Title":"Genius! Well... Unintentional...","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this film ten out of ten. I know some people will call me foolish for it, but this is a comic masterpiece! As a serious film this gets zero, but this is a so bad its f*****g AMAZING picture! So many goofs, so much to laugh at! The determination Ed Wood has was remarkable! This film deserves to be treasured forever in the national archives, as it is an incredible piece of cinema. Everything about it is stock b-movie material, but the fact that Ed Wood was SUCH a bad filmmaker means he let so much slip in to the film that shouldn't have happened. Without the hundreds of hilarious goofs, i think this film would just be seen as a rubbish sci-fi flick from a gone era, but due to the hilarity of some parts, such as the cop scratching his head with a loaded pistol, the stupid, STUPID! piece of dialogue, and the completely unintelligible speech of the police chief, this film is incredibly funny. Anyone who gave this film a poor rating should see that it's more than a crap film. It's comedy gold. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 From RiffTrax","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you don't like sushi because you personally think it tastes awful why go back to the restaurant for more and claim it's so bad it tastes lovely. Something you consider bad is bad no matter what and a bad film should really be unrewatchable after the initial meeting &#150; it won't get any better. Having said that I love plenty of films considered clinkers by the majority of people - but it's just I don't consider them clinkers. This is a hopelessly bad but harmless film I had no intention of ever seeing again, but I've just welcomed the (Mystery Science Theater 3000 back from the grave) RiffTrax colourised version to my heart.Idiot aliens in tights plan to raise the weird dead to save the Universe from idiot humans &#133; or something like that, with RiffTrax it includes a soundtrack of 3 snickering disembodied voices taking the mickey out of everything. It adds a whole new fourth dimension to this pile of crap and makes it worth watching for the first time. It's as hilarious as ever, some of the smart ass American witticisms flying over my head, but beautiful cynicism when they do connect. They maybe sounded a little cruel regarding Bela's heroin addiction, but only compared to their put-downs of the rest of the useless cast. And yet, it's good to bear in mind that Ed Wood did at least spend some money on this, more for instance than the great charlatan Andy Warhol did with some of his artistic masterpieces. Surely on that level Plan 9's witless plotlessness would make it an Art film and worthy of learned discussion in academic circles?Plan 9 is not a complete waste of time if only seen the once, but I recommend the RiffTrax version to anyone with their head screwed on properly &#150; this is an unwatchable film only made watchable with buckets of humour. "},{"Title":"I love this film!!!.","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a year of trying to find this I finally found it with the prequel Bride of the Monster for $14, it was pricey but worth it, the film is a riot for the full 77 minutes.The first one may not be great but this one is so ridiculously bad that it cant help but get a smile from everyone who watches it, and thus proving, movies don't have to written, directed or acted well to be entertaining, this being the best example by far.Now, all movie lovers now Ed Wood, he was truly a service to all film makers, and he has reached his goal in life, to become a writer and not many people can even say that whether his movies are bad or not. This movie has become one of my favourites of all time with its horrible special effects, cardboard props and the visibility of strings that make this movie so worth watching.Overall, if you can find this film get it, I would not recommend the first in the series Bride Of the Monster but I would recommend this and the 3rd in the series Night of the Ghouls I have not seen the 4th yet. "},{"Title":"I don't know if it should get a Razzie for Worst Picture or an Oscar for Best Comedy","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9, by any standard, is a train wreck of a train wreck of a bad movie. Most of the movie was shot with little money, the Gravestones are made of cardboard and fall over occasionally, there is a useless ladder glued to the side of a UFO, a Police officer (who has probably on the force for a good number of years) scratches his head with the business end of a pistol, and the aliens talk about a bomb that will destroy the sun. All of this non-sensible crap came from the mind of one Person, Ed Wood. His inept directing led this film to super-failure, and a cult following. So much of this movie is SO bad, it almost makes it look good. Bela Lugosi dies mid-way in the film, so Wood replaces him with his Chiropractor. I enjoy watching Plan 9 not because it is Scary or Frightening, but because it is inadvertently a laugh-a-thon.Oh, and about half the Film is Stock Footage. A Classic. "},{"Title":"The quintessential bad movie","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many revisionists and die-hard cultists have stated it, and its true. Plan 9 From Outer Space is not the worst movie ever made. A few seconds of Manos or Monster A Go Go will prove this notion wrong. However, it is the quintessentiall bad movie. Briskly paced, fading has-beens, hilarious nuclear scare dialog, horrible sets and effects, all this and more contribute to what is an average person's idea of a b-movie.As far as technical aspects go, it is not the worst ever. The sets are obviously reused several times and very sparse, especially considering what locations they are meant to be. For the interior of a UFO, there's about two tables with some radio transmitters on them, nothing more. The legendary cockpit set just wobbles around a bit to represent them being passed by a UFO. The gravestones in the graveyard flap, the UFOs are plates set up against a reel of stock footage, I could go on. Also, the acting and screenplay are legendary camp. However, the film is far from the worst ever. It does have synced-up dialog, not dubbing such as Manos or The Creeping Terror.Past the technical difficulties, it is one of the most entertaining movies ever made. Ed Wood's screenplay is over-the-top and campy, yet heartfelt and hilarious. Just take a look at some of the memorable quotes, you'll see what I mean. Its obvious that Ed Wood didn't have a whole lot of skill, yet his enthusiasm makes up for it. He loved movies and persevered to have his movies made despite the conditions he worked with. For that, a lot more respect is due to him than hacks such as Michael Bay or Joel Schumacher. Plus, he managed to sneak an anti-arms race message past the censors and the HUAC. This is certainly not the worst movie ever made. It's not even Ed Wood's worst movie (watch Orgy of the Dead or any of his later pornos to disprove that notion). It is endlessly entertaining and passionately made and for those reasons is a must-see. (9/10) "},{"Title":"A true classic, campy movie that has charm beyond its mediocrity.","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been watching sci-fi and alien movies for a long time. Some were on TV back in the 1950s and 1960s when I was a boy. There also were the TV series like Superman and Batman. By today's standards most of them had very simple production values and effects. But Plan 9 From Outer Scace represents perhaps the all-time low. The sets look cheap and cheesy. The flying saucers look like chrome hubcaps suspended from strings that are often clearly visible. The dialog often provokes a laugh, when none was intended. Unless Ed Wood was more clever than we think, and was simply making a parody instead of a Sci-Fi thriller.It appears that Wood, who also wrote the screenplay, borrowed plainly from The Day The Earth Stood Still. In that movie, the aliens were visiting Earth to warn us, if we didn't quit making more powerful bombs that could destroy the Earth, they would come and overpower us. In Plan 9, the aliens are coming for the same reason, with some far-fetched pseudo-science about particles of light, destroying the sun, and that having an effect on the rest of the galaxy.Plan 9 was to bring back the dead back to life, and control them with a type of ray gun the aliens had. For a race that had advanced eons ago beyond Earthlings, they had very primitive looking flying saucer interiors, and bulky machines from the 1940s used as controllers. The movie is in black and white, it never gets very interesting, the acting would rival a 1950s high school play, the dialog is cheesy, and the movie ends rather abruptly. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"If you want a silly film well... This is it!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space one of My favorite film of all time! This classic film with errors and a low budget is arguably Ed Wood's best film I love the story, the acting, knowing that Bela Lugosi, Tor Johnson, and Vampira are in the same film, the special effects, and every else that the film has to offer! For starters the acting by all of the actors is actually very good in My opinion especially by the invaders. Lugosi performs excellently as well and I just love it that he is dressed as Count Dracula once again! Big Tor Johnson also has a great performance and he really looks awesome and the same goes for Vampira! Now for the hilarious things about the film. The space ships look really rather different but when they land they look OK. The dialog at times seems silly but the conversations between people are good. The narration by Criswell is good. The music is excellent. The direction by Ed Wood is actually good. The film is great for many reasons in My opinion. This is one of those treasures that are so bad its excellent. If you love low budget films that are extremely bad but are hilarious, and want to see a spookyish flick that is good to watch around Halloween time and any time if you want to laugh for a hour and a half then I strongly recommend that you buy this masterpiece Plan 9 from Outer Space! today! "},{"Title":"Bad?  Horrible?  I don't think so...","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Compared to the garbage that fills the theaters and direct-to-video tapes of today, Plan 9 is actually pretty good by today's (much lowered) standards. Sure, it's done on a cheap budget, the script is horrible, the dialogue achingly bad, and the actors untalented.  But heck, that just means Plan 9 would go direct to video today, and Cinemax would be hyping it as their Friday Premiere two months later.  At least Woods seems to be _doing_ something, and trying to convey some kind of message.  Go down to the video store and pick out a few direct-to-videos, and see if most modern-day auteurs can claim as much.  "},{"Title":"Ahh, yes, Plan 9 - Resurrection of the Dead","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just what is Plan 9... really about, anyway? If you watch carefully, you may finally figure out, very near the end of the picture, that Wood's plot hinges on this solar bomb threat that the aliens are worried mankind will develop. It's really a mystery up until this late point in the story; flying saucers are sighted all over, the military keeps it hush-hush, no one knows what these aliens want, the saucers fly too low and tend to force people to fall over, and, for some very odd reason, resurrecting three of the characters in the story into walking zombies is a major goal of the aliens. As I watched this all the way through, for perhaps the first time, I wondered how all these plot points would come together - what is the missing piece of the puzzle Ed Wood will put in place by the end? Of course, it didn't all fall into place by the end but I sort of breathed a sigh of relief when the alien (Manlove in a deliriously bad performance) finally revealed his concerns about Solaranite ('What? There's no such thing!'). And it happens during perhaps the most well-known & best scene in the movie the alien is insulting and excitable in this story, unable to hide his contempt for Earthlings ('Stupid! Stupid!'), receiving a backhand blow from the stalwart hero (Walcott), who is obviously very patriotic about such things.So, with all this mystery & tension described above, how can I give this movie just one star? I am sorry, my friend, but this is what it is - a case study of how not to put a film together. I should know - in my twenties, I was in a similar situation to Wood. I had some super-8 footage shot during my late teens which I didn't know what to do with. I finally grouped together some friends and shot some more footage to align, as best I could, with the older stuff. All because I did my best doesn't mean the result was good. No, it was quite bad. As bad as Wood's 'masterpiece' of ineptness? Probably worse, but I had a smaller crew than him. One of the weaknesses of Plan 9... (and there are too many to mention here) is that it's a patchwork. Most of us know, for example, that Lugosi's footage was shot earlier and had nothing to do with the story of Plan 9... Was Wood clever in how he, er, spliced it in? We may applaud his resourcefulness, but that does not a good movie make. Wood's use of stock footage - not too shabby. But, stock footage is rarely a criteria for good films, except perhaps for documentaries. Interesting how I'm going on about this movie for such a lengthy comment, isn't it? The spell of Ed Wood is there, no doubt. No doubt.It boils down to the fact (yes, these ARE the shocking facts) that every single scene has something wrong with it. I'm not exaggerating - every scene! In fact, in some scenes, every single shot has something wrong with it. If it's not the background, it's something in the senseless dialogue. The most professional scene is probably with Talbot, his one scene as a general, but its very static - a 2-person dialogue-driven scene in a room. Champions of this picture claim that it's rarely boring, perhaps the most important element to judge a film by; my friend, this is not the case - quite a few scenes, like the one just mentioned, drag on and on. So I could not, in good conscience, give this more than a single star. Why has this become so popular - a cult favorite? To some extent, judging films is a subjective process; check out the votes for this on IMDb the majority gave it one star; but the 2nd highest number of people gave it 10 stars! (Do we detect stuffing a ballot box?). Many viewers, especially aspiring filmmakers and film students, find this movie very instructional. Others find the exercise of finding the aforementioned wrong things in every scene to be quite amusing. I have to admit, I was sick when I watched this last night (or was it some dream?) and it still made me chuckle in a few spots. Best acting Breckinridge as the effeminate alien leader; worst the guy who plays Danny the co-pilot. Tor, we hardly knew ye. "},{"Title":"Awfully good","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie nearly defies description. The plot line alone is outrageous Some fruity aliens use zombies in an attempt to conquer Earth. And the visuals (if any other movie could be referred to as special effects) must be seen for a full appreciation. One can only imagine what Plans One through Eight might have been like!It is a tribute to director Tim Burton to make a biopic of Edward D. Wood, Jr. (Ed Wood 1994) which included depiction of segments from Plan Nine.Although I saw many of the B-grade SiFi movies as a teenager during the late 1950s, somehow I missed Plan Nine back then. But a buddy did see it and made the understatement of the decade saying, It wasn't very good. Mike Palmiter, Williams, IN. "}{"Title":"Enough already!","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was one of the first of my generation to appreciate Plan 9. In 1974 I was begging my friends to come over for a Plan 9 party when it appeared, as it usually did, on one of our syndicate stations. I've watched it grow in popularity until it reached the silver screen, in ED WOOD. And I've read these reviews and all seem to settle on certain points as the worst. Your stupid minds, stupid...Stupid! is a favorite. The wobbly tombstones. The bad dialogue delivered so badly-Criswell. And I agree. But if you really want to enjoy this film again (after beating it to death) read the Ed Wood Jr. biography Nightmare of Ecstasy. You'll thank me. Not only will it make you aware of other Ed Wood treasure's but you'll hear, in their own words, the stars, backers, and friends of Ed Wood explain how such a phenomenon came to exist. The film Ed Wood was based on this book (loosely.) You'll love it. A hint, the best Ed Wood dialogue is from Orgy of the Dead(Something Weird Video.) Just some friendly advice.   "},{"Title":"A Riveting Study in Sheer Badness","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, I thought it was a joke.  I thought it HAD to be someone trying to spoof high school movie projects.  Then I realized two things  one, it wasn't a joke, Ed Wood took himself seriously (I didn't realize HOW seriously until I saw the excellent Tim Burton film).  Two, it would be an INSULT to high school movie projects.Any serious film buff MUST see this movie.  It is not just bad, it is WONDERFULLY bad.  It is a paean to badness. It raises badness to a fine art. It literally WALLOWS in badness.  If they gave Oscars for badness, Ed Wood would receive the Lifetime Achievement Award.Ten Thumbs Down.  Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"so its bad.... what did you expect?","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honestly, for all the hate this movie gets, and the title it has received as the worst movie ever made I can honestly say that I have seen worse. I mean give poor Ed Wood a break! Movies like the room and birdemic exist and you are still picking on a guy who made films decades ago? come on, there are definitely worse movies out there. Not that I am saying Plan 9 is particularly good but there is worse. Bela Lugosi is in it, that is a plus how bad can it really be if Bela is in it? Still pretty bad considering that the quote that opens the movie does not make an ounce of sense. The plot is like 5 plots all at once. There are grave robbing aliens, zombie vampires, horrible special effects, and lines that don't make any sense but that all makes this ultra campy and kind of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"I didn't want to tick 'Spoilers' but 'Hey'","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this film. It's just so funny, but I feel I should share with you some parts that had me rolling around on the floor.The furniture in the 'spaceship'. Take a closer look, I never knew aliens, let alone 'The Ruler' (hammed up wonderfully by John (Bunny) Breckinridge)used wooden tables looking like they'd been taken from a landfill site somewhere. I mean, hey, surely aliens would have something other than dining tables.The 'Spacecraft'. Wonderfully awful. never mind about the flying hubcaps bobbing about. Nowhere on them flying does it show a single right angle, yet at the door of the 'craft', a flat wall leading to a corner. Brilliant! The infamous 'Night and Day' changes. These are just so crazily great. Having watched the film 'Ed Wood', I am now a firm follower of the philosophy 'Extension of Disbelief'.The dialogue 'Now, don't you worry. The saucers are up there. The graveyard is out there. But I'll be locked up safely in there. What a blast.I could go but if you've read this you've seen the movie, and if you haven't, all i can say is 'Caution, major laugh ahead'. "},{"Title":"One of a Kind","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film will continue to last the test of time, which is more than you can say for some of its contemporaries. Yes, it is one of the 'worst' films of all time - but I was solidly entertained. We studied the works of Ed Wood in film class, which surely infers that some things are just too bad to be forgotten, and that in its self is a sort of good.Of course there are flaws - hilarious ones, in the terms of the most basic filmmaking. But the passion of the director shines through every hole ripped in the set, every overturned tombstone and obvious string. Plan 9 is king of the B movies.If you are a film buff, or just want an excuse to eat popcorn, then this is one of the 'best' films around. "},{"Title":"A beautiful example of movies that are so bad they are good.","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is simply a cult classic. Seriously. I recommend watching it whenever you have the time because this is a film that is meant to be enjoyed. Yes it's horrible, cheap, unrealistic, whatever. Ed wood previously had made bride of the monster, starring Bela Lugosi. In this one, it was made sadly after the horror legend died.Yet previously, ed wood filmed footage of Bela Lugosi with his Dracula cape. In this one he used his wife's chiropractor to fill in the role. All he does is cover up his own face.Another strange thing to notice is the grave yard. The cemetery gravestones, several times fall over. You have to have your eyes open.Other than that there are other things to note, but they are not important. Ed wood finished this film in only 3 weeks.I highly recommend it. It's nowhere near any award, but you'll get a good laugh "},{"Title":"He made the movie he intended to make!","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like several of you, I saw the 1994 movie about Ed Wood, and then decided to go back and take another look at Plan 9.I have a theory. Stick with me on this. I think Ed Wood made exactly the movie he wanted to make.It's true this movie is so bad, a group of seventh graders could write, direct, and act in a better one. Even a seventh grader would not have the police leave the station, zoom along a country road, and arrive at a crime scene in night-day-night sequences in THREE different cars. And even a seventh grader would realize that if an actor kicks over a cardboard tombstone in a fake cemetery, you shoot the scene again.Wood must have known exactly what he was doing, and as he also edited the film into its final form, he could not have missed all the incredibly obvious continuity fluffs.I originally rated it five out of ten, but raised my score to a seven because as a deliberately bad movie, it's very good.Try watching it again with the thought that maybe it's a send up and Wood made the movie he was trying to make. Nobody could make a movie this bad unless he did it on purpose. "},{"Title":"Gloriously inept","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here it is Edward D. Wood, Jr's magnum opus, the legendary worst movie ever made, a film that has become a cult classic. So appallingly amateurish and nonsensical that it falls well into the so bad it's great category.You have to admire Ed Wood's earnestness. He loved cinema; he loved everything about it, the way it could create vast new worlds, new stories, new characters; he loved the willing suspension of disbelief; he loved the magic; and he loved making films... He just had absolutely no talent for it whatsoever. Seen through his rapturous directorial gaze, toys on strings became menacing UFOs from beyond the galaxy, tombstones cut out of corrugated cardboard became a sinister graveyard, and a curtained room containing a desk and some scavenged ham radio equipment became the interior of an orbiting space station. Ed made friends with aging, forgotten horror film star Bela (Dracula) Legosi, and got him to return to the screen for one last kick at the can for this film, but Legosi died during filming, so Ed hired his wife's chiropractor - who played all of his scenes with his cape over his face - to fill in.The acting, dialog, plotting, editing, continuity, lighting and literally every other aspect of the production, all are astoundingly, mind-freezingly bad. Police cars race to the scene in broad daylight, only to arrive moments later in pitch darkness. Toy flying saucers on clearly-visible strings wobble pitiably over stock footage of downtown Hollywood, or worse yet, before painted sky backdrops against which the saucers' shadows appear. At one point, one of the saucers flies away in flames, and it looks as if someone just poured lighter-fluid over the model and lit it. The cast is a motley assemblage comprised of a washed-up late-show horror movie hostess (Vampira, who plays her role mute), a wrestler with an unintelligible accent (Tor Johnson), the earnest but numbingly stupid son of one of the film's investors (who at the last minute apparently made funding contingent upon his son playing the lead role), and various other bit players dredged from the bottom of Hollywood's endless barrel of extras. Hack TV psychic Criswell provides a barely-coherent narration (he begins by referring to everything we're about to see as future events then immediately switches tenses and tries to tell us that everything is based on the sworn testimony of the poor souls who survived this ordeal. Are we supposed to assume that they survived the ordeal... in the future? Apparently so.)Pre-adolescent kids borrowing dad's video camera could do as well, perhaps better. But somehow, the absurdity of it all has captured people's hearts, and I think it has a lot to do with just how much Ed poured his love of cinema into this film, colossally inept though it is.It's pointless (not to mention nearly impossible) to outline the plot of Plan 9, such as it is. Suffice to say that it involves some aliens whose plan (the Plan 9 of the title; what happened to plans 1 through 8?) is to resurrect the recent dead using some sort of an electrode gun. Why? In the words of one of the aliens Because... of... DEATH! Because all you Earth people are IDIOTS! It's great fun, and actually stands up to repeated viewings, in order to catch yet more glorious moments of ineptitude in all their splendour. For those who want to know more about Ed Wood (including his infamous transvestism and angora fetish; he apparently directed at least some of Plan 9 in drag) you probably can't do better than Tim Burton's eponymous film, starring Johnny Depp as Ed and Martin Landau as Legosi. "},{"Title":"Charming camp fully deserving its fame","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A movie as infamous as its maker, Ed Wood's Plan 9 from Outer Space has lovelingly kept its place among such titles as Manos The Hands of Fate and the various Son of Hercules movies as The Worst Film Ever Created, and for good reason shots that have pretty much no visible relationship with other shots are loosely edited together in a stream of bad visuals, hokey acting, and the worst style of expository dialog, all wrapped up in sets that are more than just stagey and tied together with an amusingly earnest message. What more can you want? I believe it's the message aspect of the film itself that makes it so endearing. It's not enough that the movie itself shows incompetence in nearly every level, but the fact that it honestly tries to comment upon aspects of human nature is what gives it a wonderful type of charm. It's like a little kid who tries to make a political argument to a group of adults at a cocktail party... the kid is cute, and might even be right, but that doesn't change the fact that the whole thing is completely absent of acceptable logic or point. Logic is probably the best way to discuss this film, since it has absolutely none of it.Still, who doesn't agree with it? Humans are so stupid that they will eventually destroy the Universe. It might not have been the best way to state it, and it could have been said in a much better way, but Wood's failure in this instance to really make anything meaningful out of a spectacularly earnest concept helps us laugh not only at the poor quality of the film, but also ourselves as humans who know they're right.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A labor of love","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 is notoriosly one of the worst movies ever made, and yet... I just don't have the heart to rate it any lower then this. Ed Wood, the director, clearly cared so much about his work of art- he wasn't just out for the money, he really loved making movies. True, Plan 9 is bad, but it's enjoyably bad, like a high school yearbook photo. They were working with baisically no budget, and to me it's much worse when people have the money and still can't make a good film. The idea that the aliens want to destroy us to keep us from developing a bomb so powerful it could destroy the universe is actually kind of thought-provoking, especially from an age where threat of the bomb was always lurking. Had it been handled better, it could have been a twilight-zone style chiller, but even as it is, you can't help but admire Wood's efforts. "}{"Title":"Ed Wood at his very best","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though Plan 9 From Outer Space is said to be the worse movie ever, its very enjoyable and fun to watch.Aliens invade the Earth and bring the dead back to life as zombies so they can rule the World. Zombies include an old man and his wife along with a copper. They call this operation Plan 9.This movie is noted for its ultra cheap props which include cardboard headstones and what look like paper plates for the flying saucers.The cast includes Bela Lugosi in his final movie and he died before filing was complete and a double replaced him. Also starring Tor Johnson (The Beast of Yucca Flats, The Black Sleep, Bride of the Monster), Lyle Talbot (Jail Bait) and Vampira (real name Maila Syrjäniemi). Directed of course by Ed Wood.Plan 9 From Outer Space is compulsory viewing for all movie fans. Freat fun.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"You'll either love it or hate it.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Dad was the one who forced me to watch this movie and I am really glad he did. This movie is one of the worst movies ever to grace the screen.I guess so far none of this makes sense but if you enjoy watching old movies to laugh at cheesy effects (which I do) you will love this movie. The reason this movies is so good is a combination of wobbly gravestones, bad cuts, terrible scripts and strange transitions from night to day.Of course my favourite factor is how the director thought no one would notice if the dark haired main actor who died was replaced with a blonde man much taller than him. As though a few casual seeming sweeps of his cloak in front of his face and no one would ever know.This movie will forever remain one of my favourites, watch it not in the serious context that is intended but as though Mel Brooks directed it to mock the genre and you will love it.Plus a good drinking game can be played to this movie so bring out the vodka and enjoy (only if you are old enough though). "},{"Title":"Sorry, but McCathy had nothing ta do with it","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So awful it was a real pleasure watching parts of this flick. Other parts are just too draggy, such as Bela and his Vampire-ess awakening in the cemetery. Regardless of what some politically-correct reviews report, this movie was not made during the hysteria of McCarthyism largely because Senator McCarthy had been dead for a good seven years. However, some of the invasion themes were probably well- founded during the popularity of outer-space genre flicks in the late 1950's, since the humorless and closed society of the Soviet Union had launched the first artificial satellite, just one year after invading Hungary to crush the liberal regime elected there in 1956. "},{"Title":"Awful, but at least watchable","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll be the first to admit that Plan 9 From Outer Space is an awful film. But at least it's watchable, which is a lot more than I can say for other films that cost much more, and used actors / actresses that are much more recognizable.There are glaring and recognizable mistakes throughout the film, there's very little in the way of an actual story, and it's quite apparent that this film was made on the cheap - the sets are a pretty good indication of that.But for all its problems, the movie does actually have a good pace, and seems to move along fairly quickly. It doesn't feel plodding, or fluffed up like other films, especially from the B-movie genre seem to be. "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Far from being the worst movie ever made in the United States, this one is fun to watch, if only to laugh at its embarrassing gaffes and loopy characters. The plot is memorable and the actors.... well, shall we say, they are memorable too, in their way.Bad films are films that have so much vulgarity you want to throw hard objects at the screen. They have excessive violence, disjointed plots, contrived dialogue, or an underlying promotion of mindless killing, sexism, racism or ecological destruction. Bad films are films whose plots you cannot even remember two weeks later, much less two years later. This is because the film was either so slipshod or so horrible you subconsciously blot it out of your mind. PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE has none of these flaws which would place it in the worst film category, or even in the top 100 worst films category. I must have seen it four times by now. I can honestly say that most people I have met who have seen it have told me they liked it. "},{"Title":"There you have it, the worst of the worst. See it!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad acting. Bad script. Bad music. Bad editing. Bad movie. But oh so funny! You've got to see this one for yourself. A trio of hubcaps flying over Hollywood. A woman telephones the police, says the narrator with his corny voice. The army is dispatched, in vain, to saucer field activity. Someone dies, no better time than in the middle of the night to do the ceremony in the cemetery, where the tombstones are clearly made of cardboard. It's supposed to be scary as hell but the actors show almost no expression. And what about the plane's cockpit! Hilarious! The woman is told by her husband five or six times to lock the door, but of course she doesn't. A zombie walks in. What does she do? Escape via the graveyard! Feminists beware this movie clearly doesn't put the woman on the same step as man. Even the aliens may be eons years more advanced than Earth people, but the girl is still the pretty face doing what the boss says. Funny also how we go from night to day to night in a matter of seconds. Or the burning flying saucer! Funny also how the aliens look exactly like humans. So much fun! Don't miss this one! Seen at home, in Toronto, on February 19th, 2006.43/100 (BOMB) "},{"Title":"Gone With the Wind, Casablanca, Star Wars, Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes things can be so cold they're hot. Sometimes people can be so tired they're awake. Sometimes movies can be so bad they're good.Plan 9 is one of the worst movies ever made. Everything is bad - The acting, the story, the sets, the dialogue, the special effects, the editing, the production, etc.But it's not boring. Almost every scene is unintentionally hilarious to the point where it would make a great spoof movie. But that's the funniest aspect of the movie. It's not a spoof. It's supposed to be taken seriously.When Ed Wood sat down and watched this he saw an instant classic. The rest of the world saw just another sci-fi hack-job made on a budget of $500. Which it is. But for some reason it wasn't forgotten. It's standing the test of time, something very few movies do. Today, people continue talking about it, loving it, and remembering it as one of the worst movies ever made.Ed Wood thought he made a classic. And, in a way, he did. "},{"Title":"The ultimate anti-masterpiece","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't believe that the Worst film ever-label really applies to Plan 9 because this film is SO bad, so phenomenally inept that it's a total hoot from start to finish - in fact, it's probably one of the most entertaining movies you're likely to see (even if not for the reasons intended). From the utterly bizarre Criswell Predicts-opening (which makes absolutely no sense and doesn't seem to have any relation to the rest of the film whatsoever), to Bela Lugosi's infamous last scenes, and some wonderfully weird dialogue (Inspector Clay is dead ...murdered... and somebody's responsible!), this is an absolute must-see for any film lover, even if as a mere guideline in how NOT to make a movie. Perhaps best viewed with Tim Burton's biographical masterpiece of director Ed Wood as a companion piece either beforehand or afterwards. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I saw this film, I immediately thought of Tom Green's Freddy Got Fingered. They both pretty much fall into the same category. Both were made more for the enjoyment and wish fulfillment of the director and writer than for the full quality of the film. I'll try to explain. Both films are basically an atrocity as far as films are. The dialog in both films is ridiculous. The acting in both films is ridiculous. The script in both films is horrendous. BUT, we still love the films. I find them both hilarious. Let me go over some of the things I liked about plan 9.The trashcan covers posing as ufos. With visible strings. The Bela Lugosi standin who is obviously not Bela Lugosi and keeps his face covered. The dumb dumb dialog. Gems such as Stupid Stupid!!! The so so fake turbulence in the cockpit of the plane in the beginning of the film when the ufo is first sighted.I'm sure Ed Wood's films got canned when they were first released, just like Freddy Got Fingered got canned, but you can say what you want. Ed Wood and Tom Green have this in common  They got their film made. It's what they wanted to do. They went against the grain to do a film that they knew would hardly win any Oscars but they had fun in the process. How many people can say something like that?My vote a 9/10 This film is so bad that you just have to love it. "},{"Title":"A Prime Example of B-Movie Brilliance","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is there to be said about Plan 9 that has not been said already? While watching the film, casual movie viewers are usually tempted to turn off such garbage. Plan 9, in fact, is not garbage at all. Plan 9's lack of Steven Segal killing everything makes it golden. I have a rule for films, either they try to be violent as hell, and succeed, try to be an action flick and fail, or put minimal effort into special effects and instead rely on laughably bad quality. Plan 9 falls under the third. Crossdressing director Ed Wood Jr. was destined for cult status, but never lived to see that his cult would evolve into something more, believe me, Rocky Horror has nothing on Plan 9. Viewers are still trying to figure out if Wood was serious while filming, or if it was a joke. Regardless, the worst movie of all time may just as well be the best. "}{"Title":"Once in a millennium there comes a film that you MUST watch!","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Often hailed as the worst movie ever made. ***SPOILERS***I am so pleased that director Ed Wood made this film. A trio of confused and extremely slow corpses rise from the ground to wreak havoc on the earth. YES, THREE! They are risen from the dead by a load of campy aliens, desperately trying to grab earths attention. According to them we are a bunch of Stupid, Stupid! earthlings with infant, juvenile minds! At lest we wear uniform that doesn't have cut out Christmas bells on the belts and Norman (Robin Hood style) emblems on the front! Anyway, the three dead people consist of an old man that resembles Dracula in slow-motion mode, a vampire woman with hands like shovels and a giant confused man that has a grudge against the world. They are led by the wimpiest warrior / civil servant and his somewhat unwilling female sidekick. (who I think ought to be presenting Plan 9's cook-show) In the end, after a series of badly edited scenes with night turning to day e.t.c, the humans set fire to the aliens hubcap and it wobbles off into the sky. A terrible, wonderful, achievement/ B-movie. WATCH IT!!! "},{"Title":"Very bad, but not THE worst.","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Needless to say, this movie's reputation preceded it. In all honesty, I hadn't even heard of it until I read the Medved brothers' book The Golden Turkey Awards. It was listed as The Worst Movie of All-Time with its director, Edward D. Wood, Jr., receiving the Worst Director of All-Time honors. With credentials like that, of course I just HAD to see it. I got my chance later that year when a local theater had Golden Turkey night. PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE was part of a triple-bill with ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES and ROBOT MONSTER. I actually think KILLER TOMATOES is a good movie (and will go to my grave defending it). ROBOT MONSTER, which I had seen before, turned out to be the highlight (or, in this case, would it be the lowlight) of the evening. It is far worse than PLAN 9, however, that does not absolve PLAN 9 of its cinematic sins. There's the bad acting, the bargain-basement set designs, the el cheapo special effects (or should that be defects) and, of course, the haphazard direction courtesy of Wood. The Plan 9 of the movie's title (after the failure of the other eight plans to conquer the world) is the resurrection of the recently deceased. This includes a woman who looks like the Fifties version of Elvira (Vampira, who once sued Elvira for copyright infringement), a murdered police detective (the mammoth Tor Johnson) and the vampire woman's husband. He is played by the legendary Bela Lugosi, a long way from Dracula. Hell, he's a long way from SCARED TO DEATH. This is the infamous film in which footage of Lugosi in his Dracula costume was shot before the film's release, but Lugosi died before more film could be shot. Thus, Wood used his chiropractor, Dr. Tom Mason, to fill in for Bela. Never mind that Mason is about a good six inches taller than Lugosi with a different hairstyle. As long as Mason holds a cape in front of his face, we're not supposed to notice the difference between the two men. It doesn't work. This zombie trio is controlled by aliens Eros (Dudley Manlove) and Tana (Joanna Lee), whose acting isn't much different than that of the undead. The heroes are led by intrepid airline pilot Trent (Greg Walcott) and Gen. Roberts (the inimitable Lyle Talbot). As bad as PLAN 9 is, there is one thing that I found interesting that the aliens make mention of God. Though I am an atheist, I think it raises a good matter of discussion about whether beings from other planets know of Him and what do they call Him. However, I think this was added by Wood in order to get the funding from the Baptist church. Still, that is the one rose that rises from this trash heap of a movie. But, if you think of it as a comedy, you might get some enjoyment out of it. Otherwise, you'll feel, as Eros would put it, That you of Earth are idiots!.  "},{"Title":"a timecapsule to the fifties","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think the main reason people like this movie is because Ed Wood made it. Don`t get me wrong I love this movie too but if this movie had been made by someone with a less interesting life it would had been fallen into obscurity.Next to that this movie has a very special feeling about it thanks to the 50`s superstars tor johnson,vampire and chriswell. You see colorfull and long forgetten celebreties from the fifties and I think thats part of the charm of this movie.It really gives a great image of the united states in the fifties with its fear for communists and sci-fi movies "},{"Title":"Dead...And Somebody's Responsible!!!!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhere, Ed Wood, wearing an Angora Robe, is smiling. Plan 9 From Outer Space, for bad or good, got the recognition that he always wanted. Sure there are enough plot holes to resemble swiss cheese (What were the other 8 plans and why didn't THEY work?),the acting (if you could REALLY call it acting)is just SOOOOOOOOO BAAAAAAAAADDDDDDDDDD!!!! Also, the script's (WHAT SCRIPT?!?)classic lines (You see? You see? You're stupid minds! Stupid! Stupid!!!)are enough to make you fall on the floor and have serious laugh attacks. Plus, a lot of the behind the scene decisions really made no sense (Bela Lugosi's double was a lot taller and had darker hair than the late actor, and the Lugosi clips were just played over and over again! Plus, what was up with the light? It's supposed to be daylight, but it turns out to be night time!). But, it still is a wonderful film to watch on a Saturday night with your best buds. "},{"Title":"Saucers? You mean the kind from up there?","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have got to hand it to Ed Wood, the man really tried. He accidentally made one of the better comedies of the 50's. You really have to see this movie to appreciate how bad it is. It has everything bad acting, bad directing, bad writing and poor scenery. I understand that describes a lot of movies coming out of Hollywood today ( But today we have a thing called the car chase and gratuitous sex and violence to take our attention off of it.)The dialogue for Plan 9 had me laughing out loud at times. From Criswell's opening narration to Eros' breakdown of how a 'Solaranite' explosion works (Your stupid minds! Stupid! Stupid!)As far as the filming goes, I liked how it could go from night time, to day time and back again about three or four times during any given sequences. Also the stand-in and file footage used after Bela Lugosi died was poorly done. The stand in was taller and much younger than Bela, but Wood had the actor hold his cape over his face so the audience wouldn't notice. One scene with Bela has the stand-in with the cape at night on a very bad studio set, then it cuts to file footage of the real Lugosi during the day, filmed on location somewhere and then switches back again.Needless to say there was not much to enjoy from a quality standpoint, but I will say that Tor Johnson did a very convincing zombie. He looked freaky.Anyway if you have two hours to kill and $1.50 in your pocket, rent this film. It's good for a few unintentional laughs.  "},{"Title":"A Messterpiece!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan Nine is so studiously, hysterically bad it becomes endearing to the viewer. As I mused during my first viewing Is this total trash or a tour-de-force?  There's no way it was intended as anything other than high camp...right? I'm not supposed to be laughing so hard, am I? The definitive scene features an angry alien chiding the earthlings on their propensity for violence Stupid! Stupid humans! inanely written and ineptly delivered, trite and yet a cogent, insightful statement- a truly surprising soliloquy in a movie like this.  Plan Nine  so stunningly pitiful in execution it evokes sympathy, making it compelling and watchable. I paraphrase an excellent comment above Plan Nine is marriage of cinematic Vision and Incompetence that is rarely surpassed.  What an achievement! It's enough to make a Warthog cry... for the cast, crew and director.         "},{"Title":"There Really Was An Ed Wood!","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As I sat watching TCM at the beginning of a movie, I did something I rarely do, I read the credits rolling across the screen. There, for this movie Plan 9 From Outer Space, came up the name Edward Wood Jr as the producer, director and writer. I had seen the movie Ed Wood a few years back and remembered it as the story about some guy with a tiny budget and little talent for making movies who was a genius at scrounging up money to make them, finding washed up movie actors and somehow getting theaters to show them. I didn't know this guy was real. He was real! In the movie Ed Wood finds Bella Ligosi as his one star he needs to lend credibility to his productions he makes. Bella Ligosi shuffles about in despair, realizing his career is over. And when you see Plan 9 From Outer Space, you can see why. Plan 9 From Outer Space is one of those movies Ed Wood made! It would have been much more meaningful for me to have seen Plan 9 From Outer Space before seeing the movie Ed Wood. But now that I've seen Plan 9 From Outer Space it all makes more sense to me now. Both movies belong together as a set. Plan 9 From Outer Space captures the true cheesiness, the desperation and results of shoe string budgets, the lack of movie making skills and how those things all contributed to the basis of the plot upon which the movie Ed Wood was based. I think you will actually enjoy the movie Plan 9 From Outer Space. It is so bad, it's good! And I know it will make you enjoy the movie Ed Wood even more. "},{"Title":"The best of the worst...so bad you have to see it to believe it...","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE is strictly amateur night at the movies. Taken as that, you can sit back and enjoy the inept acting, direction and staging of every scene--a film obviously filmed on a shoestring budget and directed by the infamously untalented Ed Wood, Jr. If you saw ED WOOD with Johnny Depp, you'll have a special fondness for this atrociously put together film. You'll probably enjoy every minute of it! Worst performers of all are VAMPIRA and THOR, although they have competition in that department from most of the cast. Only LYLE TALBOT as General Roberts and GREOGRY WALCOTT (the male lead, as Jeff) give what can be called professional performances. The rest of the cast sounds like they're reading their lines for the first and last time.The outlandish plot has aliens devising their ninth plan to control the earth by raising the dead and controlling them to destroy the evil earth people by some sort of advanced computerized system. BELA LUGOSI's footage consists of a few glimpses of him walking around in a graveyard while most of the other shots have an actor wearing a black cape subbing for Lugosi who died during production.There's a certain creepy atmosphere to all of the graveyard scenes enveloped by mist and dark lighting and amusement in watching VAMPIRA and THOR go through their paces with hands and arms outstretched, but the film is actually not as much fun as I anticipated. Too many of the scenes are played in a manner that takes itself too seriously and none of it is the least bit convincing. The acting, for the most part, is as cardboard as the sets.Summing up Worth a look at least once, but hardly the camp classic that it has become. But by all means, watch Johnny Depp in ED WOOD.Trivia note Some scenes will remind you of the Flash Gordon serial of the 1930s--especially the dialog. "},{"Title":"Too amusing to hate","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Infamously bad, but often hilariously so. A bunch of half-witted aliens want Earthlings to recognize their existence, but the governments of the planet keep repelling them. Their latest, and ninth plan, for creating extra-terrestrial awareness among humans is to raise their dead, 'cause nothing says ALIENS! like the re-animated corpses of Swedish wrestlers, vampiric television hosts and Hungarian horror stars (of course Lugosi was almost literally brought back from the dead to be in this movie). The first time around, I only found the film sporadically funny. Mostly it was boring. Can't say my opinion of it raised too much, though I think I did laugh more this time around. I especially giggled at the whole concept of the Solaranite bomb, which would somehow cause the Earth's sun to explode, along with every single celestial body that sunlight touches. It's especially funny to me because they talk about the sun's light as having matter, and there used to be this really dull kid in my dorm in college who would argue that light had mass. He would literally argue with genius physics majors about this when he would get drunk on Saturday nights. "},{"Title":"The Day The Earth Laughed Loud.","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the confusing opening monologue to the destruction of one wobbly space ship, the is one of the most enjoyable bad movies ever made. My favorite gaffe is the utterly ridiculous cockpit with half moon sticks that appears to be able to fly itself. Bela Lugosi makes his last appearance with some pathetic lip quivering and for some reason is dressed like Count Dracula at one point, Tor Johnson seems uncomfortable saying lines but makes a good zombie, and Vampira can't hold a claw to Elvira. I kept staring at her disturbing lack of a waist. The one commendable aspect of this movie is the pace, there is always something happening. It may not make any sense, but stuff happens. This one is good for when your misery needs company.P.S. As to it's status on some people's misunderstood list. No, it is not. A bunch of wannabes rallying around a misguided fan make a cinematic wet fart. Where is the misunderstanding? I think this mentality as well as this movie are summed up best by a line from the film... You see! You are stupid! Stupid! Stupid! "}{"Title":"So incredibly stupid it must have been planned that way","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has become a cult film because it is so incredibly disorganized and full of incongruities, one gets the feeling that there must be meaning in it. But exactly what is it? Is the meaning simply that it is nonsense in and of itself. Is it really a spoof on stupid vampire and alien movies or is it - itself - just another stupid vampire/alien movie? IS it a great movie by virtue of its being so bad, but so seriously filmed, that it just keeps people coming back to find out whether it has meaning? Or is it that the viewers who keep watching it, are proving that they themselves are stupid for watching and continuing to watch a movie that never had and never will - have any meaning. A great film for overworked minds at the end of the day. "},{"Title":"The Worst, Yet One Of The Funniest Films Ever Made!","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Critics are correct when they say that Plan 9 From Outer Space is the worst movie of all time, but this doesn't mean it isn't enjoyable to watch! This has got to be one of the most enjoyable to watch movies ever! With all the mistakes, bad acting, and one of the stupidest stories i've ever heard, Plan 9 From Outer Space is a hilarious movie to watch! Eward D. Wood Jr. thought he was making a Horror movie, but really was making a hilarious comedy! When i watched it, I thought that it was stupid, yet funny at the same time. If you have seen Napolean Dynamite, you will know what i mean. I have seen this movie twice, the first time I watched as a normal movie, but the second time I watched it with the list of mistakes that the movie had, in the process, i even found some mistakes of my own. The reason my rating is a 5 is because this movie is both terrible, and enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"There comes a time in every man's life when he cannot even believe his own eyes...","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and that time for this man came whilst watching Plan 9 From Outer Space. Obviously, I went into this film knowing that I was letting myself in for something truly terrible - but even so, nothing could prepare me for just how BAD this is. To be honest, I'm still in shock - how ever did this film manage to get a release? How did Ed Wood ever dare to make a movie with that script? How the actors dare to even be a part of it? All of these questions and more remain unanswered, and all the foggy elements surrounding the movie are matched by the huge amount of unanswered questions about the movie's plot. One of the many things that Ed Wood doesn't seem to have any grasp of is plot coherency. Some of the plot holes on display are so large that you could shove Tor Johnson into them, and still have room for at least three more terrible actors. The film follows the popular fifties idea of aliens landing on earth. These are actually the most stupid aliens ever to be seen in a motion picture, and the plan that they've cobbled together proves that. They want to destroy Earth, yet they want the 'earthlings' to believe that aliens exist, and the only way that they do that is by resurrecting the dead. Basically, Ed Wood wanted to make a movie about aliens and zombies.Many people give this train wreck plaudits for being 'fun'; but personally, I've only ever been more bored watching a movie once, and that was while viewing The Blair Witch Project. Some of 'unintentional humour' is actually quite funny, and I couldn't help giggling after the film had ended; but I don't watch films to laugh at how crap the director is, and the fact that there's no characters, plot coherency, decent acting or anything else just renders this film a very torrid time indeed. This film is famous for being the last one that Bela Lugosi ever made; even though he's only in it for a few seconds, while some guy in a cape fills in for him after his death; which is probably the most ridiculous death sequence ever to grace the silver screen. The rest of the cast are equally terrible, with Vampira and Tor Johnson standing out the most, but only because they look so stupid. The film kicks off with a narration sequence, and this really sets the right mood for the rest of the movie. The voice-over is so unbelievably cheesy that it's hard not to cringe every time it features. I realise that this movie isn't meant to be taken seriously, but as far as I'm concerned; Ed Wood has wasted seventy-five minutes of my time with this stupid film, and it really does deserve all the criticism it gets. "},{"Title":"Nowadays they don't make movies like they used to...","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yesterady I saw Plan 9 from Outer Space and I was shocked. I've heard so many bad things about it that I just had to see it. After the movie I didn't know what to think about it for some time but I sure wouldn't say that it was the worst movie ever made. Of course it had a lot of issues like, let's say, stiff acting, horribly made sceneries - cemetery, saucer's and plane's cockpits just to name a few. The plot wasn't that bad at all - the idea of aliens trying to stop people on Earth from inventing the most powerful weapon in the universe was quite good in my opinion. I couldn't however sit and watch it as a horror movie, it made me laugh almost every single minute - the best part was hanging saucers (no, not flying saucers but hanging saucers, you could see strings attached to them) and the general in charge of the rocket attack. You can see his shadow on the surface of sky, and sky itself is a little bit folded in some places. I believe they used a sheet as a piece of sky. All in all it's a fine example of low-budget sf movie, and if you are interested in such things you may even like it. The rest of you will probably turn it of after 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"this movie might be awful, but it's the best","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unintentionally one of the funniest movies ever made and actually worth the rental price for sheer, silly fun; there is a scene near the end of Plan 9 From Outer Space in which flaming UFOs careen over an ominous graveyard. The scene is climactic in that it depicts the triumph of the human characters over the alien grave robbers. This scene is met with laughter by many (ALL) viewers. The title refers to the ploy of aliens to raid a San Fernando Valley graveyard, after eight failed attempts, and to resurrect an army of zombies. Plan 9 contradicts the very purpose of film-making to be engaging or altogether entertaining. The film is a dismal failure as actors' deliveries are often stalled or stilted in some manner and the camera-work functions to capture images rather than to enhance them. Wood's direction is virtually absent, as much of the film is comprised of generic stock footage.It's mind-numbingly BRILLIANT in its overwhelming, soul-destroying badness. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie, more like Citizen Kane gone wrong...","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 is NOT the worst movie ever made; that honor is probably best reserved for Ordinary People. No, from the wobbly props to the unthinkable dialog, Plan 9 from Outer Space is a labor of love. It's watchable, memorable and enjoyable. Imagine Citizen Kane if Orson Welles - all his passion and vision intact - had been bereft of skill, money, equipment and experience. You'd have something like Plan 9, but it probably wouldn't be as entertaining. Creatively maximizing the limited resources before him, Ed Wood created a full length, feature film. It took astonishing creativity to find a way to fit these shards together on a shoestring, and a will of steel to plunge ahead with the madness. I'm among the many who must cheer his chutzpah. Phil "},{"Title":"Great SF Fun","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as 1950 SF films are concerned, Plan 9 from Outer Space is a real gem. There are many comments about the blatant flaws in the movie, but some of these flaws are not really flaws. For example, the day to night and back to day inconsistency could be explained in terms of a woodsy canopy which covers the gravesite. When one leaves that canopy, daylight becomes predominant. In addition, the shabbiness of the cemetery could be explained in terms of it being very old. (I have seen old cemeteries before with the monuments stones falling apart for lack of maintenance.) The stand-in double for Bela Lugosi looks similar enough to Lugosi in his 1930s years (Dracula, Mark of the Vampire). Also the cockpit could be explained in terms of more updated technology with automatic devices in place. Bela Lugosi, Vampira, Tor Johnson - all so weird and bizarre that their presence in this movie makes Plan 9 from Outer Space such a unique hair-raiser. (Vampira reminds me of Carol Boland from Mark of the Vampire - another masterpiece of the genre).So much for the film's strengths.The film's weakness are obviously dialog and special effects. But when one considers the concept of suspension of disbelief (I will admit there is a certain amount of suspending), these are the type of elements that make this film such a delight. The best of Ed Wood's macabre thrillers.Worth watching with your B-movie buddies.Worth watching nine times.  "},{"Title":"Can't be any worse, can't be more fun to watch.","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, let me say this  whether or not a movie is good or bad is not my primary concern.  It may influence how I rate a particular film, but in the end, all I really care about is how much I ENJOYED a movie.  Pure and simple.  'Plan 9' is one of the worst films ever made, but it's an incredibly fun movie to watch.  I recommend it to anyone who likes camp, who likes to laugh at bad movies, who would like to see the movie that received the Golden Turkey Award for The Worst Film of All Time.And it probably is.  The acting is the absolute pits.  By everyone.  Check out Tor's performance.  He is reputed to be one of the worst actors to ever grace the screen. Bela Lugosi died in the middle of filming and was replaced by his dentist, who was about 6 taller.  Hell, who's gonna notice, anyway? But he was also considerably younger the Lugosi, and looked nothing like him, so he played every scene with his cape over his face!  They could've dragged anyone off the street and gotten the same affect.They sets are so cheesey it hard to believe.  Shower curtains are used to help simulate the cockpit of a space ship.  Hub caps impersonate flying saucers.  If you want to see the definitive so bad it's good film, by all means pick it up.  "},{"Title":"Just try not to watch","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's difficult to grade this picture. If you grade by quality, it's a one. If  you're grading by entertainment value, it's a 10!  It's certainly lesspainful to watch than some movies that masquerade as art, suchas The Swimmer. Or those that masquerade as action, such asPulp Fiction. This is entertaining as a production, not as a plot. Ifyou can watch an artsy picture more than once to see what youmissed the previous time(s), why not watch Plan 9 over and overagain to see what mistakes you missed the first time around? It'smore fun. "},{"Title":"I'm speechless","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worst movie ever made, but great because of it. If you want to laugh your butt off, watch this classic...  the scenes switch from night to day regularly, the spaceships are hubcaps attached to fishing wire, and best of all, the directing is AMAZINGLY bad.  The cop in the graveyard scene (with the cardboard tombstones) holds his finger on the trigger of a loaded gun, then proceeds to pick his teeth with the barrel, tip his hat with it, and point it at his deputies while giving them instructions... it's incredible.  It makes you wonder if Ed Wood really meant for this to be a serious movie. "}{"Title":"a veritable cult classic!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 is a must-see for fans of cheesy old sci-fi films.  The plot lacks believability, scenes switch from day to night without warning,  and yes, one can even see the string upon which a UFO is hung!  The only value to this film is that of comedy; even so, it's a wonderful laugh and a movie I whole-heartedly recommend.The movie, of course is the most infamous work by the great cult director Edward D. Wood Jr. Grave robbers from outer space have failed in their first eight plans to take over Earth, and move to plan nine resurrecting the dead of the planet for doing the dirty work.  People begin noticing strange happenings in a California cemetery, and the police are sent to investigate.  Strange flying objects are seen overhead.  In the meantime, the aliens have managed to revive the corpses of three people for their plan. A suspicious local pilot, the military and the police must uncover the horrific plan of the aliens and stop them before it's too late. "},{"Title":"Paper Plates from Outer Space!!  &#141;","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Greetings, my friends.  We are all interested in terrible 50's horror moovies, for that is where you and I will spend the rest of this moovie review.  ;=8) Whew, what can you say about the Creme de la Creme of Le Bad Cinema that hasn't already been said?  Suffice to say, Plan 9 is one of the worst, funniest moovies ever - it's all that AND a bag of cow chips. =8) Well.  A bunch of weirdies, including Bela Lugosi(Dracula), his taller, balding double, Vampira, Tor Johnson, an effete race of supreme aliens, and a host of paper plates passing as flying saucers all converge on a local graveyard full of cardboard headstones.  Their otherworldliness affects reality day becomes night, night becomes day, people spout out nonsensical dialogue, and sun beams can destroy the universe.  Hmmmm, perhaps that's just the Edward D. Wood Jr effect.  Wood(Glen or Glenda, Bride of the Monster, Night of the Ghouls)is now well-known as the worst of the worst directors ever.  Perhaps try sitting through any of the films by Jerry Warren, Francis Coleman, Ted. V. Mikels, or Al Adamson.  The difference, perhaps, is that Wood is sincere he really does believe he is making great films, a point brought out by Tim Burton's wonderful, loving Ed Wood. Plan 9 is a watershed mooment for Wood, his last great debacle before his unfortunate slide into alcohol and soft-porn nudies.  It is a film where everything (bad) comes together for one truly unforgettable film experience. Poor Bela died just prior to the film being made, and his likeness was vainly attempted by Wood's doctor friend, ho obviously looked nothing like Bela.  Mona McKinnon(Mesa of Lost Women, Lyle Talbot(Glen or Glenda, Jail Bait), Criswell(Orgy of the Dead, Night of the Ghouls), Tor Johnson(Beast of Yucca Flats, Bride of the Monster), and Vampira(Sex Kittens Go to College, The Magic Sword), all of Wood's regulars are all here, and they're all awful.  Every possible production woe is here in spades, from the miserably poor fx, cardboard sets, indecipherable lighting, inane editing, to the muddled film score.  Worst moovie ever??  Maybe, but Plan 9 is far moore fun than the average bore-a-thon the typical Hollywood hack churns out these days.  Yep, they don' make 'em like this anymoore! The MooCow says if yer gonna own one moovie in yer stinky cowlection, THIS is the one to git yer greedy little hooves on!  And watch he skies for those paper plates!  ;=8) "},{"Title":"Corny, yes. Awful, no.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a bad movie, no doubt about that. What really sinks it is the extremely corny dialogue - I could have swallowed the cheap effects, the director's mistakes, even the aliens that look, talk and behave EXACTLY like humans, if the dialogue didn't try - and fail - so much for self-importance. But is it the worst movie ever made? Hardly. There is an excellent comment somewhere in this page, which suggests that saying bad things about this movie is like kicking a helpless puppy. That's how I feel it may be corny and inept, but it's also harmless. It doesn't leave you feeling offended (like, for example, Sudden Impact, the fourth Dirty Harry film), it isn't vile (like Scream 2), and the short running time makes it a lot less boring that it could have been. As for the unintentional laughs this movie is supposed to provide well, there are a few (future events like these will affect you in the future), but if you're looking for a GENUINE camp-fest, this isn't quite the right movie - go watch The Exorcist.  "},{"Title":"Wooden Sets and Other Great Stuff...","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies that has ever been made. It's the Citizen Kane of Ed Wood's movies. The music is the best part of this film though and it wouldn't be challenged in it's uniqueness until Mars Attacks. The dialogue, what can I say? It's beautifully bad. The sets, wow. The horrible editing and the home movie footage of Bela Lugosi - there's just no stopping this film! (Also one of the best storylines in the history of Sci-Fi movies.)So if you want to watch a funny, yet serious movie, this one is for you - but only if your hearts can handle it...! "},{"Title":"Every bad movie should be this entertaining!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget all that The Worst Movie of All Time and Golden Turkey Award nonsense, PLAN 9 is far from being that!  Most of Wood's other output would qualify for those titles more than this little gem does.One of the most berserk, weirdest, funniest and gosh-darned entertaining movies you could find, this little beauty holds up to countless viewings with new treasures to be unearthed each time.  Whether it's new heights of ineptitude on Wood's part to new lows of inadequacy from much of the cast, this movie just gets better and better.  Listen to the soundtrack without the visuals, and it's downright psychedelic.Apparently, whoever wrote those awful 50 Worst Films pieces of garbage never saw the likes of MANOS THE HANDS OF FATE, MONSTER A-GO-GO, or THE BEAST OF YUCCA FLATS, films so bad, even the likes of MST3K couldn't make them tolerable to sit through.Not the Worst Movie of All Time, but one of the best times you'll ever have watching bad filmmaking.  A delight! "},{"Title":"Please see this video!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A few movies are as inept as Plan 9, but none, to my knowledge, is as entertaining.  What makes Plan 9 so howlingly funny is its pacing.  This movie really MOVES, which allows you to keep laughing all the way through. Most other bad movies are too slow and boring to hold your interest, but Ed Wood's artistic vision was too keen to allow that to happen to this, his magnum opus.Leonard Maltin describes Plan 9 as mesmerizingly awful.  That's exactly right -- you get almost hypnotized watching it.  And, as Maltin said, it gets funnier every time you see it.One of the best bits occurs when a police officer uses the end of his revolver's barrel to scratch his head with puzzlement.  God, even if it were loaded with blanks, it could have gone off and killed him!Plan 9's only contender for the funniest bad movie ever is Robot Monster. If you loved Plan 9, run out and rent R.M. too.  It's a scream.  "},{"Title":"Classic Badness","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space (1959) **** (out of 4) The Ruler Plan 9? Ah, yes. Plan 9 deals with the resurrection of the dead. Long distance electrodes shot into the pineal and pituitary gland of the recently dead.Yes, four stars and I don't feel a bit guilty about it. Wood's notorious cult film is without question the Citizen Kane of bad movies and remains one of the greatest, goof ball films ever made. This film is without question one of the poorest made films in history but the entertainment value ranks right up there with any of the greatest films ever made. The amount of laughs this thing gives off can rival Chaplin or Keaton and the brain dead dialogue ranks as some of the funniest ever written. There are countless goofs in this film but my favorite remains the scene where Lugosi's double, wearing a cape, is about to attack some people but the cape falls off so he must fix it before going back on the attack. Not only do we get Bela Lugosi appearing in a film three years after his death but we've also got the lovable Tor Johnson getting stuck in his grave, day to night back to day scenes, aliens who seem to be rejects from a TV show and lets not forget the funning looking flying saucers that wobble every time they're seen. Vampira, Duke Moore, Tom Keene, Paul Marco and Lyle Talbot round out the cast and all deliver plenty of laughs. This gets labeled as the worst film ever made but I have to disagree because something this funny and entertaining can never be considered something bad. "},{"Title":"PLAN 9","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  call me crazy, but i think plan 9 is a awsome movie to all those b-movie haters out there. he dressed like a woman in this 1953 film called glen or glenda. he had the greatest actor of all time for crying out loud. he had bela lugosi, the man who played in universal's dracula(1931). in 1956 the movie was delayed because of bela lugosi's death and ed wood had to find a replacement. so in 1959, ed wood found a replacement and he started making the film again with Ttor johnson and vampira and the film was a hit and this film is the one ed wood will be remembered for. vampira was payed $200.00 for her role as the cemetery zombie with the detective clay zombie, tor johnson. ed wood was going to call this film grave robber's from outer space. anyway, i really think this film needs more liking insted of all these nasty reveiws from people who says this film is a stupid movie, well sure some of the special effects in this film are dumb, but hey ed wood tryed to do his best and i think we should have more respect for him and his films and that goes FOR ALL THOSE REVEIWERS WITH NASTY REVIEWS. IN THE EARLY 1970S ED WOOD STOPPED MAKING HORROR FILMS AND STARTED TO MAKE X RATED FILMS. HE PRODUCED THIS MOVIE IN 1966 CALLED ORGY OF THE DEAD AND I HEARD IN THE MOVIE GIRLS RUN AROUND WITH THEIR BREASTS SHOWING. ANYWAY, I'M NOT TRYING TO BE MEAN TO EVERYBODY, I JUST WANT TO SAY IS HAVE MORE RESPECT FOR ED WOOD AND HIS FILMS. CHECK OUT THE 1995 FILM ED WOOD IF YOU HAVE A CHANCE.  "},{"Title":"Well, it was interesting","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 From Outer Space deserves all the flack it gets. This movie is utterly horrible, lazy, inane, cheesy, and everything else that means bad.But it has a charm to it but it is from an outside source. The Tim Burton movie Ed Wood is by far one of my favorite movies of all time. Watching that one and then seeing this, seeing those characters as real people. Seeing the last footage of Bela, seeing Criswell, and all the others makes this movie at least somewhat interesting.But the charm of seeing some of my favorite characters dies quickly. The movie is 70+ minutes of pain and torture, it is boring beyond belief, the nearly 80 minutes of film time seems to be as long as LOTR.There is really nothing here to review or enjoy, except watching with friends and playing the home version of Mystery Science Theater.Plan 9 provides some interest in fans of the Ed Wood movie but overall this movie is horrible, 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oh this movie SUCKS!...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  but it's so bad it's great entertainment.  Try finding all the little inconsistences, like the string holding up the paper plates used as flying saucers, etc.  Great to see drunk.  But as a movie - BAD! "}{"Title":"Marvelously Awful but not the worst.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most entertaining of the baaaad films. But it's far more competent than say Robot Monster or Mesa of Lost Women or Rat Pfink a boo boo  for example. The film basically makes sense.  Whereas many baaad films don't.As we enjoy the classics of the cinema, from Citizen Kane to Chinatown to Godfather Part 2 and are amazed at the exquisite scenes and the talent that converged to create these masterpieces, can we not pause to ponder the vision and the imagination and the passion that spawned this monsterpiece?I ask you can so many things go so wrong, yet be so right. Can inane dialogue be spoken with a more Shakespearean passion than occurs on several occasions here?Can some cardboard and a shower curtain pass for an airplane's cockpit anywhere else but in a Little Rascall's short or in an Ed Wood film?Oh and this is not even his worst.  See Glen or Glenda for his true masterpiece or Bride of the Monster, or Night of the Ghouls and don't forget Orgy of the Dead... he wrote and co-directed this horrible sleazy feature.There is a world to discover in baaad films and Ed Wood is an excellent starting point.  His achievements in the field are many and varied as in the mid 60's and into the 70's he turned his limited skills into making porno films.  I kid you not.  Though he died a broke, bitter alcoholic, just prior to the recognition that was deservedly bestowed upon him --partially through the efforts of the Medved brothers-- Ed Wood was unique. "},{"Title":"Not funny enough","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry, but this film simply can't live up to the hype surrounding it. The unintentional guffaws are few, once you get over the directorial ineptness. It's almost like those Russ Meyer flicks. Entertaining for 10 minutes, then repetition sets in. As cult movies go, Plan 9 is neither as rotten or as hilarious as reputation would like you to believe. If you want the definitive Ed Wood-movie, choose the incredibly ill-conceived masterpiece Glen or Glenda, or even Tim Burton's biopic.  "},{"Title":"One of the Single Most Brilliant Films Ever Created","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is so much depth to this movie that people are missing.  It seems to be a sort of an allegory for the end times.  The aliens have come to warn us about our actions, much like the Day the Earth Stood Still(1951). However, in that film, the good guys(the aliens) win the fight and proceed to destroy the earth if we don't change our ways.In Plan 9 we humans are not able to comprehend the damage that we will inevitably cause because of our arrogance.  The film does not have a happy ending.  We humans destroy the aliens(the Christ-like Messiah characters, if you will) and continue in our stubborn ways.  Not many films have ever been made with the humans being the villains, especially not in the 50's. Eddie was ahead of his time.Because Ed Wood made this film, against all odds, mind you(He had to go to terrific extremes to get it made), he is given the title of worst director of all time.  Jesus, obviously, wasn't too popular in his time, either. Ed died because we couldn't accept his message.  The public's ridicule of his film's drove him to alcohol, which eventually killed him after being kicked out of his apartment for lack of funds.I only hope that one day we will be able to comprehend Ed's message and try to change our evil ways.  Technology is only going toward one end. Complete and utter destruction.  We must listen to Ed Wood's message.  It may be our only hope. "},{"Title":"Well, it's funny in it's own kind of way","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admire this movie. Think about it... It's the only movie I know that's famous for being bad and it's been that way for nearly 50 years.Aliens are not planning on taking over mankind this time. They just want our attention. The previous 8 plans have failed so it's time for Plan 9 Wakeing up the dead.The acting is lousy and almost all the shots have continuity mistakes. The effects are horrible and the sets are hilarious. However, that's what's cool about it. If you're feeling down this movie will make you feel better. It's funny because you don't laugh with the movie, you laugh at it. I think of this movie as a must-see for all enthusiasts and if you have and open mind and not to high expectations you'll be in for a good time watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Even my sourpuss girlfriend liked this.","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you you're an elitist who can't stomach a movie that provides nothing but pure entertainment then this isn't for you.But if you've got an open sense of humor and a taste for irony then this is worth a look.There are plenty of other comments that deal with the details of just how fascinatingly poorly done Plan 9 is so there's no point in going there. This is one of those rainy night movies to be savored with goofy friends and a healthy intake of mind-altering substances. The fact that some creative 7th graders could have done a better job with almost every aspect of the film just adds to the comedy.A load of fun for even the most grim-faced curmudgeon. If you can't find something to laugh at here, there's something wrong with you. "},{"Title":"Going To Levy Town","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are going to suffer through this, I'd recommend doing it with RiffTrax. They make it bearable. The movie itself was probably okay for the time period in which it was created. The acting isn't as bad as some movies I've seen, but nothing spectacular. The ridiculousness of the plot is the major down fall of this film. It really makes no sense at all when you think about it. I really feel the conversation that led to this movie was.Hey want to do something scary?Maybe but I'd like to do something with flying saucers tooLet's do both. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie at college about 15 years ago, with a bunch of folks at a friend's dorm room, and we smoked a ton of weed and laughed and laughed until we hurt. Plan 9 is perfect for that kind of group viewing and partying, and if you try and take it seriously you'll hate it. It's unintentionally funny and badly made with some of the lamest acting ever to be filmed. It's the perfect antidote for the special effects laden sci-fi garbage that Hollywood puts out now and I'll take Ed Wood over Michael Bay any day. I recently saw the Ed Wood bio movie starring Johnny Depp, and it's very good and Plan 9 and Ed Wood would be a great double bill on a long winter night. I give it 10 out of 10, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 A Grand Guilty Pleasure","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sometimes wish that I could genuinely rate films merely on how entertaining they were and not their quality. However, this film is really awful. The production designs look like they came off the set of a middle school play, the dialogue is giggle worthy, the acting is stiff and the story is about as well constructed as a tower of jenga blocks. But man was it fun! The charm of this film doesn't come from the movie so much as it comes from how much you can make fun of it. You can tell though that everyone tried their hardest to make this a good film. But they simply lacked the talent to do so. The best way to describe this film is like it is the cinematic equivalent of that klutzy office guy. You know that one guy who is really nice and kind but is also a complete doofus and continues to mess up almost all the time. That is this movie in a nutshell. Thanks for reading and God Bless! "},{"Title":"Omg my eyes!","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched this film today because I was suggested by a few lads in my business class to watch this. Boy, I made such a mistake in watching this, it was extremely bad.The narrator Criswell had a very annoying and unprofessional voice, hearing it just nearly bleed my ears. What the hell was Edward D. Wood Jr thinking really? That this film will be a box office hit, in his dreams!I honestly felt sorry for the actors especially Bela Lugosi who was successful in his film Dracula and not successful on his Last role. Such a disgrace for an actor like him should've been better off to avoid terrible movies like this! I will still know him as Dracula but I'm just so annoyed that Edward Wood didn't give him a better chance!Storyline horrible, voices terrible, the UFO shockingly chronic, genre wise terrible, everything is terrible with this movie! You have to avoid this so it doesn't ruin your night! "},{"Title":"Worth A Watch","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are people who say Plan 9 From Outer Space is the worst movie ever made.. I agree this is not a quality film but I disagree that this is the worst film ever made. I have seen worse. Much worse. I would put the film in the category of a fairly decent film to watch for fans of B-rated sci-fi and horror for it's novelty and somewhat entertaining value.You will not see much of Bela Lugosi here...in fact, hardly anything at all from him. He passed away during the filming. You can see quite a bit of Tor Johnson and Vampira in this one.The story is not all that good. In fact is terrible. Yet it is fun to watch so I do recommend this movie for sheer the novelty of it and because it is Bela Lugosi's last film before his untimely death on August 16, 1956.6/10 "}{"Title":"Weird and Fun","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens resurrect dead humans as zombies and vampires to stop humanity from creating the Solaranite (a sort of sun-driven bomb).This is one of those worst films of all time, though it is one of the least deserving of that title. Bad? Sure. It uses some crummy effects and archive footage to achieve its goals... the plot is silly.But it is also really fun, and in some small way very much a precursor to great films like Night of the Living Dead. And it was a nice showcase for Tor Johnson and Vampira. Heck, Tor is largely known only for this movie. I would also say Bela Lugosi, but he had really nothing to do with this. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good?","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Various people encounter a flying saucer. The aliens reanimates recently dead husband (Bela Lugosi) and wife (Vampira). They kill Inspector Dan Clay (Tor Johnson). More flying saucers arrive but are beaten back by the army. The aliens activate Plan 9 to reanimate all the recently deceased. They aren't trying to conquer the Earth but rather simply make contact.It's bad. It's really bad. The writing is bad. Just wait until the monologue about solarbonite. The acting is really bad. The directions are stiff. The sets are amateurish. Is it so bad that it's good? When the aliens are revealed for the first time, it is so bad that it is hilarious. That's one moment in the entire movie. After watching a lot of bad filmmaking, it gets a little depressing. I will credit Wood for keeping the movie somewhat coherent. It's bad but there are worst out there. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest B-Movies Of All Time.","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens resurrect dead humans as zombies and vampires to stop humanity from creating the Solaranite (a sort of sun-driven bomb).Plan 9 From Outer Space is a legendary movie as far as B-movies are concerned. Is this movie a bad movie? Yes it is. But at the same times, it's also a great movie. Plan 9 From Outer Space is one of the greatest B-movies that you'll ever see, and probably just about the best (if you could call it that), that you'll ever get from somebody like Ed Wood. Plan 9 is one of those movies that is so bad, but at the same time, it's good. Like I said in an earlier review, Ed Wood had a talent for taking movies that were low budget and cheesy to the level of an art form. This movie is definitely proof of that. In many scenes, it is extremely obvious that the movie is low quality. In the first scene where a UFO appears, string is clearly visible above it. Then there's a scene in a graveyard where somebody hits a tombstone and it wobbles, obvious Styrofoam right there. And not to mention that on top of all of this, there is plenty of bad acting, writing, and directing, but hey, that was to be expected, because after all, it's an Ed Wood picture.As I just mentioned, the acting is laughable. Tor Johnson appears as Inspector Clay, a police detective turned zombie, just the expression on his face should tell you everything you need to know about it. Dudley Manlove gives a bad performance as Eros, one of the aliens who is leading the titular plan. Paul Marco returns in his role as the cowardly policeman named Kelton. Bela Lugosi appears in archive footage (as he died before the production on this film began). To replace Lugosi, Wood hired Tom Mason, his wife's chiropractor to be a stand-in for him. Mason's is not successful at hiding that he's not Lugosi. And in a funny scene, where his character is being riddled with bullets, his Dracula cape suddenly begins to slip off his shoulders and then he quickly pulls it back into place. And of course, there's Criswell, who provides narration for the movie, as well as giving opening and closing monologues.All in all, while this movie is definitely a bad movie, it's also a so bad it's good movie. It's a movie that's so bad, but is also so funny, that it makes it an enjoyable experience all the same. Out of Ed Wood's three movies from 1955 to 1959, this one is my favorite. As far as B-movies go, this is a required viewing movie, it's essential for your film education on bad movies. Ed Wood was something of a genius, while his movies were bad, there was always something about them that made them enjoyable, and hey, those movies are probably better than most of the modern movies that get put out today. Cheap sets, bad acting, laughable writing, and ineffective directing, this movie has got all of these, but hey, it's an Ed Wood movie, so were you really expecting as much?Can you prove that it didn't happen?10/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is, in its own right, a masterpiece. A symphony in bad film. Quite possibly the worst film ever made, and therefore, one of the most entertaining things you'll ever see. Buckets of laughs for everyone around. Terrible acting, terrible dialog, terrible sets, terrible editing, terrible everything. With gems like future events such as these will affect you in the future, followed immediately by the suggestion that this has already happened (time duality?), the fact that the script was written in 2 weeks somehow doesn't seem surprising. And it's beautiful. So, so beautiful. Best watched when you need cheering up. I guarantee Plan 9 From Outer Space will bring joy to your soul. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's disasterpiece","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Future events such as THESE... Will affect YOU... In the FUTURE!Plan 9 from Outer Space is nowhere near the worst movie ever made, as anyone who's seen it might testify. What can be said about it? It defies any traditional movie-making conventions and does it without any shame whatsoever. Wood had to have the cast baptized in order to make this bizarre film, and that's the least strange thing about it. The original title Grave Robbers from Outer Space was later ditched, but Criswell mentions it during the intro nevertheless. Plan 9 is promoted as almost starring Bela Lugosi because he died before the film could even get finished, and the footage of Lugosi from this film was originally filmed by Wood to be included as a part of his movie The Ghoul on the Moon, which never got made, so Wood just shoehorned those scenes (which just involve Lugosi walking around by his house and later by a cemetery) in Plan 9. Wood's wife's chiropractor Tom Mason substituted Lugosi (despite looking nothing like him).Ed Wood tried to send and anti-war message in Plan 9, and while some of the themes he brings up do sound interesting, they ended up being so hilariously mishandled that you just can't help but laugh at them. From the technical side, nothing in this movie works. The wobbly, cheap sets ft. cardboard gravestones and beat-up fences, the super-fake flying saucers held by visible wires, the awkward transitions between the daytime and nighttime shots (and some other poor uses of day-for- night photography), the lousy editing, the bad interspersion of stock footage of soldiers and actual scenes that were shot for the film, the visible equipment, etc. etc.The acting is, of course, atrocious as well. Most of the actors sound wooden and uninterested (Mona McKinnon as Paula Trent), some completely ham it up (Dudley Manlove as Eros), and some are barely intelligible (Tor Johnson as Dan Clay). The dialogues are absolutely nonsensical and just further attenuate the film's anti-logic (We contacted government officials. They refused our existence.). In Ed Wood's universe, outer space has an atmosphere and flying saucers are described as resembling cigars. Not only that, but Criswell's narration is overly dramatic without any real sense of measure ( The beautiful flowers she had once planted, with her own hands, became nothing more than the lost roses of her cheeks. - WTF does that even mean???) However, the music is actually pretty cool.Plan 9 is such a beautiful disaster of a film that one just can't love it enough. So far it's been colorized, there's a remake in the works and it also spawned a series of popular Halloween masks based on Tor Johnson's face. I mean, what's not to love...Perhaps, on your way home, someone will pass you in the dark, and you will never know it... For they will be from OUTER SPACE! "},{"Title":"A Few Side Comments","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 400+ reviews-- obviously Wood did something right. Not even high-class soaps like Gone with the Wind (1939) have attracted that much attention. So why add another review that will probably never be read. Well, as an old movie fan, no library of reviews is complete without reference to this dictionary of bad movie-making. I really can't add anything that hasn't already been said, except, yes, the movie is bungled down to the last jot and tittle. But I do have to hand it to Wood's perseverance and entrepreneurial spirit. No matter how many screw-ups, he plowed on and on and on. I do wonder if he was generally indifferent to the gaffes, didn't notice them, or couldn't afford the film for re-shoots. Whatever, the reason, we've got 80-minutes that we can all laugh at, feel superior to, and be entertained by. That really does take some doing in a weird way. Plus, the screenplay&#x97;if you want to call it that&#x97; is ironically on target when warning about humanity's destructive potential. Too bad it's couched in such a ludicrous setting. Anyhow, here's a Zombie Oscar to maestro Wood. After all, Turkeys end up on dinner tables, whether Golden or not.A 1 on the regular scale. A 10 on the bad movie scale. "},{"Title":"A cult classic. A legend in it's own way.","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I couldn't figure out if this was indeed the worst movie ever made. I was forced the watch this the other day and I didn't actually mind it. Compared to things I've seen before, this didn't stand out too bad. For something of it's time, it didn't seem that bad.Mind you, there is good bad, and there is bad bad. Bad bad is a movie that combines all the elements listed above--bad acting, bad directing, etc.--to produce something that bores. Good bad combines the same elements in such a way that a highly entertaining movie is made, although not in the way the movie makers hope.Plan 9 is not just good bad, it is brilliant bad. It is unintentionally hilarious such as Birdemic or The Room, and that's as funny as it gets. Plan 9 is nothing but bad, albeit in a wonderful way.As an example of bad production values, there is a scene where a police car is speeding away from headquarters. As the action begins it is broad daylight. The next scene is the car racing across the city. Now, however, it is night! Next is the car arriving at its destination, a cemetery, and again it is daylight. That is either one huge city, or somebody on the Plan 9 crew was asleep at the switch.Plan 9 is so full of great badness that to detail all the goofs, flubs, and cheesiness would require remaking the entire movie. The cemetery is a weed-infested lot; an airline cockpit set is a shower curtain, some plywood and a couple chairs; a cop scratches his head with the business end of a gun barrel; the outside of the space ship has a ladder that goes nowhere; the plan itself, that is, plan number 9, makes no sense at all. And on and on and on...If you love movies, and want to consider yourself conversant in all genres of film, seeing at least one bad sci-fi movie is a must. Plan 9 is the Hamlet of that genre. See it with a couple people who get it, and have a great time. "},{"Title":"simply not watchable","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There was a time when Ed Wood movies have suddenly became fashionable, probably aided by 1994 Tim Burton's movie about him. Everybody was praising him as the worst director of all times. As it is the case with best-of titles, we might argue whether it has been deserved or not. It usually helps if you make your own opinion about it, so i went to see Plan 9 from Outer Space, that Ed Wood masterpiece.I must admit that despite all goodwill and patience i brought to the screening the movie proved to be unbearable. Everything was bad the script, the sets, the acting. There hasn't been a single good thing to mention about Plan 9 from Outer Space.It would be interesting to understand what leads the people to praise this movie. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Saved The Universe","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ed Wood's masterpiece, made with a low budget and filmed under trying conditions, is the greatest movie in the history of mankind. Bela Lugosi (whose reanimated corpse grew a foot taller), Vampira and Tor Johnson comprised the zombie army that was going to march on the capitals of the world. The alien Leader (John Bunny Breckinridge) had Bela's reanimated corpse destroyed, in order to strike fear in the humans, as opposed to some world leaders, who would have called for more troops. In the world of Plan 9, such outdated concepts as day and night, the living and the dead, and original footage and stock footage, have no meaning. But I have yet to reveal the true greatness of this movie.The alien Eros (Dudley Manlove) explains that his mission on Earth is to destroy us before we develop the Solaranite bomb. His metaphorical explanation of the Solaranite bomb is chilling. Take a can of your gasoline. Say this can of gasoline is the sun. Now, you spread a thin line of it to a ball, representing the earth. Now, the gasoline represents the sunlight, the sun particles. Here we saturate the ball with the gasoline, the sunlight. Then we put a flame to the ball. The flame will speedily travel around the earth, back along the line of gasoline to the can, or the sun itself. It will explode this source and spread to every place that gasoline, our sunlight, touches. Explode the sunlight here, gentlemen, you explode the universe! America, Russia and China were all working on developing a Solaranite bomb when this movie was released. All work on that was stopped, and all records were destroyed, shortly afterward. To quote Criswell, Can you prove that it didn't happen? "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi's Dead","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From what I understand and from hints in the movie Ed Wood by Tim Burton, Ed Wood created this movie based on the last footage he ever shot of Bela Lugosi. I recently just watched the colorized version, which adds a lot more dimension to the film. All I can say is the dialog in this film is superior to many recent films, especially Star Wars Episodes 1-III.Basically Ed Wood's premise for this film was superior for 1953, he just lacked the resources to make it well. He blended in Stock Footage with his framing story well and his editing was actually rather good. The parts he shot himself have good audio and decent film grade, so it's not really that shoddy. And it is also LIT well. This is one of the earliest true Zombie movies ever made.And when it comes right down to content, some of Ed Wood's Science - It's not really that implausible compared to other films where I had to stretch my imagination, I can suspend disbelief due to how the Ruler of the Galaxy and the other aliens explain the mechanism they are using to raise the great Tor Johnson from the dead and remote-control his body- And then Waporise him later.Wood, like Hitchcock before him, knew how to not show something to get the same effect as showing it, and it works here- We don't see Bela Logosi's Ghoul getting vaporized, but we easily see that it happened. The same trick was used in Seven Men from now by Bud Beotticher- in the light-speed gunfight between Lee Marvin and Randolph Scott, Randolph Scott is shown to have an amazing quick-draw speed, simply by not showing him drawing his gun. Wood uses that same Fakery in this film.What is amazing is that I can see two guys in Pilots's uniform sitting in a obvious cardboard set, but you BELIEVE they are flying an Airplane.I don't consider Wood as a great director, he was adequate. He was better than some directors of today that get handed billion dollar projects on a regular basis. If this film had been adequately funded, it would have been another Forbidden Planet- But only if Wood had stuck to writing and producing it, and not also directing.I have to admire the gall of Wood, and in the movie Ed Wood, he seems to have the same kind of friends I have, and that he befriended Bela when nobody in Hollywood would even talk to him, shows what kind of person he really was.This film literally Marries Lugosi to 50's LA Horror host Vampira, so from the time this film was released forward, the two have been synonymous.This also marks the film with possibly the most lines spoken by Tor Johnson, who was a great Character actor in his own right. His Inspector Clay - Well, I believed him- It's not his usual kind of part, which was why it worked.So, when people say How can anyone rate this a 10/10, I don't think they really comprehend how difficult it is to get Films funded and produced, especially when you are handed a reputation by an industry that is not fair in how those reputations are meted out.Somebody SHOULD remake this today and add Plans 1 through 8. "}{"Title":"A must see","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In California, an old man (Bela Lugosi) grieves the loss of his wife (Vampira) and on the next day he also dies. However, the space soldier Eros and her mate Tanna use an electric device to resurrect them both and the strong Inspector Clay (Tor Johnson) that was murdered by the couple. Their intention is not to conquer Earth but to stop mankind from developing the powerful bomb Solobonite that would threaten the universe. When the population of Hollywood and Washington DC sees flying saucers on the sky, a colonel, a police lieutenant, a commercial pilot, his wife and a policeman try to stop the aliens.Voted one of the worst movies ever made, only it's really not that bad. The saucer effects are surprisingly good for a movie made for no money. Use of stock footage is effective.Yes, the acting is horrible and the writing is pure Wood. But it's a watchable movie and the fact that it's stood the test of time just says that it's really not so bad. And the fact that Ed Wood got people to put money up for this movie gives much credit to him. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Good-Bad movie.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This gains a reputation for being one of the worst movies of all time. But is that really fair? Personally I love this movie. It's so easy to make fun of for one thing, but also It's incredibly entertaining. Edward D Wood Jr. did this because he wanted too. If he ran into a roadblock he would just say Well let's do it another way. That really shows in this movie. So the plot. Aliens attempt to take over the world by resurrecting the dead. But they only resurrect 3 zombies and that's it. Vampira plays the first zombie who somehow kills people by wiggling her fingers. The second is sort of but not really Bela Lugosi. Let me tell you what I mean by this. So Lugosi died before the production started but luckily Wood shot silent footage of Lugosi wandering around a cemetery in his Dracula cape which was originally intended for another film. Therefore Wood put these shots into Plan 9. Because you can't exactly fill an entire role with like 5 or 6 minutes of footage he had to get someone in the role to fill in. He got Tom Mason, his wife's chiropractor to fill in Lugosi's role. Mason did this by constantly covering his face with the cape. It's credited as Lugosi's last role but you can still tell that Mason is taller than Lugosi and looks nothing like him. The third zombie I will write about later but now I'll talk about other things. The flying saucers for instance. They always seem to be wobbling and quite often you see the strings. They even cast shadows on the outer space back round. And the mother ship look's like it's part of the back round. The aliens look like normal people and one of them acts like a little kid. But the film kind of has an antiwar message because the aliens are trying to stop the people of earth from building a bomb that can destroy the entire universe. Anyway now I will talk about the third zombie. He's played by Sweedish wrestler Tor Johnson who previously worked with Wood in Bride of the Monster. He had no speaking roles in that movie but he does in this one. You realize why he had no lines in Bride of the Monster when you watch this film. He's killed by the two others and eventually becomes the third zombie. It's incredibly funny because he get's stuck trying to come out of the grave. His face became a popular Halloween mask. people have analyzed how bad this film is. But Ed Wood should be applauded for at least getting the film made in the first place. So it can't really be the worst film of a time at all. I've seen plenty worse. And one thing it is not at all in any way, is boring. It's incredibly entertaining and that to me is the whole point of a film. So although it's considered one of the worst films out there, I say it's one of the best. "},{"Title":"Come on, it's not THAT bad","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The worst movie ever made? While Roland Emmerich and Michael Bay remain at large? Talk sense. Maybe it's the influence of Tim Burton's 'Ed Wood' talking, but 'Plan 9' has an endearing rubbishness about it that makes it cheerfully inept rather than flat out terrible. Of course there's no escaping the shoddy direction, the obvious body double for Bela Lugosi, the pitiful acting, and the lack of scale when aliens invade with an army of three zombies. If you're going into it looking for laughs, though, the dialogue is where you'll find them 'Greetings my friends. We are all interested in the future. For that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives. And remember, my friends, future events such as these will affect you in the future.' Ouch! 'The home they had so long shared together became a tomb, a sweet memory to her joyous living. The sky to which she had once looked was now only a covering for her dead body. The ever-beautiful flowers she had planted with her own hands became nothing more than the lost roses of her cheeks.' Huh? 'One thing's sure. Inspector Clay's dead. Murdered. And someone's responsible.' Well, yes. It's an easy film to make fun of, but it feels a little like kicking a helpless puppy in the face. "},{"Title":"the worst movie of all time........NO WAY!!!!","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" anyone that is familiar with ed wood i think know why he is famous. he has been considered the worst director of all time making some of the worst movies ever. i could agree to that at the end of his career when he made orgy of the dead and then all the porn from then on. but his films before, sure not exactly sophisticated in anyway and they have some very bad acting, special effects and story lines, are masterpieces in their own right for some BIZARRE reasons. and plan 9 from outer space is definitely no exception. sure ed did work very cheap and fast and it really shows in this film. but the entertainment value in this film, despite all the bad lighting, bad special effects, bad acting, bad writing, bad sets, bad costumes and make up(whoa long list) anyhow despite all this the movie is nothing less entertaining as ever. you can say what you want but no way is this movie boring its so fun to watch its ridiculous. plus i would think the worst film ever wold be one that is unwatchable because overall the whole point of a film is to be entertained and this movie does. that really is all that needs to be said I GIVE IT A PERFECT 10 OUT OF 10!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A movie with complex ideas...","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As much you try to come to a final opinion about this movie is really difficult to decide whether it is actually a bad movie or a good one. There are terrible mistakes that make it a hilarious movie and there is something surreal in an extremely artistic way,which I think it was absolutely accidental. Maybe it's a reflection of the hallucinating passion that Edward D. Wood felt for the world of cinema and a mind not cinematographic structured. Anyway Plan 9 from Outer Space is hugely successful, even if all Hollywood industry considers Edward D. Wood has one of the worst directors. With no sponsors and no money is amazing how he manages to find a way to make the movie and how he replace Bela Lugosi with another actor who is not an actor( just phenomenal). In fact I think it's great that Tim Burton has made the movie about Ed Wood, he managed to give an idea of the whole production process of the movie and Wood's chaotic mind that continues to fascinate me. The poorly constructed scenarios end up damaged in the scenes,such as the graves in the cemetery that are run over by the police and eventually fall, just hilarious! Even if you have a bad idea of the movie you should see it! "},{"Title":"Plan 9 Therapy Sessions After Watching This Movie!","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, as you can tell from the title, this is going to be another disgruntled critic review, much like my review of Home Alone 4. This review is written just for fun, so sit back and have a few laughs with me as I try to do a humorous review of this heinous movie, curiously titled Plan 9 From Outer Space. Remember, this is just my perspective on the film so if you have a different perspective, feel free to let me know of your opinion. Until then, let's dive right into what I consider to be a flame broiled turd. First off, I'll say that I have been, for the longest time intrigued by director Ed Wood. He has been considered by many to be the worst movie director of all time and although I'm not a big fan of his films, I admire his efforts and his passion for his work, reenacted in Tim Burton's 1994 biopic Ed Wood. I did however have a hard time sitting through this slop fest of a movie that was said to have been shot as is. When Ed Wood shot a scene, that was the scene that ended up in the finished movie. Wood wasn't fond of editing either and it really shows in this movie. The main problem I had with Plan 9 From Outer Space is probably not the same problem others have with the movie. Some say it has bad acting, bad cinematography and bad special effects, but that's not even scratching the chalkboard on why I disliked this movie. IT'S TOO DARN BORING. I had to drink 30 cups of coffee and smack myself in the face several times to get through this vomit sandwich of a movie and even then, I wasn't intrigued in the slightest about what was going on on the screen. The great Bela Lugosi, who died several years prior to this film's release, only appears in stock footage and the actor who replaced him in the movie was none other than Ed Wood's wife's chiropractor. I'm not even joking. The guy doesn't even look like Bela Lugosi, so much so that he has to keep his cape in front of his face the entire time, which comes off as not only annoying, but distracting in every scene he's in. Imagine if Superman or Batman kept their capes in front of their faces the entire movie. In Nolan's trilogy, it would only make Batman's raspy voice even more ridiculous than it already is. And the other actors aren't so stellar either. Maila Nurmi, better known as Vampira is always walking towards the screen with that DER! look on her face and wrestler Tor Johnson as Dan Clay always looks like his cat climbed up a tree or something. Do all these actors get paid good money to make these darn annoying facial expressions? Gee, they put Bella from Twilight to shame. Perhaps the best actors out of the film are the flying saucers, and that's not saying much. These things are so inconsistent throughout the film, for they are always changing size and shape whenever they are shown. The people who made them could have taken lessons from Ray Harryhausen on how to make flying saucers look real and believable.But as I said before, this movie is just boring. I wish I could build a time machine, go back in time, meet up with my former self and warn him not to watch this mess of a movie. This movie has more inconsistencies than the Frankenstein film series. I much rather have spent the time plucking hairs out of my noise or repainting the Sistine Chapel than watch this concoction of black and white crapiness. The scenes were filled with nothing but technobabble and there was not enough suspense and excitement to keep me invested. Paint drying would have made for a better movie.The acting is bad, the special effects are cheap looking and inconsistent, the plot is all over the walls and I really don't remember one stinking scene from this wonky slime covered tripe. There was absolutely no scene that left an impression on me and coming in at 1 hour and 30 minutes, it's way too long for a film of it's kind. That's 1 and a half hours I'll never get back! Oh good lord in the heavens, why did I watch this movie! It was an awful experience that I shall never watch again! Curses! Curses! Curses! I guess I'd better calm down. "},{"Title":"Bad movie lives up to legend","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the opening, where we told about people testifying about future events that haven't happened, to some of the worst set designs ever, Plan 9 From outer Space lives up to the legend of it being one of the worst movies ever.And this is where the movie is actually okay, if the plot could be co-herent. The plot, if one could call it that is about a race of aliens looking to invade Earth using an army of the dead, which can be controlled by Electro guns.There are several cases of night turning into day, and day into night, and a scene where a police officer scratches his head with a loaded gun. This all in addition to severe overuse of stock footage to advance the plot.That all being said, Plan 9 is not with out charm. It is the perfect b level low budget film. It is entertaining, funny in spots where its not supposed to be, and filled with enough over the top scene chewing acting, It really is a so bad it's good style movie.However, I don't think that Ed Wood should still have the honor of being the worst director of all time. At least, not while Michael Bay is still making movies "},{"Title":"The worse film ever, I do not think so.","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space carries the ungrateful honor of being considered THE worse film ever. While I agree that on technical terms the film leaves much to desire, but does that alone make Plan 9 the worse film ever made? I do not think so.Edward D. Wood Jr. was quite an character and a mediocre director at best (Insight entirely based on Tim Burton's 1994 biographical film Ed Wood), but his most famous production Plan 9 from Outer Space is unjustly labeled as the worse film ever. Granted the script, acting, screenplay and technical execution overall are sub par, but even with all its shortcomings, one must admire the directors relentless will to pursue his vision and produce films which defy the mainstream.Plan 9 from Outer Space is a movie which simply cannot be taken seriously and thus judging it purely on its technical merits alone seems unfair. I found myself mostly amused by the campiness and clumsy improvisations to which the director had to resort to in order to complete the film. And there were times when I found myself honestly interested with the out of this world story of space invaders who aim to stop humans from creating a doomsday weapon.. With the help of Zombie henchmen! Plan 9 from Outer Space is technically a bad film, no question about that, but I could name a dozen worse and more annoying films easily. Once the viewer gets past the film's technical shortcomings there is actually an oddly entertaining film experience hidden within the crude outerior shell. "},{"Title":"The most ridiculous movie","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bizarre movie I've ever seen. I know this movie when I was looking for info about the worst movie in the world on go-ogle search sites. Apparently, wow! This movie did not help the poor! But the ugliness and absurdity of this movie, in fact the main attraction.Is there a worse movie than this?I think no. Bizarre movie I've ever seen. I know this movie when I was looking for info about the worst movie in the world on go-ogle search sites. Apparently, wow! This movie did not help the poor! But the ugliness and absurdity of this movie, in fact the main attraction.Is there a worse movie than this?I think no. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst Hollywood film ever made!","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To someone who hasn't heard about this movie, one would wonder, why review a movie that was made in 1959. But, its claim to fame is that is the overwhelming view that it is the worst movie ever made! The negative publicity has made many, including me, watch this movie. It's not surprising that the film enjoys a cult status today!Originally titled as Grave Robbers from Outer Space, the idea of aliens robbing graves is absurd and ludicrous. But, guess what? They have a benign intention to save the Universe. And how do they do it? By keeping earthlings busy with zombies, they can prevent humans from creating a mega-weapon that could destroy the universe. Noticeable lapses are cheap production design characterized by cardboard sets and overuse of curtains, irrespective of whether the scene was of a house, an alien ship or a cockpit. Of them all, the cockpit was the worst with flimsy looking controls, radio tied to the suits of one of the pilots and a boom mike visible occasionally. The movie totally lacks special effects although Hollywood was already into shooting films with special effects. Scenes like the spaceship flying, etc., are extremely tacky. Probably it had to with its abysmally low budget. Budgets that are way below even B-movies, this film is a classic example of what are called Z-grade movies. Making matters worse for the film are its incoherent and pointless script which wavers between being comical to silly to sometimes preachy. Repetitive footage of cars or flying saucers does get irritating after a point. Examples of poorly written dialog include my friends, the future events will affect you in the futureThe biggest goof was to recycle stock footage of Bela Lugosi from an abandoned project 'Tomb of the Vampire' which was shelved after the actor's death in 1956. This way, director Ed Wood could use Lugosi's name in the credits to promote the movie.A 1994 film tilted 'Ed Wood' was based on the life of the the director of this film. The film was directed by Tim Burton with Johnny Depp playing Ed Wood and it portrays the outlandish antics resorted to by the film crew to make Plan-9. In a way, it was this Academy Award winning film that made me curious to know more about Plan-9.In fact, the real life director who was infamous for making low budget films was posthumously awarded the Golden Turkey Award for being the worst director ever. Another of his films 'Glen or Glenda' too ranks among the worst films ever made. Nevertheless, it is believed that Wood, a big fan of Orson Welles, was proud of the fact that he donned multiple hats as writer, actor, director, editor simultaneously.Plan-9's cult status is justified as it represents the nadir of Hollywood. But, unless someone told you, one may have never heard of it; the movie channels ignore it too. If you are a film aficionado, do watch it; at least you can say that you have seen one of the worst movies ever made in Hollywood's rich cinematic history. "}{"Title":"1001 ways to use cardboard!","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shellac-haired Criswell, bow tie and all, nods his head violent as though he were having a seizure, as he obviously reads from cue cards and narrates this tale of future events which happened in the past, concerning pompous aliens (who appear strangely human, and speak perfectly clear, yet bloviated, English) who resurrect the dead to kill the living, so that there are more dead to resurrect, in an attempt to convince humans that the aliens are really here on Earth, yet kill people who are aware of them, to keep Earthlings from detonating a bomb which will explode particles of sunlight, and thus destroy the entire universe. After killing an old man (played, in stock footage, by Lugosi) , he is miraculously resurrected as a taller, thinner, and considerably younger man who must hide his face behind a black cloak, for reasons which are either too complex for our simple Earth brains to comprehend, or just not explained in the alcohol-fueled mishmash of a screenplay. Initial UFO sighting by the pilots is said to happen at 3.45am, but it also is implied that it is taking place at the same time as the woman's funeral (who has a funeral at 3.45 am?) and everything appears to happen in broad daylight. But the subsequent funerals all appear to be held in the pitch black night, but police arrive on the scene after driving in broad daylight, only to arrive during the same night. The film's abrupt changes from day to night make it seem each scene takes place over the course of about 85 days. Or, can these pompous, nitwit aliens alter the earth's rotation around the sun, without anyone noticing or acknowledging it? Hilariously, insanely awful; this barely even qualifies as a film, as much of the footage seems to be silent footage, or stock/ newsreel footage, with nothing linking it to the other scenes, with background noises and ridiculously dramatic music added to the soundtrack, with some almost completely meaningless original scenes interspersed throughout the reels of film. This, the most infamously inept movie in the history of film, is also one of the funniest, and most watchable, and should be seen at least once by everyone, preferably taking a drink of Sake every time there is a continuity error to further enhance the experience. Future events, such as these, will affect YOU in the future. *glug* *glug* *glug* "},{"Title":"One of the best worst movies ever.","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It fails miserably as a sci-fi or horror movie. But it's so bad it unintentionally succeeds as a comedy. This is the kind of film that gets 1 star as a sci-fi film, but maybe a 8 or 9 as an unintentional comedy film.If you're a 90's guy like me, think back to the Angry Beavers. Remember the Oxnard Montalvo clips? Thats this movie. boom mics in the shot, UFO's with strings, casting a shadow on the space backdrop, crappy stock footage, knocking over the gravestones in the graveyard. It's easy to see why Ed Wood was one of the worst directors ever. And it's easy to see why this has such a cult following.I'm going with 7 out of 10, because even if it's not for everyone, if you like a good bad movie, this is a classic, and if you aren't sure what the hell a good bad movie is, this isn't a bad place to start. "},{"Title":"You Speak of God...!?","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this were a silent satire it would still be stupid. There is no rationale for this film. The time period, the budget... this film made me want to activate Skynet and have it destroy the 50's.All of them.Plane. Cockpit. Two pilots in a small, featureless white room sitting behind two solid, u-shaped pieces of board (steering wheels). The absence of aeronautical equipment bearing switches and lights still leave you feeling as though this weren't quite a legitimate cockpit? No problem. Radial protractor on the back wall.Advanced alien beings (by eons of your earth years) stand chatting in a flying saucer. Turn on the Televisor? Sure - it's the switch to the right of the flashing STREET CONSTRUCTION SIGN BEACON.Had this been any other production I might've thrown my monitor. However, this was much less a movie and more evidence of a crime in progress. I was literally mesmerized by how insanely awful this movie was.The ONLY reason for seeing this film would be to be able to join in a discussion on how flipping bad this film was. That is literally it. This film bears not a single redemptive quality. I wouldn't even use this film to show a student how NOT to make a movie. Seriously.A previous reviewer said the dialogue must be heard to be believed. I've heard the dialogue and I still don't believe it. You know why? Because it's unbelievable, that's why.I was going to quote the film here but when I realized how much time it was taking me to isolate a single shining example of how viciously the dialogue sucked I got annoyed and just dropped it.See this film. Do it. You should see this film JUST so you know I'm not being dramatic. It won't hurt, either, because it's so mind-numbingly bad you won't even notice the time. Just do yourself a favor and don't buy it - whatever you do. "},{"Title":"'One thing's sure. Inspector Clay's dead. Murdered. And someone's responsible.' Nowhere near the worst film ever made.","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space is set in Los Angeles & starts in a plane thousands of feet above the ground where the pilot Jeff Trent (Gregory Walcott) sees a flying saucer & reports it although he is later told to forget it & not tell anyone else about the sighting, meanwhile in a small cemetery a recently buried woman (Vampira) returns to life. Soon after her dead husband (Bela Lugosi) also returns to life as the aliens in the flying saucer begin to carry out Plan 9, a last resort plan after peaceful attempts to contact Earth's governments were ignored in which they intend to bring the recently dead back to life to wipe out all of humanity to protect the Universe from our destructive ways & to prevent to creation of the Solaranite bomb that explodes sun beam particles & will wipe out the entire Universe if used. A local cop, Jeff the pilot & an Army Colonel (Tom Keene) are our last hope s they try to stop the aliens from destroying the world!Originally titled Grave Robbers from Outer Space the Baptist Ministers who funded the film vetoed it & was released as Plan 9 from Outer Space, edited & directed by Edward D. Wood Jr. this film is now generally regarded as the worst film ever made which I don't think it is, not by a long way but it all comes down to personal opinion I suppose. While Plan 9 from Outer Space is certainly an incompetent film on all levels how can I call a film I enjoyed watching & gained solid entertainment value from the worst film ever made? I can't. At only 78 minutes long at least it's fairly short, it moves along like a rocket & is an absolute laugh riot to watch. Call me insane but I quite enjoyed Plan 9 from Outer Space for what it is, a badly made mess of a sci-fi horror film but a hugely entertaining one with a certain charm & likability that is hard to ignore. The script is often hilarious, some of the dialogue has to be heard to be believed with classic lines like 'Visits? That would indicate visitors' or 'We are all interested in the future, for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives' or 'Future events such as these will affect you in the future' & 'I don't like hearing noises, especially when there ain't supposed to be any' & the closing statement of 'Can you prove that it didn't happen?' just rounds things off perfectly & left me throughly amused considering the question that was just asked. The plot doesn't make any sense & it's hard to believe that these aliens could destroy the Earth using three zombies, having said that Plan 9 from Outer Space is undeniable fun & has a feel of something that was a labour of love for Ed Wood & he seems to be trying to get some sort of message across about the perils of war & atomic bombs along with Government cover-ups even if neither he or his cast & crew had the talent to pull it off properly.Technically Plan 9 from Outer Space is as inept & funny as it is conceptually, there are all sorts of continuity problems including it switching between day & night in the same scene several times, there are glaring boom mic shadow's, a cardboard crypt that has a door so small that everyone needs to bend down to enter or exit it, a so called graveyard at the start that looks like an empty field, the way cop's shoot at people approaching them without even saying anything first, sets that consist of black curtains, a plane set that is merely two chairs & a couple of paper steering wheels (the auto pilot also uses a candlestick phone to talk to the tower!), actor's knocking over headstones in the cemetery scenes, flying saucers that look like pie dishes & are clearly held up by strings & the expression on Tor Johnson's face when he is turned into a zombie is priceless. The whole film is just so funny on so many levels yet has a certain charm that I liked.With a supposed budget of about $60,000 the behind the scenes stories are just as fascinating as what ended up on screen, Bela Lugosi died a few days into filming & Ed Wood simply used a body double to complete his scenes & had him cover his face with his cape! Filmed in 1956, copyrighted in 1957 but not officially released until 1959. The acting is really bad, so bad it's fun to watch how badly & how wooden the actor's get. Horror hostess Vampira is quite striking but doesn't get any dialogue & her waist line is incredible, apparently it was only 17 inches.Plan 9 from Outer Space is the sort of film you have to see to be believed, I really liked it & thought it was throughly entertaining although it's hard to recommend as I can't say it's a good film at all but one that I enjoyed for all it's faults & it has many. Spoofed, referenced & parodied in countless other films. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood was a genius, Master of  the Bad Movies","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" where do you start with Ed Wood's Jr. Masterpiece. First,Bela Lugosi was so far over the hill you would need binoculars to see him. In those days they had B movies.This would be rated way below ,maybe a D-.or F+. Tor Johansson was terrible,He could not act.the rest of the cast nobody knows. I don't remember this movie ever being shown in any movie house. The miracle is how ED Wood Jr. got this movie made. Johnny Depp did Ed justice by accepting the role of ED Wood Jr.It was hysterical. Back to the movie. Plan 9. There are some many bad things that happen in this movie. cardboard headstones ,I love this movie.The dialog, Zombie vampires rise up and invade the living world. Because solarnite is doing something to the universe?? What? The Budget must have gone to after production costs.like the film processing. editing, and Bela Lugosi drugs. When he died during filming,they replaced him with ED Woods chiropractor. I will watch this movie tonight and maybe watch Beast of Yuca Flats.which was also best of the Bad. "},{"Title":"A Film that Defies the IMDb Ratings System!","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankly, I have no idea how to go about rating this. It should technically be given low marks because of the spectacular ineptitude with which it was made, but&#x85; but&#x85; It's just too much fun! Every absurdity found in the film seems to somehow paradoxically work to its benefit &#x96; the stupefying dialogue, the model flying saucers on strings, the stock footage which stands out because it oftentimes seems of better quality than other parts of the motion picture. Ed Wood's magnum opus may be brimming with dumbfounding incompetence, but it is too entertaining, too much of a zany delight, for me to rank it down with truly unbearable atrocities of cinema.The plot of Plan 9 deals with the ninth plan of an apparently highly advanced alien race (though if they were so advanced, you'd think they'd have been able to succeed the first time around) to conquer Earth by resurrecting the dead from cemeteries. Wait, did I say conquer? I'm not sure. The aliens' motives alternate throughout. Sometimes it seems as though they want to take control of the planet. Other times it appears they just want recognition from the human population. And in the end, the aliens warn their captives &#x96; an army colonel, police detective, and hotheaded airplane pilot Jeff Trent &#x96; against the dangers of the 'Solaranite bomb' and act as if they are taking part in a crude and silly mimicry of The Day the Earth Stood Still. Have they come to Earth to give Earthlings a message, a la Klaatu? Maybe&#x85; I guess&#x85; Except it is clear that the aliens intend to kill their human captives after telling them about Solaranite. So there is really no point in telling them much of anything, is there? I mean, if these humans are just going to be bumped off in a few minutes? &#x85;Whatever. To seek for logic in the plot of Plan 9 is futile, but it is undeniably amusing to try and to, of course, fail.Along with the idiotic storyline, the performances help propel Plan 9 to its status of legendary badness. They range from humorously wooden to being so outrageously over the top and campy that they are a joy to behold. In the first category are the acting jobs from the people in roles like the airline stewardess who pops into Jeff Trent's shower-curtained cockpit from time to time or Trent's bland and pillow-cuddling wife. At one point, Mrs. Trent states to her husband, The saucers are up there. The graveyard is out there. But I'll be locked up in there. The total lack of emotion in her voice has to be heard to be appreciated. The second category contains many of the (few) actors playing aliens, like Dudley Manlove as Eros and John 'Bunny' Breckenridge as the Ruler. Manlove is probably the best (?) thing about the film. His obnoxiously authoritative voice and outrageous facial contortions make for an unforgettable character &#x96; so pompously sure of his own superiority, yet so ludicrously imbecilic. One of his best moments is when his female comrade, Tanna, attempts to speak out to the Earth people. As she does, Manlove silently fumes with more and more increasing intensity, at last roaring, THAT'S ENOUGH! and flinging her roughly aside. It's like he's a cross between a sexist tyrant and a petulant kid! (After this, Eros haughtily informs Trent and the others, In my land, women are for advancing the race, not for fighting man's battles! Is that so? Well, why is this woman in uniform and in her planet's military, then?) Likewise, John Breckenridge's droll, eyeliner-wearing alien Ruler can almost always spark a snicker, especially when he is shown rolling his eyes exasperatedly at Eros. He seems as aware of the character's ridiculous arrogance and stupidity as anyone in the audience.Ah, Plan 9! Where else could one expect to find footage of Bela Lugosi outside of a house, sauntering to an off-screen demise as the shot freezes with Lugosi's shadow still in view and lame sound effects suggest a car crash? Where else could flying *saucers* be said to be shaped like cigars? Where else but in the wacky world of Edward D. Wood Jr. could narration be delivered by the loud and lilting voice of quack psychic Criswell? Where else could a viewer experience such grandly hilarious dialogue as, YOU SEE? YOU SEE? YOUR STUPID MINDS! STUPID! STUPID!? See it. It really is one of the best of the worst. "},{"Title":"Damn.... good","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I became interested on the legacy of Edward Wood after seeing Burton's fantastic 'Ed Wood' from 1994.This film here is, well, you've heard it all before, but to my amazement, it isn't nearly as disastrous as I expected. Yeah, its still a very poor film that is entertaining enough and cheesy enough for me to recommend, but not nearly as much as I thought. In fact, I wish it had been even 'worse' that way I would have probably loved it. Overall, I did like it. It's far too demented to warrant the title as the worst ever, and its probably not even one of the worst I have ever seen. It actually has a pretty intriguing plot, but hopefully one day they make this film ith much better quality. "},{"Title":"Bad but a lot of fun","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must admit that I was entertained by P9FOS. Yes, it is atrociously bad and cheaply produced, but that lends to the entertainment factor. The way that the undead characters shuffle about with their arms outstretched, mouth agape and staring blankly - how campy and classically so! At least P9FOS doesn't have the inane and annoying narration that you find in The Beast of Yucca Flats (another z-grade film featuring Tor Johnson). Just as life is not complete without having eaten both lobster and a hot dog sometime in life, one's cinematic experience is not complete without watching both wonderful films such as Shawshank Redemption or Gattaca, and awful films such as Plan Nine from Outer Space and Monster A-Go-Go. Both extremes of cinematography are I must, IMHO. "},{"Title":"Earth People are Stupid!","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gather that Ed Wood was an engaging guy. He was handsome, a cross dresser, charming, and full of humor and generosity. He just wasn't a film maker.Of course an extremely low budget knee caps a movie right from the start, but it can be partly compensated for by the exercise of some talent in front of and behind the camera. There's no talent on display here. The dialog, written by Wood, drops like lead balls. The tag lines aren't witty or poetic. The plot is disjointed and makes no sense. And worst of all -- it's uninteresting. The acting is a fornication upon the altar of Thespis.I mean -- three metallic flying saucers appear over Hollywood. The Army, as usual, is called out to shoot them down. The attempts fail. The colonel in command watches the saucers as they fly away unharmed. A captain steps into the frame wearing a smile. You worried about them, sir? he asks.On a positive note, I watched this all the way through some years ago and took another crack at it tonight but gave up after half an hour. Yet it made me think. Yes. It was thought provoking. The thought it provoked was, Is there such a thing as a movie that's so bad it's funny? I mulled this over at some length. I'd seen a lot of movies that others put in that category. I'd seen John Wayne playing Genghis Kahn in The Conqueror. (Yew're beauty-full in yewr wrath.) And I finally decided on an answer.No.The category of movie that's so bad it's funny belongs to what logicians call a null set -- occupied by nothing. "},{"Title":"I'll bet my badge that we haven't seen the last of those weirdies.","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flying saucers are spotted over Los Angeles and some recently-buried folks have risen from their graves to frighten the locals. Terror ensues! Not really, of course. This film has consistently been voted Worst Movie Ever Made and really is horrendous. It looks like a sci-fi film your sixth-grader wrote and filmed over a weekend. Director Ed Wood was never daunted by a lack of talent or money, he just loved making movies; this one would be fun for a Halloween party viewing with friends who enjoy a good laugh.The plot is negligible, the script is terrible, the actors can't act, and the special effects are a joke. Oh, and the star, Bela Lugosi, was actually dead by the time the movie was made (Wood created it based on some incidental footage he made of the former Dracula just before his demise).The movie has no redeeming qualities unless you think kindly of Ed Wood and understand the unbridled joy that movie-making brought him. I give the movie 1 star but the fun factor earns 10 stars. An excellent documentary is included in the Extras. "}{"Title":"Ed Wood's cheese lover's special","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another Ed Wood spectacular and probably his most famous. Hovering hub caps on strings, moving astroturf in graveyards and megastars like Tor Johnson and Vampira make this fun viewing. Top-billed Bela Lugosi died after filming about two short scenes, which are recycled throughout the running time. Bela's uncompleted scenes were filmed by a shorter man holding a cape over his face! There is, however, one area in which this film, along with Queen of Outer Space has it over most other sci-fi of the era. The aliens in both of these films have an explanation as to why the Earth people and the aliens can understand each other's languages. Cheesy? Of course! But not quite as dumb as you might think. "},{"Title":"I'm not sure I like this music","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many years ago I bought a long playing record, comprising many of the well known light classic pieces, by the Bournemouth Sinfonietta. The thing about the Bournemouth Sinfonietta is that the members were all genuinely mad keen about music and playing it, it was just that none of them had any discernible ability on their instruments. The record was therefore a screeching, discordant cacophony from which one could just about extract the identity of the particular piece of music as the Sinfonietta laboriously strangled it to death.It was very funny - it was released as a novelty item - and I got a lot of mileage out of inflicting it on family and friend. And the joke was all the funnier because of the sincerity of the musicians. But you wouldn't want to listen to that album too often in fact I don't think I ever listened to it all the way through.Plan 9 From Outer Space is essentially the same joke. The boundless passion, commitment and determination of Ed Wood, tied together at the ankles by the twin bindings of insufficient resources and complete technical ineptitude, means that Plan 9 (and every one of his other films) was never going to do anything other than fall flat on its face right out of the starting gate. For that reason it is very funny, and it beats the Bournemouth Sinfonietta hands down by being very funny all the way through.But, although it is a delight to inflict on unsuspecting family and friends, I wouldn't want to watch it that often - just like the Bournemouth Sinfonietta! "},{"Title":"I'm Afraid I Don't Understand","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're reading this, you probably already know the film's plot. I don't intend to delve into it, but I've put up a spoiler warning anyway. I'd rather not be blacklisted.Thanks to Netflix I have at last had the odd pleasure of viewing the infamous Plan 9 from Outer Space for myself, and I must say that I am puzzled that this managed to secure such an appalling reputation for itself. Surely, in all the history of cinema, there are worse films out there than this? Yes, this film is bad, I don't deny it. But it's watchable. That in itself gives the film merit which I cannot give to others I've seen. The plot is full of holes, but many well-received modern films have that problem, too. The special effects, particularly the flying saucers, are indeed laughable; but hey, the giant ants from Them! weren't too great either, yet THAT film is held up as a classic in 50's sci-fi. Go figure.The acting is poor, but far from outright egregious. The stars spout their dialogue with no more or less skill then others did in other B-movies. The aliens do little acting, but plenty of speaking; a good thing, as Dudley Manlove, who plays the alien Eros, can barely act, but has a great voice. As for the zombies, two of them are under the impression that they are in fact vampires an identity crisis that provides unintentional amusement throughout the picture.In the writing, the film truly shows its ineptitude. The story is poorly explained and the dialogue is some of the worst I've ever heard. The editing is no better; shots that run for too long, sound effects vanishing and reappearing between cuts, and spontaneous jumps from day to night and back again are just a few of the film's ailments. Still, the movie is not so incoherent that you cannot understand what is happening. Besides, these flaws are more likely to induce laughter at their stupidity than outright disgust.Maybe Ed Wood's other films (none of which I've seen as of now) were bad enough to taint this one from the day it was released. A bad movie, indeed, but not the worst ever. Not even the worst I've personally seen! To this day I hold the first Twilight to be the most awful film of my acquaintance. THAT film fails at every conceivable level acting, writing, special effects, cinematography, entertainment value... it isn't even funny in its dreadfulness!My final word? Maybe I'm just not very demanding of my movies, but to me, Plan 9 from Outer Space is a really poor 50's B-movie that received a worse reputation than it deserved. More than worth a view for those with the patience, or at least in want of a good laugh. "},{"Title":"The Most Charming Film of Schlock Cinema It's so bad it's good","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Believe it or not, films exist which are not nearly as entertaining and amusing as Plan 9 From Outer Space. The film begins with one of the most ridiculously silly monologues in film history, its opening line so dreadfully obvious that I crack up every time I hear it We are all interested in the future, for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives. A filmmaker trying to consciously make a silly film could not come up with something so cheesy that it truly is reverse genius. You had to believe you were a genius to make something so bad it's good.Only Ed Wood who was in love with everything he did in film and convinced of his own brilliance didn't know how bad his projects were. Apparently, he truly believed he was a great filmmaker. However, only a bad filmmaker who thought he was a great filmmaker could make drivel so unutterably inane that it is actually entertaining and works but not for the reasons intended by the filmmaker. If Wood had tried to make the film better it would not be nearly as entertaining. The production of Plan 9 was truly awful but the people involved didn't really appear to notice, least of all Wood, which is what makes it so fun to watch the finished film. Ed Wood became the only filmmaker who made schlock into a new and unparalleled art-form, bad cinema for its own sake!What makes Plan 9 fun is not the story which is completely incomprehensible, not the acting which is absolutely atrocious, and not the silly flying saucers which look like Frisbees painted with silver with little hubs on the top. (In some scenes you can see the strings!) Even the wobbling tomb stones are not enough to make this watchable but certainly add to the charm. What makes Plan 9 the wonder of wonders is the dialog, which is so painfully ridiculously it is absolutely 100% entertaining. Nearly every line is a laugh. I don't know if you could make dialog this funny unless you didn't know how to write good dialog! Take for instance these linesColonel Edwards This is the most fantastic story I've ever heard. Jeff Trent And every word of it's true, too. Colonel Tom Edwards That's the fantastic part of it.or Lieutenant John Harper But one thing's sure. Inspector Clay is dead, murdered, and somebody's responsible.or one of my favoritesPaula Trent I've never seen you in this mood before. Jeff Trent I guess that's because I've never been in this mood before. The lines are so over-the-top they are unpredictable, unexpected cliché which makes you take notice. Screenwriters are taught to avoid cliché, so I guess when it happens at this magnitude it is quite startling. You can't help bursting in on wave after wave of laughter which never ends. I have watched this movie several times, about every 2 to 3 years, and the lines always surprise me yet again, usually because I have forgotten most of them. This movie never ceases to entertain, although there are parts that aren't quite so bad, just dumb, and those I have to fast-forward through. There are times when the 78 minutes seem longer. Maybe Plan 9 really is pure genius. Maybe the whole joke is on the audience who thinks the movie was intended as a serious SF thriller with an anti-war message, but it wasn't. Maybe Wood knew what he was doing all along, but I doubt it. You can't know what you're really doing to make Plan 9 do what it does! Does that make any sense? The closest analogy I can come up with is Jay Leno's Headlines on the Tonight Show. Newspaper headlines (outside of yellow journalism) are not meant to be funny, which makes them more funny when the wording turns out to imply things which weren't intended. This is the essence of Plan 9. The intention, apparently, was a serious SF thriller but the results are a laugh-a-minute. Not even John Cage could come up with something this crazy. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 remains an insane one of a kind movie","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For many people this Ed Wood film typifies the idea of so-bad-it's-good cinema. That I can go along with, as it hardly needs stating that Plan 9 from Outer Space contains an absolute multitude of unintentional hilarity. Equally, a lot of folks consider Plan 9 to be the worst movie ever made. It's here that I have to take issue. Not only is this not the worst film ever made, it's not even close to being the worst. It's way too entertaining for that. Like all of Wood's output this film has quite a specific weirdness to it. Wood was by any conventional standards a thoroughly incompetent film-maker but he was most certainly unique. His individual stamp is clearly evident in all of his movies. The rubbishness of his technique and the unbelievable clunkiness of his writing combine to produce films that often beggar belief. But they are always a bit odd and always fascinating. His films are always an honest attempt by someone who wanted to make movies but didn't necessarily know how. The results are very memorable and always possess a great deal of soul and charm about them despite their complete and utter daftness.With Plan 9 he produced his most famous and iconic work. It has probably achieved this because it contains so many separate points of interest &#x96; Criswell's deranged narration, those 'special' effects, bargain-basement acting, hilariously atrocious dialogue, the use of footage of an already dead Bela Lugosi, the replacement of Lugosi with an actor a foot taller than him, that cardboard graveyard, the somewhat obvious stock footage, the car of changing colours, Tor Johnson & Vampira, the 'exploding sunlight' concept, night-for-day / day-for-night, that fiery finale, etc.It's Ed Wood's most ambitious picture for sure. It combines Gothic horror with science fiction to bizarre effect. It has probably three of his most iconic stars &#x96; Lugosi, Tor, Vampira. So ultimately, it's not surprising that this is his most famous film. While I do tend to think it drags a bit in its final stages, I have to say that for anyone at all interested in Z-Grade cinema, this is simply a must. It's hilarious. It's bizarre. It's unique. So bad it's good? Yeah. The worst movie ever? Are you crazy? No! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite 1950s sci-fi movies","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Long derided as the worst movie ever made, Ed Wood's Plan 9 from Outer Space remains one of my favorite 1950s sci-fi movies.Sure it has inane dialog, amateurish production values and terrible acting (although one would be hard pressed to find any actor who could have done better with the material given!) I enjoy Ed Wood's movies. One can not deny that, despite his apparent incompetence as a film maker, Wood's movies are fun to watch. That's more than can be said about many more prestigious directors.If you are one of the few that has not yet seen Plan 9, the basic plot is that aliens revive the dead as zombies to march on world capitals in order to stop the Earth from discovering the secret to solarinite, the premise being that Earth-men's stupid minds wouldn't know how to use it and would destroy the universe.Naturally, the stupid minds of red blooded Earth-men object to this vehemently and track down the aliens to their little spaceship hidden near the cemetery.A battle ensues which causes the spaceship to burst into flame.As the movie ends, we see the flaming spaceship (actually a paper plate or hub cap on a string) blow up over Los Angeles.As the narrator asks Can you prove it DIDN'T happen? "},{"Title":"Actually okay","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space was voted the worst film of all time. That of course is complete nonsense. At the time numerous B Sci-Fi and horror films were produced and a lot of them weirder (Teenagers from Outer Space) or worse (anything by William Beaudine really) than Ed Wood's films. And if you are looking for the worst films of all time, do not look further than Italian straight to video fare from the 80s. Anyway, Wood is an easy target to make fun of because he took himself and his films seriously whereas Beaudine saw himself as a craftsman who would film the phone book if required to do so. Of course , Plan 9 is ludicrous but as a b movie it works quite well. Wood was actually quite good at producing reasonable low budget special effects (in fact, he was often used as a consultant on other films in the 50s and 60s)and they are okay. Unless you are really looking for it you won't actually see the strings on the flying saucers. I'm not comparing Plan 9 to 2001 A Space Odysee but within the framework of 50s b movies , the effects are actually okay. The same goes for some of the sets like the aircraft cockpit. Yes, it's plywood and a shower curtain with some bits of a fake computer but it works because no one at the time knew what a cockpit actually looked like. The thing is that most b movies at the time wre quite frankly extremely boring and that is something you cannot accuse Plan 9 of. It keeps your interest, is reasonably well crafted and of course it has the typical Ed Wood dialogues which really are hilarious. And that's where Wood taking himself seriously comes into it. He really saw Plan 9 as his Citizen Kane. However, Plan 9 has some iconic scenes like the zombie like Vampira or Tor Johnson rising from the grave. The make up is actually pretty good. I'm not saying this is a great film but i don't really think it qualifies as being so awful that it's great. Within the standards of 50s cheap sci fi movies it's actually okay. "},{"Title":"Overrated? Perhaps.","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The word 'overrated' is thrown around a lot on IMDb - usually without justification - but it seems appropriate when discussing this supposedly so bad it's good, worst movie ever made candidate, which for me doesn't live up to the hype.Sadly this film wasn't as side-splitting as I'd been led to believe. In fact it wasn't very funny (or interesting) at all.Maybe if you were with a large group of people and you were all drunk and/or stoned, then maybe you could derive some cheap laughs at the expense; but really that has nothing to do with the film and a lot to do with the individual experience. A large enough inebriated-audience would probably laugh and joke wildly through Schindler's List if the mood was right; but that doesn't change the objective quality of the film.I just found this to be a rather dull, below average '50s B-movie. The worst thing about it is the editing; the discontinuity and the use of the same footage three or four times during different parts of the narrative (the shot of the police car driving by the cemetery is used four times; the shot of Lugosi flapping his cape is used twice, etc).Other than that it was badly plotted and suffered from some rather flat, lacklustre performances from a mostly amateur cast. But at no point would I call it so bad it's good; more like so mediocre it's boring. Or perhaps my generation has been spoiled by the truly awful and endlessly hilarious likes of Ben & Arthur and The Room.Either way, calling this the worst movie ever made is giving it more credit than it deserves. "},{"Title":"In terms of technical issues this movie sucks, but visuals are not what movies are about.","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Throughout this movie there is clearly visible flaws, but it is entertaining film. Also what I mean by entertaining is that it is truly entertaining, and not so bad it's good. Zombies, aliens, tombstones, this really is a cool movie. Also I think the cinematography isn't bad. The black and white looks classic. The acting is also not that bad. There is a lot of overacting, but everybody is charming in this movie. This movie is slammed for its visuals sucking, but nobody is willing to watch it for entertainment. In terms of true entertainment this movie is a good film. Who cares that the visuals suck at least I can enjoy what is good about the movie. This movie is entertaining enough that flaws won't stop me enjoying this movie.3 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"I'd Do Her!","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course this drivel is a 10, and anybody that says it's not shall turn to a skeleton in an instant! That being said, I must admit that this is the most hokey film that I love to love simply for the audacity of its poor quality mostly throughout. Its hallowed lower rank status among the forerunners of Hollywood Alien/Atomic Cafe clunkers is legend.Here you have at one hand some somewhat solid scenes delving into the tried and true Yes, we the Military KNOW there are Flying Saucers, but it's unwise to panic the populace scenes. And at approx 4310 there's mention of the Human to Alien language translation Computer. And I'm wondering if that's one of the first mentions of Computer in cinema.Regardless, later on the Humans and Aliens are talking a blue streak of script, and nary an earpiece is evident for the translation, ha-ha.I don't EVEN want to go there when it comes to the freaky small waist of the Vampire freak woman. But let's just say I'd do her if the airline pilot's wife wasn't available. And that's another thing, in that the airline pilot's wife apparently plays both his wife and also an Alien on board a flying saucer. And WHAT an Alien she is! Darn, she's got great thighs and a butt that wont stop, and of course a 50s era brassier that's pointing those knockers at attention.Sadly, there's only a bit of woman bare foot action in this flick. It could have lasted longer, but of course the scene lost continuity and her bare feet were suddenly covered up again, even though she was asleep and not shifting in bed... darn you Mr Ed Wood!Sincerely, Chauncey Sonney Earlington, III "}{"Title":"It's not really that bad","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've heard so many bad reviews and forum posts about how utterly terrible this movie is. I saw it on badmovies.org last night and decided to watch it. I expected to get some weird cheesy sci fi movie that I could laugh at. What I didn't expect was how much I'd actually like it.I mean sure, there are some dodgy parts, like how you can see the string that's holding the flying saucer up, and how a punch obviously didn't connect yet the guy reels back anyway and the kinda weird alien/ zombie hybrid story but overall I actually really enjoyed this. I didn't laugh at the movie except for those parts I mentioned above. The acting wasn't really bad and the story was neat in it's own little way. It's certainly not the total garbage everyone's making it out to be. "},{"Title":"How could anyone hate this  movie? It's sheer entertainment!","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So this is it, the big one, supposedly one of the worst movies of all time. A few years ago, I saw a terrific movie called Ed Wood, if you haven't seen this movie, please do, it's a great one. Ed Wood is dubbed as the worst director of all time, but if you see Ed Wood and read his biography, you can't help but actually like this guy. Despite the fact that he knew he was making trash, he never saw it that way, he had such passion for film and admiration for it. I don't think he looked at Plan 9 from Outer Space as a disaster, but something that could be a treasure one day. Believe me, this was a bad movie, but there is this certain charm about it that makes it into the category of so bad, it's good. You can tell the cast and crew of the film actually did their best to bring this story to life. Even though the flaws are obvious, I can't help but love this film. I know this goes against everything that I believe in where a bad film is a bad film, but I honestly had such a good time laughing that I don't want to give the movie a poor rating.In San Fernando, California, two gravediggers are filling the grave of a deceased woman, the young wife of an old man . Suddenly they hear a strange noise and decide to leave the cemetery. As they turn to leave, the resurrected corpse of the old man's wife attacks and kills them. Absorbed in his grief over his wife's death, the old man walks out of his house and into the path of an oncoming automobile. At his funeral, two mourners discover the bodies of the gravediggers. Inspector Daniel Clay, along with several police officers, come to the cemetery to investigate. While searching the graveyard, Clay encounters the female zombie, who is now joined by the corpse of the old man. Clay is attacked and killed by the zombies. Trent is watching the cemetery with his wife, Paula, and tells her about his flying saucer encounter, stating that the Army has sworn him to secrecy about what he saw. He suspects that whatever is happening in the cemetery is related to his UFO encounter.This movie is just a miracle, one of those movies you have to see to believe. One of my favorite moments being that the detective has his gun in his hand, the finger on the trigger and he is scratching his face with the gun and just waving it around at people as if it's a pointer. I also nearly died laughing as one of the film's most genuine moments of horror where Clay gets out of the coffin, but you can tell he gets stuck and can't get himself out. Of course how could you forget since it was Bela Legosi's last film and there was only stock footage of him shown, they needed him for more shots so they hire someone who looks nothing like Bela and is beyond significantly taller who just covers his face with the cape. The villain is very possibly Dr. Smith's distant relative, because I cannot believe how flamboyant he was. The aliens look exactly like humans and claim to speak a different language even though one of the aliens is named Janet. The big solution to all of life's problems? Blowing up the sun! I loved the line If we blow up the sun, we become a stronger nation, oh, boy, did that line kill me in tears. Also the line We have to admit they were years ahead of us, cut to the next shot where the UFO is on fire and explodes. Yes, this movie is bad, but it's just too much fun to say Skip It. Like I said, you have to see it to believe it. Ed Wood was a clumsy director, but given the time and money he had, give the man some credit, he knew what the audience wanted and that was entertainment.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Public Service Announcement From Ed Wood","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had trouble picking whether to give this movie 1 or 10, but ended up giving it 10 because of all the movies I have watched because of this film. This movie, is so incredibly awful that it may be the best movie ever.If I hadn't watched this movie I wouldn't be the person I am today, although whether that's a good thing is debatable. Since watching Plan 9, I have on occasion begun eschewing good movies for unintentionally hilarious movies and atop that bargain bin of movies, Plan 9 reigns supreme.This movie is so incredibly stupid that I have never seen anything like it, and it makes regular stupid movies seem totally sane. The movie is about a group of incredibly stupid aliens who seemingly invade Earth, but turn out to be trying to protect us... from ourselves! The aliens land on Earth and begin raising a small gathering of zombies from the dead. They then attempt to use their new minions to threaten Earth into stopping work on a bomb called solarnite or something similar, I can never hear exactly what they say. Unfortunately, they don't tell anyone what they are trying to accomplish until right before the end.The whole movie has no tension whatsoever and oddly enough makes less sense the more you watch it. However, I would recommend it to anyone with a good sense of humour as you will need it to retain your sanity.The reason I would recommend Plan 9 to almost anyone because it is perhaps unique in that it actually got made. I for one would have loved to have been in the board meeting when this film was suggested, but I could probably have said the same for pretty much any other Ed Wood movie.So anyway, watch this movie and let your journey of horrendous (yet surprisingly fun) movies commence! "},{"Title":"It is NOT the worst movie of all time.","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That goes hands down to Manos The Hands Of Fate or Blood Feast. Plan 9 is one of the best movie experiences ever, though.If anything, being Bela Lugosi's last movie (even if it is stock footage) should be enough to see it. All of the dialogue is an atrocious mess. Wrestler Tor Johnson also stars as the cop-turned-zombie. All of his speaking roles are completely unintelligable. Movie host Vampira is also in on the mess. The night and day effects constantley switch, and the paper tombstones are constantley falling over. By far Ed Wood's best film. Followed second by the equally horrific Glen of Glenda? Bad acting, effects, stupid dialogue, and plot holes abound. a must see for any movie fans. "},{"Title":"The Best Bad movie ever made...","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a legal phrase for it (I've heard it a million times over the years) Innocent by reason of insanity. I've always thought that the phrase should be GUILTY by reason of insanity. Semantics. PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE has been unjustly referred to over the years as the worst movie ever made. It's not. Not by a mile. What it IS is one of the BEST bad movies ever made. It's entertaining, and one can't really ask for much more than that from a Poverty Row production. Stitching together a Frankensteinian horror from bits and pieces is a process I can relate to- been there, done that (and will do it again, very shortly). Try as one might, it's hard to wring memorable performances from neophyte thespians (or, sometimes, even grizzled old pros, although Bela Lugosi in PLAN 9 still seemed more than capable of hitting his marks; a pro to the very end; I envy any director who had the opportunity to work with him). I give PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE one point for the writing (which IS the worst), one point for Lugosi's posthumous performance, and three points for entertainment value. An unpolished gem. "},{"Title":"whats the big deal?","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959)5 word summaryAliens turn zombies against humansI don't understand how this movie got so popular. It's not good and its not that bad. I watched this expecting a terrible film that I would sit and laugh at, but really I just sat back and watched it. I didn't enjoy it but I didn't think it was as miserable as everyone has said. I found old horror films like Attack of the Giant Leeches or The Creeping Terror much worse and much more deserving of criticism. The directing and acting is no worse in Plan 9 than most of the other low budget horror/ sci-fi films of the time that I've seen, I'm just confused as to why this one got the spotlightDirecting, acting, writing etc, all are tolerable but it's just not bad enough or good enough to really enjoy that much. It's a little boring, but really, as I mentioned, it is tolerable.I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone unless you are a big Ed Wood fan or you just want to see what all the fuss is about. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Worst film?  I think not...","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, let's get down to facts. Despite the fascination for Ed Wood, his life, his times, he made really lousy cheap movies.I have suffered through a plethora of bad films, but Plan 9 From Outer Space is hardly the worst. As a matter of fact, I find it alternately fascinating, hilarious and simply bizarre.We all know the shots of the cardboard graves moving, the night into day into night sequences, the ridiculously human and effeminate aliens, the tin foil flying saucers, the ludicrous replacement of Lugosi (who died during the filming) for a lookalike -- the obviously younger and taller Tom Mason, chiropractor.I've seen this film at least seven times and I would watch it again and again.The presence of the foppish and hammy Criswell is a big plus. For me, the scene where Duke Moore as police lieutenant scratching his head with the barrel of his revolver is priceless.And say what you will about the talentless Wood, the images of Tor Johnson and Maila Nurmi as Vampire Girl walking through the graveyard are veritable horror icons, right up there with Karloff as Frankenstein's monster and even Lon Chaney in his London After Midnight makeup.I don't know if we needed Wood's story told in a movie, but Ed Wood seems to lovingly record so many of the quirks of Wood's life. And Martin Landau's performance as Lugosi is uncanny.Personally, I get a bigger kick out of the actual documentaries about Ed. Look Back In Angora is a telling portrait of the frustrated movie director/cross-dresser.What Wood lacked in talent he more than made up for in sheer will and a great love of horror movies.I believe the public became aware of Ed Wood when the Medved brothers proclaimed Plan 9 as the worst movie ever made in their Golden Turkey award book on bad films.I've watched most of Ed Wood's films and find them all pretty terrible. Bride of the Monster is almost as fun as Plan 9. Night of the Ghouls and Orgy of the Dead are truly rotten. And I mean that in the sense that I don't really want to watch them again.But Plan 9 From Outer Space is always a fun romp for me. I marvel at the homeliness of the leading lady Mona McKinnon. I am amazed at Ms. Nurmi's waistline. O.K., I'll confess it, I love her!I give this movie a '6', which is the best rating I give any bad film. You want bad films? Try sitting through Poor Pretty Eddie with Leslie Uggams. Try making it through Alligator People. Try watching the 'comedy' Dirty Rotten Scoundrels with real talents like Steve Martin and Michael Caine. Now THOSE are bad movies.Hell, try sitting through Dances With Wolves....talk about putrid. That's my story and I'm sticking to it. "},{"Title":"'I reach over and touch it &#x85; then it doesn't seem so lonely anymore'","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This might be the merriest surrealist comedy ever, impressively oozing with mirth, with joyous geniality, amply merry, better than what Buñuel ever schemed (--and of course in a genre--); I liked the artificiality of the sets and effects, and it might be that some viewers supply them with some of the poetry in their souls and imaginations.In its absurdity, this movie is ingenious and inventive. It speaks about 'celestial ships'.Like so many others, it never achieves one single moment of suspense or of emotion.'Can you see, or measure, an atom?' Now, I know minutely what the rubbish is; I have even reviewed, 10 months ago, some rubbish for this site. PLAN 9 isn't in that defamed league; it reminds of Jarry, and, on a more profane note, as you might have noticed, Joanna Lee was a hot babe.The fans of Depp, of the director Burton, of daddy Landau&#x97;or simply of the comedy ED WOOD&#x97;will find many of the scenes, and even of the characters, familiar. From a certain angle, ED WOOD looks like a PLAN 9 &#x85; rip&#x97;off &#x85;. "},{"Title":"cheesy as a large pizza, but just as good as one too!","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the best worst movie of all time. Yeah sure you could say that about any Ed Wood film but this one truly stands out as his masterpiece. It has the worst continuity of any film ever made, not to mention a part when I guy says It's getting dark out here. when it is already pitch black in the scene. Then when it cuts to his POV shots it's daytime again...it's pathetic. The idea of the plot is the standard aliens taking over the world thing, popular at the time. But the thing is by watching the movie it so hard to follow the plot it gives you a headache. In the beginning there is a narrator but 1/3 of the way through the movie the narrator is never to be heard form again. After you watch this movie you will feel like Mike Tyson has repeatedly punched you in the head. Your IQ may suffer. This film has the worst acting, period, if Tor wasn't enough with his slow walking not-even-close-to-scary zombie attempts, it has the worst cache of talentless hacks that sounds like they're reading their line from hard to read cue-cards. All in all it looks like Ed Wood found a bunch of scraps from his old films, got 2 shots of Bela Lugoisi horsing around in someone's yard, marketed him in the title role and came up with the story last. It is soooooo cheesy, but if you like dairy, it's great!!! "},{"Title":"The reputation of Plan 9 from Outer Space seems much deserved","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having watched a lot of Bela Lugosi movies in which he often gave good, or at least competent, performances, I have now watched one in which all he does is stand there, either in a suit or in his Dracula cape, and really does nothing. That's because these were just test shots meant to be put in another movie but ended up here. That's producer, writer, director Edward D. Wood, Jr. for you! He just took stock shots of Lugosi, had another taller man put that vampire suit on with the cape covering his face, and voilà, an excuse for a quick buck in publicizing the last performance of a once great man! That's just one of several inept decisions Wood made in making what was often considered the worst film ever. Hearing the narrator Criswell state the obvious is another mistake. Seeing the military superior on a blank background as the flying saucers are in the skies overhead as well as seeing many of his men miss those targets despite those targets just staying put are good for some laughs. And how about hearing Tor Johnson, a Swedish immigrant, do a brief dialogue scene as the alive Inspector Daniel Clay, speak in broken English that's almost incomprehensible? And then there's exchanges like this The Earth people, who can think, are so frightened by those who cannot-the dead. Inspector Clay is dead, murdered, and somebody's responsible. They attacked a town, a small town I'll admit, but never the less a town of people, people who died. There's others but I think you get the picture. It actually gets a a bit monotonous after a while but a speech spoken by one of the aliens that seemed inspired by the final scene of The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951 version) with some even more ridiculous lines, though also some thought provoking ones too, picked things back up. That and one more scene of shooting with only the back of Lugosi seen made it a little worth while watching to the end. So on that note, Plan 9 from Outer Space is, at the very least, worth a look. "}{"Title":"There comes a time in a man's life where he can't even believe his own eyes!","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take While awful in every way possible, PLAN 9 is far from the very worst movie ever made.It's always essential to every movie buff to see the classics, like CITIZEN KANE, CASABLANCA, GONE WITH THE WIND, THE GODFATHER, RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, and many others. But a true movie buff is recommended to see Ed Wood's notorious PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, at least once.Popularized by Michael and Harry Medved when they named it The Worst Movie of all Time in their book The Golden Turkey Awards, PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE is a must for any film enthusiast and aspiring filmmaker, or to anyone in desperate need of a good laugh. It has it all Bad acting, laughable script (Your stupid minds! Stupid! Stupid!), tacky sets (that graveyard set is probably one of the most laughable sets every created), terrible special effects, and of course, bad direction. Can Ed Wood direct? No way! The man has no sense of continuity (settings quickly change from day to night) and he obviously has no keen eye for errors. The dialogue sounds horrible it's worth every laugh; it sounds like Shakespeare on crack. And the worst yet, the movie top-bills Bela Lugosi as its big star... even if he's already dead (Wood merely used home video footage to fill in his role)! Unbelievable! And yet, despite being terrible beyond words, there's something about Wood's non-classic that makes it irresistible. One might consider that it's so bad, it's good, which is probably the biggest reason there is about it. But another thing about it is that PLAN 9 is a movie like no other. Wood may have no real talent whatsoever, but that doesn't really stop him from telling his bizarre tale of an alien race (played by 'actors' wearing goofy costumes) who plan to take over the world by resurrecting an army of dead (well, three of them actually!). We know the rest The flying saucers (which are ridiculously described early in the film as shaped like cigars?!) are obviously hubcaps suspended in wires, the 'creepy' cemetery is obviously a fake studio set with fog machines and cardboard tombstones, stock footage of the army and a late Bela Lugosi are used (the latter repeatedly), and all these future events are narrated by then-popular psychic Criswell, who also provides the film's landmark opening speech (Can your heart stand the shocking facts about Graverobbers from Outer Space?).So is PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE the worst movie ever made? Not entirely. For a bad film, and this is a really bad film, PLAN 9 is much too watchable for a bad film, maybe even just for the unintended laughs and the utterly ludicrous ideas. For camp buffs, it's bad movie heaven! Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Far from the worst movie ever made!","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is almost impossible to give a star rating to PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE. It is truly a bad, bad movie with terrible performances, ridiculous sets, horrid special effects and glaring continuity errors abound. On the other hand, it is far more interesting and entertaining than many better movies and the demented genius and unbridled passion of Ed Wood shines through every moment.PLAN 9 is often referred to as the worst movie ever made. Well, it isn't. Not by a long shot. I think any fan of B-movies can list several off the top of their heads that are worse than this one (how about ROBOT MONSTER, NIGHT OF 1000 CATS or CURSE OF THE SWAMP CREATURE for starters). What is different about so many other bad movies, however, is the fact that most of them weren't even trying to be good. They were made to fill a vacancy in a theater program and had little in the way of artistic or social ambitions. They were pure exploitation and served no purpose other than to keep patrons in the theater for an extra 90 minutes to boost sales at the concession stand.Ed Wood desperately wanted to fill his work with subtext and sociological relevance. He wanted his movies to be thought-provoking. He also hung out with a lot of very offbeat counter culture people, many of whom wound up as cast and crew members on his movies, which led to their being that much more bizarre.Ed Wood was a terrible director. A terrible writer, too. He had no real connections, no money and no talent. Yet he managed to make six feature films in the space of ten years, five of which were theatrically released and a few of which even made a decent profit. That is a testament to his passion for cinema. The man never gave up.PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, to me, is one of the most inspirational movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Clearly NOT the worst movie ever made","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The worst movie may well be Alien 4. That film had a huge budget and everything going for it and it is still terrible. It actually has Wynona Ryder saying Well Ripley, you've saved the universe Even Old Ed would have blushed over that one. Plan 9 is at least entertaining. The worst films are just boring... How about Fellowship of the Frog? That was bad and boring. This film actually has a lot going for it, planned or not. Plan 9 has a very weird tone that is hard to describe but at the same time oddly compelling. OK so you might say that it was just an accident but if you look at Bride of the Monster it has the same dark creepy tone that feels much like a demented dream. Worth a look... and yes it is a train wreck but don't we just like looking at things like that. God Bless you Ed where ever you are... you at least tried. "},{"Title":"Not just anyone can make a movie.","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hello my friends! Plan 9 from Outer Space represents the BEST work that Ed Wood could do. And he went out and made this movie, and many others. Not just one movie, MANY. If you've ever gone out and tried to make a feature length movie, you know that just not anyone could do it. So many people talk and think they could do better. It takes great courage, creativity, leadership, patience and organizational skills.Plan 9 is a very fun movie and has the incorrect reputation of being the worst movie of all time. Many movies have come out before and after that have been far worse, not only in terms of writing and directing, but also editing and overall entertainment value. (It even has a very interesting sub plot about nuclear proliferation).I'm entertained EVERY time I watch Plan 9, and isn't that the idea? I'm only bored during one or two scenes, such as the two army guys yacking away in a room.Give Indiana Jones and The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull the same budget as Plan 9 and see which is the more entertaining movie.It's hard for me not to admire Ed Wood and his movies. "},{"Title":"This is the most fantastic story I've ever heard.","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just on principle I cannot give this movie any higher than a 1. Because while it was very entertaining and had me laughing the entire film there is no way I can rate it on the same level as Casablanca or The Shawshank Redemption. While films like them are good all around the only good thing about Plan 9 is the entertainment value.This movie has horrible acting, criminally bad dialog, awful timing, glaring mistakes, and an overall ridiculous plot. But do you care when you watch it, of course not. In fact they are what make the movie good, if good is used very loosely. This is the quintessential model for a film that is so bad it's good. This is only proved by the fact that that is probably the only reason anyone actually watches this movie.I think that it is fitting to be able to use a line from the movie to sum it up, no spoilers here just an epitaph, This is the most fantastic story I've ever heard. Again using fantastic very loosely. "},{"Title":"great DVD edition of a classic bad film","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just wanted to throw in my 2 cents worth on one particular DVD edition of this classic bad movie. The legend films edition is wonderful. it has a commentary by Mike Nelson from MST3K which is hilarious. it can be seen in either color of b & w. I myself prefer the b & w version, but that's just me. in addition, there are wonderful trivia subtitles that add to your viewing pleasure, if one can say that of an ed wood film.of course, the movie is what it is, and nothing can be added that has not been said already. the question now, is how will we take our torture, regular or king size? in this particular release, one gets it king sized.disclosure - i do not work for legend films or any of its subsidiaries. i have not been paid by anyone for this endorsement. i am a crisis counselor and just wanted to share my discovery. btw - i found it at Big Lots for $3! "},{"Title":"A movie so bad that it's actually good","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I've ever heard of Edward D. Wood Jr. was when I saw Tim Burton's Ed Wood. After hearing about his reputation, I wanted to see his movies. So far I've only seen this. And I must say, this is incredibly bad, but it's incredibly good at the same time, and rarely do we have movies like this.Worst? I can't really say that, because this actually has some redeemable qualities to it. I've seen movies that have made Plan 9 look like Schindler's List. So, I'm not going to call this the worst movie ever, but at the same time, I'm not going to call it the best movie ever, but I will say it's one of the best comedies ever. So, if you want to have a night of fun and if you want to watch a movie that's going to make you laugh, please see this. "},{"Title":"so bad, it's direful","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Edward D. Wood, Jr. became famous shortly after his death in 1978 because he was officially labeled the Worst Director of All Time on account of his gems which include Glen or Glenda (1953), Bride of the Monster (1955) and what some consider his worst ever Plan 9 from Outer Space a film that one can tell by the title alone that it's bad. Only it's worse than bad. It's a mind-numbing experience without a single inkling of pleasure to be found. Not even a guilty pleasure. While I wouldn't consider this to be Wood's worst, it's not far from it.Plan 9 is the strange and confusing sci-fi tale of, as its original title was, Grave Robbers from Outer Space (but the title was changed to Plan 9 because the producers, a Baptist church who though they'd make a fortune seeing as how the film would be marketed as Bela Lugosi's last film, thought it was blasphemous) who come down to earth, bring life to the dead, and use them to kill people. Basically, the aliens are upset because we stupid, stupid tellurians don't want to believe in them and they throw a fit with their zombies, ray guns, and wobbly flying saucers.Plan 9 from Outer Space is considered a legendary film not only because its notoriously bad, but because of the countless number of defects and continuity flaws and glaring errors that grace the screen before us as we view it. And this ranges from the special effects, the acting, the editing, the direction, and onward. We have flying saucers (which are just toys mounted on strings) flying in front of backdrops and we see them wobbling on strings, we see them cast shadows on their backgrounds, we see actors reading from cue cards and in one case, from a script in his lap, we see a microphone shadow on the wall behind the actors in plain view, Gregory Walcott refers to his wife's character by the actress's real name, we have constant inter cutting of daytime and nighttime even though the scenes are suppose to take place simultaneously in the same spot, and basically, yeah, you've got a very laughable production. But what's even greater is Bela Lugosi's part in the film. Lugosi had in fact died while making an earlier Wood film called The Ghoul Goes West or something like that, and the film was scrapped until Wood came up with the idea for this film and just spliced in the few seconds he'd shot with Lugosi into it to market it as Lugosi's last movie. Still, there were some parts where they needed a stand-in for Lugosi. So Wood hired his wife's chiropractor, who looked somewhat like Lugosi, and told him to wear the cape over the lower half of his face all the time. So there'll be moments where the cape's not over his face (the real Lugosi) and a split second later, it's back over his face (the chiropractor) and then back again and it becomes painfully obvious. There's even a moment where the cape starts to fall off and the doctor swiftly puts it back over again. And Wood still used the take, because he almost always used the first one.Despite all of these laughable flaws, which you would expect to spur laughter, Plan 9 from Outer Space still turns out to be a dismally dull excuse for a motion picture. Its plot even defies itself when the aliens, who are so desperate to prove their existence, try to cover up the murders they commit. They don't fear us, so what's with that? While watching it, we find ourselves looking at our watches very early on and nothing from that point on keeps us from repeating that. I'll be honest when I say that I turned off the show a third of the way through and watched something else. I actually did that once, a rare thing for me, and then tried again, actually managing to sit through the entire thing the second time around. Looking at Gregory Walcott perform, who reportedly called the script the worst he'd ever read, we get the impression he hated working on the film and I can understand that, because I hated watching the film. Now some fanatics have called Plan 9 a cult classic and described it as being so bad, it's good. Well, I did not enjoy it one bit, it's no classic in any regard, and I would describe it as so bad, it's direful. Looking at Ed Wood's films and knowing his story, I still admire him for his passion as a filmmaker, but surely, in those three years when he was trying to work with that Bela Lugosi footage, he surely could have written a compelling script and asked for a second take every once in a while. Maybe if he'd adjusted his style, he might have made a presentable film and perhaps lived up to his idol, Orson Welles. I guess Plan 9 from Outer Space is just a prime example of how some people will never learn. It's a shame, for if Wood's talent matched his ambition, he might be remembered for something other than just being the Worst Director of All Time. "},{"Title":"Thank You Ed, Thank You Medved Brothers","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nothing is perfect in the Universe except that which is perfectly bad. - Charles Hoy FortHey, what an appropriate choice for my 100th Comment to be posted on the IMDb.It was Harry and Michael Medved (okay, it was mainly Harry, he just got his silly right-wing brother on board the project to give it credibility) who got me started down the long and winding road of exploring B-movies, C-movies, and Z-movies, drive-in classics, grindhouse favorites and home-brewed disasters, in their seminal book from 1981, THE GOLDEN TURKEY AWARDS. Famously, in that book, they named Plan Nine From Outer Space the worst movie of all time, and the immortal Edward Davis Wood Jr., the Worst Director of All Time.I was fascinated. I had to find out more, but as this was the early days of home video, I couldn't. I first spied clips of this cinema disasterpiece on David Letterman's Late Night, probably not long after it started airing in 1982. Naturally, that whetted my appetite for more. The next year, I was off to college, where I eventually got my first glimpse of PNFOS during a late-night screening full of stoned college students who hooted non-stop at the screen. (As a veteran of many showings of The Rocky Horror Picture Show I was quite prepared for such rowdy behavior in this case.) Some time later, a tape of the film found its way into my hands, where I could subject it to repeat viewings and further study. It was during these repetitive viewings I discovered what many others have discovered about Ed Wood and his films what he utterly lacked in technique, he more than made up for in enthusiasm and sheer love of movies, especially the escapist fare he grew up with western serials, Universal horror films and slapstick comedies.In spite of himself, Ed has provided the ages with timeless entertainment. No, he was not trying to make bad movies. He was trying to make the best movies could with the (tiny) budgets he had to deal with. He poured his heart out into his product, and that is clearly visible on the screen. If love translated into box office, than PNFOS would have taken in more money than Titanic. Sure, so many people rated this movie a zero, but as Ed reminded us, that is because You of Earth are stupid, stupid, stupid!! I will readily admit that Plan Nine From Outer Space is not for everyone. But if you turn off your brain, listen closely (because some of his dialog is impossible to understand), and enter the twisted world of Edward Davis Wood, Jr. I believe you will be in for a wild and goofy journey of fun. Ed Wood's world is a world that looks kind of like our own world at first glance, but clearly after viewing, you will be convinced that his films truly do come from some other planet. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 from Outer Space","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mainly knew of this film for two reasons, being re-created in the Tim Burton biography Ed Wood, and for being considered one of the worst films ever made, from possibly the worst ever film director Edward D. Wood, Jr. Basically aliens (originally coming in peace) are commencing Plan 9, resurrecting the dead and attacking to destroy the living/human race. That's it. Starring Gregory Walcott as Jeff Trent, Bela Lugosi (in archive footage) as Ghoul Man, Mona McKinnon as Paula Trent, Duke Moore as Lt. John Harper, Tom Keene as Col. Tom Edwards, Vampira as Vampire/Ghoul Girl, Lyle Talbot as General Roberts, and narrated (along with introduction and end speech) by Criswell. This film was not deliberately made to be humorous, it was just very, VERY, low budget, and with so many mistakes to see and hear, how can you not giggle? Wobbly toy flying saucers on visible strings with shadows appearing in backgrounds, camp costumes for the human-looking aliens, Legosi being dead replaced by a lookalike (eyes only) always covering his face with a cape, ridiculous dialogue when it's not needed, the list goes on. It may be popular for cult audiences, but I think the only reason to see it is for a bit of humour, and the better choice would be Ed Wood. Poor! "}{"Title":"Amateurish... but fun!","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Technically, Plan 9 is completely amateurish of course. The props are bad, the acting is cheesy, the effects are cheap and the whole plot is as thin as the wires used to keep the flying saucers in the air.And still, this movie is very fun to watch. The story feels like an episode of a really campy sci-fi show and requires absolute no brains to follow. As a horror movie it completely failed, but you can still see it as a horror spoof and have an entertaining night. And if a movie is able to entertain you, how can it ever be considered the worst movie ever? In truth, Plan 9 has some sort of sincerity over it. It feels like a school play and it's a tribute to all those people who ever shot home-made flicks with their friends. Ed Wood is really just a 10-year-old running around with his camera and having tremendously fun in the process. It's like a school play, in which the cast and crew really don't have that much experience but still a lot of enthusiasm for making movies.In short as bad as it is, it still puts a smile on your face. That's what lifts this movie to a higher Plan ). "},{"Title":"Actually not that bad as I thought it will be","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not so long ago I've watched Ed Wood and I really liked that film so I decided to watch some of this films. OK, so special effects were poor (even for those times) and this film had many goofs, at the times it was made, it was bad, but nowadays it's a classic. I liked those special effects, because they look different than in nowadays films, I guess I'm just tired of all those digital effects. Some moments were kinda creepy. The acting wasn't so bad, some actors did really great. I like the plot, though it had many holes, I think that Ed Wood was good at script writing. Some dialogs were well written. I thing Ed Wood could try to sell some of his scripts first, rise some money and then make a movie on a bigger budget. Most of the actors (or maybe all of them) were Ed Wood's friends, so I see a lot of heart and enthusiasm in this film. Movies like this are like vine - they get better with age. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 remake in Brazil!","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes! Not only Americans are making the Plan 9 sequel, but, in Brazil, there are many fans of this movie, and a group is making the remake, in Black and White, of the movie, with some changes at the script! It's very funny this new version! It is been made by BVR Producitons/Mefistofales Filmes... very recommended!There will be no movie better/worst than this one! It's one of my favorites!A movie like this, have to be re released every year, with making of, photos, biography, and much more, in all countries!Everybody need to see this before dying (and after too) "},{"Title":"One of the worst AND best movies ever!","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow! Every bad review you've heard about this movie is true! This movie was so incredibly bad! I had heard bad things about it, watched with near-ground expectations, and what do you know, it was even worse than I thought! But, because it was so bad, it was so good! I loved it! I never ever say that about any movie but this was just that! So bad it was excellent! The best (rather, worst!) performances were by Vampira as the vampire zombie, Bela Lugosi as the dead Old Ghoul Man, and Tor Johnson as Inspector Clay. I also liked Criswell, the narrator, as he seemed to be talking like he was on some comedy radio show but seemed to be serious. Everyone else was bad but not incredibly bad and worth mentioning.This is a perfect late night movie to watch with friends in the dark. Its just so incredibly bad but I loved it. Perfect movie to make fun of.9/10. "},{"Title":"Cult Film Pre-Cursor","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You can say what you want about Ed Wood,Jr. From the early 1950's,thru the late 1970's,he crafted a series of cheeseball,no budget, independently produced films that has stood the test of time. From 'Bride Of The Monster',to his later porno era films,he has given us a few greasy giggles. 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' is easily his 'Citizen Kane' (which is funny,as he always fancied himself a bargain basement Orson Welles). The plot (?) concerns an alien invasion, intended to re-animate the dead,thus making the alien invasion of the Earth even easier. Somewhere along the way,Bela Lugosi figures into this mish mash as one of the recent undead (it's known that Lugosi's footage was actually filmed for an unfinished vampire movie that Wood abandoned when Lugosi died during production a few years earlier, but ended up using Lugosi's scenes,none the less). Lots of laughable special effects,such as the Table Talk pie tins that are used as space ships,as well as lots of stock footage left over from other no budget thrillers,make this somewhat unintentional bit of surrealism all the more fun. This is the perfect kind of film to toss on at a party for hoots. No MPAA rating here, but too bizarre to rate. "},{"Title":"The Exact Negative of the Godfather","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, just had the chance to finally see it. What could be said that hasn't been said before?First off, though, let's clarify it, once and for all. This is most certainly one of the worst movies you'll be able to see, but it's not worthy of the title THE Worst Movie EVER.Why? First, this is a piece of cinema that CAN be called a movie, and therefore is more watchable than others. Second, it has a fine period score that works exceptionally well with the movie. I mean, they hired an orchestra, an actual orchestra, to play the score (although I have suspicions that they used stock cues for some scenes). Third, there was a studio involved. Although Mr. Wood used the same exterior countless times, he still had scenes inside a studio. And fourth, it's just plain fun to watch. You can make a game whoever finds the most flaws wins a coke.Of course, the so called plot is incredibly stupid, the dialogs are even more dumb, the script is often contradictory. But it's still one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. My favorite scene is where Bela Lugosi's stand-in walks forward a policeman, and later to the detective, the Colonel, the pilot and his wife, and they all just stand back very calmly when they see the zombie.Other gems include a flaming miniature UFO, stock battle footage inter-sped with scenes with the Colonel in a sky background, the boom mike shadow, stock footage of Bela Lugosi being used over and over and the final showdown.So, I'm sorry, I had to say it. Hal P. Warren's anti masterpiece Manos The Hands of Fate is in fact THE worst movie EVER. Unlike this one, Plan 9 has the possibility of being rated 10 and it can be watched by the whole family (not only masochists).It's still incredibly bad. When I saw a glimpse of the opening graveyard scene (missed the Criswell monologue) I actually said Wow! This is bad!Just as The Godfather is the official best movie ever and Citizen Kane is the technical and practical best movie ever, Plan 9 is the official worst movie ever and Manos is the technical and practical worst movie ever.Plan 9 is a movie that you can recommend to someone and it will not be taken as an insult. It just may be a must-see. I'm not so sure about that. Still, it will probably make you feel good when it ends, and that's something.I beg your pardon for mentioning both The Godfather and Citizen Kane within the same context, along with Manos. I assure, it's for encyclopedic purposes only. "},{"Title":"A little campy but boring","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think I need to tell people why 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' is considered one of the worst movies of all time. The movie is definitely so bad that it'll make your eyes roll but the half-baked editing of Bela Lugosi's pre-mortem performance should at least bust a few giggles out of the viewer.What the movie lacks the most is credibility and that simultaneously is the reason why the film doesn't work as a science fiction film nor does it really work as an unintentional comedy. Though there are some things about this movie that make you laugh, the final half is utterly dull with a story-line that could have had potential being wasted with low-grade special effects and hammy acting. From this point the film sort of resembles Uwe Boll's infamous 'Alone in the Dark'.The rushed production shows in every singles scene. Actors struggle to remember their lines and to deliver them, especially Tor Johnson, but the continuity errors and cheap sets only work to enhance the experience. The film is actually rather hilarious to watch for the first 30 minutes or so, but after that the joke becomes old and we're left with a movie that just isn't competent on any level.An E for Effort and for comedy value but generally speaking Plan 9 has very few redeeming values. "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful Movie - but you may still like it!","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959) is often cited as the worst movie ever made, and though that isn't any more true than saying Citizen Kane is the best movie ever made, Plan 9 is still a very, very bad movie.What's bad bout it? Well, practically everything. The movie hijacks the themes of The Day the Earth Stood Still and integrates them into a story that makes very little sense. There are continuity errors galore and the acting is some of the worst I've ever seen. Apparently, this is largely because the low budget forced the director (Edward Wood, Jr.) to shoot many scenes in only one take. This also explains why the special effects, even for the time, were laughable.To its credit, the movie is so bad at times that it ends up being hilarious. With lines like future events such as these will affect you in the future it is so easy to make fun of that it is worth a watch with a bunch of friends. "},{"Title":"My dearest Edward D. Wood Jr.","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't let my rating fool you into thinking this is the Sci-Fi equivalent to Citizen Kane or anything, but if you watch it for the right things It is.This movie was awful, just surf the board and you'll find that out quick. Or, if you have an hour to spare, take a look at the goofs section.Im a fan of this movie for 2 reasons that most critics should include in any rating they give 1. This movies heart is just SO big. Eddy really threw his whole self into all the movies he Wrote, Produced, and Directed. Hiring his friends for roles instead of going around trying to find actors. He has such a love for film-making that extends to his passion. As you watch this imagine your 13 year old wanted to make a science fiction movie, it's not going to be great because they don't have the technology, but you will enjoy it, it has that feel to it.2. The idea is the important thing. Eddy had such a vision in mind that if he could see the things in CGI now he would be blown away and have a more suitable medium to portray his vision. I know, I know, there are good movies from back then that do not need todays effects but Ed Wood's visions really needed it to be effected. Look at this film as the story board for what he really wanted, ignore mistakes and try to see in your head what Ed saw in his head for his movie.You will laugh at the mistakes, and it almost seems like a naked gun movie, trying to be a little tongue in cheek. There are movies that are good, It's a Wonderful Life. Then bad, Doom. Then really bad, I Eat Your Skin or Manos The Hands of Fate. Even still, there is so bad that it went past bad and back to good again, Plan 9 from Outer Space. Gold for any movie buff, or just anyone who wants to play a game of Oh Yeah... with that punk at the Rental shop who KNOWS ALL THINGS FILM! You may feel different but I love this movie, own it, and watch it every now and then. "},{"Title":"rather a good film","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" first time i saw the movie plan 9 from outer space i didn't know what i was buying, but my mate next door told me about the movie and said how bad it was, but when i watch it i was a mazed how good it was i reckon that Ed wood is a great director people say how bad he is i disagree plan nine is one of the greats for all you z grade movie fans its the best ed wood master of z grade movies . i love plan nine from outer space all right the special affects are not great but what do you aspect for low budget film. so reckon give ed wood a go he his true master and made some wonderful films in his time. plan nine had a good story it was easy to understand but i don't know what the vampire doing with her hands and the church look rather small to me but the flying sausers look real to me so i wood give this film 10/o i watch this film now hundred of time and i still love it plan nine is the one "}{"Title":"Awful out of 4","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can your heart stand the shocking facts about Graverobbers from Outer Space? That's the question on the lips of the narrator of this tale about flying saucers, zombies and cardboard tombstones. A pair of aliens, angered by the stupid minds of planet Earth, set up shop in a California cemetery. Their plan to animate an army of the dead to march on the capitals of the world. The fact that they have only managed to resurrect three zombies to date has not discouraged them. An intrepid airline pilot living near the cemetery must rescue his wife from this low-budget terror. Can you prove it didn't happen?Dull sci-fi film has no brains of doing what must be done. The worst sci-fi film of 1959. Bad camp cast. No script and strings holding the UFOs are seen. Avoid this garbage and rent The Brain From Planet Arous instead. That was creative and artistic.Rated PG for Violence.Awesomely Bad Scale * * * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever!","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prior to actually watching the film all I knew about it was this. It was bad, it was low budget, it was by Ed Wood and the stuff I'd seen from the Johnny Depp Ed Wood film.Ignoring the film (which very faithfully reproduces sections of plan 9 very well and actually watching Plan 9 itself. The original title Grave Robbers From Outer Space is used during Criswell's opening speech.The effects are terrible, as is the use of lots of stock footage. Wood as editor pays no attention to any kind of continuity (watch the 2nd plane cabin scene and watch the Stewardess's clipboard movie all over the place).Most of the actors are awful if not worse. Very wooden performances are given (especially by wrestler Tor Johnson) and the wobbly scenery and re-used sets (the exterior door of the UFO is also the interior wall) are staggeringly bad.Having said all this the film is incredibly funny. It was never intended as a comedy but it is most definitely an accidental comedy.Time has not been kind to it but it is certainly a good example of how to shoot a movie on a low budget and a very good example to film students on how not to do many things like sets, effects, continuity, editing and lighting.Watch and giggle. "},{"Title":"Number Nine ...Number Nine....Number Nine .....","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Often mentioned as the worst film in the history of cinema,Plan Nine Outer Space has many contenders though.Like in Glen or Glenda ,Wood tried to get a message acrossthe human race is doomed cause they are afraid of their dead (sic) ,but mainly because they kill each others and they build big bombs (the ET are wiser they invented a solar bomb)it's the same message as in the day the earth stood still or planet of the apes (book and 1968 film).Wood is not taken seriously because of his terrible actors (Vampira) ,his cardboard flying saucers, his shower curtain in the plane and Bela Lugosi's tragical end of career .But frankly,sport, I can think of a recent sci-fi flick starring Travolta ,with a big budget which is much worse than Wood's .I won't even mention its title. "},{"Title":"Horribly Bad, but delightful","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Becoming a film critic every aspect of this film is bad. Ed Wood maybe critically acclaimed thee worst director of all time, he at least had heart about his films. Despite his inconsistencies, they were fun films to watch like this film. I am willing to say that I will put him a notch up of Eli Roth. This is another topic, but Eli Roth only makes films for shock value. Plot, story, characters, god awful with no heart whatsoever. Over all this film is just fun to watch and recommend and movie maker or critic should watch this movie and see incredibly bad it is but enjoyable. As for the voting system I would want to give it a 10 just because it is so fun to watch and very painful. I love it. "},{"Title":"I'm muzzled by army brass&#133;Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So here it is&#151;what some say is the worst movie ever made&#151;Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space. With its horrid acting, juvenile storytelling, and cheesy special effects, I can see how people come to that conclusion. Perhaps it is that I have watched it for the first time knowing its place in history and its context in the film canon, but I must say I was highly entertained. Were I to have seen it upon original release, I most likely would have been angered about the shoddiness, but today, the unintentional comedy makes it classic and priceless despite the infinite technical shortcomings.You know what is in store straight away with Criswell's introduction. The faux-psychic babble is funny, his delivery funnier, and the way his eyes move to read the script while never looking directly into the camera is hilarious. Once we are ushered into the actual film, inside the cockpit of an American passenger plane, we are finally privy to the wonderful set design. The plane's radio system is an old house phone that is passed between the pilots to speak with the ground and the steering yolks are merely cardboard half circles, which must be grabbed at the elbows during the turbulence caused by our friendly little flying saucer that has come to visit. Surprisingly, besides the first time on screen, the flying saucers are handled quite well without the notice of strings. Even when they exit the home base (a cardboard drawing that the saucers go behind) the depth of field as they fly away is impressive. Anything good about them is later circumvented, however, by the crashing saucer literally being lit on fire and floating around.As for what I called a juvenile story, I say this more for the structure than the ideas at hand. The ideas are actually somewhat heady if one cares to look at them from that angle. The aliens have come to warn Earth that their path of destruction internally could threaten the rest of the universe and they have come to put an end to it. Why they would need to kidnap live humans to take back to their spacestation is never really discussed, only the overall plans of annihilation and Earth's refusal to acknowledge their existence as spoken during a lengthy rant from Dudley Manlove's Eros, probably the best performance of the film, which isn't really saying much. The fact that all this exposition is delivered at the end and in one long scene is only one example of the structure being like a child's story in elementary school. Our narration is very abrupt and used to carry the story through as though it were a puzzle being assembled. Scenes are cut together clumsily and transitions are never smooth.As for the acting, I will say that Bela Lugosi does a fantastic job, never uttering a word. This could be because all his footage was archival and shot before the film was even thought of, but either way some of the stuff is good. Ed Wood shot all his scenes previously and supposedly wrote the story of Plan 9 around that footage so it would all make sense. Kudos to the stand-in for never showing his face, as he needed to be on screen with the new actors for the actual film. Watching cuts from the face-covered man to the actual Bela are priceless moments. All the rest that bear a mention are more for humor's sake. Vampira is plain scary as she lumbers around as a zombie for the entire duration with a lovely makeup job extending her lips almost to her ears; Duke Moore is hilarious as Lt. Harper, not only for his delivery of lines, but because of waving his gun around like it is his finger, pointing at people and scratching his head with it; and last but not least is Tor Johnson, a formidable man once in zombie form, but before that, his accent is so thick and his mind so slow trying to remember his lines, it is the funniest scene of the entire film.So, all in all, if I were judging Plan 9 based solely on achievement and presentation, it could very well be a one or two out of ten score. However, the context in which I have seen it in needs to be a factor and my enjoyment on a comedic level also must be considered. As a result, the film is definitely not the worst I have seen, if only because there are many that tried to be masterpieces yet are horrible. This film was never meant to win an Oscar, but instead was created by a man who never gave up on himself or his craft. Just to have something like this to show for his effort and commitment says something, and when watched as a farce really does end up being an entertaining time at the movies. "},{"Title":"The saucers are not cigar shaped! Tell the people!","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must say, this has to be one of the greatest comedies in the history of the world.That is, one of the greatest UNINTENTIONAL comedies.Seriously.When I first saw Plan Nine, I nearly fell out of my chair laughing at some of the egregious incompetence on display. If Ed Wood had known it would turn out like this, he would have become a fertilizer salesman (all due apologies to Hal Warren. I don't know why I said this, because if he were alive, *he* should be apologizing to *us* for Manos). The logic of the claim, Inspector Clay is dead. Murdered. And somebody's responsible! kind of escapes me. I mean, you'd think someone being responsible was kind of written into the definition of murder.That's not all. The entire thing appears to take place in a void where, to quote Rob Thomas, time falls away. Scenes take place simultaneously in broad daylight and pitch darkness. Did you know that the sun goes down at 345 am? The characters in this know, that's for sure.More heinous errors they never make it clear what kind of undead monster these things are. Vampira's character is listed as 'Vampire Woman', yet behaves like a zombie. Inspector Clay is clearly a zombie. Bela Lugosi acts like a vampire, yet is credited as 'Ghoul Man'. I thought ghouls ate people, and they never do anything that uncouth. I'm nitpicking, but it's fun.Also completely round flying saucers are described as being 'cigar-shaped' and have an obvious ninety degree angle when on the ground. The burning saucer looks (with good reason) like it's not much bigger than a tennis ball (the clue's in the size of the flames). And the logic of two people, each of whom have been attacked by the zombighoulpires (my word) at least once, behaving thusly when alone in a cemetery stalked by the undead one sits in the car with ALL THE DOORS UNLOCKED, and one stands outside. He then gets knocked unconscious from a light tap on the arm.This movie deserves a 0/10 for technical skill, but gets a 7/10 based entirely upon how hilariously funny it is to watch people utterly failing to get it right. "},{"Title":"The all-time worst film","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is amazing what you see when you can't sleep and turn the TV on at 2 am. No. it wasn't Plan 69 From Outer Space, a later Ed Wood movie that feature more than ghouls and vampires, but the original. Using some of thew same actors that he used in earlier films like Tor Johnson, this time a police inspector that made a good zombie, and Bela Lugosi, who was dubbed in and had to be replaced because he died during the filming, and a new addition - Vampira, a late night feature used to promote B films in the fifties.This is a camp classic that must be seen to be believed. The usual Ed Wood cheesy effects are present, as well as the worst acting that anyone could imagine - and I have seen some great examples to compare to. "},{"Title":"It was much better than was credited","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space was much better than most believe and with Tor Johnson it's a classic. Bela Lugosi died before the movie was completed and most people have said that the plot killed him but I think it is a credit to him. This movie lives on and has become a very popular budget flick, regardless of public opinion. Check the movie out for yourself and see if you don't like it. I have always liked budget Sci-Fi features including Teenagers From Outer Space, Target Earth, Earth vs The Flying Saucers, The Giant Claw and Eegah. Remember This Island Earth, a clip from this film was used in Wonder Woman Mind Stealers From Outer Space. I try to keep an open mind about these films, remember what they said about Tim Burton....he wouldn't know a good film if he saw one, I enjoy his films very much. I have purchased several of these films from Amazon because there customer service can't be beat and there selections are terrific. Try Plan 9 today and check it out for yourself, you might be surprised, I know I was. "},{"Title":"Excellent, ITS THE WORST Hollywood MOVIE IVE EVER SEEN.","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a lot of aspects from this unique movie that made me consider it as the worst Hollywood movie I've ever seen. First, it's about the director (Ed Wood). Many people agree that he is the worst Hollywood directors of all times (although some people also said that he is an alienated genius). Second, it's about the story. Alien in human form who tried to use plan 9 (resurrecting dead people) to subject earth? What a mess. Third, it's about the Muse en scene aspect. The actor, the setting, the properties, the wardrobe, the cinematography, the special effects, they all are terrible. Look at how Wood tried to replace Bela Lugosi with an actor who permitted to show his eyes and cover the other body part, whom it's eye and gesture doesn't even fit with Lugosi. Look at the thin thread that hanged over the silly flying sources, what a crap. Look also the cockpit setting in this movie. It really made me laugh. Fourth, see also the humiliating montage from this movie. You'll find that night shot and day shot combined in one scene (through a single continuity). You'll also see many jumping scenes in this movie.For me, the whole movie is a comedy. The armies fight the UFO then vampire appears? It's just like a parody, even though Wood actually made a serious toned movie. If you tried to consider it as a standardized since fiction Hollywood movie, you'll get disappointed. Realize that it's a bad movie before you watch it, than you'll find that this movie is quite entertaining. Yes, it's a cult movie. It's a history. "},{"Title":"Solarpower is bad for you.","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Debending from entirely from your point of view, 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' is either the greatest film ever or the worst. Be it in the way or another, it certainly is a display of how not to make a movie.P9FOS is probably the best known movie by inept director Ed Wood Jr. It's his best known because the film is bad in every aspect, not that his other movies were noticeably better. The thing is, that Mr. Woods films were so bad, that he has received a cult following, which in return has made it sure, that he will be remembered long after more better movies of the same era will be forgotten.So what bad about the film the acting at first. No one really knows how to act, but the script makes it even worse. The dialog is ridiculous and the fact that everyone is uttering their lines so seriously makes it even worse. Or more hilarious. And how about the man, who stands in for Lugosi, because Lugosi never finished filming the movie, because he died in real life, so Eddie boy just threw a cape over a noticeably longer fella and said keep your face cover damn you.. And the he just reuses a couple of scenes filmed with Lugosi over and over again.The plot is quite an achievement with very little sense, or anything else for the matter, in it. It never really becomes quite clear what the Criswell dude does in the film, or why in fact are the aliens resurrecting the deaders, as from the looks if it, it really is the worst plan like ever. It's just is silly, that they use so much time in waking up three corpses and after that, not really do anything useful with them. The corpses just wander around the cemetery scaring people. And Vampira actually doesn't do nothing else expect looks sexy. In a grim way that is.The sets are quite a sight, like the airplane cockpit with a curtain and no dials or anything else you'd expect to see in a cockpit. Or the cemetery where there's always dark.I could go on and on. If you can figure out a flaw, it's in this movie. In fact I'm sure this movie invented many of them, like cardboard grave stones, which wobble, when an actor accidentally kicks one.My final verdict as a movie 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' is one of the few really deserving a 1, but when you take it as a camp comedy it goes straight to 10. But don't watch it alone, it really is a company movie. "}{"Title":"So Bad It's...Comforting.","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, yes; Plan 9 From Outer Space is a bad movie. I think we're all ready to concede that point. Bad directing, yes. Bad acting, most definitely. Bad sets, bad continuity, bad special effects; they're all in there. And REALLY bad use of actors the likes of Bela Lugosi (remember when he was actually scary in his Dracula heyday?) and Tor Johnson (yes, he was a good actor; anyone here recall his comedic turns in movies like The Lemon Drop Kid and his many appearances on The Red Skelton Show?).So all of this is true, then; but there's still so many who watch Plan 9 over and over again, drinking in every small detail and relishing such choice dialog as A flying saucer? You mean the kind from up there?, You see? You see? You're stupid minds! Stupid! Stupid! or the classic Inspector Clay is dead, murdered, and somebody's responsible!. So what is it about a movie like Plan 9 that has people turn to it time and again, gets it colorized, brings vivid commentary from the likes of no less than Mike Nelson (from TV's MST3K) and even lauded for its 'merits' in the classic tome The Golden Turkey Awards?Quite simple it is one of those films whose badness is tempered by the sheer likability of what is put on screen. In other words, some scenes are so completely endearing and evocative of the work of Ed D. Wood that when you watch this film and see...* Pie tin spaceships wobble happily across a cloth backdrop sky * Police officers stumble over bending cardboard tombstones * A detective scratch at the back of his head with his own gun barrel * Scenes change from day to night and back again all within a few seconds time * A double for Bela who looks nothing like him holding a cape over his face and stand a good foot or two higher than Bela did * several different locations that use the same furniture and props as previous scenes had...it just gives you a warm, comfortable feeling in that after watching so many movies that sweat over every detail of the film, here is a director who is only interested in telling a spooky story as a fever dream; never mind that it makes no sense, never mind that much of the dialog is incomprehensible, never mind that the bookend scenes with Criswell hold no context, and certainly never mind that the most expressive actor in the whole thing is one who never acted in another film before or since (John Bunny Breckenridge).When you watch Plan 9 From Outer Space, you can at least see what Wood was *trying* to do, and that's enough. It certainly was enough to make a little film from 1959 fondly remembered even today, which is more than can be said for many other, bigger films from the same time period (quick name the biggest money-making film from 1959! ... See there?)So forget everything you've heard. Plan 9 From Outer Space is bad, yes, but not bad in the same way that films nowadays are bad (like Gigli or Baby Geniuses). This is a film that is bad in an endlessly re-watchable way, a way that will guarantee you watch it with a huge smile on your face and a song in your heart. It really is sort of comforting; like wrapping up in a huge furry blanket in front of a roaring fireplace on a cold winter day...with spaceships and Mona McKinnon, sure, but you get the idea.So I heartily endorse watching Plan 9 as soon as you can. As often as you can. With as many friends as you can. And, above all...enjoy.Eight stars out of ten...and this is all based on sworn testimony! "},{"Title":"This movie has it's goods.. and bads.. mostly bads..","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just finished watching this movie and I have agreed to what many people say. This movie was extremely horrible. But also, I thought the plot was sort of good..Bads(contains spoiler) It's hard to explain but.. the changes between daytime and nighttime. In the movie, sometimes where it was daytime, it looked nighttime. Sometimes when it was nighttime, she ran out the house, it was daytime, then nighttime again. That's only one out of the Bads.Goods (contains ending!) The plot was sort of good. Especially the ending when they fought, burning saucer still flying, etc. "},{"Title":"Best of best (in truth I mean worst)","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I did myself a favor and watched this movie a few days ago, when I had some free time. I tell you what, that was the first time in a long while that I had laughed at something so awful. Everything in this movie is so bad, but I loved it so much. Basically, a group of aliens want to stop the people of Earth from making a bomb that will destroy the universe. The aliens plan (which is dubbed Plan 9) is revive the dead and have them attack the living.What makes this film so bad, it just about everything it tries to do right. Horrible acting, a script that is so cheesy, you can sell nacho's while watching this film, horrible special effects, worst use of stock footage, bad directing (ect). Bela Legosi was supposed to be in this film, however he passed away a few days after the start of production, so his part was replaced by Tom Mason, who was much younger and taller then Bela Legosi. Continuity is another massive problems with this film, which makes it so much better. During certain scenes it would be day, and then night, and then back to day again. Also, when Tom Mason replaced Bela Legosi, he covered his face with a cape so that no one would notice the facial difference.The special effects are very poor as well, but again that was makes it so good. When the UFO fly around, they fly like they are being guided by string. During the Army attack of the UFO's you can see that firecrackers are used, and the stock footage being used comprised about 85 percent or better of that scene, and what also makes it better, is that since it's supposedly outside the Colonel casts a shadow on the back drop. The cheesy lines in this film are just out right funny to hear. Like this line in the opening future events such as these will affect you in the future, are just pure gold. They are so poorly written my 5 month old nephew could write far superior lines to those that were written in this film. I don't think there was one line in this film that wasn't funny to hear, just because it is so corny.The acting itself was so wooden, you could build a log cabin if you wanted to. Forget about character development, there is none. The characters are all about the same start to finish. A lot of the time you can see that actors are reading from cue cards or reading their lines directly from the script. At the start of the film for example you can tell that someone reading from cue cards, as Criswell is looking directly at camera and no where else.While there have been many bad films made through the years, (more or less films that have been created since 2000, as a good bit of them are trash in my eyes), this film has the distinction of being the worst movie every made. If you are ever depressed, sad, had a long day at your job/school, or just need to be cheered up, watch this film, you won't be sad after watching it. "},{"Title":"This is the best worst movie; unbelievably funny","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never laughed so hard, seriously. Ed Wood is a genius, he truly is. With a movie with a plot this absurd, acting that bad, continuity that atrocious, music so unbelievably campy and special effects that were obviously thought of while drunk it is nothing but a cult classic. This film has garnered a lot attention as the worst movie ever made. In my opinion, I have seen one or two movies that are worse than this. The terrifying thing is, this was a serious movie. To give you an idea why that is terrifying, I'll explain the plot.Aliens start resurrecting zombies and vampires to somehow prevent us from making a sun-driven bomb.Great plot, ain't it? The film continuously switches from day to night and the flying saucers are alfoil with string. I recommend this to everyone.0/5. "},{"Title":"I Couldn't have done worse myself!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If your on the hunt for a cheesy movie, this is a goldmine. Not only was the background changing from night to day every five seconds, but when one of the actors died, I swear they did THE WORST possible job of patching it up!It was even the worse than the plays me and my friends used to put on when I was like...eight! They must have actually tried and planned on making it the worst possible production ever! It had me and my family cracking up!The costumes were terrible, and they mixed aliens and vampires! And when you mix those two you get(drum roll please)total crap. So next time you want to get a good laugh, rent plan nine from outer space! "},{"Title":"A Must See For Any Fan Of Low Budget Camp","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, it's one of the most poorly written and executed films of all time. Yet I found myself laughing non-stop at the silly proceedings in Ed Wood's opus Plan 9 From Outer Space and I forgave Wood and company for all the bad dialogue, cheesy sets and poor execution. I forgave because I knew Plan 9 was written, shot and edited on the fly with no script rewrites or retakes. Yet Plan 9 provides me with a good time every time I watch it. If anybody else could do better than Ed Wood did on a shoe-string budget, then I would like to see it. When George Lucas writes bad dialogue for a film with a $100 million-plus budget, you know it's because he can't write a lick of good dialogue to save his life. When Ed Wood does it for a film with a five day shoot, you forgive him because you know he didn't have a penny for every hundred dollars George Lucas has to produce a movie.I picked up the black and white DVD for the film at the video store for the first time and I ended up watching it three times. How could a film viewer not be charmed by Criswell's incoherent ramblings as the film's narrator or Tor Johnson speaking English with his thick Swedish accent or the archived footage of Bela Lugosi or the sexy Vampira, and the countless other charming aspects of this camp classic? That's why I can't bring myself to deduct more than a point for the many dozens of examples of bad dialogue and mistakes. Never have I had such a good time watching a film maker try and fail. "},{"Title":"This is not the Worst of All Time, Operation Ganymed is.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an Ed Wood film. That tells you that it is not good. Not even close, but it is not the worst of all time, Operation Ganymed is. Operation Ganymed is sci-fi space trash. Do not waste your time. However, Plan 9 From Outer Space is a flick that you 'can' watch. A few scary moments, at least for a three year old. A lot to laugh at, especially when compared to other sci-fi films of that day. By no means as good as the Giant Claw or the Deadly Mantis, bad in their own right. The acting is abominable, the sets worse than an elementary school play, the plot ridiculous and the special effects, if they can be called 'special', are -- well you get the picture. Maila Nurmi, Vampira, was so disgusted with the dialog Wood wrote for her that she said she would refuse to be in the film if she had to utter a single word of her 'written' lines. Good for her. You have flying hubcaps, I mean saucers, walking dead, time incongruity, human aliens and magically transforming police cars. Wood should be congratulated for being able to have this thing shown in theaters. I must say that any real old-time sci-fi buff must have Plan 9 From Outer Space in their collection. The collection would not be complete without it. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever made.","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The folks at MST3K are right. If you think this is the worst movie ever made, you are lucky enough to have missed some truly terribly made movies.While the film was shot in a straight-forward low-budget manner of course, excluding the special effects, it's shot competently with sharp and consistent deep focus, smooth camera movement and perfectly acceptable lighting for the era. Compare this to dozens of poorly lit black and slightly-less black cheapo movies of the era. The editing is fairly well done with good timing and fades between cuts and only some small continuity problems and is superior to the long money-saving takes (often with flubbed lines) that other bargain movies of the time used to save post production costs. The print on the DVD has excellent contrast, solid blacks and the dialog, however silly, is perfectly clear and the stock music is actually appropriate for every scene.The plot is only a notch or two below many Roger Corman movies made a few years earlier and possibly could have been salvaged with some script rewrites and professional actors. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was not disappointed in this movie. My brother had told me (or warned me) about it so I knew ahead of time I was in for a poorly made one. I watched in amazement thinking to myself why would anybody think that anyone would want to see this film; but there I sat watching it. While it may not be the worst movie ever made it is certainly deserving of consideration for such an award in genre. What it lacks, is any success at seeming realistic at any point. It definitely is a memorable piece of work, but unfortunately that is not necessarily a compliment. The movie is poor but it held my interest by my being amazed in disbelief, that is what kept me watching. You have to see it for yourself to know what I mean. It's failings are its success, people watch it to see for themselves. Watch it when you can. "},{"Title":"Barf","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boy was I cheesed off when I discovered Bela Lugosi isn't really in this thing. Lugosi was *already dead* when he made this stink bomb! To me this is as bad as when they used archive footage of Laurence Olivier as the bad guy rather than paying a live actor. Ed Wood really did earn his title as the worst film maker ever! Bad acting, laughable special effects (even for the 50s, they're pretty bad), some of the worst dialogue from a writer (Wood) who's primary language supposedly was English. It's actually so bad it's funny. How Wood ever managed to get money to finance this thing is beyond me. And here was Wood, thinking he was the next Orson Welles. Not! "}{"Title":"Never a dull moment","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many say this the worst movie ever made - BALDERDASH say I. Sure the production values are below that of even a grammar school play, the acting atrocious and the dialog inane, but under the watchful eye of film auteur Ed Wood it all melds together into an enjoyable film. Perhaps not as he meant it to be enjoyed but a fun film nonetheless. So how can a movie which is enjoyed by millions of viewers be the worst movie ever made? Ed wood clearly put his heart into every feature he made, had he ever been given a break at one of the studios, he could have gone on to better things. But maybe we are lucky that he didn't get that big break for we still get to enjoy the work of an ever-so-slightly deranged master of his craft! "},{"Title":"Yet another gem","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have little to add to all the other reviews pointing out the surrealistic awfulness of the film, except to say that even the actors clearly knew they were appearing in the turkey to end all turkeys. If you need proof, have another enjoyable look at the scene in which the zombie Inspector Clay (Tor Johnson) is presented to the Ruler and tries to strangle Eros. As Eros escapes from the clutches of the zombie, exclaiming that was TOO close, the actor playing The Ruler very ostensibly and noticeably rolls his eyes to the camera as if to say This is the lamest scene in the lamest film that has ever come out of Hollywood! An absolute masterpiece, ranking alongside the police inspector using his gun to do everything but comb his hair! "},{"Title":"A milestone in the career of invading aliens","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 from Outer Space simply has to be seen to be believed.Ponderously incompetent in its presentation, with elements like rambling narration by self-proclaimed prophet Criswell, flying saucers made of aluminum foil jiffy pop bags swinging from visible strings, cardboard gravestones that wobble around when bumped by actors, scenes that alternate between day and night camera footage, a detective who scratches his ear with the business end of a loaded pistol, or any of a thousand other snafus, this is the movie that defines the term, so-bad-it's-good.The legendary Plan 9 and the artist behind it, Ed Wood, Jr., stand as the yardstick of measuring aesthetic failure. It is frequently cited in IMDb reviews for other bad movies for comparisons of awfulness with lines like, This movie is so awful, it makes Plan 9 look like Shakespeare! or This movie is so poorly directed, it would make Ed Wood green with envy! The fact that challengers to the throne of worst movie ever compare themselves to Plan 9 is the ultimate testimony to its highly esteemed ineptitude. But it is certainly entertaining from the unintentional laughs it provides. After watching this cautionary tale of flying saucers patrolling the Hollywood Freeway (moving at the same speed as the traffic), you'll be reciting dialog like You see? You see? Your stupid minds! Stupid! Stupid! Or, The flying saucers are there. The cemetery is there. But I'll be locked up in there. Who else but Wood could devise lines like that, which you encounter from beginning to end.This was based on sworn testimony from the miserable souls that survived it, so you know it must be true and actually happening. Right this moment, aliens may be reanimating three corpses to conquer our world. A must for anyone who claims to be a movie fan. As you laugh your way through this, consider the sobering possibility that alien creatures are watching and laughing too. "},{"Title":"so bad, it's funny","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever seen a movie that was so poorly constructed, and so poorly acted that you wonder how did this make if off the cutting room floor?? This movie is really horrible. Times of day switch within scenes, props fall, and it's oh-so-obviously thrown together. But, you know what? You watch it once, just to see what it is. Then watch it again and point out all that is bad about it. (Can you count that high?) You'll want to share it with your friends. Mostly so you can put them through the same torture you endured. But watch it with them. Point out all the inconsistencies. Tell them the trivia about the movie. They'll either fall in love with the humor of it all or hate it. What have you got to lose? "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space? Only the world's worst movie, a fact that makes it hilarious and well worth the effort of reviewing a copy. So it was difficult to decide between rating this movie a 1 or a 10.The movie Ed Wood starring Johnny Depp chronicled the life of the very strange producer-director-writer Ed Wood and makes good context for enjoying Plan 9, so also worth renting and seeing first.The production values suck. See the beat cop scratch his head and neck with the business end of a loaded revolver while holding the trigger. The cockpit of an airplane looks like one of those booths that take three photos of you for a dollar, or a voting booth. The dialogue is HORRIBLE. The plot strains credibility and is a montage of unrelated ideas and characters. "},{"Title":"So bad its good!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" plan 9 from outer space is'nt the worst movie ever made,its a fun party movie.even though the movie is inept with its flying saucers with strings and cardboard headstones,its funny this was Bela Lugosi's last movie.some of his scenes were done with a double(who looked nothing like Bela Lugosi)the great tor Johnson as a ghoul along with horror hostess;vampira,looking very sexy in black.ed wood Jr was'nt the worst directer either his movies were inept but fun to watch,i especially enjoyed glen or Glenda,jail bait,and even bride of the monster.its a classic so bad its good movie.despite what some are saying about it.I'm giving plan 9 from outer space 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You Can't Knock a Good (unintentional) Comedy","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The reputation of Plan Nine From Outer Space as the worst movie in history is the result of its being mis-classified under the Science Fiction and Horror genres. I say, had it been classified where it really belonged, under Comedy, it would no doubt have a more respectable ranking.After all, if looks like a comedy, sounds like a comedy, and gets laughs like a comedy, then it must be...a comedy! So does it really matter if this wasn't Ed Wood's genre of choice, so long as his picture gives folks 90 or so minutes of guffaws? I say, no. And I would, add, by the way, that after screening the (brilliant) movie Ed Wood, and knowing some of what went on behind the scenes, I watched Plan Nine with a whole new sense of fascination. After several viewings I still find it hilarious, but it's probably me I also howl at Jimmy Cagney's overdone performance in White Heat. Go figure. "},{"Title":"So bad ... it's good.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cardboard tombstones, stock footage, incoherent dialog, inane acting ... and that's not even the half of it!!! PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE is a movie that is so bad ... it's good.It is unintentionally funny with some truly inept film-making.It must be seen to be believed.Also Recommended - Tim Burton's excellent biopic of Edward D.Wood, Jr. entitled ED WOOD.- Wood's 1953 schlock-fest, GLEN OR GLENDA - The documentary THE HAUNTED WORLD OF EDWARD D. WOOD, JR.- Rudolph Grey's flawless book on the accounts of Ed Wood's life from those closest to him. The book is called Nightmare of Ecstasy The Life and Art of Edward D. Wood, Jr. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only reason this movie is not the worst of all time of the Bottom 100 list is that 17% of the voters gave it a 10. The effects are so bad and the dialogue is so awful that they effectively disguise the fact that the plot might actually have been made into something of a decent movie. Instead, you will find yourself laughing at things like one scene featuring a rotation between stock footage of artillery shooting in the desert at nothing in particular, alien spaceships flying around with little poorly added explosions, and a man in an army uniform standing in front of a barely edited green screen shouting non-sequitors. A classic of the old master. "},{"Title":"Plan nine from outer space is a must see for all sci-fi fans.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan nine from outer space may be titled the worst film ever made, but only if you look at it from the production point of view, there are many reasons why Plan nine from outer space should not be the worst movie ever. One of these is if you actually look at the storyline. Plan nine from outer space is what I call a message film. It doesn't matter if the visuals are awful, the only thing that matters is what the movie tries to portray to the viewers. When I first watched plan nine I must admit I didn't think I could get through the whole thing, but after you watch it and get over the poor quality it is an alright movie, it's actually one of my favorites. And you'll realize that it's not just a movie about aliens robbing graves, not at all. It's a movie that tells us something about ourselves as human beings. "}{"Title":"What's the point of a review?","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How do you review the widely recognized worst film of all time by the worst director of all time? A film that advertises itself as the worst movie ever? A film with a cult following who whole heartedly agree that the movie sucks, and in fact cite that as their reason for their devotion and adoration? I could complain and recite the film's shortcomings, but what's the point? It falls flat on so many levels that it's either hysterically funny in its overwhelming deficiencies or depressing. How did the film hit me? I'm part of the latter crowd.Watch the opening of the film as Criswell makes his infamous speech, featuring eloquent redundancy in phrases like, And remember my friend, future events such as these will affect you in the future. If this cracks you up, great. Enjoy the ride because there's plenty more where that came from. If you cringe at the abysmal writing, shut down the DVD immediately and gather your friends, a few drinks, and get your own MST3000 commentary running. If with the friends, the drinks, and commentaries, you have not laughed by the time Bela's significantly taller double appears on screen and lurks around the fake sets hunched over hiding his face behind the Dracula cape &#150; then just return the damn thing and get your money back.Me personally? I thought I knew what I was getting into &#150; I mean, the thing advertises itself as the worst movie ever made and then there's the Almost starring Bela Lugosi bit. Not to mention the film's long running and widely known reputation. Sounds like an invitation to go bad movie bashing . . . and I couldn't even enjoy gunning for the film. It wasn't just bad, I found it obnoxiously bad as though Wood intentionally tried to make this film a black comedy/spoof but went into serious overkill. And . . . and . . . supposedly Wood sincerely tried to make a good movie? Even after viewing the Plan 9 companion special feature on the DVD, I have trouble believing Wood's sincerity.I know better than this &#150; I know better than asking logical questions within the context of a film like Plan 9, but how could you sincerely write the dialogue for superior aliens that goes, You and your stupid minds! Stupid! STUPID! It upset every writing instinct in my body, and despite having overwhelming reasons to laugh and mock Wood's virtuosity in the art of crap, it just irritated me.Anyway, I did find Tor Johnson's zombie face hilarious every time he made it to the screen. The disguise technique for Lugosi's stand in was entertaining at first, but faded to obnoxious by the second time it came up. A handful of other grin/chuckle moments spiced the film, such as how the alien vessels are constantly referred to and shown to be Saucers, later Jeff tells us they were shaped like cigars and the sets were mysteriously yet distinctly rectangular in shape. Hmmm. I also liked how the interior to the high and mighty aliens' space ship had a wooden tables where electrical crap rested.It goes without saying the Plan 9 sucks, and it's completely unnecessary for a critic to really bash the film for being a crappy movie &#150; just as its unnecessary to hear another critic recite the famous praise of Citizen Kane The real question and issue surrounding Plan 9 is will the viewer enjoy the film for what Plan 9 is? Do you love the film or hate the film for the established fact that it is a terrible, terrible, movie? Take that for what it's worth. "},{"Title":"Success From Failure","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yep It's true what they say. This movie is bad. But we love it anyway.I was a bit disappointed because I was hoping for a lotta bad special effects and maybe some props falling in the background. Granted, the hubcap UFOs with strings are awesome, but where's the plywood props falling over? Ah well.Bela Lugosi is pops up as the Old Man, but for the most part, the young chiropractor plays the character. Vampira has no real purpose in the film, except for us to ponder how she can breathe with that girdle. Tor Johnson as the Undead Officer Clay is the best part. That look on his face...timeless.What really sucks is the acting...so...bad. Some parts are good, but some lines are terrible. It was a small town, but a town nonetheless. A town full of people. People who died. And try not to laugh when Eros says You're stupid! Stupid! Stupid! and gets punched.So for a sucky good time, Plan 9 delivers. And remember, future events such as these will affect you in the future. "},{"Title":"The perfect example of a bad movie","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is so bad it passes through into brilliance. Its extreme ineptness is overwhelming - the script is bad, the sets are bad, the acting is bad, the direction is terrible and, holy-moly, is the plot bad!For example, Bela Lugosi died during the making of this film. So instead of remaking it, they simply replaced him in later scenes with an actor who barely resembled him. Example 2 - the eponymous 'plan 9' involves aliens raising corpses to get Humanity's attention. It makes you wonder what idiocy was used during the other 8 plans.You'd almost feel cruel mocking such a pathetically made movie. But who cares? Its badness is in a league of its own. It's utterly hilarious, and a well worth a look. (I haven't given it a rating, because 'so bad it's good' can't really be marked out of ten) "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made?  No way!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space is often named as the worst film of all time. Give a monkey a camera and he'll make a better picture said one critic. Indeed the evidence is strong. Amidst many other examples, we have1 A chase in a graveyard which goes back and forth from day to night2 A man actually the director's chiropractor pretending to be Bela Lugosi who had just died and hiding the fact that he looks nothing like him by walking around holding his cloak up in front of his face3 Cardboard grave stones blowing in the wind4 A cockpit consisting of part of a wall, a shower curtain and a notepad5 Somebody being thrown onto the ground- onto a pile of supposedly unseen cushions6 Victims of the 'Ghoul Girl' screaming in pain before she's anywhere near close enough to them7 Dialogue of the nature of somebody's been murdered, and SOMEBODY'S responsible8 Some cast members reading their lines from their visible scriptsHowever, all this makes the film tremendously entertaining, so entertaining in fact that it's never dull for a moment. It could almost be described as a surreal masterpiece. No,it's not a good film in the normal sense, but it's so full of ridiculous details that, if approached in the right spirit, there is really a deal of enjoyment to be had. Honestly!One must also remember that the director Ed Wood made his films in a tiny period of time and with hardly any money- he HAD to use such makeshift props and could never reshoot. He had no talent as a director or a writer,but his films, which could have disappeared into B movie hell, have somehow lasted. Think of the last Hollywood blockbuster that you saw that was a disappointment, think of all the money that had been thrown at it, think of it's predictability and it's sameness to 20 other Hollywood blockbusters that came before it. Then watch and enjoy Ed Wood's stupid, terribly made but helarious Plan 9 From Outer Space. How can such a fun watch be the worst film ever made? "},{"Title":"The best worst movie ever.","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's not much I can add to this particular title, we all know Ed Wood and we all know his movies are inept, cheap and poorly written. Non one can deny however, that this movie still stands as great entertainment despite all it's shortcomings. It is never less than engaging and even though most of the laughs come from the outrageously poor production values they are, never the less, laughs. The absolute worst thing a movie can do is bore it's audience, it's the one unforgivable crime and one that Ed Wood can rarely be accused of. His inept blunderings and determined film-making in the face of no talent keep the viewer watching and alert, whereas something like Hal Warrens film Manos Hands of Fate will have you groaning with pain and wanting to leave within 15 minutes of starting to watch. Is it the worst film ever made? Hell no, it's great fun to watch. Is it one of the most technically inept films ever made. Hell yes!  "},{"Title":"Whaddya say we ball it up when we get to Albuquerque ? (spoilers possible)","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thus said the airline pilot to the stewardess in this film, attempting to be charming, before the UFO's appear to them both.Sadly, this Albuquerque ball never takes place, at least not on the screen.Similarly, the pilot's wife tells him she keeps a pillow next to her in bed to feel, when he's away, so she won't feel so lonely. The 1987 NYC Film Forum Summer Festival of Sci-Fi Program describes this film as The Amazing Criswell, Bela Lugosi, Vampira, Tor Johnson, washed-up cowboy actors, and movie-crazy Baptists, in this tale of Earth's invasion by flying hubcaps and paper plates from outer space. What could be more horrifying than Vampira's tiny wasp waist, and its implicit damage to her abdominal vital and reproductive organs ?The film even has its own tautology ( a term from logic and philosophy, meaning a statement which, of necessity, is true, and which therefore may seem trivial) Inspector Clay is dead ! He's been murdered ! And one thing's certain ! Someone's responsible !Lugosi died in 1956 while this film was being shot. Hence Mrs. Wood's chiropractor taking Lugosi's place, albeit being eight inches taller than Lugosi, etc. I have read that the film was not released until 1959, because Wood could not pay the lab bill to process the film until then.No, sorry, that was Plan 9's sequel, Night Of The Ghouls, which is even worse, if you can believe that.I've always enjoyed the resemblance of Eros and Alien Commander to Neil Sedaka and Truman Capote, respectively, with all that that implies.The film could also be seen as Wood's version of The Day The Earth Stood Still, which also concerns extraterrestrials attempting to get Earth's people to take them seriously, acknowledge their existence, and listen and respond to them. There is, of course, no comparison between the two films, and some may see it as nonsense, blasphemy, sacrilege, etc. to even mention them both in the same paragraph. Perhaps the next step downward would be to mention the corpse-reviving radiation from the Venus Explorer satellite returning to Earth in Night Of The Living Dead.I wonder how much of Lugosi's real pain (from narcotic addiction, the pain the narcotic was prescribed for, what had happened to his life, and to his career) is visible in what little we see of him on screen in Plan 9.Having seen this film on Chiller Theater on Saturday evening as a youngster, and attending Mass the following morning, I could not help but remember, and ponder it, towards the end of the Nicene Creed Ah yes ... Plan Nine ... the resurrection of the dead !And I believe in the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come. Amen. "},{"Title":"You haven't seen the worst","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is really no way I could stop liking this movie. I've liked it since I was a little kid. I was one of those monster movie buffs. I rented Plan 9 from the video store thinking Bela Lugosi was the star. Around that same time I rented Ed Wood thinking it was about Lugosi. I didn't even know who Ed Wood was. I know who Edward D. Wood Jr. is now. He was a director that worked hard and was very dedicated. After all that work he was voted the worst director of all time. Believe me, I've seen worse. When I was little I never noticed the silly mistakes in Plan 9 From Outer Space. It wasn't until I saw Ed Wood and read about this movie that I realized them. Just because there are mistakes that doesn't mean you should hate it. I always found Eddie's movies to be interesting, original, and fun. I think the script to this movie is very good. It tells an interesting story and it is fun to watch. Despite the silly mistakes it is still a very good movie. There are a lot of effective scenes in this movie. The best part is when Criswell comes on in the end and makes his closing monologue. I also liked how Wood used bolts of lightning for the opening. The music in Plan 9 From Outer Space is good too. People say how there is bad acting. I didn't notice any really.Tor Johnson was pretty good in this. When he portrays Inspector Clay when he is alive, Tor really isn't that bad of an actor. He has a heavy Swedish accent that makes it a little hard to understand him, but he's fine. Tor Johnson isn't bad in the movie when he's dead either. One actor that was fine for a few minutes was Bela Lugosi. I love Lugosi's scene in front of the house when he is touching the flowers. You know, in shots from the side and from the back, Tom Mason actually can pass as Lugosi. I don't think they should have ever showed him from the front though unless his face was covered enough. In some shots he doesn't cover it enough. I noticed that Tom Mason kind of has Lugosi's ears and his hair was made just right. Sure he's a little taller, but it's not a big deal. In one scene I even noticed that Tom Mason was walking like Bela. I really don't have a problem with any of the actors except Gregory Walcott. He thought he was such a big shot. Where did he ever get? He read the script and said how it was the worst he had ever read. It by no means is the worst. Plan 9 From Outer Space is by no means the worst movie. If you think this movie is the worst then you haven't seen the worst. Try seeing; The Day Mars Invaded Earth, Cabin Fever, Hostel, The Cell, Ghost Ship, Dumb and Dumberer, Gigli, some Friday the 13th movies, some Nightmare on Elm Street movies, Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Spice World, Mortal Kombat Annihilation, Bones, sequels to Halloween, Dracula 2000, In the Cut, End of Days, Mars Attacks, AVP Requiem, Phantom Punch, Pompeii. After you see those then tell me which movie is the worst of all time. After you see those tell me if you have seen the worst acting, the worst writing, and the worst directing. A week from now you can be paying a lot to see the worst movie of all time. There will be more and there might be worse. God help us in the future. "},{"Title":"The best of the 50's Sci-Fi Flicks.","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  D Edward D. Wood Jr. Gregory Walcott; Tor Johnson; Vampira; Bela LugosiA truly excellent example of the `so bad it's good' genre never fails to entertain. A film that really must be seen to be believed. Cult icon Edward D. Wood Jr, (Ed Wood) directs his usual cast of Hollywood nobodies and manages to create a film that has stood the test of time as well as any other. Director Wood's script was written around deceased star Lugosi (who had appeared in other Wood films, `Glen Or Glenda?', `Bride of the Monster', and tragically died after shooting a day's worth of footage with Wood for an unknown project). Airline pilot Walcott spies weird objects in the sky. Could they be related to the resurrection of the recently perished Lugosi, his spurious `double' and his completely implausible wife, Vampira? Detective Inspector Tor Johnson is on the case with bumbling cops Paul Marco and Conrad Brooks. Mismatched footage of Lugosi is blended with his body double (who is actually much taller than Lugosi and looks nothing like him) but this only adds to the fun. A film that should be seen by all. Lugosi's body double actually Chiropractor Dr. Thomas R. Mason. Followed by sequel `Night of the Ghouls'. "},{"Title":"So Bad it is Good!","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Back in the 1950s at the height of the cold war, film producers inundated the American film goer with scores of cheapie black and white science fiction low budget films. Such titles as Fire Maidens from Outer Space, First Man into Space, Invasion of the Body Snatchers to name a few. Almost all of these films were targeted for drive ins or kiddie matinees on a Saturday afternoon. Enter Plan Nine from Outer Space.....just watching this film for about 10-15 minutes you will either get very mad or start laughing at how bad it is! Director Ed Wood on a alleged budget of $60,000 made this incredible piece of schlock in one month! Quite a feat in itself! The list of goofy scenes, bad dialogue and hysterical special effects is something to behold. Consider An airplane cockpit shaped square, with pilots not holding any steering or navigational device, and a used shower curtain separating the cockpit from the passenger section! Grave stones being kicked over and toppled; police cars leaving in daylight and arriving at a graveyard in the dark, 5 minutes later!; a police inspector scratching his neck with a loaded pistol!; police cars heading to a graveyard with a spotlight on top and arriving missing it!; Bela Lugosi and an imitator sharing scenes together as the same person!; old world war II army rocket firing scenes pieced into the film, two army officers,discussing rocket attacks, supposedly on a battlefield, standing on a stage with a paper curtain in the background!; and martians telling earth-people you are stupid, stupid, stupid! Then the goofy leader of the martians, Eros, asking his alien soldiers what their plans are to destroy the earthlings! (Arent you supposed to make that decision?!!!) The flying saucers with strings attached adds to the list of horrors. yet, I find myself watching Plan Nine 3-4 times a year when I need a good laugh! As horribly bad as this film is, everyone should see it once to get a good laugh!  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this movie is not the worst I've seen in my entire life.OK there is no plot,the actors are awful and Ed Wood is not a real director.But I liked a lot of things about this moviethe dialogue of the undertakers-no,every dialogue is great in a silly way.I think if you watch this film you have to love it you can't hate it just because it is so bad. There are a lot of movies out there which are worse than this one-think of Runaway Bride,Batman and Robin,Armageddon,Con Air,Pearl Harboror The Phantom Menace.These films didn't have the soul that Plan 9 has. The best scene in the movie is when Bela Lugosi walks out of the picture and is hit by a car.You can still see his shadow and realize that he just stopped walking and there is no car anywhere.Very very good! (Thanks for reading,sorry for my English.)  "}{"Title":"A right of passage for monster, sci-fi movie fans.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 From Outer Space has been called the worst movie ever made. It certainly has its faults but there are far worse movies out there. It is by no means the worst movie ever made. What it has become, is a horror movie with so many faults that it unintentionally has become a sort of comedy. It's often said that this movie is so bad, it's good. This statement has a lot of truth in it. Many people have watched Plan 9 because they wanted to see the faults and wanted to see how badly made this movie really was. This film has become popular because it was poorly made. It's almost become a right of passage for monster, sci-fi movie fans to watch Plan 9 From Outer Space at least once. One good reason to watch this movie is that in many cases it's used as a benchmark to compare other B movies to. One of the problems in rating this movie is that it has become so famous by being bad, it has developed a kind of cult following. It usually demands strong opinions. People usually love it or hate it. I would say that this movie is a must see for sci-fi, horror, movie viewers simply because it is so often referred to and is so well known. You have to watch Plan 9 From Outer Space and see what all the interest is about and view the movie that gave director / writer Ed Wood a place in cinema history. "},{"Title":"Yes it's so bad it's ... well bad!","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie because I wanted to see what all the hype was about. I wanted to see the movie that is so bad it is good. Plan 9 is bad alright. It's downright horrible. It is so bad that I have to believe it was made that way on purpose. (Note I don't know anything about the history of the movie or the producer Ed Wood.) I don't know how anyone with a sober mind could have been involved in the making of this movie, unless it was intended as a joke. And that is the saving grace for Plan 9. It's so bad and it's so stupid that it is, as many have said, funny. It is actually good for a few laughs. All of the criticisms one could make, cheesy sets, goofy acting, night one minute day the next, etc. give it a special charm. And since it is only 80 minutes, you can survive it!  "},{"Title":"The hilarity of it all","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a tape of this and watch it solely for entertainment purposes. It doesn't frighten you, it makes you laugh. There are so many errors in the film that I find a new one every time I watch it. Example When Inspector Clay and his 2 assistants run down the steps of the police station, they enter a '56 Ford police car that pulls away. When they arrive at their destination (the cemetery), they arrive in a '58 Ford police car!! And I love the airplane cockpit, complete with wooden yokes and a plastic shower curtain cockpit door! Pie plates on strings (the saucers!), cemetery headstones that sway back and forth when touched, and the dialogue that came out of the heavily Swedish accented Inspector Clay (wadda day see? Uhma big boy Jonnie. And the Colonel making the 'greatest decision' of his career, and doing so by waving his arm. This film is on the same level as the Rocky Horror Show. Awful, but entertaining. A cult classic, where you've memorized the entire inane dialouge. See it with someone you love.  "},{"Title":"Soooooooooo bad that it's great!!!","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So much has been said (and written) about this movie over the past 45 years that there's really not much more to say! Ed Wood, attempting to ride the crest of the B Sci-Fi craze of the '50's came up with a real winner in Plan 9 From Outer Space. Utilizing a bare bones budget, and marginal acting from largely substandard actors, Wood directed the most famous stinker of all time. And it proves it's mettle from the very excruciating beginning to the very excruciating end! Hey! even the great Bela Lugosi is in this one, but dies before it's completed!! His substitute looks as much like him as a banana looks like an apple! Who can ask for anything more?The bottom line Its worth viewing! "},{"Title":"What can I say, the best movie ever for the worst reasons.","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this film a 1 because lets face it, it deserves it. The legendary Ed Wood was my inspiration to buy this film, now although I respect the fact that this was a very ambitious film, ambition isnt talent. Why is this film considered the worst in history (a bold but true title), oh let me count the ways. Okay the list acting, writing, screenplay, direction, budget, and props. Im not kidding, this film is terrible, and because of it slightly amusing, but dont expect a laugh riot. All in all, a must see for anyone interested in horrible films or anyone who wants to know about the epic tale of GRAVE ROBBERS FROM OUTER SPACE!. A cinematic masterpeice and a cult classic that shall forever be outdated. "},{"Title":"You would have thought that if an actor died, you'd start from scratch...not in this case.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's my understanding that actor Bela Lugosi died just four days into shooting.  Now, normally, one would think that you would get a new actor and start from scratch, but no, not in Plan 9 From Outer Space.  The new actor hired to play Bela playing the ghoul decided that the best way to keep the moviegoers from knowing that he wasn't Bela was to keep his face hidden from the camera throughout the entire film. What was Woods thinking?  Oh, man, our lead actor died, no, we won't replace him, let's hire a guy much taller than him and get him to cover his face, heck, lets get some shots of Bela out of some other movies, that'll work, I LOVE THIS SCRIPT TOO MUCH!! Obviously this movie will go down as the absolute worst film. "},{"Title":"A Class of Its Own","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To give Plan 9 just an F would not be doing it justice.  It deserves to be graded on a whole other scale, something I like to call the Hilariously Awful Scale.  I've seen some movies that deserved an F that I just hated!  The thought of watching those types of movies just makes me mad and irritated.  However, with Plan 9, it was an F-movie that makes you laugh.I compare it to William Hung, who went on 2004's American Idol and did that hilariously awful rendition of Ricky Martin's She Bangs.  Sure Mr. Hung's performance made you laugh (especially when he stunned Randy and Simon by saying he never took a singing class), but among the class of professional singers out there, Mr. Hung can only get an F.  He should not be singing, as Ed Wood really shouldn't have been making movies.Ed Wood's story in Plan 9 was just ridiculous and corny, and there was nothing he could do to overcome the shortcomings he faced when making this movie (Bela Lugosi's death, Vampira being contractually forbidden from speaking in this movie, etc.)  And let's not forget about the hilarious special effects and the wonderful space-like sets.  I'm surprised to see that this movie was made on a $60,000 budget.  Where exactly did all that money go?!Nevertheless, I do have to give props to Ed Wood for never giving up when he probably should have.  If he felt he was making good movies and put all his heart and soul into them, more power to him!  But I don't think I'd be doing his cult legacy any justice by giving him anything higher than an F.  Mr. Wood, you were definitely one of a kind!My Hilariously Awful Rating 9/10My IMDb Rating 1/10.  My Yahoo! Grade F (All-Time Worst) "},{"Title":"If you rated this above a 1, you didn't watch it","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sitting through this movie is as bad as listening to someone sing your favorite song off key. The production values are non-existent, the acting is so poor that it can't really be called acting, the sound is atrocious and I can't really believe that someone actually edited this film. "},{"Title":"So horrible it's entertaining...","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, this movie has everything... everything wrong that is.  In fact, it's so horrible that it... isn't.  Well, I take that back... it's still horrible.  But it's entertaining!  So much to make jest.  The crappy dialogue, the crappy plot, the crappy acting, the crappy special effects... It's so crappy, it's funny.  Whether intentional or not, the humor is the one saving grace of the film.  Be ready to laugh... "},{"Title":"What's wrong with you people?","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How does the zenith of Woodian garbage end up anywhere outside the bottom 20?  This film is regarded on six continents as The Worst Film Ever, and for good reason, which I won't even bother to repeat here.Judging from the demographic breakdown, Plan 9 is unable to break the bottom 20 because an unfortunate number of people rated it a 10 based (I hope) on its legendary badness.  But truly, giving Plan 9 anything above a 2 is really just an insult in disguise this is remembered for being genuinely, utterly, and undeniably awful.  Don't take that away from it. "}{"Title":"A drop of logic in a sea of obnoxiousness","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** The movie begins with Criswell addressing the theater audience about what their about to see. Sounding like he's giving a monologue for a movie that's a cross between Dragnet and Unsolved Mysteries Criswell tells us that what we are about to see is true based on the evidence that has been substantiated in the investigation of the facts that are presented in the movie. Based on those irrefutable facts we should reward the innocent and punish the guilty in the matter of what we are about to see on the screen. Well that's something that will get your attention if nothing else does! We're told by Criswell that there's flying saucers hovering over the earth using some kind of electric ray to rejuvenate the recently dead and bring them back to life to be used as an indestructible army of human Zombies. Their mission is to stop the governments of Earth from building super bombs and ending up destroying themselves as well as the entire Universe. The aliens have tried peacefully eight times before to get the human race to stop their drive towards self-destruction but to no avail. With the governments of earth shooting at their aircraft, and and in some cases downing them and killing their crews members. Now their taking off their gloves and going to Plan Nine and instead of trying to be peaceful and talkative with the Earth leaders their going to resort to force. What happens in the movie is that the aliens are foiled and destroyed by the heroic earthlings so that now they can develop more and more powerful weapons to destroy themselves as well as the Universe along with them. Taking away the stupid and ridicules sub-plots that Ed Wood Jr. put into the movie that consists of Vampires Zombies flying saucers looking like car hubcaps and aliens dressed up like extras from a movie about Knights of the Round Table Plan Nine from Other Space is truly thought provoking for a film released back in the 1950's. It was back then that criticizing the governments actions in regard to nuclear testing for the purpose of national security was practically unheard of. One scene in the movie that tells it all but is made to look by director Wood as if the aliens were the bad guys trying to do in the people of earth but really was just the opposite! They were really trying to save them and get them off from their road to self-destruction.Eros, Dudley Manlove, the alien crafts captain tells those earthlings that he invited on his spaceship the reasons for his getting in contact with them was to stop the earthlings from building a Solarnite Bomb! A super nuclear bomb which not only can destroy themselves but the entire Universe. The dense and brainless hero of the movie Jeff Trent, Gregory Wallcott, completely misinterpreting what Eros said then starts to brag to Eros saying that if we, the USA, develops this Solarnite Bomb We'll be even stronger then we are now! Which to the shock and surprise of Eros, who just explained to him how dangerous a bomb like that was, tells him just how stupid he and those on earth are. Eros then gets belted, by an outraged Trent, in the mouth for trying to put some sense into his empty skull. The movie ends like it started with Criswell ,again taking center stage, telling us emphatically that The story that you just saw is completely true. Criswell goes so far to even challenge those of us watching the movie saying Can you prove that it didn't happen? Then adds, to his both smug and self-righteous monologue, How do you know that after you leave the theater and pass someone in the dark that person is not from outer space? Which is well in line with a lot of the idiotic things that we've seen, and heard from Criswell, in the movie. But I have to admit that Criswell's last words are really thought provoking and do hit home. This after what we just saw about the dangers of nuclear destruction in the mad rush for bigger and better nuclear bombs by the top world powers on earth God Help Us In The Future. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite crappy movies of all time","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a whole new appreciation for Ed Wood's achievement after spending the better part of a lazy weekend watching some bargain basement movies purchased from Suncoast. I made the mistake of picking up a couple of those Brentwood DVD compilations of various crappy horror films, and let me just say that they make Plan 9 from Outer Space shine in comparison.Ok, so Ed Wood didn't have the technical skills of a, say, Mario Bava, or even a Lucio Fulci, or whatever, but his incompetent nonsense has given me, and countless others, so many hours of entertainment and that counts for something. No, he had no talent whatsoever for filmmaking, but after watching some truly unwatchably bad movies, I can say that at least Plan 9 keeps your interest.How can you not love the silly dialogue?  (Because all you of earth are idiots!) The amazing acting? (Casting an overweight Swedish wrestler who can barely speak English = genius!) The horrible props? (Look out for the pie plates on string!) And so much more!This is one of my favorite crappy movies of all time, and seeing true crap has only served to confirm Plan 9's inept greatness to my mind. "},{"Title":"I can't wish the crime undone...","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space is easily one of the worst movies ever made. Its acting, plotting, scripting, editing, execution, and on and on are all the nadir of their craft. And as such, it's very instructive. It's a cautionary tale to other aspiring filmmakers. And above all, it's just hilarious in its glorious awfulness. Nothing more can be said. "},{"Title":"No longer the worst film ever made!","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As bad as this film is it now can relinquish the title it has held for so long as worst film ever made. That honor now goes to Gigli.  Yes this is laughable in every way and the goofs are endless but because of all that it is at least entertaining.   "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not only does this movie have a weak premise (Aliens land and start creating a zombie army). But everything that could possibly go wrong in the film-making process, does! A must see for anyone who enjoys bad movies. Although Plan 9 is without a doubt terrible, it's also filled with unintentionally hilarious dialog, plot inconsistencies, sudden changes from night to day, etc. One of my favorite screw ups was the device they created to translate the aliens language, only to speak at length with the aliens at the end of the movie, WITHOUT THE DEVICE! Of course the aliens are just humans in jumpsuits, so their conversations about how 'strange' humans are, I found very entertaining as well. A must-see movie if you get a kick out of terrible film-making. Also check out Sinbad, Of the Seven Seas (1989).  "},{"Title":"Here it is! The Worst Film In The World","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 From Outer Space is now legendary as the worst movie ever made by the worst director that ever lived. It is the most tragic film in every sense but it is so funny it is still worth watching. I always burst out laughing when I see the shaky film sets, the terrible acting not to mention the most awful dialouge ever put onto the big screen. This film has achieved cult status simply because its just the worst film in cinema history. I urge you to watch it if you have never seen it before because it's really the type of film that has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"So Bad, It's a Masterpiece","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hubcaps from Outer Space should be the actual title, from the get-go of this movie you say what the hell?, and you continue to utter those same three words in the 86-minute span of the film repeatedly.  Night turns to day, day to night and all of this happens between each film cut.  There is a certain artistry to this film, and I believe that it should be ranked at the top instead of at the bottom for it's genuine show of stupidity and reluctance in editing. "},{"Title":"Worst movie? Heck, no.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I keep hearing Plan 9 would be the worst movie ever... which may have very well been true at some point, but during the decades after its release the competition for that title has increased quite a bit.These days, there are plenty of genuinely horrible films, but this movie is at least watchable. At least the makers had tried their best within their budget, and it shows. Sure, plot could have been somewhat more interesting and most of the supposedly spooky stuff isn't really spooky, and the special effects aren't very special... but at least the movie is *watchable*. It definitely creaks from its seams but it ain't falling apart.I'll give it 5/10 for a *very* good try and the unintentional hilarity. I enjoyed it as much as it was *possible* =)  "},{"Title":"sheer joy and enjoyment","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've known about this movie for a long time, but only today I got to see it. And after it was over I was thinking to my self `man, how would one rank this movie? (out of 4 stars) . This movie could invoke discussions more than most movies. It would give you genuine laughers (unintentional, but still great). Whatever it is, it's not boring. Actually if you know how to appreciate it, it is sheer joy and enjoyment to watch it, and isn't that what we really need from a movie. If somebody made a spoof that resembled that (as Tim Burton himself tried with `Mars Attacks) he would be considered imaginative genius. It is a movie that is `so bad it's good' which is much better than the many movies that try to be too good and spend millions and millions but turn out very bad. Examples `Battle field earth, water world, the postman, etc). I think most movie buffs like some classic shots in movie history like `Lord Orlok' rising from it coffin, and Frankenstein monster backing up into the room. I think we need to add some of `Tor Johnson' shots from this movie to the list of the most memorable scenes ever in the history of cinema.      "},{"Title":"So bad it's...well, you  know","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If B-movie goof-ups are your thing, Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space is your treasure trove. Internationally recognized as the worst movie ever, Plan 9 is famous for its cheesy flying saucers on strings and frequent continuity errors involving the time of day. It doesn't end there. Bela Lugosi passed away before the film was completed, and his body double is younger and taller. The police lieutenant always seems to be pointing his gun up at himself, and when he discovers a murder victim he concludes that Someone is responsible! All of the dialogue is ludicrous, the fight sequences are unconvincing (obviously fake punches go unassisted by sound effects), and Wood's addiction to stock footage is made abundantly clear. These factors combine to create something of a catalog of all things cheap and unprofessional, a movie that's wrong in all the right ways. "}{"Title":"What a great movie to laugh at","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie because it is the most rediculous movie that was ever made. I has the worst dialog, sets, and acting that I have ever seen, but I love it anyway. It is for entertainment only and dose not try to solve any problems in society and make you think about your life or anything like that. It is for entertainment only. None of Ed Woods movies would have won any oscars, but who cares. He did not make these for that reason. I think it was Penn and Teller that said it best that this was a movie, and not a film. A film tries to tell us something, this was just something to look at for a while. To get your mind off of your problems for a while. Besides its funny. "},{"Title":"It actually improves with age","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad that its good. You cannot help but laugh out loud at the stupid special effects and scenery that falls over all the time. That metal chair must not have been very heavy for it to move like that. You just do not get awful movies like this anymore.  "},{"Title":"TERRIFIC TIME WASTER","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PLAN NINE is the most notorious, well known Grade Z Sci-Fi/Horror film ever-and one of the most entertaining of its kind. It's murder. And someone is responsible!Visits? But that would indicate visitorsOr how about ...It,s a small town, but it,s still a town; a town with people; people who died.If you're into that kind of dialog, sub-par acting, and flying paper plates, this one is for you.Unlike BEACH GIRLS AND THE MONSTER, this one is actually fun to watch.Even without the help of Mike and his robot friends.Rating *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"World's worst movie? I don't think so!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this movie actually is pretty awful, it's what it has become today as a cult classic is what is really important! There's Boris Karloff, there he isn't. Where did this new guy come from? But the best part to me, which is practically genius, is when the white paper plates fly across the screen to resemble flying saucers (with no special effects I might add). I wet my pants every time I see that scene, and I just can't eat off one to this day. It's a must see for every classic movie lover. "},{"Title":"The best bad movie ever made","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What the heck can be said about a movie like Plan 9 from Outer Space? It's often called the worst movie ever made. This is certainly not true. Yes, this movie has so many mistakes it unintentionally becomes a classic comedy. But similar monster movies from the time Plan 9 was made make this movie look like Citizen Kane. Despite his artistic shortcomings, Ed Wood was a poet at heart, and Plan 9 has a strange beauty to it. The alien's monologue at the end about the destruction of the universe has an odd meaningfulness to it. I am by no means calling this a good movie. Any student of film should watch Plan 9 as an example of what NOT to do. But this movie deserves more credit than it gets. It is certainly not as low as some of the offensively bad crap that came out of 50's science fiction. It's worth seeing for its entertainment value alone, and if anything, proves that Ed Wood was the most talentless genius in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Plan 9? Try 1","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've given this a one, because there is no doubt it is truly awful in every department, and yet, and yet .... it's so damn enjoyable. I first saw it on a double bill with Robot Monster back in the 80s, as the two worst films ever made (This was before Blair Witch Project), and they were just so hilarious. It feels mean to deride the well meaning efforts of the Ed Wood and co, just for turning out crap. The definition of a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"How Not to Make a Movie","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film should be shown at the film schools of every major university and a class should be centered around it called Cinema 201 How Not to Make a Movie.  This film definitely deserves its Golden Turkey Award as The Worst Movie of All Time.  Ed Wood was an inept film maker who didn't care how his films came out as long as they did.  But Wood shouldn't be the only one to blame for this garbage.  The cast of this film are nothing but a bunch of second rate hack actors who probably couldn't get a good job even as extras doing a walk on.  However, despite of my poor opinion of this film, it still has a special place in my heart because Plan 9 just happens to be in that special category of films that are so bad they are funny. "},{"Title":"Hey, I think this movie is fun!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Actually, I don't find Plan 9 as hilarious or hideous as other reviewers. Sure there is some bad acting and less that elaborate scenery. But Plan 9 has a certain charm to it which makes it a favorite. Some movies are just outwardly terrible without being charming. I've walked out on those films in the theaters and thrown away the tapes and DVD's But I've watched this film over and over. I see the mistakes; like the scene where the police race to a scene in a 1957 Ford. When they arrive, thay're in a 1956 Ford. But thats ok. This movie is fun and far from the worst movie I've ever seen. For a real turkey try Teenage Zombies. I bought that one, watched it for 15 minutes and threw it away. It was just horribly inept and stupid. Plan 9, as I said earlier, has a certain charm to it,  and for that fact, it is enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Great movie 'cause it's so bad","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Obviously, Plan 9 from outer space may be less interesting to watch than the life who made it possible as we witnessed with Burton's Ed Wood, with Depp playing the leading role as Ed Wood Jr. However, watching this film -Plan 9- it´s a tour de force for anyone who´s into sci-fi movies as it is watching parodies in the vein of Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie and/or genre gems like Star Wars or Blade Runner (and now Minority report).To be honest the movie sucks, but it´s also what makes it remarkable not only for it's failures and intentions halfway done, but for the silly scenarios (just pay attention to how the tombstones and the lever on the plane oscillates) and goofy efforts to inject us fear. Besides, this is a more than good experience to witness the cinema done a long time ago as it is an instant reference for us mexicans (or from any other country) whom have watched movies by El Santo or the film Pepito y Chabelo contra los monstruos. Those are legends in it's own right too.Here, the most scary thing about Plan 9 it's that the film was intended to be taken seriously which makes it even more pathetic on the way. However, that´s exactly why the movie turns into a classic and I don´t like people to despise it 'cause as worst as it gets, it´s the greatest of the bad movies ever done. And being at the top of the lowest scale gotta be a triumph anyway. Hope someday I´ll have my own copy.   "},{"Title":"So bad it's great","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are many many more worse movies than this. I love this flick. I can watch this thing pretty much endlessly. It is genuinely one of the funniest films ever made. The fact that it was 'supposedly' intended as a 'serious horror' flick only serves to make it funnier because the laughs aren't contrived. In fact I'd dare say that if they'd set out to make a comedy I'm sure that the resulting production would've been truly pitiful and pathetic.What I'm not sure about is whether our friend Mr Wood was the idiot he's made out to be. Maybe he's really the one who's laughing at us. Who knows, quite possibly he made his flicks 'bad' intentionally. All I know is that with all the talk of this being the worst film ever made I still think it's vastly more entertaining than any of the latest 'Star Wars Episode Doh!' flicks any day. "}{"Title":"ROTFL","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I had been warned. And I do have to admit that most of this movie is just boring. But I was rolling on the floor when I saw scenes like Vampira walking over the grave yard, or Tor Johnson arising from his tomb. I can't help myself, when I watched those extremly ridiculous cuts between footage of Bela Lugosi and scenes with his double I just couldn't take it not more. I wonder how senseless a movie can get. Helge Schneider would love this movie.Plan 9 from outta space is indeed one of the funniest movies that I've scene for a while. Watch it when you're in the right mood and skip the boring parts.     "},{"Title":"The pinnacle of bad movies","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a big fan of bad movies, I knew I would definitely have to check out Plan 9 eventually. I just watched it yesterday, and it's easily the worst movie I've ever seen. This one blows right past such stinkers as Eegah and Mighty Morphin A Power Rangers Movie, and any film that's worse than movies like that is definitely no work of art. It's easily the biggest camp classic of all time, but not even it's ineptitude can make it good.In what is Ed Wood's biggest masterpiece, two aliens prepare to launch Plan 9 on earth, which they'll do by turning dead humans into zombies and have them overtake the capitals of the earth. Familiar Wood movie faces Tor Johnson, Vampira (What's with the thighs?), and Bela Lugosi are cast as the zombies, although Lugosi only appears shortly due to his untimely death. But Ed Wood still came up with a solution He hired a local chiropractor to put a cape over his face for the rest of the scenes he was supposed to be in. Johnson and Vampira also look ridiculous, and let's not forget the aliens that look like humans. Wood's effects will crack you up, such as the hubcap flying saucers, the liquid oil flames on the spaceship, and the cheap looking graves. Every single scene is flawed in at least one way (For instance, there's one part where you can see the studio lights reflected on a television screen). Most of the scenes don't make sense, and there are plot holes bigger than Tor Johnson. But it is an Ed Wood movie after all! Plan 9 is also riddled with tons of average Hollywood dialogue (and some stock footage), making it the perfectly typical Hollywood B-flick. But simply put, the movie is a bore fest. Despite its slightly short running time you'll be yearning for it to end after the first minute. But if you're a fan of bad movies, you'll be entertained to say the least. All in all, I do recommend this if you want to see how bad a movie can get. It's awful, but like most old B-movies it's fun in a campy way. Now I have the urge to watch the `Ed Wood' movie that was made a few years ago. 0 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Horrible...","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan Nine from Outer Space is perhaps the best worst movie of all time. It is thouroughly hilarious that any one person would take this movie seriously. There are so many mistakes and just incredibly stupid dialougue, you wonder why this isn't a comedy. Though the movie is ultimately awful, it is a great movie to rent if you are in need of a laugh. I am so serious. I rent this movie from time to time just to laugh at it aand it has become a personal favorite of most of my family. Hilariously stupid, Plan Nine is perhaps the worst idea even any amateur filmaker could think up. But it sure is funny.... "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll laugh some more...","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is infamous for being awarded the title of Worst Movie Ever Made. While admittedly it is bad, Plan 9 is simply not deserving of this title.Okay, still with me? Good. Plan 9 is a terrible, incoherent, inept film. However, it is saved from the trash heap by one simple fact the movie is consistently FUNNY. From Criswell's moronic prediction at the start of the film (future events such as these will affect us in the future) to the flaming pie tin saucer at the end, the film is a laugh riot. It's junk, but it's entertaining junk, and in that respect it is still a good movie. If you don't believe me, watch Plan 9 and a truly awful movie (say, Manos Hands of Fate or Battlefield Earth) back to back. You'll see the difference immediately.Nevertheless, Ed Wood can't get off scott free on this one. Plan 9 is funny, but it was *intended* to be a serious film about alien invasion (sort of). What he's done is pull a Homer (from the Simpsons; a phrase meaning to succeed despite idiocy). The fact that this is Bela Lugosi's last film - and that he died before it was made, and they just took some footage of him and built a movie around it - makes me cringe. Laughable or no, this movie deserves a place on the Bottom 100. It just doesn't deserve the coveted #1 slot. I reserve that dishonor for truly awful films like Manos, where absolutely EVERYTHING was terrible, or for movies where despite having every resource in Hollywood at their disposal, the end result is still unwatchable, like Battlefield Earth.2/10 stars - Painful, but a good kind of pain. "},{"Title":"Possibly THE Inept Classic of All Time","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are so many mistakes in this film. and so much universal negative commentary in the 44 years since its release, that it is hard to know where to begin, except to perhaps defend it.  I am only grateful that Bela Lugosi did not live to see the ridicule to which his last film was subjected. Plan 9 is so bad it is good.  Notoriety has saved it from obscurity, and cultism has saved it from extinction.  Watching it is almost addictive, and you have to run the tape again--and again--to be sure you are not seeing things.  Reviewers have come up with dozens of flaws, from the cardboard tombstones to the endless switching from day to night and vice versa in the same sequence.  In all of this, over the years, there has been something sublime and classic that has settled upon Plan 9. And, as indefinable as it is, it is a something that makes an obscure string of movie mistakes a classic study of space invaders ineptitude for all time.  "},{"Title":"The ultimate so bad it is good movie!!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan nine has been hailed as the worst movie ever made, yet i think its one of the greatest ever made and for simply being awful. The errors in the film are noticeable, the wobbling gravestones, awful dialogue, cheap special effects, time inconsistency i.e. day turning to night and night turning to day within minutes, but this makes the film unintentionally funny and in many ways an original piece of work, it could be best described as an anti-masterpiece as it goes against the norms of classical narrative film. The region two dvd version is the best copy of the film at the minute as it comes with a documentry, the plan nine companion, buy it or rent it immediately! And 'remember my friends future events such as these, will effect you in the future.....god help us in the future.' "},{"Title":"Mostly enjoyable and hilarious due to flubs and ineptness.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Director Ed Wood, Jr. created quite a monster when he made Plan 9 From Outer Space! The quality of Plan 9 From Outer Space is awful in every way awful script, awful acting, awful dialogue, awful special effects, awful sets and props, awful editing, etc., but it's this all-around awfulness that give Plan 9 From Outer Space its appealing charms. Many will be able to find the awfulness to be quite hilarious, and this certainly is a fun movie to watch with friends. It is non-stop flubs and hilarious awfulness right from the movie's very beginning with the segment Criswell Predicts. Oh that Criswell; the hair style, the monotone voice, and the ridiculous things he says in his opening segment! Criswell also is narrator at times during the movie, and has the silly, closing segment at the end. The movie concerns flying saucers (which are really hubcaps) flying over Hollywood and Washington, D.C. One of the saucers lands in a cemetery in Southern California with its two aliens planning on executing Plan 9. Plan 9 is their plan to take over the world by reviving the recent dead as murdering slaves. They need to take over the world due to man's increased knowledge in making bombs, because they know of a bomb that would explode the entire universe and are fearful earthmen will also learn of this bomb. Bela Lugosi had limited footage shot for this movie when he died, so when his character is revived from the dead he is sometimes Bela and sometimes portrayed by a much taller actor covering his face with a cape (as if we couldn't tell it isn't always Bela!) T.V. Horror movie hostess Vampira is also one of the revived dead, and looks quite silly as a creature of horror with super-long fingernails. Shots of Vampira wandering through the cemetery in search of victims actually seem semi-classy in an odd sort of way; like a cemetery Mona Lisa. Tor Johnson also falls victim, and the effects of him rising from the grave are hilarious (he seems to have difficulty getting out of the ground; the giant tombstone before the grave is also shown in an unconvincing miniature, which then plops into the open grave after Tor has climbed out.) The scenes of the alien invaders (Dudley Manlove and Joanna Lee, who also starred in The Brain Eaters) are also unintentionally humorous; especially when they report to their flaming, hand-waving leader (John Bunny Breckinridge.) There's a scene of saucers over Washington, D.C. where the military goes into action, and we are shown nothing but military stock footage of the ordeal. Some of the scenes don't match up in filmed footage from one shot to the next, and night scenes are bright as day at times! At times actors (the gravediggers) are badly overdubbed, and other times it is apparent actors are reading off of cue cards! Many parts of the sets are reused over again to portray other sets, and the cemetery is totally unconvincing with its cardboard tombstones and little cardboard crypt. The airplane set is a hoot, and so are the plane's controls! The science fiction elements are mildly interesting, but often seem unlikely. The acting is totally incompetent, and Plan 9 From Outer Space contains some of the silliest dialogue ever heard! To watch this film with a critical seriousness would make Plan 9 From Outer Space to be one of the worst movies ever made, but because of its flubs and ineptness it is often enjoyable and may provide many laughs. "},{"Title":"Well, what can I say?","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the time when I choose films to comment on in the IMDB, I try to pick films that nobody or few people have commented on. After all, what I say about films like CITIZEN KANE, 2001, VERTIGO, CASABLANCA etc. that zillions of people have already submitted comments on here at the IMDB and gallons of ink have been put to paper about them? PLAN NINE has been dissected, probed, its parts examined under a microscope, sewn back together again and then taken apart several times over. PLAN NINE is the only film I know of that has undergone so much discussion not for being a good film, but because it considered so bad. I have seen lots of bad films and have submitted comments on many, but in most cases with films like BLONDE ON A BUM TRIP  and THE INCREDIBLE PETRIFIED WORLD, I was in virgin territory. Such is not the case with PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE. So! What I can I say thats new? Not much. I will say that PLAN NINE, despite containing so many technical errors that would give a high school film class student an F, dialog written with no ear to how people really talk and sounds like it was written for a radio show, and mostly inept or indifferent acting, PLAN NINE is not the worst movie ever made. It is however one the most watchable bad movies ever made. Anyone watching it for the first time will stay glued to the screen. Its certainly more watchable that other notorious turkeys like FRANKENSTEIN ISLAND or recent big Hollywood flops like THE SKULLS. It certainly isn't even the worst film from Ed Wood, that would be JAIL BAIT, a film that can only be watched once. At least with PLAN NINE, Wood kept things moving. PLAN NINE merits repeated viewings, turkeys like ROCKET ATTACK USA and THE CREEPING TERROR can only be viewed more than once by viewers with high tolerance for boredom. At least Ed Wood's film badness is due to naive ineptitude, not the kind of jaded, cynical ineptitude found in bad films from the same era like THE ASTOUNDING SHE MONSTER or KING DINOSAUR or the dozens of God awful slasher movies of recent vintage. Unlike other makers of bad films like Sam Katzman or Jerry Warren, I don't think Ed Wood had contempt for the people that went to see his movies. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The cliche is apt here It's so bad, it's good. If it wasn't for the entertainment value of the total lack of professionalism that went into the making of this film, it would deserve a rating of one. But it is comical (though not supposed to be). Still, it's better than Burt Lancaster's bomb, The Swimmer - another film that's so bad, it's enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Worst Film ever made?  Hardly!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen hundreds of films that make Ed Wood look like a cinematic genius.  Plan 9 is wonderfully bad, but there are so many worse films.  It's not even Ed Wood's worst film - that might be Glen or Glenda.The worst thing about this film is the special effects - the spaceships flop about wildly on strings, and the cardboard tombstones wobble and flop over.  The film does a poor job of simulating night scenes in daytime.The premise is a bit screwy - aliens want out attention, and apparently, Plans 1 through 8 didn't work, so they raise the dead to get our attention.  Maybe Plan 42 involves landing in Times Square and actually saying hi.  The film does go off on a long speech near the end when the alien explains what he wants - you get the point LONG before he finishes.But it is fun, I can forgive the special effects - how can you not forgive something that gives you such a good laugh?  If you want the real worst, check out the bottom 100 films list - it will make you appreciate just how good a director Ed Wood was... scary, isn't it? "}{"Title":"Ed Wood needs to be consoled, not laughed at.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the risk of sounding like a real spoil-sport,  I have to say that I wasn't able to have fun  laughing at this movie the way I know you're  supposed to.Sure, I saw everything that was supposed to strike  me funny -- the flying saucers that were obviously  hubcaps on strings, the bad dialog, the Bela Lugosi  stand-in who didn't even begin to look like Bela  Lugosi, and the lame attempt to cover this fact by  having the stand-in cover his face.But I also saw two other details that overshadowed  everything else for me.  First, in the scenes that  include the real Bela Lugosi, he looks sick.  Knowing that he died during the making of the movie,  and guessing from the looks of him that he suffered,  I was saddened to think of him suffering the  indignity of being involved with this fiasco at  the same time, and that being the last thing he  would ever experience before he died.More importantly, PLAN 9 looked like it was really  trying to be a good movie.  There ARE some movies,  such as ATTACK OF THE FIFTY-FOOT WOMAN,, that I CAN  laugh at for their poor execution because they're  such blatant and shameless attempts to sell garbage.   PLAN 9, on the other hand, looked like a  sincere attempt to make a good movie, albeit an  attempt that failed miserably.  I was left feeling  that it would be inhumane to laugh at Ed Wood, when  what he really needed was to be consoled.      "},{"Title":"Dumb Film But Delightful And Funny!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course Plan 9 is a bad film!Anyone who says otherwise should have their head examined.However, bad as it is,its a very watchable and funny romp.Ed Wood had vision! (He lacked,talent,money,and creativity...but he had vision!)  The fun of watching Plan 9 is its sheer stupidity..and for that reason alone I recommend it on a rainy day for a good time. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movie of the 50s.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is it, one of the most famous and rightly so movie ever made. It is truly a work of art, everything is there, it is complex, deep of meaning, sexy, creepy, atmospheric, scary and intelligent all at the same time. Ed Wood never was one of the worst, he was the most misunderstood director, period. Any movie starring Bela Lugosi, Vampira or Tor Johnson is a winner for me. Here is the story thanks to David Thiel.Can your heart stand the shocking facts about Graverobbers from Outer Space? That's the question on the lips of the narrator of this tale about flying saucers, zombies and cardboard tombstones. A pair of aliens, angered by the stupid minds of planet Earth, set up shop in a California cemetary. Their plan to animate an army of the dead to march on the capitals of the world. (The fact that they have only managed to resurrect three zombies to date has not discouraged them.) An intrepid airline pilot living near the cemetary must rescue his wife from this low-budget terror. Can you prove it *didn't* happen?All of the crap that have been said about Ed Wood is all false, Wood was one of the pioneer in cinema as Raymond Martino, Jackie Kong, Andy Sidaris and many others years later. He was one of the first to produced great movies like Necromania, Night of the Ghouls, Bride of the Monster, Glen or Glenda and even wrote some classics like Orgy of the Dead.Plan 9 from outer space is the greatest science-fiction film of all-time, it is timeless. In fact, we are stupid minds!A true gem, pure masterpiece to treasure for eternity. The dvd is a must-have with a retrospective documentary Flying Saucers Over Hollywood The Plan 9 Companion (1992), featuring interviews with stars Gregory Walcott, Carl Anthony, Paul Marco, Vampira and Conrad Brooks, plus sci-fi historian Forrest J. Ackerman and directors/fans Sam Raimi and Joe Dante.10/10 "},{"Title":"Silly, and at times laughable attempt to make a sci-fi/horror movie...","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1st watched 10/27/2001 - 2 out of 10(Dir- Ed Wood, Jr.) Silly, and at times laughable attempt to make a sci-fi/horror movie by the famed bad movie maker Ed Wood, Jr.  About the only reason I didn't give this the worst rating is that I can't tell whether or not the filmmaker intentionally was making this movie laughable or not.  The dialogue seems to have been written without any sense of even how to write complete sentences correctly in some scenes.  Bela Lugosi's last film and probably his worst with his double playing many of the scenes with his face covered and who can forget Vampyra (well I guess I can).  It's amazing how this movie can be found in your local video stores when many classic well-done old movies have to be searched for in specialty stores.(This says something either about us - the moviegoing public - or Ed Wood).  He it least will always be known for something because of what he's done badly.  "},{"Title":"The Worst At Its Best","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 From Outer Space has a reputation as The Worst Movie Ever Made.  And rightly so, with its bad acting, slapdash special effects, amateur editing, and miscasting.  Tor Johnson is more believeable as a zombie than as the living Inspector Clay. (Could you really believe that a man with a thick Swedish accent would have the name Clay?) The whole story seems like Ed Wood, Jr., and company made it up as they went along.  The movie even stoops so low as to have the legendary Bela Lugosi put on his costume from Dracula.  This movie was probably meant to follow the 1950's trend of outer space movies that were really a metaphor for the Cold War.  But it comes off more like a bad episode of The Twilight Zone.  This is the sort of movie that is best enjoyed when you don't take it seriously.  Its reputation has certainly left it wide open for that! "},{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was invited to a local cinema to see this the most awful movie of all times. In the beginning it was quite fun to see all the errors and poor actor and the mood in the cinema was quite good, but after half an hour the joke became quite stale and the movie actually showed its true self It is truly awful and does indeed deserve its name as the worst movie ever. It is not even worth seeing just to see how a bad movie is. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Look deep...","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT- There's more to this than what's on the surface. Sure it's an hilarious, amateurishly made film that Ed Wood thought was Art, but consider the time when it was made. American military might was unquestioned, and it was a given that whatever we did was the right thing to do; in that light, this is an amazingly subversive movie for 1958. The aliens are trying to save us from ourselves as well as trying to save the rest of the universe; jet jockey Jeff Trent (Gregory Wolcott) is a stereotypically lunkheaded example of 1950's militaristic thinking- he won't listen to reason, assuming that possession of the Solaranite bomb would only make America stronger. Bigger and better bombs were the key to survival to such people. He is indeed the headstrong young fool Eros (Dudley Manlove) pegs him as.Of course, along came Vietnam and proved that more and better technology wasn't necessarily the answer to a determined enemy who saw his survival, and that of his people, at stake.The film is an impassioned plea for arms control when general public opinion held that those who advocated it were fools, Communists or tools thereof. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS TERRIBLE MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad that it is good. I watched the Mysteries and Scandles about Ed Wood and it had on some of the actors from the movie and even they were saying how bad it was also. I still love to watch it anyway. It is a good movie to watch with a bunch of guys and make fun of it. I recomend watching it to anyone who just loves a terrible scifi movie. "},{"Title":"The best worse movie ever made!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alien invaders want to conquer the earth by awaking the dead... At the beginning of the 80s some people voted this film for the worst movie ever made there are flying saucers fixed on visible wires, a wobbling set decoration, a constant illogical change between night and day in each individual scene and a Bela Lugosi-double that always holds his cape in front of his face because the original main actor had died to early. Nevertheless this film is really worth a look and although it is horrible directed it has a higher cult status than other meaningless Z-grade productions have! The actors are surprisingly good, but the most memorable parts come from Tor Johnson as bald headed zombie as well as Vampira as vampire lady, however both give the worst performances in the whole film. Plan 9 from outer space is the ideal party movie to laugh your head off! In 1994 director Tim Burton filmed an homage to his idol with Johnny Depp playing the main character Ed Wood, but I think it is more a typical Hollywood-cliché production than a real portrait..! Check out the originals instead!!! "},{"Title":"its bad, awkward and its crappy... I LOVE IT !","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All people are saying its the worst movie ever, ok, it has won the Golden Turkey Award for being the worst movie ever. But at least you see that Ed Wood really liked making movies. You can literally see that he had no money. Besides other trash like Gremlords and The attack of the killer tomatoes which i consider are really the most boring and crappiest movies ever (especially Gremlords is REALLY the bottom of the barrel...), this one has still some kind of style (ok, in a really really weird kind of way).I am pretty sure, that this, besides all the other crap you can see or rent today, will still not be forgotten.I you want to see a bad movie with style rent this one !its a must see movie ! "}{"Title":"So bad I can't help watching it over & over!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the cheapest movie made.  Actually,it's so cheesy you can believe that the actors are volunteers.  Love the night scenes... sorta bright.  And the same footage shown more than once (and in reverse?!?...the car going to & from the cemetary.)  Love the sophisticated equipment in the flying saucer.  I have watched this movie since I was a child and will continue to recommend it...especially to anyone who says Return to the Poseidon Adventure is the worst ever.  Cult film all the way.  It most definitely goes down as one of the most continually entertaining movies ever!!  Everytime you watch it can feel like the first time! "},{"Title":"More here than mistakes and jokes.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thanks to this film and Michael Medved's book The Golden Turkey Awards, a whole new genre of film was suddenly declared cool, the supposed bad movie. It is tempting and too easy to dismiss the film, just listing the movies mistakes and gaffes. Almost everyone commenting on this movie falls for that temptation and smirks mercilessly and couch potatoes get to feel somehow superior because this Hollywood movie is so seemingly inept. There are many many worse movies out there as far as quality of effects and story continuity.  Putting this into a little context here, we don't laugh at a High School play because its bells and whistles are not as complex and expensive as a top Broadway production. We applaud the effort and realize that they probably did the best they could with the resources available to them. Say what one will about Ed Wood, he always did the very best he could with what he had. This movie was sincerely made ( the Science Fiction picture was in full swing in 1958 ) and made by people in love with making movies and attempting to make a living doing what they loved. Too dismiss it all as one big joke is funny the first 18 times you hear about it. It's been done to death, the beaten horse is long dead. I'd recommend this movie, but you have probably already seen it. Many times, in fact. I would also wager that there are many Hollywood Million Dollar blockbusters that you have not seen, or if you have, you saw it once and moved on. Not bad for a bad movie and a standing joke, Ed... "},{"Title":"A technical marvel of its day (?)","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a wonderful movie!  Cutting-edge technology at its best!  Isn't it delightful how, at the start, when the old man gets run down in the street, he is resurrected as a vampire?  And guess what- his dearly departed wife (whom we never see alive) just happens to be a LADY vampire!From the paper-plate flying saucers (complete with string!) to the ever-interchangeable night and day sequences, this flick is a riot!  I wonder who was in charge of wardrobe?By the way, did anyone happen to notice the Santa Fe Railroad insignia in the lower left corner of the wall map in the Colonel's office? "},{"Title":"The best movie of all times","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bela Lugosi was dead but he is starring as a zombie in this cult (almost) horror movie . Some aliens come on earth and bring back the deads (Vampira , Bela Lugosi & Tor Johnson) . Ed Wood in his masterpiece try to make a ''naturally born blockbuster'' from outer space . Some people who can't understund Ed Wood's cinema says ''this is the most awful movie of all times'' . Fans of American Trash cinema of 50's gonna love this movie , everybody else who has not his mind open , can go to mainstream craps like citizen kane or Casablanca . Here we have the best movie of all times .  "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've ever seen that was intended to be shown at a theater.  The whole Ed Wood was the worst director so you have to see this only goes so far.  This movie was beyond bad.  There were only bits and pieces that remotely appeared to be professional.  The acting, story, scenery, special effects, and costumes were terrible.  The dialogue was even worse.  The lighting was even worse than that.  Surprise, surprise, the makeup was good.  No other redeeming qualities in this thing except that it's SO bad, you feel sorry for the director and for some of the actors if these were the best roles they could get.  I guess if you watched it enough times then you may enjoy picking out all the lighting, dialogue, scenery, and acting mistakes.  That's not for me. "},{"Title":"A Baffling Horror","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 From OuterSpace is a hilarious movie with a bad plot, horrible acting, unexplained theories and characters, but above all; extremely entertaining. The makers of this film intended it to be very horrific and scary, but with the bad graphics and camera work, it takes that all away. Most people either think the movie is hilarious, or they hate it, but I love it! If only they had been shooting all the scenes in either night or day, and the graphics were better along with more professional actors, and a better plot, this could have been a success. More or less it was, and I highly recommend it to anyone who's willing to give it a try.If you've seen it, perhaps you could email me and explain to me what the vampire with the two inch waist is doing in the graveyard? LOL! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you think....","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading about how awful this film was i brought a copy and yes the  film is bad but you will have so much fun watching it to find all the  flaws (day becomes night etc) i watched PLAN 9 over 5 times in one week  and this film is diffently Eddie's best film beaten only by Tim Burtons 1994 film ED WOOD i would give this film 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ed Wood is definitely the worst filmmaker of all time!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so laughable it's pathetic! Boy I've seen some crappy productions in my day, but none of them, can hold a candle to some of Woods' stuff. Then again, a second thought, will tell us that at least Woods' stuff can make us laugh, and most others can't, although I sincerely doubt it was meant to do so. Anyhow, if you want a laugh, check it out. If you want a serious scifi film, check elsewhere. "},{"Title":"ho hum...","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They've been better (definitely), they won't get worse! At least it didn't try to be good. But whatever you do, don't purchase or rent this movie at full price. I didn't get to see this movie until 1997, but I heard about a long time before that. If you manage to sit through it, my congratulations. In it's own way it's a classic, but by no means compete with any other sci-fi movie out there. (modern OR old) "},{"Title":"A shame","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, he could have had something here. The story a highly advanced alien race discovers technology which could destroy the universe by detonating sunlight. Their immediate fear is that the war-like Earthlings might discover this technology for themselves, and be idiotic enough to use it (they have a history of that kind of behaviour). The leader of these aliens, a pompous beuraucrat, wants to just wipe this dangerous race out, but grudgingly allows some earnestly pacifistic underlings to try scaring them first - making them aware of the threat of alien destruction, then delivering an ultimatum (this idea was later appropriated by James Cameron for The Abyss). An extraordinarily clever sci-fi premise which has huge potential for anti-war satire; unfortunately, there's the ludicrous grave-robbing idea, awful special effects, illogical action scenes, lousy acting, hilariously bad dialogue, cardboard sets, and Wood doesn't even seem to be siding with the right characters...somebody should remake it. It has the potential to be great. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget Citizen Kane, Schindler's List or Godfather. Here's most certainly the best picture of all time. A serious story with Bela Lugosi in his best and longest role. The other supporting players are just as famous and fulfill their duties in a most satisfying way. My advice Go out and get it!!!  "},{"Title":"Adrocristly Cult Flick, including Zombies, UFO'S and Dracula all mixed into one Movie!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Edward D. Wood Jr. (The director of Glen or Glenda, Bride of the Monster and The Sinsiter Urge) makes Plan 9 From Outer Space. Adrocristly Light, Dubbing, Editing and Acting make one of the biggest 'BOMB' Movies ever. Also known as The worst movie ever made, Bela Lougsi in a final role who died in the middle of filming (Infact Ed Wood's doctor had to take Bela's place but with his Vampier Cape covering his face and was foot taller than he was!) as a role similar to Dracula Bela's most famous role. Vampyria, Tor Johnson, Lyle Talbot, John Briekinridge, Tom Keene and Gregory Walcott make Plan 9 so bad it's even watchable! The cardboard tombstones even fall over in some scenes, the camera shadows can be visibly seen, the day/night time scenes and the plate like UFO's. Plan 9 was about a ressurection of the dead and make UFO's take over Earth! Pretty silly stuff, although I liked even though it is that bad. If you want to see Ed Wood's worst movie of all time Plan 9 From Outer Space has got to be the worst. But it's so great all at the same time!  "},{"Title":"It is the worst movie ever made!!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen a lot of bad movies in my time, usually they bore me to death and I wind of not watching the rest.  However this kind of bad movie is rare.  It is not just mediocre bad, in which you would just turn it off - it is hilarious  bad in which you just laugh at the unbelievable ridiculousness of the film.  Of course I don't think Ed Wood intended it to be a funny movie, but that is why it is so fits the definition of 'worst movie ever made'.  When a movie actually makes you take notice of it's awfulness , then you have got a real bad movie on your hands. "},{"Title":"Future events such as these will affect you in the future ..","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  0 Zero stars (out of 5)Plan 9 From Outer SpaceDirected by Edward D. Wood Jr., 1958Universally dubbed the worst movie ever made. Bloody awful but also hysterically funny, Ed Wood's cult turkey is actually great entertainment if merely considered sheer camp craziness.Everything stinks here; the scripting, the performances, the dialogue, the effects, the editing. But the killer is the dead-pan narration &#150; literally chiding the viewer into doubting the reality of it all. Oh boy. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie of all time and not Ed Wood's best","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PLAN 9 was my first Ed Wood film and overall, I was a bit disappointed. When I heard from various sources that this was the worst film ever made, I had expected a whole new level of incompetence. But this wasn't so bad. Sure, the effects were for the most part lousy, there were constant plotholes and errors in continuity, and we all know that Bela Lugosi only appears four times in the actual movie. But PLAN 9 does not come close to other atrocities I have endured.Gregory Walcott is the pilot who sees a flying saucer, then is terrorized by the walking dead that the aliens raise. Walcott is one of the only noteworthy talents in the entire film and today condemns the film. For good reason! I would not be proud to put this on a resume, but I would still feel a hint of pride to have MADE it. Others turning in rather good performances Tor Johnson (yes! I thought he was good!), Mona McKinnon, Dudley Manlove, and Tom Keene. The special effects aren't too good, but the reaction shots by a seemingly startled crowd are priceless. It does get a bit boring about halfway through the movie (lots of talk scenes between Army officials, snore!), but PLAN 9 is for the most part top-notch entertainment for all the wrong reasons. It is often called the worst movie ever made, but that's by people who have a low tolerance for such science-fiction films. Take a look at the movies of today! I can find far worse examples today than I ever could in the 1950's!PLAN 9 isn't the best introduction to Ed Wood (that would have to be GLEN OR GLENDA or JAIL BAIT, his best films), but it certainly carries much of his trademark quirkiness and should be seen by anyone who wants bragging rights for seeing the worst movie ever made. I just hope that a newfound appreciation is found for this film in the years to come instead of constant condemnation. I love Ed Wood movies, for all the wrong reasons, while others just hate them. Give them a chance and you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Cult Classic","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Edward D. Wood Jr's infamous masterpiece.  Check out Bela Lugosi's two minute performance, and his suspiciously taller replacement that doesn't show his face.  Swedish wrestler Tor Johnson, TV show host Vampira, and the master of predictions, Criswell, are all in it. Known for not doing retakes, Wood manages to produce a film that has more mistakes than any other film out there. A must see for any fan of the B-movie genre. "},{"Title":"Definitely NOT the worst movie made.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A bad movie, yes, the worst movie ever made, NO! I have to agree, some take to many shots at this. It's more funny than bad. This film has the funniest UFO's in cinema history, and the dialog, well, it isn't really dialog. In my opinion, Pod People is the worst movie ever made, but that's just me.After all, Pod People was the film without any humor, and with the worst acting, plus it was dubbed, and it really didn't serve the human race. This film does. It is better considered as one of the great camp classics ever made. I won't lie, this is funnier than half the comedies being made today. And who can forget Criswell? You can't prove it didn't happen. It's definitely entertaining, really bad movies aren't, so don't go around telling people it's the worst movie ever made until you see it. There's one essential part to watching this you can't take it seriously, not one little bit. "},{"Title":"Trashy, Campy fun","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Credited by many as The Worst Movie Ever Made this film's charms lie in its unashamed goofiness. As you watch you'll be presented with Paper Plates for flying saucers, sets created out of window curtains, and a script that pulls in and concentrates cliches from both the sci-fi and horror genres.It's not a blockbuster, but it is entertaining - and it allowed Bela Lugosi to spend his final days doing what he loved to do Make Movies. If for just that, this film should be treasured. "},{"Title":"My, We are Full of Ourselves","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally found something funnier, yet worse than Plan 9 - The reviews for it!  Ed Wood made a movie he wanted to call Graverobbers from Outer Space.  His intention?  We can only guess.  Could a likely possibility be - to entertain and make money?  He succeeded at both.  (At least in the former.) Plan Nine is the story of aliens who plan to use zombies to conquer the earth; yet they only create about three of them for the whole picture  Tor Johnson, Vampira, and Ed Wood's wife's Chiropractor.  For anyone really interested in the background of this movie and Wood's life, check out Nightmare of Ecstasy, which the movie Ed Wood was based on.  The biography is far weirder (and sadder) than anything that they could have put in the movie or in one of Wood's movies.  One major quibble  Ed Wood was talentless?  As compared to who?  Unfocussed I think is a more fair word for it. One wonders what would have happened if Wood had had the patience to go to film school for four years.  He would either be more famous or never heard from.  One of life's great what ifs...Reviewers of his movies seem obsessed with either dumping on it (about as easy as harpooning a dead whale) to what purpose, I don't know - or seeing a higher meaning in it which is truly hilarious.  One reviewer even compared Ed Wood to Jesus, though I think he was kidding.  To those critics who say that EVERYTHING about Plan 9 was bad, check it out again (if you haven't seen it, you must); some of the graveyard scenes are more atmospheric (I didn't say good, just atmospheric) than many scare films today. Go to Blockbuster, I dare you, and check it out.  Only don't see it alone... you'll be wasting too many good laughs.   "},{"Title":"Yummy postwar paranoia commentary","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is, by far, not the worst film ever.  It doesn't even come close. The worst films, to me, are the utterly mediocre ones--the ones that are so formulaic and lull the audience into such a state of unthinking submission and have such generic, ordinary dialogue that it's hard not to fall asleep while watching them.What separates this film from crap like that?  One thing is the special effects.  You'll never be able to ignore the special effects of a movie when you could do a better job with your home camcorder and a pie tin.  This is unlike most modern sci-fi films like, say, the Phantom Menace, in which you're just sort of lulled into submission by the special effects and the director tries to substitute them for actual substance.  Not so with Plan 9.The acting and dialogue is wonderfully funny.  It's not generic--rather, it's so stylized, blunt, and melodramatic that it gives the film the feeling of a comic book.  There's plenty of quotable material in this one.The part of the film that impressed me the most, actually, was the story. I was expecting the overused, generic cold-war plot of evil alien force invades earth and tries to destroy the human race, just like what those damn commies are gonna do to grand old America if we don't stop them.  But it's not like that at all.  In fact, I think it's a pretty interesting satire on just how utterly stupid the entire human race really was during the cold war.  The alien race is actually quite intelligent and even ethical, although quite uncharismatic and devoid of tact, which is what makes them so funny.  The great part is the film's incredibly ironic ending, but I won't give it away for those who haven't seen it.  It's no Dr. Strangelove, but it's still a humorous commentary on cold war ethics.Well, anyways, maybe this wasn't Ed Wood's intent at all; I haven't seen any other Ed Wood films, and I've never seen the Johnny Depp movie.  But that's what I got out of it.  Definitely a fun film and well worth watching--it's also quite inspiring for wannabe filmmakers. "}{"Title":"Hilarious in its incompetence","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One has to wonder what exactly Ed Wood had been drinking when he conceived of this movie.  From the paper-plate saucers with their clearly visible strings, to a scene by a crypt with acting so wooden it has to be seen to be believed, this movie is so poorly executed that it actually succeeds-as comedy. Besides, who wouldn't want to see a movie whose villain is played by the the director's wife's chiropractor? "},{"Title":"what else can be said?","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't really the worst movie ever.  Ed Wood has a great deal of enthusiasm for film, which shows through in his movies.  He can manage to tell a complete tale from beginning to end; this alone makes him the superior of the likes of Coleman Francis.  He lacks talent, and worse, the ability to separate himself from his work and note its defects.  He might had made better films if he weren't so damned pleased with himself over having a film career in the first place.  All that said, Plan 9 is still a piece of crap. "},{"Title":"The single-most enjoyable film that I have ever seen.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many have called Wood's Plan 9 the worst film ever made. Those who would lack imagination. Yes, this film deserves every Golden Turkey that it can get it's hands on, but the worst film EVER? Not even close. What makes a movie bad? It's not the special effects, nor the acting. Not even the direction. What makes a film bad is its inability to ENTERTAIN. That can never be said about Plan 9, which is THOROUGHLY incompetent film-making, but NEVER boring. You never check your watch, or read a magazine while its on- quite the opposite! It's so inept that the viewer is utterly incapable of taking his/her eyes off the screen! You just can't believe what you're seeing! Worst Movie Ever Made? Watch Armageddon and THEN tell me that...  "},{"Title":"I disagree.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I disagree with anyone who thinks that this is the worst movie ever made. It's very atmospheric and I think that music is pretty darn good. Though for some people the not so special effects ruin it all I happen to think that this movie is quite good. "},{"Title":"It's a bad movie...and somebody's to blame!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, it's real easy to crack on Plan 9.  It's almost too easy.  Everyone who thinks they're a movie critic likes to take cheap shots.For the record, it is NOT the worst movie ever made.  Geez, half of the Mystery Science Theater episodes are worse -- anybody ever see Red Zone Cuba or Humanoid Women?  There's a difference between not having the resources to make a good movie and having the resources and just making a bad movie (Kevin Costner, call your office).Having said that, Ed Wood attempts to make a serious, honest movie about the dangers of nuclear weapons.  Yes, Wood cannot escape the cheesiness that is inherent in his nature.  But don't let that stand in the way of the central point that he is trying to achieve.What is remarkable is that the aliens also believe in God.  Aside from their many differences, both humans and aliens are accountable to God for the portions of the universe they've been entrusted with.  It makes sense for both races to work together.  The aliens need to mature just as much as the humans do. The aliens are too high-minded and arrogant in their attitude, and humans need to wise up to the higher responsibilities that go with being a member of the universe.As required in any Plan review there are flaming pie pans and neurotic switching between day and night in this movie, along with another wooden performance by Tor Johnson.  Plus, the aliens live on the Sci-Fi Channel logo.Sterno says plan on going on a trip to this movie.  "},{"Title":"The genius of a legend","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people dismiss Plan 9 as useless and meaningless science fiction fodder. This is not the case. What Edward D. Wood Jnr has produced is the masterpiece of his unmistakable genius.A fitting end for horror legend Bela Lugosi, who famously died early into production, the film is a classic A-class, B-Movie. The ingenuity of Wood to cast a look-alike in the role that Lugosi held before his death shows the ingenuity and tact possessed by Wood.It is fitting also that in Ed Wood (1994) Tim Burton's homage to the director, the film is heralded as Ed Wood's Citizen Kane, for this is quite simply everything you could hope for in an Edward D Wood Jnr movie. Simple story and simple people. Granted in some places the special effects are dubious at best, but consider the budget of this, a then mainstream movie, and consider what little money Wood had to work with. Science Fiction has always been one of if not the most expensive genre to make movies in, but this does not stop Wood from making a classic, low budget Science Fiction / Horror movie.Sadly, this film will be remembered for the negative attitudes of would be film critics, however, the film, for me, will always rank up there with Killer Klowns from Outer Space, Critters 1 and 2 (3 was a bit poor y'know) and of course the classic Tremors. Plan 9 From Outer Space. The Citizen Kane for a forgotten genius. "},{"Title":"Bad and worth watching!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the most terribly made movie I have ever had the pleasure of watching, and as such, is extremely enjoyable.The acting is mediocre at best, and is often not even that.  The gravestones wobble.  When on fire, the flying saucers look like burning paper plates.In some scenes, the time of day switches back and forth several times.  For example, toward the beginning, some gravediggers are working late in the day, around sundown.  At the same time, a plane is flying overhead, and it is almost 400 on the plane.  Since the people on the plane describe it as being early morning (although the sun is brightly shining, creating shadows of everyone), one can only assume that it is 400 A.M.  Next, the scene shifts back to the graveyard, where it is apparently sundown.  That's only one of many plot holes big enough to fly a saucer through.There is also Bela Lugosi, who died before production even began. Ostensibly seeking Lugosi's box office draw, director Ed Wood put old Lugosi outtakes in.  The result is hilarious.  One scene is used several times, and in between, there is his taller standin who uses a cap to conceal the fact that he is not Lugosi.Another highlight is Eros's description of how the earthlings will destroy the universe by exploding sunlight.I've only covered part of why this movie is soooo enjoyable.  Anyone who wants a good laugh should see this movieFor a movie 0/10For entertainment value 8/10 "},{"Title":"Actually Not That Bad","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had to rent this at Blockbuster one rainy night, and while I would certainly not call it great, I don't know how anyone could say this is the worst movie ever made. The worst movie ever made would be a boring, misfire of a flick which cannot be endured all the way until the end. (My personal vote goes to Robert Altman's Popeye in that respect). This is watchable, even with bad continuity, acting and special effects  "},{"Title":"It was so bad it was funny","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has to be the worst movie I've ever seen.  Another great movie by director Ed Wood.  Some of the lines in this movie are so bad, they're funny.  And I love the way the stand in for Bela Lugosi is a few feet taller than him and holding a cape in front of his face so that no one will know the difference.  If you're looking for a good sci-fi movie, look someone where else.  But if you want a good laugh, this is the perfect movie for you. "},{"Title":"Worst of the worst","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing Tim Burton's Ed Wood I felt the need to see Plan 9. I should have kept my need unfulfilled.  This film is so bad that is not even funny.  Actually is rather sad if you felt (as I did) some sympathy for Ed Wood after seeing Bruton's film.Although, this is a rather unique film as I seriously doubt that anyone can ever make a film as bad as this one ... no matter how hard some people might have tried. "}{"Title":"National Lampoon's Senior Trip IS worse!!!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  National Lampoon's Senior Trip was so stupid that it made me want to sterilize my television and declare my home a non-National Lampoon sanctuary.  At least Plan 9 was so stupid that it was funny.  I couldn't help but laugh at the corny dialogue, the cheesy special effects, and the director's wife's chiropractor pulling his cape up to his eyes to hide the fact that he was NOT Bela Lugosi.     Granted, Plan 9 is nothing short of a BOMB rating.  But it's one of the best of the bombs, and it'll make you laugh if you have an open mind. "},{"Title":"Can your hearts stand the shocking facts of Edward D. Wood, Jr.'s most ambitious film?","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone who does not know, this film was voted The Worst Movie of all Time. But who am I kidding? If you'd read any of the other reviews, you know this already. But it is not really, in recent light. (Chances are people like Al Adamson, W. Lee Wilder or Coleman Francis were on the voting board.) But this is, undoubtedly, one of the top 10, and definitely one of the most enjoyable. Now, for those of you locked in the basement since WW2, Plan 9 is about events in the future that could affect you in the future. Events like flying hubcaps attacking Hollywood. Or dead people like Vampira or Bela Lugosi's stand-in walking around aimlessly, attacking the giant infant Tor Johnson in a cardboard graveyard. Or aliens in pajamas resurrecting more dead and insulting our intelligence. Or day turning to night. As Criswell would say, There comes a time when man can't even believe his own eyes.If you watch 10,000,000 movies in your lifetime, make sure you watch this one, and . . . TELL YOUR CHILDREN.CAN YOU PROVE IT DIDN'T HAPPEN? "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Voted the worst movie of all time, Plan 9 From Outer Space lives up to its reputation--cheesy special effects, bad acting, continuity problems, stilted dialogue, and overly-dramatic narrative.  However, it is arguably one of the unintentionally two funniest movies ever made (the other being Reefer Madness).  View it as a companion piece to Ed Wood. "},{"Title":"Just think a little about it...","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie because everybody's had something to say about it. Most of the people admits that this is pretty bad, the worst movie of all time.  Some viewers says there are even worst. In this way of seeing things, I suggest 1952 French Canadian Film La Petite Aurore L'Enfant Martyre.  Very bad! Ed Wood probably saw it.  So, I don't have any comment to add to the others.  They tell it their own way and most of them are pretty eloquent.  But just think a little... did Armageddon, Twister, Independance day, 1996 Romeo + Juliet, 1997 Godzilla are the same kind of movie ?  Yes, they had millions of dollars for publicity and so on... but are they the same as Plan Nine From Outer Space.  I think the young people of 2050 will rent Armageddon or Twister for the same reason we love Plan Nine From Outer Space today. "},{"Title":"Anarchy at work","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've wondered for a long time how could a movie where nothing works at all be so entertaining. Everything in this film is a disaster non-existing plot, laughable dialogue, terrible acting(Tor Johnson!!!), settings and effects evidently fake, the light that changes from day to night inside the same scene. How could this be so funny to watch? Then I realized it's anarchy that works here. Take a writer/director/producer with absolutely no talent in writing, direct and produce. Take some people whose last thing on Earth you'd call them is 'actors'. Take Bela Lugosi last footage, and you'll have the worst movie ever made. In other words, one of the funniest ever. It's been said this film is worth watching nine times. Wrong. It's worth watching infinite times. Each time your life takes itself too seriously. PLAN 9 will be viewed and tenderly loved long after TITANIC productions sink into oblivion.God bless Edward D.Wood, jr., wherever he may be. "},{"Title":"Let's break a spear for it","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will focus my comment on the meaning of a film and the passion of Ed Wood. Many people classify Plan 9 as the worst/best film ever made, perhaps any of them had a good reason to think so, but if there is someone to whom this film gave anything, then this film has the reason to be made. I believe that Ed Wood was great because with no resources and with a lot of work he made his dream real to make films, following his passion. Many of us spend our life only dreaming of it, instead he did it. Perhaps he hadn't talent, but, as other said here, his result is equal to many other more-budgeted films. When I see Plan 9, I laugh and this isn't what Ed wanted I like any kind of demential film and I think it's one not to lose ! "},{"Title":"A Must See for Its Awfulness","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie isn't just bad, it rewrote bad.  In fact, this movie is so flawed, disjointed, illogical, absurd, and laughable, that it must be seen.Ed Wood's goal was for people to see this film.  On this principle, I must agree with him.  I have rated this film and 8 out of 10 because of its ability to stretch the limits of lousiness.Rent this movie on a lark, you won't be disapointed.  However, you need a group of people to howl along with you in delight, otherwise your analyst may become concerned by your taste. "},{"Title":"Definite Cult Classic!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone that has ever heard of 'bad' movies, has heard of this one. It's really hard to say wither it is acually 'fun' to watch or not... maybe with a bunch of people at a Halloween party to get a few laughs or something... But 'Plan 9' is just plain horrible...You are literally left with your mouth open through the whole movie... because of the stupidity it took to make this... I mean 'hello?!?' Paper plates with visable strings as UFO's, wobbling gravestones, an actor dies and they disguise him with another who looks nothing like the other and through the whole movie remains with a robe over his head (!) believe it or not see for yourself.  (and who the hell is 'Vampira'?!?! They broadcast her name like she is the sister to 'Elvira' or something!)Definitely made into a cult classic over the years for people wanting to see 'the worst movie ever made'... however... somehow I would not consider this 'The' worst movie ever made... It is just a little tempting to say that it was purposely made to be bad.Oh well... still fun to say you've seen it... if you can live through the utter boredum! "},{"Title":"Ummm....","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Greatest pile of crap in existence.  Billed as the 'worst movie of all time'.  But how many of you say that with affection?  I do.  This movie is so horribly bad that you fall in love with it and whatever compelled Ed Wood to make it.  Everything from the narrator's bombastic monologues to Tor Johnson's immobile face make this incredibly entertaining.  And it only gets better once the *ahem* flying saucers show up.  Especially the one on fire! The one that looks like a pie plate squirted with butane and lit.  Now that's the stuff of good bad movies, not horribly written, acted and directed special effect flops like Godzilla, which are just bad.  And of course, who can forget the dual vampire actors and the chick with the impossibly thin waist (so thin it's scary). "},{"Title":"Better Appreciation Please","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 is surprisingly fun for a film which was supposedly The worst film in the Word, ever!  The special effects are non-existent, the dialogue is poor, and the plot has been done to death but this is still a fun film to watch.  You can't really take such films seriously, but if you take the film for what it was, B movie schlock horror, then it's a fun film. With a film like this, half of the fun is in watching for all the mistakes that Ed Wood made...  Night scenes turning into daytime and back again...  gravestones blowing in the wind...  hub cap flying saucers... In all, I can sum this film up in one word...  Wow! "}{"Title":"Pure, cheesey, escapist fun","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're in desperate need of a laugh, rent this movie; the special effects, bad costumes, ridiculous dialogue make for a great time.  Put this on at parties(my family has) and I guarantee a good time will be had! But to REALLY appreciate it, you'll need to rent the 1995 movie ED WOOD. Like another person on this site wrote, this bad movie is better than some of the good movies I've seen. this movie is proof that anybody can make a movie. It's also my opinion that if Ed were still alive, he would have happily produced Godzilla.  GET THIS MOVIE AND LAUGH TIL YOUR SIDES HURT!! "},{"Title":"One Of The All-time Greats","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any film buff will have seen or heard of this film. Director Ed Wood's most famous film is a hoot from start to finish. You probably all know about the cardboard sets, the Bela Lugosi substitute, the flying saucers made out of plates, etc. However, on repeated viewings you get an idea of Ed Wood's real intentions, this was obviously meant to be a chilling evocation of the destruction of humanity, but it just turned out rubbish. Any person who is even remotely interested in films should see this, and anyone who has never seen a b-movie before should start here. For Ed Wood was THE grandfather of cheesey films, neglected in his day, but now a cult hero. With it's reputation, you would have thought it would be easier to get hold of. "},{"Title":"It's definitely one of a kind, but bad...?","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit that even though I am older than most redwood trees I only saw Plan 9 From Outer Space for the first time last year, and then I only rented it because I had heard so much about it being the worst movie ever made. I watched it with my wife and two teens and to put it briefly we were ROTFLAAO. Everyone was right about it being bad, but I had no idea it would be so bad as to be hilarious. If Citizen Kane is the best movie ever made and this is the worst I can find that fitting. They are the Yin and Yang. They are total opposites, yet are timeless and should be seen by all. One for a cry and the other for a huge laugh. "},{"Title":"So bad there isn't even a word to describe it","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How could anyone make a film so terribly BAD? One angle it would the sky would be light and in the other the dead of night, then back to light again. The dialogue is even worse. Grave robbers from outer space?????A message to anyone who (Blech!) enjoyed this movie. It appears as Plan 9 has received quite a cult following. Had all you people seen it when it first came out, then Ed Wood would have made more, and more, and more movies. He would be rich and wealthy for making BAD, tasteless movies.+ (GOOD THINGS)    1.) Um... Uh... Hmmm. NOTHING!!!!!!!!!- (BAD THINGS)      1.) Is saying that it's worse than any of the other 199,999 movies at IMDb enough? Probably not so I'll list a few of the INFINITE problems   2.) The Script     3.) The special effects    4.) The ridiculously BAD acting   5.) The unintentional laughs   6.) The box actually promoting it's BADNESSTotal  0.5/10 "},{"Title":"The mind boggles to think what the other 8 plans might have been","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here's the fun thing about a really bad work of art it tells us so much more about the artist than it does about ourselves... in fact, more than the artist himself probably realizes. I think that's the reason I enjoy Ed Wood's films so much, especially this one they have nothing to do with life as I know it, but they must have been immensely personal to him. It's like seeing Wood up on the screen, shouting, Here I am! Please love me! And you kind o' have to...There's a story about a famous composer who was conducting a choir. He kept telling them to sing softer, softer! until finally the choir just stopped singing completely. The composer didn't even notice he kept conducting with a blissful smile on his face. The only music he heard was the music in his head, and it was perfect! Well... it's the same with Ed Wood. He couldn't be bothered to notice the cardboard tombstones falling over, or the difference between Lugosi Béla and his stand-in. He saw what he wanted to see, and to him it was beautiful. And by some miracle, he found casts that managed to act so unimaginatively that they didn't stand in the way of the basic Woodenness of his vision. Good? Lord, no. Endearing? Absolutely. "},{"Title":"NOT The worst movie ever made!","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Bela Lugosi film collector, I HAD to have this film! Oddly enough, it's quite enjoyable, in an odd sort of way.Vampira makes a creepy-looking corpse, as does Tor Johnson.The worst things about this film are the so-called double for Lugosi and the cardboard tombstones....but, even so, it's an entertaining film.btw....If you think that THIS film is the worst film of all time, you haven't seen Ed Wood's Glen or Glenda?...THAT is the WORST! "},{"Title":"scared as a kid, laughs as an adult","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie during its theatrical release when I was about six years old.  It really scared the hell out me, and I had nightmares and bad dreams about Tor Johnson and Vampira for a long time.  I couldn't shake the scene where their dead bodies were walking through the graveyard after the cop, their arms raised up in front of them.  I finally got to see this movie again in 1986, and I laughed so hard I thought I would die!  This is the movie that kept me awake many a night, afraid to go to sleep?  It really is so bad that it is good, and it does deserve everything said about it.  That Ed Wood, Jr...What a guy! "},{"Title":"did i miss something?","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  yeah, this was a REALLY bad movie...that was funny, the bad body bela double, the terrible dialog..and night to day within seconds was really funny..and those saucers just terrible. i did think it was funny..but it started to wear off. how many times does the night to day bad editing make you laugh? it was funny for a while but just slowed down..i got bored with it after 45 minutes. a terrible film...but i've seen worse.  i was getting mad at ed wood more then laughing, i guess it wasn't as funny as i thought. "},{"Title":"Did Anyone Ever Actually Like This Crap?","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Was this what movies were like in the 50s?  I can not believe that this sort of garbage was ever tolerated.  There is a certain element of camp value that I will admit to enjoying.  Also, I appreciate the attempt by the alien humans to try to impart their wisdom to the ridiculously stupid earthling humans, but after that, one of those melodramatic fights breaks out where the men with guns threaten the monsters and the token women's roles are huddled in the corner screaming while the dumb men protect them.  I saw this movie because of previously seeing Tim Burton's movie about the director, Ed Wood.  Actually, Ed Wood led me to believe that Plan 9 would be filmed more poorly than this actually was.  However, the plot still reeks with inexplicable cliches (which I guess were not yet cliches at the time, but they still reak) such as zombies that hold their capes up against their mouth and walk very slowly for some odd reason.  Knowing that the director was behind the camera wearing pink angora and a blond wig is little consolation and definitely no reason to watch Plan 9 From Outer Space. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's good!","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 from Outer Space is so laughably bad, that it's very enjoyable! This is the silliest, dumbest thing since Star Trek aired on public TV! Wherever Ed Wood's one-take-shot direction was aimed at, confused us and made it hard to take seriously.  It's just so stupid!  Your stupid stupid minds is my favorite line of the movie.  Not only does it induce gut wrenching laughs, but it looks as if Ed Wood was talking about himself, a stupid mind with stupid direction.  Rent it if you are in a bad mood and you need a good laugh to cheer you up!      "}{"Title":"Kicking Alien Butt the Ed Wood way!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Up front, I've seen this film way too many times. That I can watch it more than once probably points out some basic character flaw in me.My favourite scene in this neo-gothic masterpiece has to be the moment when the alien berates the humans about your stupid minds! Stupid! Stupid! and the human punches him in the jaw. This is no Michael Rennie moment, this is passion and rage and a calculated revelation of humanity's true nature.Ed marries vision and talentlessness like no director before or after him. Ed's insight into the human condition is marred only by his inability to translate it to the screen with any coherence or intelligence. This is one of the most inadvertently funny and incompetently insightful films I have ever seen. All this and Tor Johnson too!  "},{"Title":"Ummm","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Truly the worst movie of all time.  Bella Lagusi's stand-in is especially interesting.  All the humor is unintentional (We laugh at it, not with it). It has all the elements --- poor stories, poor effects, poor acting, and stock footage from war propaganda films.  Let us appreciate this classic of sorts for all the bad movie fans. "},{"Title":"Don't believe in PLAN 9 being the worst movie ever made.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hate to waste my time commenting on this, but I've seen a couple of other drive-in B-movies that far surpasses PLAN 9's exquisite dreadfulness. Please consider looking up GURU THE MAD MONK. It is absolutely catastrophic in all its disgusting glamour! CARNIVAL OF BLOOD is the runner-up. Before the thousands of all of you cult movie freaks try to wonder where in the hell I got access to them, consider me lucky. The fact is that you don't know what you're running into!  "},{"Title":"Nowhere near the worst movie of all time","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is unfairly considered the worst movie of all time. It's not even close to being the worst movie. I've seen much worse movies than this like Semi-Pro, Bio-Dome, The Last Airbender, Bride Wars, Underdog, Ricky 1, Yu-Gi-Oh The Movie, Son of the Mask, Dude, Where's my Car, Stuart Little 3, Yours, Mine and Ours, The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants and much more. I'll admit it's poorly made, but it's too entertaining to be the worst film of all time. The UFO scene was so hilariously bad. So was the acting and the fact that the real Bela Lugosi isn't in much of the movie. If you like unintentionally funny movies then you will love this. "},{"Title":"Stupid! Stupid!","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Few movies completely live up to their billing. Plan 9 from Outer Space does. Unfortunately its billing is as the worst movie ever. Everything you have ever heard about this movie is true. It's all here. The flying saucers on strings, the continuity errors, the guy trying to hide the fact he's not Bela Lugosi by covering his face with a cape, the guy who actually is Bela Lugosi wandering through a field in a shot which is used again and again because they have no other shots of Lugosi because by the time they filmed this movie he was quite dead. There are the awful visual effects, the mismatched stock footage, the gravestones which topple over at the slightest touch, the crypt made of cardboard, the cigar-shaped saucers which aren't actually cigar-shaped at all and a narrator who can't decide whether these events happened in the past or will happen in the future. There's a story which makes no sense, dialogue which is the worst ever put to film, acting which is uniformly terrible and a Los Angeles police detective who oddly has a distinct Swedish accent. Hey look, it's daytime! Now it's nighttime! And daytime again! All in the span of fifteen seconds. To say this is an amateurish production is an insult to amateur filmmakers everywhere. Even an amateur might be able to produce something which is at least slightly coherent. Ed Wood could not. He aimed for the stars and came up a few billion miles short. At least one of his performers was in on the joke which was this movie. John Breckinridge, playing the alien ruler, looks into the camera with an Oh come on now, seriously? look. Everyone else involved does in fact seem to be taking it seriously. What a terrible mistake that is. You can't take this movie seriously. It may be one of the great unintentional comedies ever. It's worth watching once to have a good laugh at all the ineptitude on display. As one of the actors so memorably puts it, with one of the most comically bad line deliveries in film history, Stupid! Stupid! Stupid indeed. Stupid in every way. "},{"Title":"This Plan is unintentionally funny","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1959, Earth invaders land and try to conquer the Earth's population by using the alien's powerful 'Plan Nine'. Their alien plan calls for them to use the dead that are now brain controlled and reanimated bodies to take over our planet. Some brave L.A.P.D. officers and a couple of alert airline pilots stop the invaders. *Special Stars- Bela Lugosi, Tor Johnson, Vampira, Criswell, Dudley Manlove *Theme- Yankee morals and strength will save the day. *Based on- 50's atomic age myths and Cold War fears *Trivia/location/goofs- ONLINE. Some of the movie goofs include cardboard tombstones that teeter when the actors walk near them; a hubcap-on-a-wire flying saucer; the same single film sequence shot of a car pulling to the side of the road that is used over and over every time some film character drives up regardless of what car they were driving or time of day or night; actors who are visibly reading off camera cue cards; at least one scene where an actress completely blows a dialog line by making no sense.*Emotion- A somewhat forgettable except for all the Ed Wood 'worse film director in history' hype with Jonny Depp film matters. This movie is not the worst movie I have seen. It was actually quite entertaining and interesting, and therefore I cannot label it the worst movie of all time. I feel that label is unfair. I'll reserve that label for a movie that was not only bad but was also completely devoid of entertainment value. I think science fiction fans should see Plan 9 From Outer Space at least once. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The worst movie of all time is finally available on video for more laughs than you got from Monty Python! That quote up top is the tag line for the video release. Only Plan 9 From Outer Space can get a tag line like that.That's because Plan 9 is known for being bad. No one walks out of watching it and saying, Wow, that was surprisingly good!, or That was actually okay. It's always, It was so bad it's good. Or, Worst Movie of All-Time. I'm leaning towards the last one.During filming, Bela Lugosi died. And instead of re-writing, or re-filming with another actor. He hired his wife's chiropractor Tom Mason even though Mason looked or sounded nothing like Lugosi.It also features tombstones made of cardboard that tip over during the scene, a cop scratching his head with his gun, and a Swedish wrestler playing a California cop. It also features Vampira, playing Vampire Girl. (I wonder if the role was written for her?) Honestly, it's so bad I wasn't even entertained. "},{"Title":"As bad as they say","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie as part of a bad movie night expecting the worst, and I pretty much got it. Now I wasn't expecting much since I'd heard that this was one of the worst movies ever made, and secondly, it was a cheesy sci-fi flick from the 1950's.The best thing I can say about this movie is amateurish. The acting is pretty stiff and the sets are laughable. For instance, some of the grave stones & crosses in the cemetery are apparently very fake since some of the actors almost knock them over in some scenes, the high-tech equipment of the spaceship consists of some old electronic equipment sitting on a wooden table along with a Jacob's ladder (the two wires sticking up with sparks rising upwards between them), and one of the props is actually a blinking warning light from a traffic barricade. Then there's the constant switching between day & night in the same scenes.Then there's the plot. The aliens have apparently tried to contact government officials to tell them to not develop a new bomb which would set sunlight on fire and destroy the galaxy. But the government ignored the aliens, so the best plan (Plan 9) they can come up with is to raise a few recently deceased earthlings from the dead to show their power. But in reality all it seems to do is spread confusion.Overall, if you're a big fan of cheesy 50's sci-fi flicks or you like to make fun of bad movies, you might enjoy this film. That's the only way anyone could really watch this the whole way through. "},{"Title":"This movie is made because of you stupid minds. Stupid! Stupid!","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally had a chance to see Ed Wood's classic masterpiece Plan 9 and what a movie it was. This film is textbook example how to not write a script and execute movie. This film is so so so so bad that it even can't be good. Many critics have been noting Plan 9 as the worst movie ever made and they even might be right. But I loved every bit of this piece.Acting was as horrible as you can expect. Maybe only Gregory Walcott tried to do something similar with acting. And Bela Lugosi... All scenes with him seemed so random and accidental like he was lost on the set and was looking his way out but Wood used the chance and captured him on the film. Unintentional comedy that was.Also this film features the greatest worst dialog ever. - Inspector Clay is dead, murdered, and somebody is responsible. - The saucers are up there. The graveyard is out there. But I'll be locked safely in there. - Visits? That would indicate visitors. - A flying saucer? You mean the kind from up there? / Yeah, either that or it's counterpart. Movie filled quotable lines. And the funniest part of the dialog was that it didn't make any sense whatsoever. Overall I got more laughs from Plan 9 than from one of the greatest comedy classics Some Like It Hot (that was exaggeration). Anyway this Ed Wood's magnum opus is must see for every film fan. "},{"Title":"Oh boy...","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space is universally claimed to be the worst film ever made. It is made by the infamous Ed Wood who is claimed to be the worst director ever. It's tough to know where to begin with this film. I guess I should start off by saying there is nothing INTENTIONALLY good about this film. It is awful. It is horrible in every sense of the word. But is just how terrible it is that makes it watchable. It is hysterical just how ridiculously bad this film is. Mr. Wood thought he was a filmmaker and never gave up, and for that you have to give him a lot of credit. Especially when he can make a film as absurdly bad as this and get away with it.Plan 9 From Outer Space is about an alien race that, after eight failures to stop the human race from making (stick with me here) something called a Solarite which is a sort of sun-driven bomb (just stay with me). Their plan... to resurrect the dead (did I lose you? Yeah. Figures.) The humans try what they can to destroy the strange alien spacecraft (which are small plastic models hanging from strings) but they are unsuccessful. What the aliens intentions are with these zombies isn't exactly explained, but does it really matter at this point? We do know that they are controlled with the alien's plastic electrode guns which sometimes don't work as well as they should (it's a 50-50 shot). Are you confused yet? Well trust me, watching the film will probably make it worse.The most fun thing about Plan 9 is just being able to see what happens when you put the power of cinema in the hands of the most incompetent such as Ed Wood. You won't believe your eyes while watching this hilariously atrocious excuse for a movie. It is truly amazing to see what happens when a man like Ed Wood makes a movie whilst having absolutely no idea what he is doing. The saddest thing about the film is that while watching it you can clearly see the Ed Wood's intentions of what he wanted Plan 9 From Outer Space to be like. And that is an epic sci-fi horror masterpiece, complete with mind bending special effects, a gripping and terrifying plot, and even a glaring political statement on the state of the world. Unfortunately, he went about every aspect of the movie 100% wrong. The result was indeed the worst movie ever made. "}{"Title":"Shoddiest  film ever","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After browsing the lists of the Worst films ever made, I decided to watch Plan 9 from Outer Space online, given how it's considered a classic in the world of crap cinema.The film was atrocious, for the most part. The opening Crisswell's prediction was hilarious, though there's no need to go into the details, you're probably well-versed with them if you've heard of this flick. The film is essentially about aliens, who are so sick of us humans denying their existence, that they decide to awaken dead people using some electrode gun that will stimulate their pituitary glands. You've got to give it to them- it could have been much dumber. The climax culminates in some of the humans finding their spaceship, and some talk about a future explosive Solarinite, which could destroy the universe, including the aliens.To be fair, there was a message on the destructive nature of the human mind, and our insatiable greed in the film, but the presentation is so awful you wonder why nobody at that time had enough common sense to highlight the glaring and obvious flaws in the script. As I expected, the special effects were laughable and abominable. There is a particularly brilliant scene in which the army fires rockets at the flying saucers, and they miraculously survive, even though they actually appear to be little plates on strings. The best part about the screenplay is that you can actually understand it, and the aliens look so much like us, you wonder if the filmmakers knew what the words make-up meant. The acting by the undead zombies is also hilarious, and the film as a whole, is the most shoddily made sci-fi movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies I've ever seen","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm going to give you a description of the story Two people die and are buried in a cemetery with cute little 1 by ½ foot gravestones, that sway when people pass them. One of the dead is even placed in a mausoleum (a small square play house, about 5,5 ft. in height and 6 ft. in depth). The two dead then turn into zombies and start walking around killing other people, and - and this is the scary part - they do this because the corpses are being controlled by aliens. This is Plan 9, by the way Resurrecting dead people. The aliens in question get around in a wobbly flying saucer (that's shaped like a cigar, according to an eye witness. I've never seen the similarity between a cigar and a saucer myself, but...), that leaves a shadow on the sky behind it. They are lead by the sissy of the year, who is for some reason wearing a long shirt with a picture of a medieval battle-axe on it.The goal of these aliens is to stop humanity from destroying the universe. In the future (that is now the past), they claim, humanity will stumble upon the solar...something - a bomb that explodes the rays of the sun. When this happens, the whole universe will go down the drain, since our sun's rays apparently reaches the entire universe. This quite questionable science fact had me laughing the hardest.Of course, the only three people actually being involved with the aliens aren't too keen on being wiped out for the sake of every other existence, and hence begins the battle between the races; the battle consisting of a small fist-fight between one alien and a pilot. After that the solid metal cigar-shaped saucer catches fire somehow, and humanity is saved.As a serious movie, this is a catastrophe. There seems to be no lower limit to the low budget; the same scene can be used up to 5 times over, nearly a quarter of the movie is old military or other archive footage, for the most part the background is a black or a gray sheet, and because of this the movie can shift from night to day 4 times in a minute.So why would I give this 5/10? Well, partly because the cast and crew of this wreck actually took their work seriously, and I'm willing to give them credit for trying. They did their best with the quite poor raw material they were given.The biggest reason, though, is that this is one of my favorite comedies - especially with the Riff Trax commentary. There are so many silly details and flaws in this film that I could write an essay about them, but they do ensure that you won't have a dull moment watching Plan 9 from Outer Space. "},{"Title":"Not So Bad Its Good","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space has been subjected to a good of reverse criticism, that is to say, people who say that its so incredibly lousy, that its actually fun to watch.This is just not true. Granted, the production values are abysmal. It is sort of fun to watch the paper plate UFOs, and count how many times the same footage of Lugosi is used. Even so, the plot is so incredibly tedious, that its a chore to watch this movie.There is almost no action in it, and every important plot point is explained in endless exposition. Its dull, moves at a snails pace, there are only about four sets used, the plot makes no kind of sense, and the acting isn't amusingly bad, its just bad.Ed Wood was not a visionary, he was an incompetent man who had no kind of talent. His lack of attention to detail, is just insulting to the audience. He exploited everyone he came across in order to get his movies made, and films like this were the end result. It really wasn't worth the effort.If you want to laugh at something camp, try watching some of the other horror films of the same era, The Creature from the Black Lagoon, for example, or possibly a serial.I think its time that we put away Ed Wood's work. He doesn't even deserve a place as an amusingly bad director. He just truly had no talent. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever? I Don't Think SO","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie (from director Ed Wood) is considered to be the WORST movie ever made, it's true, but it's so bad its good. An extremely fun film to watch with the family. The film is known to go from Day light to the middle of the night while still in the same scene, and constant mistakes made by actors. Flying Saucers look no more like Swiss Chalet containers glued together and held up by fishing wire. The movie has a huge OOP'S when one character comes out from his house only to walk across the street (off screen) to get hit by a car, although the film is somehow paused and you can still see the shadow of the man (Bella Lugosi). Sadly Bella Lugosi died before the film was finished, so Ed Wood used the same shots of him over and over again throughout the film. The are too many mistakes made for me to go over them, it's just that this is the worst movie ever made, its the greatest movie ever made. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"not funny anymore","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By now we all know that really bad sci-fi movies can be funny; but the so bad it's funny cultural phenomenon is now pretty much a thing of the past. When Plan 9 was considered the Citizen Kane of this 'genre' (if it can be considered such), there was a recognizable body of work associated with it, a handful of infamous producers and directors who had made these films, and even 'stars' of bad acting who had appeared repeatedly in them. And there was even a particular style one could recognize permeating most of them - stagy full shots, unremitting (and unnecessary) use of fog machines, cardboard sets, special FX with strings attached, haphazard costuming and prop design, ridiculously overdone or underdone make-up, and screenplays that read like a computer program's translation of a schizophrenic's word-salad. As long as such a film wasn't too slow, the mix could be downright hilarious.But over the years, the standards for so bad it's funny have become more and more vague. There are now too many 'bad' films on the list - surely not all bad movies are equally funny. There is now also a wider variance of taste among viewers, so even the worst movies ever made now have their defenders. Politics also entered the phenomenon during the Bush years, with bad films defended because either the right or the left thought them 'politically correct.' And in the 1980s it was possible to believe that Hollywood had at last achieved a level of general competency among those working there, such that the 'bad movie' era was over; but we know now that's not true, bad movies continue to flood our theaters, more now than ever before; what we have been discovering, sadly, is a gradual but apparently unstoppable degradation of audience taste and expectations.There is one other experience contributing to the end of the 'so bad it's funny' phenomenon - many of us most strenuously argued for the importance of such films because they represented earnest efforts at innovation that, while misfiring badly, pointed the way to techniques that could be used by much better film makers - and they also expressed an essentially absurd world-view that wasn't all that distant from that of Modern art and literature. But all that now belongs to the 20th Century, and this happens to be the 21st; so I think a lot of 'bad movie' fans have had time to take a look backwards and revise their notions of whether either the hope or the amusement we found in 'bad movies' are actually there or not.I'm still pretty amused by a lot of bad films, but others no longer so - I either can't watch them or I watch them in a different way. I mention all this because Plan 9 has long been held to be the critical litmus test for so bad it's funny, and in attempting to watch it again yesterday, after not having seen it for some 10 years or more, I discovered two things that made me feel so sad I had to turn it off.First, there are the opening sequences including Bela Lugosi. Objectively, Wood is using home movie footage of Lugosi, and that would seem to make the sequence amusing, since this is clearly padding intended to cash-in on Lugosi's name.Or is it? I suddenly realized, watching the brief moment Lugosi prances about in his old Dracula outfit, that what Wood was really trying to do was to give his dying friend his last moment of being 'movie star' Bela Lugosi the once promising actor who had starred in Dracula but who had ruined his life, largely through drug abuse. Perhaps inept, but hardly amusing, and, indeed, rather sad.Then as the film moved on to include the aliens in their card-board space-ship, I also realized that this sequence wasn't all that much worse than similar footage to be found in the old TV series version of Flash Gordon - or other TV sci-fi at the time. And the importance of that is, if some TV producer had witnessed only these scenes from Plan 9, he might very well have given the perennially underemployed Wood a much needed job - indeed, an entirely different career. Which may be why Wood made Plan 9 to begin with, hoping it would attract such attention.So caught between Wood's visually lamenting his dead friend Lugosi, and his failure to attract the notice that might have changed his life, suddenly I was both appalled and immeasurably saddened, and I couldn't watch the film anymore.When Tim Burton made his wonderful biopic of Wood, he rightfully did so as we all expected him to, at the time, as both tribute and comedy. But now it's time to admit that Wood's life was essentially tragic. And while I will probably continue to find Bride of the Monster amusing, Glen or Glenda, Plan 9, and other films in the Wood catalogue are looking less appealing, since they are basically intrinsic parts of Wood's tragedy, and not somehow accidental bi-product of it.In one sense Wood died to make these films, burning out on too grand an ambition, given his limited talent. But in another, very real sense, these films killed him, providing him defense for his wretched self-destruction.And I don't find that funny anymore, I'm sorry. "},{"Title":"Great Plan 9 Line","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Loved it when a police detective says He's been murdered. Someone did this! I've seen this movie many times and never noticed this line before but then Plan 9 has so much incredibly lame dialogue. And who can forget Crisswell saying that the future is where we'll be spending the rest of our lives? Between bad dialogue, bad acting and cheesy special effects and cheap scenery, there is just so much to laugh at in this movie. However, I believe GLEN OR GLENDA is even worse than PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE (if that's possible) in that it has no plot at all. I saw GLEN OR GLENDA for the first time a few years ago and found myself thinking Why am I watching this? "},{"Title":"Bad movie?? You're soaking in it!!","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes,this movie is considered the worst movie of all time,but believe it or not,it is a lot better and far more entertaining than say,Red Zone Cuba or Beast of Yucca Flats made by Coleman Francis.Coleman Francis is a lot worse a director/filmmaker than Ed Wood ever was!! Anyway,the fun part of this movie for me is trying to count all of the mistakes.I don't know what it is about this movie that is so fun(a guilty pleasure,if there ever was one)to watch.Is it the double standing in for Bela Lugosi?? Is it the fake cemetery?? The dialog?? It's all of it actually.If you're looking for something fun to watch,then pop this in,you won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"awful, but entertaining","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is no question this movie may be one of the worst movies ever made but its not terrible. a majority of the directing, special effects and the the script is, yes, very weak, but entertaining none of the less. i believe that the director also got the golden turkey award for worst directing, although i know if they had a decent budget this movie might have been a decent one. i particularly found the strings on the UFO'S very interesting, as well as that chasing part at the grave yard with the old mans corpse funny. LMAO. Instead of going out to the movies one day, invite some friends over, make some popcorn, this is a great movie to have a laugh over, even if its not considered a comedy...much funnier than some of our modern comedies anyway. "},{"Title":"A 'seen to be believed' movie...","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Greetings my friend. We are all interested in the future, for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives. And remember, my friend, future events such as these will affect you in the future.' Thus the 'Psychic' Criswell portentously introduces us to our story and gives us a taste of the wisdom and inane dialogue to follow in the unbelievably bad PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE.Paula Trent 'I've never seen you in this mood before.' Jeff Trent 'I guess that's because I've never been in this mood before.'Jeff is in this unusual mood because he is a pilot (we know this because we have seen him sitting in his uniform in front of a shower curtain) and has recently seen a flying saucer. Intuitive as his wife may be, Jeff has been told by 'the army brass' to keep quiet about the 'saucers from up there' and this makes Jeff angry. In the meantime something strange is happening in the graveyard near Jeff's house.As the police arrive to investigate the strange goings on, a stagehand's torch beam sweeps across the set and we hear a whooshing sound. Inspector Dan Clay (Tor Johnson), delivering dialogue in a way that makes Schwarzennegger sound like Olivier, decides to go off on his own to investigate. Suddenly he is surrounded (yes, surrounded) by two people, one a man holding a black cape in front of his face and the other a narrow-wasted contender for the role of Morticia in the THE ADDAMS FAMILY, only with an expression that looks as though she's just been impaled on something. They both shamble toward Clay like cartoon sleepwalkers as he futilely fires his revolver at them. There is a bloodcurdling shriek. The other officers dash over to find the mutilated (well, slightly scratched) body of Clay lying there like a beached whale (or in fact like a body of clay). Using his gun barrel like a finger, pushing his hat back and scratching his cheek, Lt. Harper's keen mind quickly takes in the situationLt. Harper 'One thing's sure. Inspector Clay is dead, murdered, and somebody's responsible.' Patrolman Larry 'Well, I guess that's why you're a Detective Lieutenant and I'm still a uniformed officer.'When flying saucers are seen over Hollywood and Washington D.C. the army is quickly put on alert and dispatch loads of stock footage to depict their mobilisation. Planes, tanks and artillery bombard silver paper plates suspended by wires in front of a painted sky, but to no avail. The saucers wobble off across the screen as quickly as they came.Pilot Jeff meanwhile has to head off back 'up there' and is in uniform and about to leave the house, for some reason carrying a small handbag/purse. He is of course concerned about his lovely, but not too bright, wife's safety whilst he is awayJeff Trent 'You promise you'll lock the doors immediately?' Paula Trent 'I promise. Besides, the saucers are up there. The graveyard is out there. But I'll be locked up in there. So off you go to your wild blue yonders.'And so it goes on. PLAN 9 is of course infamous and acclaimed by some as 'The Worst Movie Ever Made' and has been awarded Golden Turkey Awards in both Worst Film and Worst Director of All Time categories by the Medved brothers. It certainly lives up to these accolades with it's wobbly sets, pathetic 'special' effects, execrable dialogue, wooden and melodramatic performances, awful direction and it's dreadful exploitation of about five minutes of footage of the once great Bela Lugosi, shot by Wood four years earlier, shortly before Lugosi's death, for a totally different project (TOMB OF THE VAMPIRE), and which is used repeatedly when his role of 'Ghoul Man' is not being filled by a stand in who bears no resemblance to Lugosi, even with the cape concealing his face. Many viewers regard it as the ultimate spoof of 'B' horror movies, sadly though Wood was taking his subject deadly seriously but was just totally inept at putting it on the screen. This isn't a spoof &#150; it's just terribly bad. It came out in 1959, and over the next two years we would be treated to spectacular films like THE TIME MACHINE, MASTER OF THE WORLD, MYSTERIOUS ISLAND, VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA and DR.NO. So while we might admire Wood's enthusiasm, by 1959 his ideas, techniques and lacklustre skills were already 20 years out of date. Edward D. Wood Jr. himself has become known to a wider audience through Tim Burton's 1994 movie ED WOOD which starred Johnny Depp as the hapless transvestite director and Martin Landau as Bela Lugosi, a role for which he won an Oscar.Remember, if you laughed at this film, I remind you of the great Criswell's closing remarks'My friend, you have seen this incident, based on sworn testimony. Can you prove that it didn't happen? Perhaps, on your way home, someone will pass you in the dark, and you will never know it... for they will be from outer space. We once laughed at the horseless carriage, the aeroplane, the telephone, the electric light, vitamins, radio and even television, and now some of us laugh at outer space... God help us in the future.' "},{"Title":"I'm muzzled by army brass!","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching Plan 9 from Outer Space is like watching an instructional video on how to make a bad movie. It's all here &#150; poor acting, dime store special effects, ridiculously flimsy sets, absolutely no continuity, bad editing, and an incoherent plot. But the most offensive part in my mind is the dialogue. It's completely inane. Criswell's opening monologue is a perfect example &#150; Greetings, my friend. We are all interested in the future, for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives. And remember my friend, future events such as these will affect you in the future&#133;. Huh? Does any of that make the least bit of sense? Not to me.Some people, however, go so far as to call Plan 9 from Outer Space the worst movie ever made. That's ludicrous if you ask me. It might be the most famous bad movie, but not the worst. There are any number of movies more unwatchable, more wretched, and more mind-numbing than Plan 9. For sure, it's bad, but it doesn't deserve the reputation it's gotten over the years. There are several positive aspects of Plan 9 I could cite, but I'll limit this to my old standard argument on Ed Wood as a filmmaker. He may not have had the most talent, the biggest budgets, the most gifted actors, and the best written scripts, but there's not denying Ed Wood's love for movies. You can see it in almost every frame of the film. His enthusiasm for his work is almost infectious. And in my mind that counts for something. It makes watching Plan 9 a reasonably fun experience. Sure, a lot of the fun comes from unintentional sources, but Wood's vision is still there for all to enjoy. And with the fun comes entertainment. I will continue to argue that entertainment is the most important factor for me in watching a movie. That's why I've got no problem giving Plan 9 a 5/10. "}{"Title":"Ed Wood is gggggreat.","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ed Wood indeed is great, and Plan 9 from Outer Space is indeed strange, amusing, at times slow, and FULL OF PASSION, PEOPLE! And I don't mean the passion of Christ either! Vampira looks stunning and is the most awesome person in the movie. She is just really too cool for anything. She looks a lot like Lily Munster, but Lily Munster is only about 1/4 as totally rad as Vampira. Pretty much I would say anything that you heard about this movie is basically true--there are plenty of gravestones that look as if for example little Amy Carson from TV's feminist kid's show Cake whistled at them they would fall over, the acting is really stiff, and the dialogue/writing in general is so ridiculous, it's pretty great. I personally think Ed Wood is a very interesting person. I don't know which I would choose as the better movie--this, or Glen or Glenda? "},{"Title":"My friends, we cannot keep this a secret any longer...","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, let's get this whole 'worst movie ever made' business out of the way real quick - Plan 9 is NOT. Not when Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet, The Incredible Petrified World, and She Gods of Shark Reef all occupy a space on this planet. I've been giving this a lot of thought, and for my money, a movie can only be truly bad when you can't even find the wherewithal to make fun of it. On that score, Plan 9 succeeds wildly, and it's your loss if you miss an opportunity to see it. And you know something else, buried deep in the plot of the story is the germ of an idea that maybe Earthlings have gotten a little too big for their britches and have become a bit too dangerous to be part of the galaxy. Trouble is, the concept was done right eight years earlier in a masterpiece of sci-fi fiction - The Day The Earth Stood Still.So I guess that leaves the goofy stuff. Like when General Roberts (Lyle Talbot) explains to Colonel Edwards (Tom Keene) that the government's official position on flying saucers is that they don't exist. Yet earlier, we saw an Army Officer in charge of Saucer Field Artillery. It's the kind of oxymoronic thinking one would expect from military intelligence.You know, it was kind of curious to me that the female alien's name was Tanna, since Plan 9 had to deal with resurrecting the dead to take over the Earth. The entire series of Universal Studios' 'Mummy franchise dealt with the power of tana leaves to reanimate the title character. Coincidence? - I wonder.My favorite line from the movie - Paula Trent (Mona McKinnon) to her pilot husband Jeff (Gregory Walcott) - Now toddle off and fly your flying machine... Speaking of the Trent's, where exactly did they live anyway? When Bela Lugosi's stand-in comes calling in the middle of the night, she runs out of the house and is smack in the middle of a cemetery! That's kind of creepy, don't you think? The film though did give me something to ponder rather seriously. There's a line in the picture where someone states - People who can think are so scared of people who cannot; he was talking about The Dead. If the film were made today, he'd be talking about politicians. "},{"Title":"Future events such as these will affect you in the future.","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A race of aliens are tired of the stupid, stupid Earthlings claiming that aliens don't exist, so they concoct a brilliantly evil plan. First, they fly around in their flying saucers that are shaped like huge cigars (??) and fiendishly shine lights in people's faces. Second, they raise three random people from the dead, taking care not to let anyone know they are responsible for this (It could blow their cover.) The dead people, acting on the orders of the aliens, wander aimlessly around a graveyard. One of them even goes into a nearby house and horrifies a woman by walking slowly and staring at her. Finally, the aliens cleverly reveal their entire plan to a trio of snoopers who manage to find their ship (It was hidden behind a tree.) They explain to the Earthlings that they fear Earth will one day discover how to make a Solaranite bomb that will explode the sun. Then they explain to the Earthlings exactly how the Solaranite bomb works. This is why they have to destroy us before we destroy them which will ultimately prove to us that they exist... or something. But there's one thing that these highly advanced aliens didn't count on three of the Earthlings might resist somewhat.Plan 9 From Outer Space is Ed Wood's masterpiece and is considered by most to be the worst film ever made. Even Criswell couldn't have predicted the cult popularity it has gained. Bela Lugosi died shortly after filming began so the majority of his scenes are played by a look-alike who looks nothing like him. The dialogue is awkward and nonsensical, the set looks like it was borrowed from an elementary school play, and the acting makes Keanu Reeves look like Sir Lawrence Olivier. Listing all the continuity errors would take longer than the film's running time. The only thing that could have made the film worse would have been to include Dolores Fuller.All in all, Plan 9 From Outer Space is one of the most entertaining movies I've ever seen, a triumph of will over talent. "},{"Title":"Pathetic film but I would still recommend it","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You've got to watch it to know what I mean. No attempt has been make the film intentionally funny. But the overall effect is just that - you simply can't help laughing at the scenes and characters in the movie. Like at the ghost that's forever hiding part of his face with a black cloak because he's a ghost and ought to look scary. Well, he looks as scary as Charlie Chaplin at Times Square on a hot, sunny afternoon. They got just about everything wrong starting from make-up to music to dialogs. There's continuity gaps. The one thing they did do right was in picking the fat policeman that dies and eventually becomes a ghost. He was so ugly that he looked convincing as a ghost in spite of a horrible make-up job. feel welcome to watch it. It's a study in bad cinema "},{"Title":"S10's Reviews Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959)","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Newsflash 'Saucepan lids attack New York'; 'Pie Plates pound Washington D.C.', 'Frisbee's Fry Fresno'. Man the world is in deep doo-doo in Ed Wood's schlock opus 'Plan 9 from Outer Space'. Illegal aliens from beyond Uranus institute Plan 9 to take over the Earth (you know an invasion is actually menacing when you use more than a pie plate held up by string for attacks). You know if you've already tried 8 times to invade our little blue and green marble then I think it's time to move on&#133;.Long held to be the worst film ever made 'Plan 9' is far from it. High cheese it may be but the worst it can't be. This laugh riot is too fun. Ed Wood rounds up the gang (including Bela Lugosi here in his last role). When an invading undead army consists of 3 characters you know you're in for a treat. If only the military had a pair of scissors, pandemonium could have been avoided. "},{"Title":"Hidden story","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you will pay attention..this movie,as someone in an earlier post mentioned,was at the height of the FBIs communist witch hunt in which many directors and actors were blackballed from Hollywood. When the alien is ranting and calling the humans stupid,stupid,stupid...is it a shot at the violent,hippocritical government agents who were so narrowminded that anyone who disagreed with the government was classified a communist? I think so. While the acting is terrible,the sets are so cliché that it is funny...the movie has several subtle shots at the conservative government of the 50's. If you watch it closely you can figure it out. I enjoyed the movie..and while many may put it on the worst list...to me it is one of the best. You just have to know what to look for...lol. "},{"Title":"An Incredible Paradox It is Good and Bad at the same time","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there is a movie that clearly proves the So bad it's good philosophy is this one. Plan 9 from Outer Space quickly gained a huge cult-following after being named the worst movie ever made and gave its failed director, Edward Wood Jr., the fame and recognition he never could achieve while alive. However, and despite its enormous amount of mistakes, Plan 9 has a bizarre charm that makes it different than other movies it has heart. It is the legacy of a man whose love for films was bigger than his artistic skills, and that could do anything to complete a movie.Plan 9 from Outer Space is, according to its narrator, the Amazing Criswell, the retelling of the fateful day when a group of aliens tried to destroy the planet Earth, by re-animating the dead to destroy the living. An old man (Bela Lugosi) and his wife (Vampira) are the first ghouls re-animated by the aliens in their ninth attempt to destroy the earth.The plot, as weird as it sounds nowadays, was really a variation on the usual sci-fi plot of the days of McCarthyism and the fear of invaders. However, Wood's script is filled with weird dialogs that one can only take as the unedited script. It is obvious that Wood was desperate to make the movie so he shot everything not caring if what he had written sounded good on screen. Despite the poor writing of his films, Wood always tried to put a social commentary on his films, and Plan 9 shows his lack of confidence in the Government and maybe in humanity in general.About the obvious mistakes, some say it was due to low-budget, others state that it was due to his overconfidence; the fact remains that Wood almost never shot a scene twice no matter the results. This terrible mistake become one of Wood's main characteristics through his career, and in Plan 9 is painfully notorious. Every shot seems to be in the movie no matter if the cardboard tombs fell or if an actor makes a mistake; the show must go on and the picture must be finished.The bizarre edition (going from day to night and vice-versa) and the use & abuse of stock footage is another of Wood's characteristics that make this film so special. The performances of Tor Johnson and Vampira, Pual Marco and Dudley Manlove, and the unforgettable Bela Lugosi truly complete the show.Probably Ed Wood's life and the story about the creation of Plan 9 are a better tale than Plan 9 itself; Tim Burton's fictionalized biopic Ed Wood is a good proof of that. However, Plan 9 is a must-see for every fan of cinema, and specially for everyone interested in film-making, as it is the job of a man who had his soul definitely in cinema, but his talent definitely in other place.One could say after reading this huge amount of flaws that Plan 9 is an unwatchable piece of trash, and while maybe they are right; Wood's masterpiece has an enormous charm that makes everything look good. It is a weird feeling the one that Plan 9 conveys, a feeling of tenderness and naiveté that infects the viewer with Wood's spirit and makes the unwatchable being enjoyable, and turns the trash into a classic. That is Plan 9's incredible paradox it is probably the only movie where one can proudly say It is so bad that is good. It is a 5/10 that tastes like a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Really corny, but funny","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this movie a 4. I rate 1 only unwatchables, I rate 2 the movies that are incredible bad and offensive, I rate 3 the movies that are very bad, yet try not to be. I don't think that this movie ever intended to be a block-buster. I think Ed Wood had fun making this one, just as he had making other movies. Maybe I was influenced by the Johnny Depp movie about Ed Wood, but let's face it, I wouldn't have watched the movie otherwise.All in all it is a watchable movie, with terrible sets, terrible dialogs and terrible acting, but amounting to hilarity, not boredom or nausea. "},{"Title":"Vampira, Tor and Bela","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can you go wrong with the awesome threesome of Vampira, Tor Johnson and Bela Lugosi? We never actually see Bela without his cape covering his mouth. A friend told me this was because Bela canceled so they had someone else play Bela, but stuck with the credit to promote the movie I guess.Anyhow this is a slow moving film with improvised plot, very camp mono/dialog and stiff acting. The special effects are at least as charming as the alien wearing a halberd as a logo on his spacesuit. Its definitely so bad that you have a good time watching it, but the legend of Ed Wood Jnr is bigger than this movie, its not that bad. "},{"Title":"downright awful one of the worst ever made but HILARIOUS WARNING!!!! SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  downright awful and one of the worst movies ever made but so entertaining that it's hard not to like   i enjoyed this a LOT i had a great time watching it the script is one of the worst the dialog is HILARIOUS and the directing is truly awful Ed Wood rules! there are laughable lines such as this is fantastic and it's all true that's the fantastic part of it or how bout i'll bet my badge we haven't seen the last of these weirdies and the laughable production values the acting is terrible Gregory Walcot is funny here and just adds to the laughter he did bad but he is funny Tor Johnson is very funny here and he is one big dude! sadly Bela Lugosi died 4 days into shooting i LOVE Bela Lugosi and it was just a shame to see him wasted in a film like this  overall a classic of bad cinema a  MUST SEE !!!!!!!! for bad movie lovers BOMB out of 5 but ***** on a bad movie level you will have a very fun time i promise you! "}{"Title":"Yes, it is the Worst Movie Ever Made (Spoiler, but who cares?)","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 from Outer Space is the world's worst movie.  The plot, the acting, the directing, and ESPECIALLY THE SCREENPLAY, were all horrific.  You really can't put this into words.  Although some may claim that there are other movies just as bad, do not be fooled.  Sure many movies have the same quality of actors that Plan 9 has.  They may even have cheesy sets.  But the writing for this movie is terrible.  There are dozens of instances where a line could have been written better by monkeys, including these gemsCriswell Future events such as these will effect you in the future.Paula That's all the point they'll ever be.And the Lieutenant, after one of the zombies has disintegrated into a skeleton before their eyes He wasn't like that a minute ago.These are the instances that put Plan 9 below any other movie.  Really horrible, but highly recommended.  See it once, it only wastes 78 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi's Swan Song!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"               Bela Lugosi kept acting to the very end, and never gave up in life, dispite his addition to drugs.  His true love was the film industry and playing DRACULA.  It was sad to know this was his last film.    My public library considers this a classic film and many people seek to view this film and many more for generations to come whether it is considered Good or Bad! "},{"Title":"Comments","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time generally because people hate it so much. And because it's a piece of grade-Z shlock. But it isn't just any grade-Z shlock. It's the King of Shlock. Ed Wood is a genius in his own right. He has brought pain to many, but entertainment to the select few who can bear it. The select few  me and some other guys. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad,but......","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have always admired people with a passion for something.Ed Wood certainly had a passion for directing movies,bad as he might have been at it.I have heard some say that Ed Wood's movies were only bad because of low budgeting.I disagree.Ed Wood,with no disrespect intended,was just a bad director,with or without a low budget.This particular film,however,best displays Wood's passion.Bela Lugosi, having passed away before production was completed,was replaced by a stand in.Most directors would have had no choice but to call it quits with the whole production,but Wood pressed on,wanting to finish his film.Every way you look at it,Plan 9 From Outer Space is a terrible movie,but the way I look at it,even the best of movie directors only have half or three quarters the passion for movie making that Ed Wood had. "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At this time, 659 people have given this film 10 stars, which is why it isn't at the pole position for worst movie ever, which is a shame, since it deserves it.  No movie before or since has hit the depths of this one. It's reputation is fully deserved. "},{"Title":"Bad movie, one of the funniest!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A 10 all the way, it is so bad it's great as a comedy made to be serious which makes it a classic must see. This is one of the funniest movies ever made unintentionally, Ed Wood thought he was making a regular sci-Fi movie but turn out one of the best comedies ever! "},{"Title":"Pants, but hardly the worst film ever made! (Spoilers)","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing Tim Burton's loving biopic of Ed Wood, criticising this movie is a little hard on the conscience.  Johnny Depp's performance was so endearing that insulting the real Ed Wood is on about the same level as punching a sleeping baby in the face.  But that's not going to stop me from stating the obvious; that Plan 9 is a big piece of crap.As bad as it is, there are loads of movies that better deserve the reputation of being the worst ever made.  Batman Forever is far worse, and less excusable not just because it had a huge budget and actors who could actually act, but because it managed to kill the credibility that Tim Burton had brought with his two perfect movies.  Independence Day is insultingly dumb and wasted every one of its actors, and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is British mockney cinema at its worst, and houses the lamest performance in the history of film.  These big budget, widely-distributed, well-cast, money-making turds are far worse than something like Plan 9 because they had more potential; it doesn't come as anything of a surprise to discover that a B-movie from the 50s isn't a work of genius.But what separates these and other stinkers from Plan 9 is that it isn't just bad, it's painfully inept.  It's one of the few movies that is genuinely beyond spoof.  There's no way to parody a film that opens with the line, `We are all interested in the future, for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives.'  Criswell's narration is by far the worst (and therefore best) thing in the film, providing such gems as, `The ever-beautiful flowers she had planted with her own hands became nothing more than the lost roses of her cheeks.  It's such a shame that Wood actually thought this had some kind of depth, or even some kind of meaning!The stupidity of the narration is matched by most of the dialogue, and seeing the same shot of Bela Lugosi three times and then his obvious body double brings the film closer to its reputation.  But while these bits are so bad they're good, the rest of the film is just bad.  It's never fun to watch a boring movie, and the dull patches throughout stop its cack-handedness from being fully enjoyable.Poor old Ed Wood.  He couldn't even make a bad movie consistently bad enough to be good!  But you at least have to admire his ambition, however misplaced it may have been.  He was a bad writer, a bad director and a bad producer; truly a multi-talentless man. "},{"Title":"World's funniest movie","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is hilarious, I couldn't stop laughing. Ed Wood has made a truly campy sci-fi movie regarded as one of the worst films ever made. There's actors knocking over cardboard sets, lines that don't make any sense, and ufo's held up by clearly visible strings.Watch if you want a good laugh. 1/10 as a sci-fi, 10/10 as a comedy. "},{"Title":"The movie that makes fun of itself (slight spoilers)","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K is not needed here.  Other Ed Wood films (The Sinister Urge, Bride of the Monster) have gotten the MST3K treatment, but Plan 9 from Outer Space has been spared. There may be several different reasons for this.  But the main reason, I'm guessing, is that the jokes are so obvious that uttering any of them would be entirely redundant.  MST3K's function is to point out that which is not so obvious and to make an excruciatingly horrible movie at least somewhat fun to watch.  Plan 9 doesn't need to be made any more entertaining than it already is.  This film unwittingly parodies itself and, indeed, the entire sci-fi genre of the time.  Just watch and laugh and stare in wonder.  It's almost surreal.I agree with others who have said this film is not, in fact, the Worst Ever.  'Worst' would imply that the movie is excruciating to watch and Plan 9 isn't.  As others have said, it's a gas.  When I think of 'worst,' I think of Future War and Blood Waters of Dr. Z.That's not to say Plan 9's all a barrel o' laughs.  There are a few boring scenes, such as when stock footage of military weaponry unleashes barrage upon barrage upon hovering paper plates (or pie tins or hubcaps, or whatever the heck they are...), intercut with scenes of an officer staring up in the sky with binoculars; or when two pilots and their flight attendant woodenly exchange lines with each other.  But the film is only 77 minutes long (not 122 minutes as given on Netflix.com; I can't imagine this movie going on for that long), so it's bearable and it's never so bad that you want to switch it off.  Anyway, users of this site certainly don't seem to consider this the worst ever (that distinction goes to Manos Hands of Fate); it's not even in the Bottom 100.  There are worse films out there than Plan 9 and all of them have earned their spot on the IMDb's Bottom 100.  Red Zone Cuba anyone?Some scenes in the movie actually struck me as kind of sad.  For example, there is a scene where two characters are being chased by the three ghouls and escape in a car (the oft-mentioned day/night scene).  A night scene of Lugosi's face-covering double cuts to a scene of the real Lugosi in broad daylight to suggest that he just missed capturing his prey.  It was just rather sad to see Lugosi like this, in this scene that plays out like some sort of bizarre montage.I rented this film after seeing Ed Wood, which painted Wood as a highly likable and passionate man, whose ambition far exceeded his ability.  It is an affectionate portrayal and casting Johnny Depp as Wood only makes him more likeable and makes one want to root for him.  I really wish they'd release Ed Wood on DVD already. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a ridiculous movie.  It is so bad, it`s actually funny. Entertaining turkey`s like this is more rare than movies that are only good.   This film is brought to us by Ed Wood, entitled the worst director in the world, but he believed that he was a genius.  This movie is said to be the worst movie ever made, but it is not.  Don`t get me wrong, this movie stinks bigtime, but movies have been made that surpass this movie in terms of non-quality. The movie itself is badly directed.  It`s got scenes that haven`t got anything to do with the rest of the film, it is clumsily edited, the special effects stinks(but THAT is what makes this movie funny), the story is absolutely ridiculous, but most importantly the actors themself are really, really bad. Fans of cult-movies should see this movie, it`ll make you laugh. 0/10 for quality, acting, directing, story, music, special effects etc. 8/10 for cultish entertainment. "}{"Title":"Sometimes bad is just bad...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...I have never been one to refuse a bad movie when its ineptness is entertaining.  Sure, like a car accident, you can't help but watch them, but they are still terrible.  Watch this movie just to say you saw it, but I agree that the entire proceeding is more sad than funny, considering Wood's later years. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's Masterpiece","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything that you have heard about this film is probably true. It is well deserving of it's Golden Turkey Award as one of the worst films of all time. It's awful to be true and yet, there's something about it that makes you want to watch it again and again. (And yes, I am of my right mind).It has all the elements well documented elsewhere - the flying hubcaps, cheap special effects, lack of continuity, abysmal acting - the list goes on and on.It's a shame to see old time favorites like Bela Lugosi, Tom Keene and Lyle Talbot reduced to this level. And Tor Johnson? As a zombie, he makes a great actor. Witness his scenes at the beginning before he is zombie-ized. And what can you say about Vampira that hasn't been said already. And yes, the rest of Wood's stock company (Dudley Manlove et al) perform admirably as well.However as bad as it is, I still enjoy watching it to try and spot new guffaws each time. It remains, in my humble estimation, Ed Wood's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The Most Entertaining Bad Movie","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be the most purely enjoyable bad movie ever.  The lines of dialogue, production values, and plot are ridiculously horrible to the point where it screams hilarious ineptitude in your face, and you can't help but sit by and laugh.Is this the worst movie ever? Certainly not;(As any fan of Mystery Science Theater knows)this movie is the Citizen Kane of bad films.  It's the epitome of all that bad movies really are, and because of that it is honestly entertaining.P.S Leonard Maltin is right; it improves with each viewing.  "},{"Title":"On a shelf all it's own","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Generally considered the worst film ever made it's actually not. (my pick goes to The Beverly Hillbillies) While it's chock full of filming goofs and terrible acting it's entertaining in an abstract sort of way. This movie has of course reached a cult status and any one who enjoys motion pictures should see it at least once during their existence. It's best viewed by also watching the excellent Ed Wood.      "},{"Title":"Aliens try to take over the world by resurrecting the dead.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best of the worst movies I've ever seen. Bad actors, a terrible cardboard cemetery set up, hubcap UFO's on fishing rods, and is simply a fun movie to watch. I recommend watching this film with the movie Ed Wood so that you can understand the jokes. "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly inept - SEE IT!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A masterpiece of cinematic awfulness. A must for all fans of the genre. Don't miss the swift change from day to night in the churchyard! Wonder over the late-dead Bela Lugosi stand-in. See it and weep! A wow of ineptitude!  "},{"Title":"So..","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I honestly don't see what the big deal is. I understand that there are numerous slip-ups and unintentionally funny parts in this movie, and the dialogue is terrible, and a 4th grader could've probably constructed better sets, and so on and so on, but honestly, is it worth everyone's undulated praise?? I was bored out of my mind with this movie, even with all this supposedly funny stuff going on. A common theme that unites all of Ed Wood's movies is, obviously, cheapness, but another is that they are all incredibly boring. This fact is one that few people, both normal cinema goers and cinema masochists, will accept or even recognize. I am not saying that I don't enjoy the camp value of this film, but people, please! Let's move on! If you want bad, Plan 9 is a primer, but don't get stuck on it! I'd venture to say that there are worse movies than this. Check out Nail Gun Massacre, or Manos, Hands of Fate (fans of Mystery Science Theatre will be instantly familiar with this film. I recommend it in its original format, un-MSTied.) or something, anything else. "},{"Title":"No Satirist Could Have Done Better","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only thing I can say positive about Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space is that he apparently had a vivid imagination. And to think this was conceived without the reported aid of any hallucinogen.He had to have an imagination just to have made a feature film after the death of his star. What you saw in Tim Burton's Ed Wood is quite true. Wood filmed some scenes with Bela Lugosi, recently discharged from a sanitarium only days before Bela died. Did that stop Wood? Not a bit, though I wonder what the original film might have been if Bela had lived and done the whole thing.Instead Bela had a stand in with a cape over his face and the dead Mr. Lugosi along with Vampira and Tor Johnson became the walking dead of Plan 9 From Outer Space. Now what were these zombies walking around for. Merely to get our attention, the governments of the people of Earth particularly the American government.Why the aliens who are controlling the zombies want our attention. Because we're a people who likes to blow things up and we're about to discover something that will blow it all up and I do mean the universe. Of course Plan 9 From Outer Space is so laughable that no science fiction satirist could have done any better. Yet in all the horrible special effects and laughable dialog, poor Ed Wood combat soldier from the Pacific theater in World War II was actually trying to say something about disarmament. The man just didn't have the talent to pull it off. But he did create purportedly the worst film ever made. I guess that's an achievement of a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Not the worst but still an horrible Z-movie.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Edward D. Wood Jr. or better known as just Ed Wood really was the worst screenwriter of all time. Just like all of his movie, this one doesn't make sense and is filled with plot holes and visual mistakes, which makes this movie a laughable but fun one...So Ed Wood was the worst writer and perhaps director of movie history but does that mean that his movie are also the worst of all time? I think not, even though his movies are far from masterpieces he still knows to put some passion and love for cinema into it. Unfortunately it's a kind of strange love and passion that perhaps only Ed Wood himself understood. Looking at his movies you realize that the movies were made by a person who was living in his own world with his own ideals and standards, in his mind he thought what he did was great but the general public did not agree with that and all of his movies became an huge failure. Does that make him a bad filmmaker? More a misunderstood one, misunderstood by the whole world. I think this is also one of the reasons for Wood's cult status which he has gotten after his unfortunate early death, people began to see and understand the passion he made his movies with, when they rediscovered his movies and watched them in a new light. But I shall not try to romanticize it, facts are that Wood's movies are unique but still awful ones and it are these two things combined that makes his movies laughable but yet fun to watch. In a strange way I admire Ed Wood's life and career...Plan 9 From Outer Space is no different from Wood's other movies, except for one thing; this one his most known one. But why is it his best known one? Probably because it is his biggest movie and being officially known by the world as worst director of all time, this movie automatically became regarded as the worst of all time. I don't think worst is the best way to describe this movie, strange would be perhaps better.The story is weird and doesn't make a lot of sense. It mixes science fiction with strange zombie kind of horror. An horrible combination that simply doesn't work.Main problem I had with this movie was that I didn't understood who the main character was. The movie follows way too many characters without ever making clear who the 'hero' was. I think that originally Bela Lugosi was set to portray the biggest role in the movie but after his death the story had to be rewritten, with as a result an even bigger mess. Lugosi still is in this movie, Wood uses some self made archive footage of his good friend while he is running around in his Dracula cape. The result is a strange mix of archive Lugosi footage and sequences with a body double that looks nothing like Lugosi at all. The movie also uses other archive footage of the American army firing their cannons, it really doesn't blend in with the movie and looks laughable.The acting as always is horrible. I really laughed at Tor Johnson with his horrible accent who had been given way too many lines. Other strange roles are portrayed by Vampira, Criswell, John Bunny Breckinridge (who couldn't seem to keep his eyes of Dudley Manlove's costume) and other Ed Wood regulars Paul Marco, Duke Moore, Lyle Talbot and Conrad Brooks.Still I think that the movie has some nice moments. At times it knows to build up some good tension and I think that the underlying message itself also isn't that bad or unimportant. It's just that it's brought in the wrong way just like in Wood's other movie Glen or Glenda was the case.3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"It's only saving grace is how bad it is","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Folks,When a space ship interior is represented by an army surplus radio on an old wooden table in front of a black curtain (doubtless the same curtain that, with a wooden barstool, represents the interior of an airplane cockpit), it doesn't get any worse (if it's intended for a paying audience, anyway).  "}{"Title":"Cheesier Than Swiss","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How does one grade Plan 9 From Outer Space?  If we say that director/writer/producer/editor Ed Wood Jr. was trying to film a serious, scary movie, well then Plan 9 is a terrible, terrible movie.  Dreadful. Incompetent.  Poorly acted and directed.Yet, I invite anyone to try to watch this movie without smiling.  It falls into the category of movies that are so-bad-they're-good.  And while I wouldn't go so far as to call Plan 9 a good movie, it is a funny one. How can you not laugh when Tor Johnson stumbles as he is getting out of his grave?  Or when Criswell warns us all that the future will affect us all...in the future.  Or (my personal favorite) the incredible lack of attention paid to continuity between day and night scenes.  Cars drive up to a site during the day, the car stops and everyone gets out, and it's night!I gave Plan 9 a 4/10, on the basis of its original goals and its lack of succeeding in them.  This is not a horror film; the only thing that scared me in this movie was the Vampira's garishly skinny waist.  But as an unintentional comedy, the film is almost a 10.  The only movie I know that is funnier without intending to be so is Batman and Robin.  Perhaps that was Joel Schumacher's homage to Ed Wood. "},{"Title":"Edward D. Wood Jr.'s masterpiece, er...","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is called by many film buffs as the worst motion picture in the history of Cinema is indeed cheesy, lame, ill-concieved, and yet irrisistable.  It's the type of filmmaking that probably gave George Romero incentive to go the next and better step with Night of the Living Dead, and I mean that in good ways and bad ways.  Truth be told, this is one of the most influential movies ever with its unintentional laughs at the bizarre, the bad acting, and bad sets, bad, I can go on and on.  But make no mistake, this is a bad movie classic, if you could call it, in the old 50's sci-fi genre. And in closing, if you want just a tid bit of an idea of what to expect from Plan 9 from Outer Space, I'll say this- Bela Lugosi is in one scene in the beginning of the picture (the laugh out loud exit from the house when he holds the flower) and then for the rest of the movie he is substituted (he died minutes after filming the scene) by another, taller actor in a cape covering his face!  Exceptionally terrible.  B+ (it averages out from my perspective) "},{"Title":"Planet of the Drapes","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Considering the plastic curtain between the unseen passengers of a transcontinental jet and the cockpit (where there is little resembling an actual plane flying equipment), Drapes is certainly appropriate. Perhaps Drips might be more appropriate, because the aliens flying on hubcaps who think earthlings are stupid! stupid! stupid! aren't geniuses themselves, inventing a control gun for zombies that jams and utilizing only three creepy looking creatures in their plan to warn the earth that they are in danger of destroying the universe.Called the worst movie ever made by the worst director who ever lived, this cult classic isn't so much bad as it is mostly boring. Certainly, there are plenty of things to laugh about (Tor Johnson barking orders in his hard to understand accent, then trying desperately to get out of an open cemetery plot; alien Joanna Lee spinning around after being pushed as if she was in a Fosse musical; Vampira and Bela Lugosi scampering around as if they were Morticia Addams and Grandpa Munster with the revelation that while alive, they were husband and wife; dialog so bad it feels like it came out of a junior high school drama club. I could go on and on, but what has already been documented in Ed Wood (flying hubcaps over stock footage of Washington D.C. and Hollywood, one of them at one point on fire) has to be seen to be believed.First of all, in stand-in Tom Mason's first entrance in taking over for Bela Lugosi, it is very apparent that even with dyed hair, similar ears, and the famous Dracula cape that they look completely different. The Criswell introduction is as silly as everything I mention above. Poor Lugosi didn't even get any lines (or any in his second to last feature, the even more deplorable The Black Sleep), and the footage of him traipsing through a cemetery while spinning his cape around him is repeated over and over to expand the 45 seconds of footage they had of him in this scene so he could actually get guest star billing. Having seen this over and over since first seeing it, I must confess that while it ranks as a bomb, there are certainly much worse films, and that takes away a part of its legend. The stock footage is so obvious and the acting out of director Ed Wood's stable of amateurish performers is insipid. Even the presence of another veteran 30's actor (Lyle Talbot as a United States general) doesn't elevate this any higher. There are certainly some great laughs here, and it is obvious that Wood did take this seriously, but it isn't the catastrophe of legend. It is just a slightly boring film that you have to see for yourself to understand why it has gotten the reputation which it has. "},{"Title":"This movie is bad, terrible...and SOMEBODY'S responsible!","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That somebody would be legendary director of cheap Z-movies Edward D. Wood Jr. who completed this film in 1956. Considered somewhat of an opus for Wood, Plan 9 From Outer Space is also considered a landmark in so bad, it's good cinema. When viewed from that perspective, it certainly doesn't disappoint. The many goofs and ridiculous dialog are well known and can be found in short snippets in places like youtube. But if you have 80 or more minutes to kill as I did lying in bed sick today, don't hesitate to check it out. If nothing else it is a good example of a dedicated filmmaker who believed he had something to say, just no funds or talent at his disposal with which to make it.The story is a bit jumbled, obviously thrown together in such a way as to utilize Wood's odd collection of colleagues and vault of stock footage. The narrative stumbles from the very beginning as a pompous narrator begins speaking of future events such as these, and then begins telling a story of what has already happened that fateful day. I guess he is supposed to be living in the future and sending a warning back in time to the rest of us that aliens may be about to do us harm. Or at least our recently deceased persons. Somehow these aliens are turning recently deceased people into zombies and sicking them on the living. Why? Perhaps either to prove to humanity that aliens do exist, or maybe to somehow warn them about building something called a solaranite bomb which could wipe out the universe. Try saying the word solaranite three times fast. The actors Wood hired can hardly say it once. Apparently these aliens have decided that humans are too stupid to realized the consequences of building weapons of mass destruction. Wood was definitely a decade ahead of the large scale anti-war movement in America, but an inept science fiction film like this was certainly not the catalyst that marijuana, LSD, and Grateful Dead music would later prove to be.Anyway, Plan 9 is just too poorly made to either present a coherent message, or even tell a good story. With its horrendous dialog, day/night switches, shoddy props, and poor acting, it is merely a curiosity that has stood the test of time. Films such as this one, R.O.T.O.R., Bigfoot (1970), and Bella Lugosi Meets a Brooklyn Gorilla, don't need to be good to be entertaining. They can be far more of a joy to watch than any CGI-laden multiplex time waster of our current era. I'll give Wood 3 stars for his effort. And for providing plenty of chuckles for me. Someone once said laughter is the best medicine.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever made but it was still crap","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just how dumb did Ed Wood think his audience was? I'll give an example Bella Lugosi is in this movie he died while in production and Ed Wood hired a double that was six inches taller hoping that nobody would notice (you don't have to be a genius to figure that out). There are more ridiculous parts out of this like the announcer in the beginning in the end and guess what? he referred to the future as a particular day.This movie did deserve it's reputation as being one of the worst movies of all time but it wasn't that bad being as that I have seen more crap (maybe not with the reputation this movie has but I have seen crappier movies).Now people are going to ask me if I thought Ed Wood's writing and directing is the worst like his reputation makes out to be... in that time Yes although in this time (shock twist coming up) ITS NOT AS BAD AS SOME OF THE OTHER FILMMAKERS I'VE SEEN (Hollywood this is a note get more competent filmmakers if I think some of today's are worse than this guys) Obviously the Aliens in this movie were really determined to destroy humanity because they had 9 plans I'd give up after plan 5 or something... shows you how successful Ed Wood characters are.Now I'm going to watch a good movie to get this out of my system "},{"Title":"It may be bad, but somehow I actually consider this a guilty pleasure","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do agree this movie has a lot of problems, but it is somehow entertaining and somewhat of a guilty pleasure. It is often cited as the worst movie ever made, and while it is nothing especially to rave about, I have honestly seen much worse movies and I can also think of worse directors than Ed Wood Jnr(ie. Friedberg and Seltzer), and I actually consider Plan 9 one of my favourite bad films.Yes, the acting is amateur and full to the brim with overacting. Yes, the sets are wobbly. Yes, the special effects are crude, especially the use of hub-caps for flying saucers. And yes, the stock footage can be messy. However, I do find it entertaining, because the film does have some truly funny dialogue(decide for yourself if and when you see it whether it is intentional or not) and some interesting shots of Bela Lugosi(and the fake body double). Also Ed Wood Jnr does direct with heart, and the film moves briskly and doesn't feel too long or too short.So overall, a guilty pleasure and not a bad way to spend 75 or so minutes. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Future events such as these will affect you in the future","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear Sir/Madam,I must speak quickly, for my time is short. On behalf of the stupid, stupid, stupid human race, I want to apologise for what is about to happen to the Universe. We should have known that the ridiculously-named Solaranite bomb would have monumental repercussions. Why must Mankind insist on destroying himself? First it was the atomic bomb. Then we developed the Hydrogen bomb, with which we exploded the air itself (to use the scientific jargon). Why, all those years ago, did we ignore those humanoid aliens in shiny spacesuits who came down to warn us of our folly? When Klaatu arrived to preach the dangers of nuclear armament, we sat up and took note. Yet these shiny-suited ETs were denied our sympathies. Despite the fact that their arguments made perfect sense, the human response was merely to set alight their spacecraft (if a wire held up by a foil-coated frisbee can be termed a spacecraft) and postpone all responsibility; the solaranite menace was decreed a problem for Future Earth.We should have listened to the aliens. After all, we witnessed first-hand the advanced state of their technology. Their agile flying saucers were able to dodge the cannons of the American military's finest stock footage. The electrode-gun, when it wasn't jammed, was even able to summon Bela Lugosi from the grave for one final acting role -- though the resurrected acting veteran seemingly developed camera-shyness during the reanimation process. I must confess, of course, that the human race has done some amazing things in its brief history. Jeff Trent (Gregory Walcott) was once offended by the suggestion that all you of Earth are idiots, and, to a degree, I share my fellow Earthman's indignation after all, it was a human who shrewdly discerned that somebody must be responsible for Inspector Clay's (Tor Johnson) murder; it was a human who made the thematic connection between visits and visitors; it was a human who, rather liberatingly, punched Eros the alien (Dudley Manlove) in the face. Indeed, it was nothing less than a human who created 'Plan 9 From Outer Space (1959),' a film which first warned us of the solaranite problem. Ed Wood's warning fell largely on deaf ears only a limited cult of bad movie buffs took the time to heed the film's lofty message, which even then went unnoticed behind the irrepressible sound of sarcastic remarks. Yet we can't say that Ed Wood didn't warn us. Future events such as these did, indeed, affect us in the future. "},{"Title":"Did they really have a plan?","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Calling Plan 9 From Outer Space the worst movie in history is like calling former #1 movie of all time, Titanic a success. But, really was it the worst movie? I disagree. Mainly because even though Wood, Jr.'s intentions may have been to make a serious Sci-Fi horror, while combining a bunch of the genre's creations, and as crazy as he might have been, he must've known that this movie was just fluff and not Oscar material. I've seen a lot, and I mean A LOT worse than this, mainly because they were trying to be serious and were trying to get awards. I doubt the awards season ever entered Wood Jr.'s mind.That said, wow, WOW, this movie was hilariously bad. Incoherent scenes and characters, laugh-out-loud horrible dialogue, funny special effects and the cast seems so, well, dumbfounded on what to do on the set. That's not the end of how bad this movie was, just the beginning. Costumes from outer space that were either made from 10-year-old King Arthur fans or just rented and had no business on space aliens. Also, it had sets, namely that main graveyard or the cockpit, that were so funny, so deliciously bad, you can't help but laugh again and again. I could go on and on, but suffice to say, this is thee perfect example of how NOT to make a movie. In fact, nothing at all works here. Nothing, but, again, humor for the audience. (Side Note best to watch it via Rifftrax, though I know it doesn't need much help; they just make it all the more enjoyable.) I guess the well over-stuffed and confused plot involves an elevated alien race landing/hovering in the skies who's deep plan is to raise the dead in order to prove their existence to Earthlings who apparently don't believe the fake saucers in the air are real due to the government cover up. Some humans are attempting to undercover the conspiracy, but must battle 3 zombies/skeletons and intellectual aliens. (Unfortunately, they never meet the head, and enormously flamboyant leader &#x96; I would've liked to see that meeting.) I am not sure if books have been written on this movie, but I can see volumes written dissecting this movie. (I bet Wood Jr. didn't see that coming.) But there are so many aspects to scrutinize on the different scenes or dialogue that didn't work or the characters, namely the long-nailed, 2 inch waist of Vampira or the mouth-breather Tor or Bela and his cape &#x96; something that would work in Dracula, but here was obviously used to cover up that it wasn't him half the time.How could anyone hate this movie? It's the main definition of so-bad-it's good. I'm actually awarding this a full star higher than the bottom of the barrel 1-star, because of the enjoyment I got from watching it. Never before have I ever seen such a mess, embarrassment or perfect movie to watch while under the influence. And again, if you can purchase the Rifftrax audio commentary, it's a welcome addition to the already fun experience. "},{"Title":"Just what a movie should be - almost","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sets are terrible, the acting poor, the writing bizarre, the whole thing looks as cheap as they come. But microwave some popcorn, get in a few root beers, turn out the lights and it's pure entertainment. What else should we ask of a movie? Before suggesting it's the 'worst' movie ever made try the marvellous 'The Killer Shrews', 'The Giant Gila Monster', 'The Giant Leeches' or the influential 'The Creeping Terror'. Don't complain about them - enjoy them for all their simplicity. The people who made these movies loved what they did - they may not have had talent, but they had passion and enthusiasm. Mere lack of a good story, money, actors or props was not going to stop them. Absolute delight. "},{"Title":"How come I can't even get through 12 minutes of this?","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" MPAA Rating UnratedOkay, this movie is HORRIBLE! don't even think about buying it or better yet... LOOKING AT THE DVD! The first thing you'll notice is how the spaceships shake and tombstones wobble. Because guess what! THE SPACESHIPS ARE ON STRING AND THE TOMBSTONES ARE FAKE! The second thing you'll notice is how the pilots in the plane are not doing anything yet the plane is flying! third you'll realize how boring this film is! fourth you'll see a boom mic's shadow! Lovely... THEY CAN'T EVEN HIDE A BOOM MIC WELL ENOUGH?! The fifth thing you'll notice is that just about every prop is horrible. The sixth thing you'll notice is that you have removed the DVD from the DVD player, shot it several times, stomp on it, smash it to pieces with a hammer, and flushed it down the toilet! "}{"Title":"Little Known Story About Plan 9","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How Albert E. Marten Saved Plan 9 From Outer Space!August 15, 2008 would have been my father's 87th birthday. It was a family tradition to celebrate anyone's Birthday with Pop delivering one of the many gems from his colorful past. So you can celebrate and commemorate along with the family we are sharing one of his favorite adventures. If you are a Plan 9 from Outer Space fan or someone who enjoys a good story read on! This is how Pop (Albert E. Marten) brought Plan 9 From Outer Space or Grave Robbers from Outer Space for you aficionados out of the Celluloid Closet and into our hearts!Albert E. Marten was born in the Harlem section of New York in 1921 and grew up along (and under) the boardwalk in Coney Island. Pee Wee (or Pee Vee in the Yiddish cadence of the immigrant Jews) grew up and hut gemakht shtiferai (raised hell) during the 1920s and 30s in the home of Dreamland and Luna Park. Decades and a world war later, he took me and my brothers to the old neighborhood in Coney Island to show us where he and his pals battled other first generation American gangs and where he hung out with Murray Handwerker, son of the owner of Nathan's Famous (five cents bought a kosher all-beef dog and a soda).By way of biographical information, my Pop was a prominent entertainment and theatrical attorney. At one time an up and comer in the Democratic Party, he headed the Speakers Bureau for Congressman Franklin Roosevelt Jr. and escorted Eleanor Roosevelt to political functions. Pop took an independent path in politics and in life. To say that he had a dynamic presence would be an understatement. The dinner table was always lively and full of outrageous laughter. Mom had her hands full with her five boys. Pop was an original who defied convention.Pop was active in the post-World War II film industry, representing talent, producers, and distributors, negotiating co-production deals, and arranging financing for more than 150 feature films. Panic Button, starring Maurice Chevalier, Jayne Mansfield, Akim Tamaroff, and Mike Connors, and television series such as Wild Bill Hickock starring Guy Madison and Andy Devine, and such Broadway productions as Peter Ustinov's Love of Four Colonels and Picnic were among his credits. In his obituary in Variety, Albert Marten was credited with introducing the completion bond to the motion picture industry in the United States.His clients ranged from famous Hollywood swashbuckler Errol Flynn to best-selling author Harold Robbins, from Allied Artists Distribution Co. to producer Edward Pressman. He dealt with such luminaries as Marlene Dietrich and John Wayne; however, we knew our old man was an important guy when Moe Howard of The Three Stooges invited him to bring his kids to the set during filming. He once tore up a $50,000 option check for Mickey Rooney when the actor failed to show for a meeting for which Dad had flown in especially from the East Coast (Mickey was at the track!). However, of all his many achievements in show business, the one that gave him the biggest kick and brought the most laughter around the dinner table, was his having rescued from oblivion the picture consistently voted the worst movie ever made. Without my Dad, Edward D. Wood, Jr.s' originally titled Grave Robbers From Outer Space would not have become the cult classic Plan 9 From Outer Space.Here for the first time is the never-before-published story of how Plan 9 came out of the celluloid closet and into our hearts!Visit the following linkwww.ethanmarten.com/albert-e-marten-saves-plan-9-from-outer-space/All the Best, Ethan Marten Actor/Producer "},{"Title":"Plan 10 is with us","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It can be said that there should be a connection between any form of pop culture and the time in which it exists, and that a movie particularly has a duty to address that relationship. But I don't think Ed Wood, the writer and director of Plan 9 From Outer Space, ever entertained that particular thought, at least there seems to be little evidence of it. But the idea is not to be denied. Watching this movie again after many years, I found myself laughing (this time somewhat mirthlessly) even more. Not at Ed Wood's blinkered imaginings as I once did, but because I suddenly realized that it had at last found the aforesaid relationship.We are living today in his alien world. The beings from Outer Space have finally taken over, and he is with us again to direct, this time in the form of George W. "},{"Title":"A brave statement","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Edward D. Wood Jr. is to be heartily congratulated for creating a bold statement during one of the darkest periods in this nations history.During a time that to question any action by the government was tantamount to treason, he cleverly crafted a film that questions the whole philosophy of developing weapons of mass destruction and indicating how we could, with our arrogant and stupid minds, eventually produce the destruction of the universe.By using the putative villians as the purveyors of his message, he avoids the scrutiny that such a message film would engender.It is a shame that Ed Wood did not have the funds to produce a slick version of the film; it's dialog is deliberately contrived to produce double entendres that make you ponder them long after the ear discerns them. The effect is similar to that used by Samuel Becket in Waiting for Godot. Temporal contradictions similarly assault the mind's normal attempt at linear cognition much as a Picasso challenges you to see a face as just another set of features.If only we had listened to Eddie, we probably wouldn't be in the mess this country is in today, to paraphrase a well known senator. "},{"Title":"The king of awful movies!!!","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unless you actually see this movie, you have no idea what a bad movie is. This is one of the poorest acted, directed and written movies ever!! And because of it's all out badness, it's become a cult classic comedy, even though it's supposed to be a science fiction horror movie. There are some unbelievably stupid mistakes in the film. In one scene, it's nighttime at a cemetery. A lady screams, with her mouth shut when the screaming starts. The police then come, and it's obviously day, and when they arrive at the cemetery it's night again. I recommend you watch this classic Ed Wood film, and I guarantee that you will find it horrible!! My rating 0/**** (horror), *** 1/2 out of **** (comedy) "},{"Title":"Watch this and learn what not to do while making a movie.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know that I'm going to catch Hell for this, but it seems that a new generation who grew up with this movie on TV like I did loves this movie. But I am going to stick to my guns and say that this is God awful. The effects are rotten, the characters are poorly written. There is some very funny dialog, but this isn't a comedy and when a serious movie has funny dialog, that's considered a bad thing. As for the so called UFOs, I've seen better flying saucers being thrown around by kids in the park. Plus, it's bad enough that Ed didn't stop production of the movie or wrote Bela out of it. At least they could have found a body double that wasn't two freakin' feet taller the Bela! This is a lesson to all inspiring filmmakers of what not to do. I give this ultimate TURKEY...THE NOOSE! "},{"Title":"Attack of the good china","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, the legendary Plan 9, what's left to say about it. I have a certain respect for Ed Wood. Despite failing over and over again, he just kept going and giving the best he could. I'll just won't be able to live with myself if I give this only one star, though it's not better than that. I like how he tried out the SF-genre, that way he could reach new levels of ineptness. Glen and Glenda was charming but rather talky, this one is loaded with action! The action of paper plates and fishing wires, the action of a guy hiding behind a coat, but action nonetheless. It's even more remarkable and more heart-warming than the unmanned octopus from Bride Of The Monster. The Tor Johnson performance is worse though, why oh why did they make him talk? And one woman has a really annoying accent, it needs to be said. I still need to check out that other very promising movie Night Of The Ghouls, but this one is a true Ed Wood, one for the ages. "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not so bad, it's good. It was a pain to sit through, and I hate it. I cannot fathom why it's held with such high regards given its mediocrity. It has nothing going for it, and it's not funny because it's bad - it's a shame, because I was hoping it would be funny. The movie's special effects were a sham, put together in a matter of minutes by the looks of them. I don't care what the budget was or whether Bela Lugosi died in the middle of filming and they had to use stock footage and a stand-in, it's just plain stupid.This movie helped me appreciate the better movies - namely every other movie I've seen. It was difficult to watch the whole thing, waiting for the next splicing of stock footage or some ridiculous fool covering his face with a cape...I can't be bothered saying any more about this movie, it was a waste of time to watch and I can't recommend it to anyone.Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Intoxicating.","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before seeing this I did see Tim Burton's 1994 Ed Wood movie. Had I not seen it (and I had eyed this one up prior to because I'm a B-Horror fan) I probably would've had a completely different reaction. Plan 9 From Outer Space is, to put it simply, a movie about a group of aliens using their dreaded plan 9 to take over humanity in order to save the rest of the universe. That's about it in a nutshell, but the movie is so incredibly goofy that it's impossible to take anything in it seriously. The goofs are unbelievable with Tor Johnson dropping a girl on the ground only to watch her land on a mattress, people knocking over the wooden graves, background noise that isn't supposed to be there, zombies getting stuck coming out of their graves, and people being called by their real names. I've already watched the movie 7 times just because it's clear that Ed Wood had a passion for making movies and it actually does show in his films. I can't help but love his movies, he is really one of the only directors that has always strived to produce what he wanted. "},{"Title":"Movie is a health risk","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd heard about narcolepsy, but never experienced it until I watched this film. I understand that people who suffer from the condition can be stimulated to fall into a stupor. Some sensory input -- a loud noise, a noxious smell -- induces immediate and deep slumber.That's what happened to me as I watched this film -- I kid you not. And I'm not narcoleptic! But every time I'd drift out of lala-land and back to consciousness, a mere minute or so of further exposure to the film would send my mind reeling again for the comforts of oblivious repose.I think I missed most of the film, drifting in and out of incredulous consciousness this way. I'm not especially regretful of that. "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad people.","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It offends me on a personal level to hear about how terrible this movie is, and it not living up to the claims. While it is a bad movie on all accounts to hear about it being The worst movie of all time! and So bad it's good! and after watching it all I could really say about it was it had potential to be a fairly good old sci-fi flick. The plot isn't that bad, what ruined it was the acting, low budget not used well and the directing. But I will admit it has its amusingly bad moments but I laughed far more during The Amityville Horror remake. I'm also offended by the amount of genius labels given to Ed Wood, he was a terrible director that really didn't care about his movies. You wouldn't call a doctor that forgets to sew up his patients a genius would you? As much as I love Johnny Depp I have to disagree with him about all the wonderful things he says about the late Ed Wood. Ed Wood is only a charismatic man on a journey to fulfill his dreams of being a great director, when he's being portrayed by Johnny Depp. If you want a real glimpse to the mind of Ed Wood skip over the Plan 9's and the Brides of the Atoms and go watch one of his REAL stinkers like The Sinister Urge with its plot worthy of any Lifetime movie that'll leave you dumbfounded and half asleep. That's not genius.This movie, on a the master list of bad movies doesn't even make the top 10 of my list. Being that it wasn't really that bad. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece, If GIven a Chance","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can one say about Plan 9 From Outer Space, that already has not been said? I can think of many things. While many people hate this movie and say it was the worst in history, I completely 100% disagree. Why? I have many reasons. The thing about Plan 9 is that while it did have poor special affects, one must remember that Edward D. Wood Jr. did not have the best funding, he had to produce and pay for everything himself, sometimes with assistance from his crew. If you look at it that way, it would actually be a very good movie, if his funding had been better. While the acting and writing was poor, let me tell everyone who scoffs at it something. The acting and writing in some of today's movies are far more atrocious than that in Plan 9. Most of today's movies are filled with sex jokes, which are not at all amusing, and are so over done that it gets tiring. While many actors are praised today with having incredible abilities, many do not, and really are no better than the best acting in Plan 9. The most important thing we have to remember about Plan 9 From Outer Space, is that it was a sincere movie. Ed Wood thought he had something going, and he directed from the heart. He just wanted to tell stories and to be artistic. So many people get back lashed for doing what they love, and if it is not hurting anybody, leave them alone! Let them do what they want for Heaven's sake! All in all, if you look at what Plan 9 From Outer Space could have been had it been given better funding and assistance, it probably would've turned out swell, and it wouldn't be known as the worst film in history. Plan 9 had a very good plot, and was pretty entertaining (I'm not talking about laughing at it) but really, it was a pretty good movie. Plus, I've seen films with huge funding, that were completely horrible. Yeah, you've seen them. "},{"Title":"From the Point of View of a Small Child","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was born in jun-52 and recall seeing this movie on the new york, channel-9 or 11 (WOR or WPIX) Saturday night, chiller theater. the only night my foster parents let me stay up late to watch TV. i was born a horror film buff. they had already gone to bed and there i was all alone, watching plan-9 from outer space!!!!! as a small child, it scared the living hell out of me!! i had to walk upstairs thru that dark hallway to my room and boy was i ever scared....had nightmares from that one for weeks to come. i remember bits and pieces of it today and apparently it made an impression on more people than me, as folks are still talking about even today, in 2005. i would love to see it again as an adult and better yet, an updated version of same///with all of today's special effects and the like. i think the basic plot is brilliant and worth revisiting///thank you. "},{"Title":"Awful? You bet!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie deserves the 1/10, no more. But where I give that grade usually to movies which I wish I had never seen and leave me furious, this one doesn't. I expected it to be bad - it has a reputation after all - and it lived up (down?) to that expectation and surpassed it in every which way.Ed Wood must have been a special kind of genius. A sort of anti-genius when it comes to film-making, to deliver this kind of movie and others like it to the audience. It leaves one baffled at just how someone could actually believe they were going to make a successful movie at the time of writing, let alone shooting or editing.I have really tried to find one good thing about this movie and I can't (OK, maybe Tor Johnsons' contact lenses do look spooky).So should you try and watch this? The surprising answer is YES. When we judge movies we need a scale to judge by - from 'excellent' to 'awful' - and you haven't calibrated your scales correctly unless you have seen this movie. It is the definitive word on 'awful'. "},{"Title":"You Gotta Be Kidding!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Come on people! This is not great cinema! Don't write about it like its some lost work of art, or even a mediocre movie. The plain fact is, it stinks. Lucky for us, it stinks in a special way. It's so bad, it's hilarious! I don't think it's the worst movie, that title would have to go to Hal Warrens film Manos Hands of Fate as a previous reviewer mentioned. But this movie has the big five, bad acting, bad effects, bad script, bad directing, bad casting.The characters (and that is an apt description of them, they are not actors) drive from dark to light and back again. Night scenes have shadows and day scenes are filmed in dark. Tor is barely understandable and emotes his lines like turds from a constipated man. The main character disappears at the start of the movie and is replaced by an obvious fake with no explanation.Don't get me wrong, I love this movie! If Ed Wood hadn't intended to make a great movie it wouldn't have been near as funny. Think about it, half the fun is knowing he was dead serious. If he was trying to make a comedy we wouldn't like it near as much. Just imagining his seriousness as he directed this mess makes me smile! Even Manos Hands of Fate can be funny if you watch the Mystery Science Theatre 3000 version (don't ever watch the pure version, I think it might be fatal). Listen, this is great entertainment, but not great movie making. Don't try to be pompous or try to explain away the too numerous to count mistakes and flubs. It deserves to be listed in the top 10 or 20 all-time worse films. Yet unlike most of them he has a charm and a pure stupidity that makes it enjoyable and at times side splitting.Watch it, laugh, but don't tell anyone it's not that bad. It is. It's horrible! Lucky for us. Ed must be turning over in his sweater and skirt, but at least we're still watching it. "},{"Title":"Stupid race","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Ed Wood did here was simple but brilliant.Wood was a dubiously imaginative goof who created awful stories, so here he makes a film about a dubiously imaginative goof (Criswell) who creates for us an awful story, complete with terrible acting and an underlying theme dangerously close to that of The Day the Earth Stood Still.On that note the atrocious production is in line with the self-reference.The economy of the film is amazing.Recommended the camp value is undeniable, and the added layer of self-reference is intriguing.  "},{"Title":"Funnily enough, not great!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything about this film is bad; the acting, direction, script...i could go on but wont. Despite this i actually enjoyed watching it, some of the lines are truly inane and it's hard not to laugh at their delivery, maybe thats why it was enjoyable.3/10 (all points are for the enjoyment factor) "},{"Title":"NOT Paper Plates!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look, Folks, there is no doubt that the props in this movie were not industry standard for the times, but if I see one more claim that the Plan 9 flying saucers were made out of paper plates or pie tins or hubcaps, I am going scream.I happen to peruse a book by Bob Burns in the local cut-rate book store, titled It Came From Bob's Basement. It is a wonderful presentation of the various props and costumes from psychotronic movies that this afficianado extraordinaire has collected over the years.And, surprise, he has some of the props from Plan 9.And, among these, several of the flying saucers!They were NOT made out of paper plates (as far as I am concerned, Tim Burton did a disservice to Ed by depicting Kathy Wood putting paper plates and bowls together to make these props).In fact, Ed (or his prop master) picked up several Revell(not sure about brand here) Flying Saucer model kits and assembled and painted them. To one of the models, a square flange was attached to the bottom to allow the connection of another cube-shaped (wooden, probably) piece to be attached for the graveyard landing scenes. Cheaper than constructing a rounded set for the inside of the saucer, which would have made more sense. At least Ed was making an attempt to explain why the saucer interior set was so square.I think there is a tendency on the part of some reviewers to reduce the apparent craft which goes into bad movies such as this one to the level of high school drama productions. But in my opinion, this is oversimplifying. Plan 9 for all its flaws, was created with a full crew (not all of them professionals, obviously) and, I might add, a surprising amount of original music (if I read the credits here on IMDb correctly).So, please --- stop mit der paper plates! "},{"Title":"Tanna, Baby","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like most folks whose comments are here, I am a big fan of this movie and have watched it countless times. In my latest viewing binge, something has occurred to me that has never before. Eros' sidekick, Tanna (played by Joanna Lee), is pretty hot! Tell me I'm nuts, but check her out in her scenes, especially the ones at the end. That pouting little mouth, the cute little hairdo, the nicely filled tights and tunic. Tanna, why did I not see this before? And isn't her little panicfest at the end of the movie, as the flying saucers burns up and she tries to awaken Eros, just side-splitting?  "},{"Title":"but I'm An Artist!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I should think that anyone with an abiding interest in films has at least heard of this movie, and of its director, Ed Wood.  Everyone agrees it is a bad movie.  Many people feel it is so awful that is hilarious.  I have no reason to argue with these people.  I have watched this movie on tape, stopping it to examine it in detail at each outrage  the awful dialogue, the wooden acting, the unbelievable props ... everything about this movie is awful, so bad that it has to be seen and examined to be believed.One or two people who have commented on this movie on the Internet Movie Database have defended it on the grounds that 1 at least Mr. Wood was attempting to do something and so deserves your respect and that 2 this is an example of subversive art film-making and so deserves your respect.I wish to take a little of the time of anyone who is reading this to argue that you cannot have art without craft. A monkey may throw dung at people, but that does not make him a cogent speaker. All he communicates is anger.  Mr. Wood may have had excellent intentions when he wrote, produced and directed this film.  He may have intended to make some serious statements. All that comes across is an ineptness so profound that people watch this as a prime example of bad movie making.Others have argued that there are worse movies, movies that are made for a quick buck, which pander endlessly and add nothing.  I agree with that assessment.  If lack of talent is sad,  actual ability  that is used for the lowest purposes is worse. However, that does not dignify this work with any value, nor does the cloak of art.  I feel sorry for Mr. Wood, but he had no talent, no ability and no resources. This is an awful film.  Without ability, you cannot have art, despite the insistence of so many modern artists.  In another bad film of the era, BUCKET OF BLOOD, the protagonist wishes to be a sculptor.  He takes home clay and attempts to model a bust.  His technique of sculpting a nose is to smash on the clay and command it Be a nose!Roger Corman, who directed that movie, made cheap movies intended for the drive-in circuit and knew he was making cheap movies.  He knew you cannot make art with just good intentions, only a mess.  It is a pity that some of the learned commentators on cinema cannot seem to understand this.So, if your intention is to see a movie that is so bad it is hilarious, by all means, take a look at this movie, and my own personal favorite bad movie, TERROR OF TINY TOWN.  But don't mistake it for anything other than what it is.  And if you think you're an artist simply because you're so brilliant, all I can say is don't give up your day job. "},{"Title":"Saucers seen over Hollywood","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plan 9 is probably the best example of a movie that became a classic because it's so bad! This is why1. The effects are horrendous,look at the UFO's,you can see the strings that are holding them.The mothership is funny as ever and the way that the UFO's move is even more funny.They swing around like a bad thrown frisbee and the shots of the UFO's seen over Hollywood is just horrifying,not to mention the scene in which the army tries to shoot down the UFO's,these are just archive footages.2. The dialogues are the worst ever with highlightsIt's murder and someone is responsible,Visits? but that would indicate visitors! and the hilarious pillow dialogue between the young pilot and his wife.And what about the legendary Solarbanite or how do you spell it?3. The voice-over(Crisswell) during the movie is very irritating and his dialogue is spoken in the worst way.4. The scenes with Horror legend Bela Lugosi are few in numbers because he died in the early period of shooting,but the answer but his death is as funny as legendaryHe is replaced by a so called double who doesn't look like him so he covers his face with a cape,hilarious!!5. The acting is horrifying as well as hilarious!! The scene in which the aliens(normal humans!) meet their master is funny because of the way they greet each other.The tirade by the alien woman is bad,but the way that Eros(male alien) throws her away is even worse!6. The film is pretty anti-woman.7. The directing and shooting by Ed Wood is worse than worse!Overall,Plan 9 from outer space is probably the worst movie ever,but because it is so bad it makes it hilarious and,even better(or worse),an all-time classic.I can't give it a high grade but I can't give it a low grade either,so I chose a grade in the middle. I taped it and I don't want to lose it ever again! A definite must-see!?!  5.5/10   "}{"Title":"Very bad and silly movie!!!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is really silly, the story is ridiculous and the actors act badly, which is not to surprising seeing the limited text they have. The story is hardly believable, although the part about humans thinking they are the only intelligent beings in the universe is true. The number of goofs in this film is incredible, and incredibly stupid.The film does have some funny moments. But it's certainly not a movie to watch more then once.Conclusion a BAD and SILLY MOVIE, but not the worst movie ever. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally saw Plan 9 From Outter Space, this is the most funniest movie ever made and it didnt pretend to be funny at all!, as someone else said, I dont think it should be the worst movie of all times, since there are worst b-movies today, with a lot of more budget and technological advances.Its funny to know how it was made, i recommend to watch first ed Wood by Tim Burton, then you'll fully enjoy Plan 9, another thing i recommend its to have one of those error-bloopers list of Plan 9 that are on the internet, and try to find new bloopers by yourself.Now if youre a b-movie fan, this one is one of the best ever made, Ill give it 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"MST3K Showed me worse film, so give Ed Wood a Break!!!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will be honest, this is not a cinematic masterpiece, but ya know what?Ed Wood had the heart to get it done. Granted, the best thing you can say about it is that it got done, but once you see it, you kinda smile that he got a cast of actors, film crew and whatever else..to get it done. Not quite the showman as William Castle, not quite the brilliance as Orson Wells, Ed Wood was just a guy who loved making movies and thought he was doing it right. So here's another Ed Wood 'dollar and fifty cent' production, Plan Nine From Outer Space. I was entertained -- maybe not on the level as Mr. Wood set out for me to be, but I laughed all through it. The production values were crappy, the script was crappy and I even got to see it in the film!!, The actors were awful, the stunt doubles had their own thing going on....there isn't anything you can't point out in this film that wasn't bad (maybe THE END credits) but the point is, you watch it because all of this is what makes the film entertaining. You buy it, you rent it, you show it to your friends, you may have gotten drunk or high to watch it and had a great time, and all of that is because of Ed Wood's production, Plan 9 From Outer Space. Would this have EVER been a good film? Well, with the crop of talented directors we have now, talented script writers and nine generation re-writes of a single idea, CGI, post production personnel, PIXAR, and massive budgets, ya never know. But this was back in the day and Ed Wood had a dream like all of the NYU, USC, UCLA, etc., first and second year filmmakers...Plan 9 is no different. Ed though went ahead with the film as bad as it was and Plan 9 From Outer Space turns out to be  one of the funniest, inadvertantly entertaining gosh-awful films of all time. If you're looking for a great horror/scary film, this ain't it. If You're looking for a so-so horror/scary film, this ain't it. BUT if you're looking to kick back, point out errors and inconsistancies, bad acting, bad editing, bad acting (yes I said it twice!) and want to have a good time laughing while doing so, this is the film to do it with.  "},{"Title":"Gone with the wind it ain't!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has to be watched under specific conditions--you need a slightly warped perspective to find it good.  I have lent my video to a few friends...some think that it's a good movie, others think it's the stupidest thing that they have ever seen.  Personally, I'd rank it somewhat ahead of a lot of the dreck that passes for entertainment on tv nowadays.  As to whether I'd actually go to a movie theatre and pay good money to watch it there...maybe not, depending on how bored I was!  "},{"Title":"Just one thing","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie that hasn't already been said in  previous user comments, but there's one thing that is bugging me about the plot...Eros explaining the Solaranite explosion A ray of sunlight is made up of many atoms. No it is not! Sunlight is made of photons - which are much smaller than atoms and virtually massless. This makes it impossible to explode a photon with our current technology - and I think (although I am not a physicist) that it may never be possible.I do not know if photons had been discovered by the time this movie was made, but it destroys the reason why the aliens came to Earth, making the whole plot of this movie pointless. The writer and the director don't appear to have done their homework.  "},{"Title":"Avant garde masterpiece?!?","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Camp classic?  Anti-political propaganda?  Avant-garde masterpiece?  Who can say?  This winner of the Worst Film of All Time Award (by the Medved brothers' book The Golden Turkey Awards) has been delighting people for years. With the renewed interest of Ed Wood in the past 20 years, one must really ask, for what reasons is this film really being enjoyed?  In Cult Movies, Danny Peary wrote a tongue-in-cheek piece about  how Ed Wood was being critical of government and escaped trouble with the censors because no-one would ever read such subtext in such a Grade Z movie (although he was just kidding when he wrote the piece, he later believed what he wrote after seeing other films by Mr.Wood).  In RESEARCH Incredibly Strange Films, Grade-Z master Ted V.Mikels talks of people who have been saying for 20 years how much they've wanted to make a movie, yet still have done nothing about it.  So whatever you can say about the non-achievements of a 5 buck movie that made it to the screen, one has to admire its maker for striving to do it at all costs, even at the expense of credibility.  Instead of being one of too many people who talk of doing things then have mid-life crises because they've done nothing, at least they made the damn thing instead of just yammering about it.  In the article Bad Movies (collected in his book, Vulgar Modernism), J. Hoberman dryly writes of the avant-garde aspects of Grade Z filmmaking, that they suspend normal movie logic with the diverse fragments they use to piece movies together.  Some of this work is done by people who realize in the editing room that they're not cut out to be a filmmaker after all, and try to fix it.   Then, after one or two stabs at cinema, they bail, never to be seen again in the film world. Then there are people who actually make a career out of making Grade Z cinema, stuffed with ingredients of inane scripting, acting, dialogue, props, lighting, editing, etc.  What are they  thinking?  Are they just out to make a fast buck (or a tax write-off)?  Are they sincere that they're making art?If you read the interviews with these legendary Grade Z heroes in RE-SEARCH Incredibly Strange Films, you are flabbergasted at the clarity of these people discussing their craft.  Their contempt for the Hollywood system mirrors that of the players in the New American Cinema, circa 1943 to 1966. The stirring realization is that they choose to make these no-buck exploitation pictures, because they will contend with no Hollywood big shot telling them how to make their movies!  In an interview with Rudolph Grey (for his book, Nightmare of Ecstacy The Life and Art of Edward D. Wood Jr.), Vampira describes the making of PLAN 9 this way ...someone came to me and said Ed Wood is doing a movie.  He's got filmclips of the SINCERELY YOURS premiere, with Liberace, the fans outside, he's got film clips of flying saucers, he's got stock footage of jeeps and Army stuff, and he's got some old discards of Bela Lugosi movies, cut-outs from his other films, he's gonna put it all together, and he's written a script around it, and he's sending to you.  In other words, Ed Wood had this movie well-planned- HE KNEW WHAT HE WAS DOING!So, as tongue-in-cheek as Hoberman may be in his Bad Movies article, he indeed has a point (in fact, if you look at the classic Grade-Z films in an avant-gardist frame of mind, a whole new realm of creative possibilities occur).  Think of the cinema of avant-garde filmmakers Bruce Conner or Craig Baldwin both men create films with narrative threads, yet from found footage, scraps of diverse subject matter shot years and miles apart, married in the editing room to form its own language.  For example, one decoupage in Conner's A MOVIE has a stock shot of a submarine crewman looking in a periscope, followed by footage of a bikinied sunbather, followed by a stock shot of a submarine jettisoning a torpedo.  Consider this synopsis of Baldwin's 1999 film SPECTRES OF THE SPECTRUM ...a treasure trove of early television shows, industrial and educational films, Hollywood movies, advertisements, and cartoons, combining these with original live-action footage, no-budget special effects and relentless narration to generate a wholly original paranoid science-fiction epic. Baldwin himself puts it best My filmmaking process is a form of ventriloquism.  I use found footage as a puppet to mount my political arguments in visual terms... What better weapon to use against mainstream society than the stuff that they consider obsolete garbage. That for me is perverse revenge.  Or to put it more bluntly, it is the garbage art movement of the 60's put to moving pictures take useless junk, put it in a collage and people will then admire it.It is arguable whether Ed Wood was intending to be subversive in his threadbare collection of stock footage, intercut with his own washed-out bargain basement visuals.  Because it  is so inane, no-one would notice any dissident intentions, if indeed Wood had any.  Perhaps Ed Wood was genuinely trying to break into the Hollywood mainstream with his peculiar cinema, but it is likely that in his later 8mm porn loop years, he had somewhat accepted his fate in the fringes, even if he still kept trying until his last breath to escape it.  It is another probable truth that while trying to deliver entertainment pictures, he also felt inclined to include a message.  Lest we forget, his first completed feature, GLEN OR GLENDA, was a plea for people to regard transvestites as normal; BRIDE OF THE MONSTER ended with stock footage of a mushroom cloud (surely because he couldn't afford to torch Bela Lugosi's lab, but also he may be saying something about atomic warfare); PLAN 9 has a subplot of the government withholding information from the public (a subject still taboo in that post-war age).  It may not be difficult to write tongue-in-cheek articles about what a true artist Ed Wood was, but it is harder to discount that at least he left a body of work that is unmistakably his own.  He was no dreamer, he was a realist in his own demented way.   He withstood a lot of misery (and people making fun of him) to commit his work to celluloid, but he believed in himself enough to do it. Is that not the behaviour of an artist?You may take all of the preceding text in whichever amounts of stride you wish.  However, if you believe that Ed Wood was truly a unique artist and that PLAN 9 was years ahead of its time in socio-political subtext, and truly revolutionary in its avant-garde techniques, then I agree with you. I'm not kidding.  PLAN 9 can be considered as nothing more than a beer and pretzels movie with the guys in the rec room.  But I concur with authors like Danny Peary and J. Hoberman- regardless of the satirical prose in their pieces, they both surrender to the possibility that these Grade Z movie-churners were artists after all.  Forty years later, we still don't know what to make of Edward D. Wood Jr.  Whether he was a serious artist or serious bull***t artist, that is part of the mystique that draws us to his threadbare oeuvre of outlandish ideas, riotous dialogue, acting by has-been's and never-will-be's, and discernably  minimal art direction. Whenever I watch PLAN 9, I laugh at it, but I am also kind of amazed by it.Edward Wood was the Brecht of narrative cinema.  No other person's films constantly reminded you of their artificial properties.  With his cheap sets, unrealistic props and stock footage, PLAN 9 is nothing if not a commentary on how representational film can be, just like theatre.  While no fictional cinema will fool you into thinking it's real, regardless of its naturalistic setting and characterization, seldom does any try to fabricate reality with such a flagrant disregard of space and time, continuity, and with such a heavy reliance on montage.  People in a sunlit knoll will react to an offscreen image, revealed in the next shot to be Vampira in a night setting at an obviously fake crypt.  I'm not sure that this was what Kuleshov had in mind with his theory of montage.  Or to put it more plainly, Ed Wood could have been making a surrealist film, with its deliberately incongruous images, yet attempted to string all together with some kind of narrative.  His shameless use of Bela Lugosi (shot two days prior to the actor's death) incorporated with a younger, taller stand-in may be tasteless and inane, but lest we forget no-one else but Bunuel had two people play the same role (in THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE).Singularily, PLAN 9 is a shameless slipshod attempt at commerce, yet its flagrant artifice also makes it a commentary on the very kind of entertainment product it wants to be.  It may be useless to defend a body of work that is so flabbergastingly desperate, but this shoddy oeuvre still draws people back for more scrutiny.  It is not for nothing that Wood could be compared to Warhol.  Each had their acting gallery of strange wannabe's, each created works that made you think about their natural or unreal properties, and each made one wonder whether they were sincere in their own cracked ways, or whether they were just frauds who didn't care what the end result was.  But if one could believe for a moment that Edward D. was a serious, genuinely maverick filmmaker, then one could say that he was a pioneer of American Independent Cinema- making work his way without the aid or despite the shunning of a major studio.  "},{"Title":"Truly the worst movie ever","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What does Plan 9 offer in the acting departmnet?A shambling Tor Johnson,a few seconds of a strung-out Bela Lugosi,and a chiropractor with a cape over his face pretending to be Bela.And they´re the best actors in this movie.Plan 9gives us hubcap spaceships(It was shaped like a huge cigarDoh!)that suddenly turn square and blocky on the ground,cardboard tombstones that lean over when someone walks near them,scenes switching from day to night a dozen times within ninety seconds,stock footage intermixed with guys in front off black backdrops,insane editing,aimless wandering,a spaceman dressed in short skirt and tights-named Eros-played by Dudley Manlove--AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!! Ed Wood is to directing what the Buffallo Bills are to the Super Bowl.Bela Lugosi was smart enough to die after making two movies with Wood.Nevertheless,that didn´t stop Wood from using the few seconds of footage had just to get abig nameon the marquee ofPlan 9.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece (In it´s own way)","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot of this movie is not as suffisticated as the plot for crossroads, but it comes close.  It's a movie where the whole family can get together and watch because it is so hilarious.  Ed Wood did not have a very good idea for aliens.  They come to Eart in ships that are made out of metal nobody has ever seen before (or heard actually).  And they plan to take out the human race by waking up zombies and use them to knock down all the living creatures on this planet.  Also known as PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE. "},{"Title":"What were those aliens thinking?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those ca-razy aliens, resurrecting the dead to achieve their ultimate goal of WORLD DOMINATION! Plan 9 From Outer Space, was in total, a great movie. The title is a bit sketchy, refering to Plan 9 as the race or whatnot, but it was all in all, a great find. One thing i would like to know, is whatever happened to Plans 1-8? Thats bonkers! I very much liked how all the sets of this film were recyclable (the old man's house was also the piolet's house, and one of the sides of the aliens' ship were used in a multiplicity of scenes), and how the film seemed to shift awkwardly from day to night and back again. this film was very amatuerish and yet it could not be made any better by anyone, even professionals. Although a lot of scenes did not line up properly, this movie was absolutely perfect.  "},{"Title":"Bad, but not the worst","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a fan of MST3K, I've seen movies that make this look like Academy Award material. Not to say that this is a good movie or not as bad as it's reputation dictates, but it's not the worst movie I've ever seen by a longshot. It definitely has the camp element going for it, and quite a bit of unintentional humor make this watchable. You could say it fits in the so bad it's good category. The acting is nothing less than horrid, and with any Ed Wood film just about every other aspect is amateurish at best. But somehow, I can still watch it and laugh out loud. I still would have enjoyed seeing MST3K give this movie an appropriate treatment. "}{"Title":"So bad that it's good that it's bad again.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The most amazing thing about this movie is how Ed Wood thought it was serious. That Fact alone makes Plan 9 From Outer Space the most astounding movie ever. I mean the sets were falling apart, the actors were practically laughing at the script and Ed Wood didn't notice? That's really scary.Plan 9 is so bad it's good, but then so good it's bad again. There will be no other film quite like it.PLOT 1 DIRECTION 1 SCRIPT 1 ACTING 1 TECHNICAL/PRODUCTION ASPECTS 1OVERALL 10 "},{"Title":"The saddest movie ever","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok. This movie is bad. This movie is funny. But the sad part is that Ed Wood's intentions were serious. He never intended to make anyone laugh, but he wanted to amuse people. This makes Plan 9 from Outer Space a tragic experience.The acting sucks, and sucks terribly, and I still can't explain why the sole sight of a ghoul kills people. This is yet to be investigated.On the other hand, the flying-saucers/hats dance in the air like if they were made out of paper... and they were! And anyone could notice it. The planet where the action is set is not the Earth. Did anyone notice it? It's not the Earth, but a smaller planet which rotates so fast that night and day pass in only a few minutes. You're in the middle of the morning watching a point in the sky and at the next moment, you look at your feet and it's dark. Scary, isn't it? In few words, everything in this movie is bad, except for two things the music, and Tor Johnson's face, which really expresses the terrible nature of death.Finally, I wonder about the message behind the plot... we humans are about to destroy ourselves and the whole universe with us and yet we blindly keep on acting like if we were the masters of nature... and our pride is so big that we even bite the helping hand which has traveled from far away to stop us. The most amazing part (for the 50's) is that the ending is not happy, but pessimistic. Did Ed Wood really want to say that through his work? Or is it just the way things turned out to be during the making of the film?I think we will never know...  "},{"Title":"The best worst movie ever made.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To call this the worst movie ever made would be unfair; this movie was the best worst movie ever made. It is hard to believe anyone who was in it ever took it seriously. From the opening line...the future is where we will live...and the spectacularly low production values (pie tins as flying saucers, the alien's console was a wooden desk, etc.) and it's incoherent plot it remains a fine example of how not to make a horror movie. Nonetheless, you have to admire Wood. All the Hollywood wannabes (like myself) has a little of him in all of us. "},{"Title":"Worst? Or just low-budget?","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those of you who think PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE is the worst ever, you're dead wrong. Us MSTies have seen worse. Much.Much of Plan 9's crime to most is the cheesy sets. Well, a MSTie will look for dialogue and actions before sets. Cheap wooden sets? Indistinguishable day/night scenes? Hah.For instance, this is an indication of a bad movieYour stupid minds! Do you hear me? You're stupid, STUPID, STUPID!!!But before you can laugh at the poor quality, please watch the following moviesMANOS, THE HANDS OF FATEAny movie produced by Tony Cardoza or directed by Coleman FrancisMONSTER A-GO-GOATTACK OF THE THE EYE CREATURES (yes, two the's), or anything else by Larry Buchanan (ie. MARS WANTS WOMEN)THE INCREDIBLY STRANGE CREATURES THAT STOPPED LIVING AND BECAME MIXED-UP ZOMBIESTrust me, after these films, Plan 9 will SEEM like Citizen Kane. "},{"Title":"just might be the best of the worst","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ed Wood's Plan 9 from outer space just might be the universally worst film ever made!   However what do I care its just fun to watch.  Trust me just watch it and look for the mistakes. You'll spend the evening laughing your fool head off.  This is a must see for all film buffs.  If for no other reason than as a plan of what not to do. "},{"Title":"give it a rest","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am sick of people calling this the worst movie ever made.  This movie has more than a lot of the big-budget films made nowadays...it has character! Sure it was cheaply made, filmed in four days, the set was falling over, but despite all of that it prevailed with CHARACTER! It makes me laugh... "},{"Title":"Dis flick ROCKS!!!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here's a toughie...pick a fave scene...the detective scratching his head with his revolver, the pie-pan flying saucers, the faux Legosi, after the real one kicked, and, lest we forget, the immortal TOR JOHNSON!!! This movie kicked a**, top to bottom, back to front, and on the sides...DIG IT DADDY!!! "},{"Title":"Terrible, but very watchable.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The cult film to end all cult films. Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space is so bad it's good. This film has nothing good about it, except for the extreme lack of talent before and behind the camera. If you like bad movies, this may be one of the worst. Although I believe this film is a lot better than Glen Or Glenda.    "},{"Title":"Top dros pic pips pop flicks to the tip top post","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't really want to say much, save for See this movie! It's top!  Some bits are consistently funny.  Like, the cockpit scenes with the, ahem, 'controls', the comedy grave diggers.  And any scene with the alien ruler is going to be a top bit of camp tomfoolery.  Go get it, tigers!  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is is not the worst film ever made.  I mean, compare it to First Wives Club, Can't Hardly Wait, (To Throw Up--should be added), or any 80's based Burt Reynold's film.  I don't think it's even bad.It's great campy nostalgia.  Yes, I laughed at it a lot, but in a way it could be considered art.  It could be said that Ed Wood had an imagination that no other director has had.  It's wonderful.  "}{"Title":"Can your heart stand the shocking facts about grave robbers from outer space?","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this video because I had heard that it would be the worst movie of all times - and I wasn't disappointed. I am proud that I didn't fall asleep like my friends while watching it. No, I really like this movie. I like it so much that I wrote a funky song about it.This is to everybody who voted less than 10 Can you prove that it didn't happen????????????????? "},{"Title":"Waiting for the sequel","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dear filmfreaksYou really have to see this unique film by Ed Wood. Everything is wrong Script,Actors,Effects,Sound. Don't think twice Go see it and don't forget to invite your friends and lots of alcohol to enhance the intense fun and 'HORROR'you will experience.... Still waiting for PLAN 10 FROM OUTER SPACE by Tim Burton starring Tori Spelling and Demi Moore..... "},{"Title":"ED Wood the king of all cult movies!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was soooooooo bad that it was funny. I absolutely love this film because it's hilarious. If anybody is in for a good laugh I suggest you see this. I also recommend to everyone to see Tim Burton's Ed Wood. It's a biography of the famous director starring Johnny Depp(ED Wood), Martin Landau(Bela Lagusi), and Sarah Jessica Parker as his girlfriend. It's hysterical. I love Ed Wood and I suggest that everyone see....PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Perhaps There's More","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, how could someone make a movie with this many errors, mistakes, bad ideas, plot holes, and poor production values? How could one be totally self-assured that everything in this film was perfect? I believe that Ed Wood was making a meta-film here; he never intended it to be good. I believe it to be a commentary on talent, creativity, and film-making. It is almost humorous in its sheer overwhelming mediocrity. One cannot take this movie seriously; pay less attention to the plot and more attention to what is being done. Wood may have been trying to show how an idea such as this film, though believed creative, fresh, and sharp by its creators, is, in reality, a total joke. This could be thought of as how not to make a film. Wood just might be showing something about human nature and the perception of our actions. Or I may just be giving credit where none is due. "},{"Title":"maybe the best Wood film","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am still really shocked about the reputation of this excellent movie. Many people have noticed for years its mistakes, its naive manners, but i never have read about its charm, its spirit and its beauty. It was an effort, a huge effort for people like Ed Wood, Roger Corman, Edgar Ulmer or many more to finish a movie. I would like to see many great filmmakers with that problems (and not only Visconti, i mean) and check how many of them could have the necessary courage to get to the point that they could reach. Wood was, in his particular way, an advanced filmmaker, and even Chris Marker has realize that. Are we wiser than him? "},{"Title":"The Best Worst Movie Ever.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I voted, I came close to giving it a 10. Not because the film is great or anything, in fact it is so poorly done it does require to be called the Worst Movie Ever Made.But the overall tackyness, pardon me for inventing my own word (pulling a 'George Dubya' as we call it), is what makes you want to watch it. Weather it be the papermache back ground. The army stock footage used in what seems like half the film. The cheezy/morbid plot. Or just the fact it is a 'B-Movie,' you just have to watch it. So, in conclusion, on the IMDb, i rated it as a '1' but for being the The Best Worst Movie Ever Made, it gets a 10! "},{"Title":"It's merely bad","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The resemblance between the actor who played the young hero in Edward D. Wood's Plan 9 from Outer Space and the actor who played that actor in Tim Burton's excellent biography of the director is startling.  That, unfortunately, is the only thing startling about this movie, the bargain basement science-fiction fiasco sometimes pegged the Citizen Kane of bad movies.  It's a movie, like the anti-marijuana exploitation flick Reefer Madness (or Tell Your Children) that is so inept, so utterly lacking in the slightest hint of professionalism, that it is supposedly a laugh riot. If only that was the case.The first time I saw Plan 9..., I admit I found it amusing.  Perhaps now, after having seen Ed Wood, my expectations are too high. (That's right. High expectations for an Ed Wood film!)  Then again, when I saw it the first time, my expectations may have been too low.  Whatever the reason, I found little to laugh about, or even to laugh at, when watching this film on video recently.  The film is bad all right, and like the worst bad film, it's principal fault is that it's dull.  The special-effects are lousy, of course, but not so amateurish as to be hilarious.  Wood is said to have used paper plates as stand-ins for flying saucers, but hubcaps would seem to be more like it.  By major studio standards, the effects are laughable, but for a low-budget 1959 movie they're really not that shabby.  Neither is Criswell, the psychic who introduces this story of Graverobbers from Outer Space (the original title), or Bela Lugosi, for whom this programmer served as his cinematic swan song.  Plan 9... is not so bad that it's good.  It's merely bad. "},{"Title":"A moronic masterpiece","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Ed Wood, the title character (Johnny Depp) says of Plan 9 from Outer Space This is the one I'll be remembered for. If only he had known! This is his most famous movie all right, but only because it's got everything wrong with it possible, to the extent that it's hilarious. The space ships look strangely like paper plates, the set looks like a set (mainly because the actors often bump into it) and the acting creates a paradigm of non-acting (Was it a hot blast of air or a cold blast? I don't know. It was just a blast of air.).Because of this idiocy, Plan 9 from Outer Space is a piece of cinematic history that you can't afford to miss. It is quite literally so bad that it's good. It's not even a B-movie, but essentially a C-movie. To be precise, the Citizen Kane of C-movies.So just what were the previous eight plans? "},{"Title":"The Greatest Trash on Earth","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen almost all of Ed Wood's movies. The first one was Plan 9 from Outer Space. In my twisted mind I fell in love with these lousy characters and dialogs - not to mention the scene itself. I also admire Vampira for everything she has ever done. This vote goes for all those misunderstood directors the world is full of!   "},{"Title":"Plan 6 Was Better","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems a sort of parlor game to find and watch movies that are bad.Well, we don't play that game here; we watch movies for their good qualities and seldom let bad &#151; even horrible &#151; production values get in the way of a good movie. By this measure, Ed Wood made some very fine movies. But this isn't one of them.Some of his earlier ones have a purity of concept under the bad production. The world of those things is quite real, a world composed not of fragments from life but forces drawn from films. And not just films themselves but film archetypes.But this one has an incoherent world under all the bad acting and story and such. I'll argue for the value of the others, but not this one.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"HORRIBLE","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this was a terrible movie!!!! the effects were horrible, the storyline was impossible to follow, and the idiosy of Ed Wood is unbelieveable! It amused me very much though, to see the stupidity of such a film. When I saw it, I wondered one thing What goes through Wood's mind??? This movie will definetely go down in history as the Worst Movie Imaginable!!! I was shown this in a class I was taking. Usually, the teacher would show us all of a film before moving onto another movie. However, this movie was SO bad, he said, Now, I'm only going to show you all half of this movie, because I'm your friend, and I don't want to torture you. He even added, And if you talk, please let it be only about mocking the film, because if you don't say it out loud, you will burst! "},{"Title":"You see!  You see!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey, this movie is junk, we all know that.  Enough said. However, it IS NOT the worst film ever made (that actually received a theatrical release).  That august honor belongs to SANTA AND THE ICE CREAM BUNNY.  Rent that (if you can find it).  Actually, buy it if you can.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Definitely deserves to be called the worst film of all time...","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Because when punters are told this is the worst film ever made, many of them will, out of sheer peversity, want to go and see it. I should know, I was one of them. There's something quite priceless about a film in which a police lieutennant says Inspector Clay is dead... murdered... and somebody's responsible! Makes me glad to know that chronic stupidity can be found in all professions, not just politics.And what the hell was up with those aliens... constantly telling the humans they encounter how stupid they are? That's a great way to appeal to anyone's sense of reason... no wonder the other eight plans failed. Not to mention the constant re-use of old Bela Lugosi stock footage, and the stand-in that looks nothing like him. I think I must have seen that guy walk into frame with the cloak over his face at least half a dozen times.And remember There comes a time in every man's life, when he can't even believe his own eyes. Like when he watches this film for the first time. Ten out of ten for entertainment value, but minus a few billion for good thinking. "},{"Title":"Yes, it IS the worst movie of all time!","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A friend invited me to see this movie at a local film festival. He claimed this would be the worst movie of all times. He was right! They showed this film at midnight hour, and about half of the audience fell asleep until the end. I managed to stay awake by watching the rest of the audience. But I have never regretted having seen this film, because I now keep a copy of it at home to get rid of uninvited guest. "},{"Title":"It's so bad that it is funny","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, I have never seen such a special (d)efects and bad acting marathon in my life. I'm a physics student, and the theory about exploding light from the Sun and exploding the rest of the universe with it was too much for me. This movie is gotta be a cult for every trash movie fan like me! "},{"Title":"bombed with style","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure this movie had problems, but when u look at it financially, its pulled in PLENTY more than it cost. Plus, this movie is a great film for struggling film students. You could look at it and say,  I can do better than that "},{"Title":"This movie is so bad it's great!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember growing up and watching this movie before I even knew who Ed Wood was. But then after seeing the movie Ed Wood and buying Plan 9 and some of his other movies I learned to appreciate his movies. Not that his movies were works of art, but they're interesting and fun movies.  "},{"Title":"PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE (Edward D. Wood Jr., 1959) BOMB","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's little I could say about this legendary film that hasn't been said before. Still, while it's undeniably a hoot (particularly the script, composed of equal parts deadpan narration and jaw-dropping non-sequiturs), I don't find it all that enjoyable really; it's simply too bad for its own sake! Certainly the most regrettable - and saddest - aspect of the film is that it turned out to be Bela Lugosi's swan song (though his brief scenes, re-used many times throughout, were actually shot for another production and incorporated into the narrative here when that project folded!). Still, the decision to cast Tor Johnson (whose awkward delivery of Wood's dialogue in itself is good for some chuckles!) as a Police Inspector was an inspired one, for all the wrong reasons! There's also the camp solemnity of Criswell and the ghoulish appearance of Vampira (more or less as themselves)...and don't get me started on the other members of the cast, the non-existent special effects or the film's use of stock footage for its would-be action sequences!! Truth be told, I do want to watch Wood's remaining films - GLEN OR GLENDA? (1953), THE SINISTER URGE (1961), NECROMANIA (1971) and even a few of the ones he wrote - but, like I said, their reputation as bad cinema doesn't readily translate into entertainment...and I'm not sure I want to part with my hard-earned cash merely for the pleasure of laughing at Wood's ineptitude! Maybe, having recently been on a two-month film-making course in Hollywood - where, due to circumstances beyond my control, my personal showreel didn't prove exactly stellar! - I tend now to find such 'trash' somewhat uncomfortable to sit through... "},{"Title":"What once was the worst movie ever made is now a classic","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What once was the worst movie ever made is now a classic. I loved this flick! I thought the story was a good one, It was very original. I will say that the special affects were bad, but that's what makes it a classic today. Béla Lugosi's last movie, he could have made a toilet commercial look good.  "},{"Title":"For what it is, it is perfect","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the best bad movie ever made.  Yes it is chock full of mistakes, blunders and god knows what. But it is so bad it is good.  "}{"Title":"The worst movie ever.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst movie ever.The script is worthless and direction is very bad. The actors can't act and the movie contains uncountable mistakes.My vote for this movie is 1.//Nils Vilhelmsson  "},{"Title":"the ultimate in motion picture ineptitude","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot tell you how much anyone who needs a good laugh should rent this movie! The funny thing is that all the laughs are intentional. The acting is terrible, the script is awful, the music is dumb, and the continuity problems are horrific.RENT IT!! "},{"Title":"Worse than it's cracked up to be.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This certainly is one of the worst movies ever made.  In fact, I would venture to say that there is absolutely nothing redeeming about it.  Some people say it's so bad it's funny.  I have to disagree. "},{"Title":"Yes, well","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To let you in on a secret, Citizen Kane is not the best film ever made. But no-one knows what IS the best film ever made.  Citizen Kane topped a few polls at a crucial moment in history to gain the title, and it retains the title largely because no other film leaps out as the rightful title-holder, either.There's much more competition for last place than there is for first.  So let's not argue whether Plan Nine is the worst film, or whether the true bottom of the barrel is a millimetre or two further down.  Plan Nine topped the charts in a key poll taken two decades ago, and for want of an obviously worse candidate, might as well retain its title.Don't think for a minute that the atrocious production standards alone are doing the work.  The plot is witless and uninvolving, there are no characters, dialogue is laughable and the scientific explanations offered aren't even classy gibberish.  This is all beyond dispute.  Don't think, either, that it's so bad that it's good. NOTHING is so bad that it's good. That description is as conceptually incoherent as it sounds.The remaining question is it entertaining?  Well, like anything at all, it can be, under the right circumstances.  My siblings and I once derived great pleasure from watching and laughing at The Neverending Story II, a bad movie that will never become a cult favourite of any kind.  Depending on your mood you may get a kick out of this or you may not.  The fact that it has a reputation helps - you can keep repeating to yourself, I am now watching the world's worst movie, a thought that has its attractions. It's also a good movie to watch when you feel that you would enjoy finding fault with something that genuinely deserves to have fault found with it. Otherwise it's no more conducive to entertainment than anything else is. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever???","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well it said so on the cover and it´s probably right. It was not very fun to watch it but I always like seeing ...st films. You know... the most something. "},{"Title":"Why Not !?","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People really should appreciate bad movies a little more...  This was more fun to watch than half of the good movies I've seen. "},{"Title":"The best worst-film of all time!","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've done a ton of reviews on IMDb and resisted doing one for PLAN 9 simply because it's all been said (another reason why I often haven't reviewed too many recent films). However, since I often refer to PLAN 9 in many of my reviews of terrible films, it only seems right that I now get around to reviewing this wretched but wonderful film. PLAN 9 is so bad, so ineptly made and so awful that it might just be the very best film to watch with friends--even more than MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL. Watching it solo is fine, but with friends you can delight in spotting all the inept and stupid mistakes Ed Wood made in creating this film. Some good examples are spotting the cardboard tombstone getting knocked over accidentally in the cemetery, seeing how Bela Lugosi goes from an old and tired man to a tall guy with a cape draped over his face to cleverly hide the fact that Lugosi died before principle filming began, and noticing the strings that suspend the metal pie plate UFOs in the sky!!! There are just so many silly and stupid moments and dialog that it must be seen to be fully enjoyed. By the way, my favorite line The inspector is dead,...murdered,...and SOMEBODY is responsible!. "}]