[{"Title":"A Fine Cinema Experience","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"61 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  A long time ago, some time before the powers that be decided that movies should be made only to extricate money from children by catering to their base instincts and in so doing destroy our civility, the American Cinema was devoted to the art and craft of story telling.  In these stories, life was often celebrated through the study of the character of the human heart.In THE YOUNG LIONS, we experience masterful story writing in the screenplay by a man named Edward Anhalt who adapted it from a novel by Irwin Shaw.  In this fine example of the final years of the Golden Age of Hollywood we see a study of character, ideas and humanity seen amidst the greatest conflict this Earth has ever known, WWII.Here, we experience both the Americans and Europeans, including Germans. They are played as they really were, not as depicted by latter day directors such as Steven Spielberg and others who have drawn WWII Germans as silhouette, cartoon characters, all vile and evil.  Here, they are shown as singular human beings with personalities, hopes and dreams really exactly like our own.  The opposing forces are caught up in a madness that somehow swept across the face of this planet at a specific time, when really probed, for reasons quite unfathomable.  This was also one of the peak film renderings of Marlon Brando, whom some feel is one of the finest actors ever to have graced the silver screen.If you yearn for a fulfilling example of American Cinema at a time when it was a serious, respected industry, this is one for you to see.  "},{"Title":"An eloquent statement with a masterly musical score ever composed for a war film...","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"50 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" More than a passing resemblance exists between Clift's Noah and the Robert E. Lee Prewitt of 'From Here to Eternity.' They are both hard heads,' determined to live by their own special code of honor&#133; The chief difference is that Noah is not alone&#133; Throughout the film, he is accompanied by a friend, who has a number of reasons to be against the war&#133; Also Noah gets the girl of his dreams&#133; He even marries her&#133;'The Young Lions' retains its impact as one of the better films made about war... The combat scenes are limited in scale but brilliantly staged and photographed, with good direction of a complex script and a masterly musical score by Hugo Friedhofer&#133;Director Dmytryk never misses an opportunity to underline how war comes into collision with the destinies of people&#133; When Brando encounters May Britt - as the wife of his superior officer, Maximilian Schell - she is the perfect image of Nazi vices Corrupt, hedonistic, and, of course, condemned along with the rest of the decadent Germans&#133; Her hazardous beauty is used as counterpoint to Brando's enthusiasm and beliefs She represents all that is bad and immoral while he is everything noble and pure&#133;Dmytryk is less awkward depicting the relationship between Clift and Lange Their Love is a natural condition&#133; They belong together&#133; Like Robert E. Lee Prewitt, Clift's Noah is ill-at-ease socially&#133; When he meets Lange, his reaction is clear, spontaneous, purposeful, direct&#133; He begins to babble a lot to make an impression on her, because, as he tells her later, I was afraid that if I was myself you wouldn't look at me twice. But Hope was gracious enough to attend the guy&#133; The young nice girl has at last found her favorite kind of hero&#133;Clift, who finds himself standing up for his rights and for principles he did not even know he had, pared his lines to the minimum needed to convey the essence of Noah Ackerman&#133; The prison sequence is a clear and simple proof of it&#133; The emotional urgency of the young couple is communicated through looks, small gestures, and soft and tender words of love and caring&#133;Nominated for Best Cinematography, Best music and Best Sound, Dmytryk's motion picture is a moving and eloquent statement of how war collides with the destinies of people and hurls them into a maelstrom&#133; "},{"Title":"A Tale of Four Soldiers","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I've always liked The Young Lions because it has the best explanation for the phenomenon that was Nazism in Germany. Always the question is asked how did they come to power? At the beginning with Marlon Brando romancing vacationing Barbara Rush in Bavaria on New Year's Eve, he provides one of the most lucid explanations of why people would choose to follow Adolph Hitler. It is one of Brando's finest moments on screen. At the time of course he didn't know he was romancing the main squeeze of Dean Martin who with Montgomery Clift play the two American soldiers who's stories and growth as human beings is told. Martin is a Broadway musical comedy entertainer and Clift is just a department store clerk at Macy's who meet by chance at the draft board. Martin is trying to dodge the draft, Clift is fatalistically accepting what comes. Martin proves to be a man of far more character than we first think. Clift is a Jew and a man who with enough reason to be going to war against Hitler, has to deal with anti-Semitism here in America. Clift and Martin's stories are told alternately with that of Brando and also Maximilian Schell. This was Schell's first appearance in an American production and he scores well as a proud Nazi officer. Let us just say that he gets quite a comeuppance all around during the course of this war he was so proud to be part of.The two male actors who are always cited as the rebel heroes of post World War II America are Marlon Brando and Montgomery Clift. Too bad in their one film together they didn't exchange any dialog. Still I can't praise a film like The Young Lions too highly. "},{"Title":"Although a good film, it did not use the right kind of ingredients to the fullest of their potential.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"43 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This 1958 film The Young Lions is an adaptation of Erwin Shaw's great novel The Young Lions, which examines World War II and conveys a strong anti-war sentiment through the stories of three characters - a terrific book to make into a film.  There is also a terrific cast - Marlon Brando plays Christian Diestl, an idealistic Austrian ski instructor who joins the German army to serve the Fuher;  Montgomery Clift plays Noah Ackerman, a Jewish kid from Brooklyn, who carries out his patriotic duty and answers the nation's calling to fight against tyranny and yet has to fight against tyranny of a different kind in his own barracks;  Dean Martin plays Michael Whiteacre(and Oh what a wonderful role that could have been) , a playboy who finds himself somehow having a great desire to go to the front lines.  The film also saw fit to cast Maximilian Schell with a supporting role in playing Captain Hardenberg, who is unhappy with his police duty in Paris and ends up sacrificing his men in North Africa.  And there you also have Hope Lange who plays Hope Plowman who falls in love with Ackerman knowing her father dislikes anybody Jewish; and Dora Doll who plays the French girl Simone who hates Christian Diestl as the conqueror but loves him when he is helpless. All the right kind of ingredients are there for this to turn into an epic film, and yet it fell short of excellence.  Good yes, but excellent, I am afraid NO.The film did succeed in capturing the essence of the book in many scenes. Brando's portrayal of Diestl was brilliant right up to the end.  His ideals, his heroism in France, his dissatisfaction of his duty, his affair with his Captain's wife, his disillusionment, his pitiful retreat, and his sense of humanity that is heavily clouded by his blind ideals were all vividly brought to the screen by Brando's skillful rendering.  Scenes where Ackerman was mistreated and was forced to fight the three biggest guys in the barracks, where he met Hope's father, brought out the serious question of what people were in the war for, as did the book.  And you merely have to look at Maximilian Schell to know that he was Captain Hardenberg.Yet the film's biggest flop was its departure from the book.  It sought to soften the much harsher reality presented by Erwin Shaw's writing, perhaps for fear that the audience would not like it.  It gave the US military a much sweeter image in its upper brass than the book did.  It over simplified Whiteacre's character and the audience were not given the in-depth examination, as is evident in the book, of this relatively well-to-do playwright's life, his desires and what eventually brought him into the war. The film, perhaps trying to cut its length, reduced Whiteacre into a savvy singer type, which was a terrible under-appreciation of Dean Martin's potential.  (Incidentally, if you catch Dean Martin in Airport1970, you'll find that he is capable of much more complex personalities.)  The biggest disappointment, and its most unforgiving departure from the original novel, comes at the end when Christian Diestl smashes his machine pistol and gets shot by Whiteacre all too easily and Noah Ackerman returns home alive to reunite with Hope.  Smashing the gun, although well done choreographically by Brando, only amounts to a poor attempt at a direct showing of anti-war sentiment.  The book does it much more artfully with a detailed story that has Diestl fight to the last bullet killing Ackerman, and then has Whiteacre staring down and pulling the trigger at a wounded and smiling Christian Diestl.  The film's having Ackerman stay alive in the end was just a bit too typical a happy-ending that was all too prevalent in those days of the 50's.  Personally, I like the ending better if the hero dies, but that may just be me.Overall, I would say this film did not use the right kind of ingredients to the fullest of their potential.  It is a good film and yet it could have been much much better. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated war films of all time.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  A movie that truly puts character above all else, this film examines  three men and the common threads - more often than anything, the women - that bring them together.  Bold statements on individuals' approach and reasons for war are nestled into realistic and moving dialogue.  While an anti-war film, it is a fair and even-handed approach to the subject matter that lets you see things through the characters' eyes and lives, and lets an audience make up their own mind on things.  This is not to say it is a strictly intellectual film, but the action is not as visceral as recent war films.  Because of the directors' involvement with the HUAC, this movie was ignored in 1958 and fell into relative obscurity, but deserves to be rediscovered.  I read the book after the film, and found the two together to be an incredibly stimulating lesson in film, literature, and life.  See this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrific Film with Brando and Clift at Their Best!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Although there were major changes made from book to film-- The Young Lions still is a great film .Some of the largest changes occur with Brando's character Christian, the German soldier. In the book, we see the slow disintegration of a normal decent man into an inhuman killer. Brando fought for a more compassionate portrayal that also works very well, but does change the outcome of the story. In the film he is also a simple decent man who through the course of the war manages to hold on to his character and humanity and because of that he is destroyed in a different way. Brando's performance is great and very sympathetic. One of the last acting roles he seemed to take seriously for a long while.Montgomery Clift as Jewish-American Noah Ackerman is one of his greatest performances. Clift lost a great deal of weight and applied make-up to make him look more ethnic. He brings great dignity to Noah's character. Underplaying the part, Clift allows the audience to find their way to the humanity of Ackerman, a true fish-out-of-water in life who finds emotional sanctuary in his wife Hope, beautifully played by a young Hope Lange. These two play one of the most sweetly romantic scenes ever when Noah drops Hope off at her home. Watch it, you will weep for sure. Sadly, many people thought that Clift's gaunt and less attractive appearance was because of his earlier car accident. Clift, ever the consummate actor opted to alter his features and weight to support his internal portrayal of the enigmatic Noah.Dean Martin is the third lead role as Mike Whitaker. In the book, Whitaker is the central character, kind of an everyman between Christian and Noah and most probably the voice or conscience of author Shaw himself. In the book Whitaker is in the theatre, but has the less glamorous job of being a stage manager. In the film, his part is a little smaller and the studio makes use of Dino's singing and turns the character into a Broadway star. Although it might have been fun to see a more seasoned actor in the role working with Clift, Dean does a great job in his first dramatic film role, holding his own with Clift, who worked behind the scenes to help Dean Martin with his role. A bit of irony here is that a few years earlier, Clift was equally generous with a down-on-his-luck Frank Sinatra who later won the Oscar for his role in From Here to Eternity, another WW2 classic. There are a great many excellent supporting performances including Barbara Rush probably the most underrated actress of her era is terrific as Dean Martin's long-suffering, smart girl friend Margaret, Vaughn Taylor is also wonderful in a very small but crucial role as Hope's father. It's a great scene with Taylor a Christian Vermonter meeting a Jew for the first time in his life; a Jew who wants to marry his daughter. It's a classic bit of acting between the two. Clift has no lines and Taylor is mostly talking around the real tension of the moment, but the two actors in behavior are right there with each other. May Britt is wonderfully evil and seductive as the selfish Gretchen Hardenberg. Maxmillian Schell is outstanding in his first American film as the over-zealous Nazi officer, Capt. Hardenberg. His performance is all the more amazing in that he didn't speak English at the time and had to learn his part phonetically. To get the part Schell impersonated his older brother at the audition, who was busy performing on stage in Germany.Other great acting turns come from Arthur Franz, Dora Doll, a young Lee Van Cleef, Hal Baylor, Liliane Montevecchi, Parley Baer and Robert Ellenstein.Edward Dmytryk does an excellent job directing an epic film with a giant cast. Edward Anhalt and Irwin Shaw ably adapt a 300+ page novel into a two hour film which is no easy feat. They were due to the censors forced to tone down some of the more negative portrayals of the army and war itself; much to Irwin Shaw's chagrin, but yet the story is still compelling and thought-provoking on many levels. Hugo Friedhofer's score is wonderful and memorable.This is a great film. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Peace in our time?","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times and catch something different every time I see it.  Today is the first time I've seen it from the beginning.  In the context of the time it was made, it was a bold statement about the human factor in any war.  Brando shines and plays a sympathetic character who sees first hand the evil that men do in the name of patriotism. Made at a time when the Americans that liberated the concentration camps were in their prime and there weren't any idiots running around claiming it was a lie, we see how ordinary citizens respond to the unthinkable.  Brando's character stands in for the citizens of the Reich who claimed they were clueless about the genocide while the ashes from the smokestacks fell like snow on their towns.  We see the horror and the denial. It briefly explores a major taboo--interracial/interfaith marriages. It looks at racism in the context of anti-Semitcism (unfortunately still alive and well in America) and one man's courage in opposing it. Ironic this brand of racism, as the founder of the prevelant religion in America was a Jewish rabbi.This movie is worth the 3 hours of time; it would make a great set piece with Judgement at Nuremberg which also showcases the talents of many of the actors from this film.Good acting from all players in this film.  It presages Robert Altman with the interweaving of the characters' lives from the first shot where Barbara Rush and Brando debate the merits of the Fatherland to the last scene in the forest where the end comes full circle. "},{"Title":"Young men thrown into a terrible conflict","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" An interesting vision of young men in war. The idealist, the shy and the playboy get to war. All will be changed by the horror of the conflict, not only with enemy troops, but within their ranks.Lt. Christian Diestl's (Marlon Brando) sense of honor and gentle behavior clashes with the cruel, senseless attitude of his superior, Capt. Hardenberg, realistically played by Maximilian Schell.Private Ackerman (Montgomery Clift) a shy unassuming Jewish boy becomes a courageous soldier, opposing both enemy soldiers and the bigotry of their comrades.Private Withacre, a playboy who tries to avoid duty (Dean Martin), finally ends up resigning a safe post to join the fighting in Normandy, and becoming a soldier.The usual Black and White shooting enhances the cruelty of WWII. If you find it, don't miss this performance by great actors. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Perspective of the Stupidity of a War","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  `The Young Lions' is the Second War II presented through the participation of three soldiers. Christian Diestl (Marlon Brando) is an idealistic German, son of a shoemaker. He joins the Army believing that life could improve in Germany under the administration of the Nazis. However, being a soldier, he cannot accept `acting like a police' in an occupied Paris and requests transference to the front, where he has another disappointment with the cruelty of the war. Noah Ackerman (Montgomery Clift) is a shy American Jew, a very simple man, just married with Hope Plowman (Hope Lange) and very discriminated in his platoon for being Jew. He goes to the war and leaves his family. Michael Whiteacre (Dean Martin) is a successful actor who became friend of Noah while in New York and is also obliged to join the army and go to London. There, he decides to leave the office activity and join his platoon in the front. This movie is excellent. It shows common people being used by government in a senseless war. All the main characters are peaceful common persons Christian is a very simple person, wishing to climb socially in life in a Germany without opportunities and is misguided by the speech of Hitler and pretty soon he becomes aware how stupid war is. Noah is also a very simple person, a salesman from a department store, who indeed wishes to be with his family and join the Army just for obligation. And Michael is a selfish actor and bon vivant, without any sense of patriotism and who is not interest in anything but to have his life back. These characters are put together in a stupid war, having to kill persons to save their lives and to obey orders, which they do not agree. This movie is an excellent perspective of the stupidity of a war. My vote is eight. "},{"Title":"One of Brando's best performances in an excellent parallel-narratives picture which shows us the human side of war.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  The Young Lions sticks to its aim of showing us the human experience of war... Though it more often than not does this in a way which also filled the studio's quota of love scenes.For a war picture, in fact, there are more love scenes than war scenes! In the first hour, you'd think you were in the wrong movie!BRANDO FANS ALERT This is one of his better performances, even one of his best i'd say.Be warned the picture is sort of episodic, and bounces between the germans and the americans every twenty minutes, developing parallel narratives. It can seem fairly uneven, for that reason.How did Monty and Dean manage to be friends before the war and be drafted into the exact same platoon? Magic.8/10. "}{"Title":"Destroys the power of the book","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a textbook example of how Hollywood didn't (doesn't) trust moviegoers, and panders to its big name stars. The character of Christian is completely re-written, the anti-semitism Noah faces from his own army unit is virtually eliminated, Michael's story is changed significantly, and the end result is to decimate the power and terrible beauty of the book. I almost wish I hadn't even seen it, because of the ability of movies (sounds and images) to resonate so powerfully in your brain; I would have much rather just been left with the impression of the book. The book could have been written today, it is that honest and brave. The movie, neither. My advice SKIP the movie; READ the book.  "},{"Title":"A thought provoking film of historical importance","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The best movies are ones that have a message that cannot be conveyed easily in a few words. Such is The Young Lions. And the core of the message is found in the ending, which I do not want to disclose. But it is a relatively quiet scene that is actually a kick to the solar plexus, intellectually.Yes, Brando delivers the more interesting and even sympathetic performance, once he warms up. But Clift's performance is perhaps finer acting, displaying great emotional vulnerability.The message of this movie was daring for 1958. It treats the enemy - the Germans - with objectivity, compassion and even some sympathy, while being critical of American faults and anti-Semitism. I think it is saying that we are all human, regardless of side, and we are all capable of committing evil acts if put in the wrong situation, up to a point. If your inner character is good and strong, you will not participate, though, as we see with Brando's character, Diestl. This is a message that is as important today as it was half a century ago, if not more so, as we see with atrocities such as those committed by American servicemen in Abu Ghraib prison, acts that we might have seen from Nazis. A key difference is that in America such acts are illegal and punished in courts. Yes, the anti-Semitic root of the harassment of Ackerman in the barracks is implied, rather than spelled out, unlike in the book. Why? Hollywood, which was largely controlled by Jewish moguls at the time, was reluctant to make anti-Semitism an issue, fearing a backlash. (The only movie to tackle anti-Semitism was a Gentleman's Agreement, made in 1947, just before Congressional HUAC hearings on Hollywood, and the blacklisting of writers, actors and directors.) I, for one, being Jewish, don't miss the anti-Semitic expletives. And the movie turns Ackerman into a representative of any American minority in the Army who is harassed but eventually accepted. But what has been largely forgotten is that there once was virulent anti-Semitism in America, and active, organized support for the Nazis in areas such as the Midwest during the 1930s run-up to Pearl Harbor. We're talking pro-Nazi meetings in middle class homes. This is the real subtext of Irwin Shaw's story. However, America was not Nazi Germany, in ideals or actions. And one of the key differences is America's objectivity and ultimate honesty. That is what makes The Young Lions great. I am proud that it treats the Germans objectively. Another movie along these lines is The Desert Fox The Story of Rommel, made, remarkably, in 1951. What many viewers do not understand is that it was illegal for members of the German military to enlist in the Nazi Party or engage in politics, even during the war. So officers such as Diestl were not Nazis, at least technically. They did swear an oath to support Hitler early on. It was the SS, the Schutzstaffel, a paramilitary organization, that was the arm of the Nazis. Nevertheless, plenty of regular German soldiers engaged in war crimes. But The Young Lions is saying do not judge each soldier or citizen by the acts of the group or nation. It is as wrong to engage in such prejudice toward Germans as it is against Jews or any group or nationality. The German people, to their credit, have largely faced up to the wrongs of WWII objectively. I think the tradition of intellectual honesty at the heart of Germany and Europe helped. The result is the modern world of reconciliation of former European enemies, something that is at least partially absent in Asia.The movie Stalingrad - 1993 is a stunning, raw German mea culpa that provides additional background for understanding movies such as this and Rommel. Watching The Young Lions lacks the drama and intensity found in many war movies. But it is a story that makes you think, and that lingers in your memory long after the movie is through. That is what gives it greatness. It is a movie more people should watch. "},{"Title":"Outstanding War DRAMA (with Some Action)","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The Young Lions is a black & white 1958 WWII drama featuring Marlon Brando, Dean Martin (in his film debut) and Montgomery Clift.THE PLOT The film attempts to show the German, American and French sides of the war. Brando stars as a young German officer who becomes increasingly disillusioned with Hitler's regime and the world war he started. Martin plays a worldly Broadway musician who struggles with cowardice. Montgomery Clift's character is a poor, naive Jewish American who falls in love with Hope Lange and fights the anti-semitic guys in his platoon.VARIOUS HIGHLIGHTS I'm a huge fan of Marlon Brando and his performance in this film illustrates why. Brando is utterly captivating! 'Nuff said. Most reviewers note that Brando's German storyline is more interesting than the two American story lines, which is true, but repeat viewings grant the viewer more appreciation for the latter.There are three incredibly gorgeous women featured in the picture Barbara Rush, May Britt and Liliane Montevecchi. Rush is Martin's marriage-minded gal, who flirts with Brando early on; Britt plays the luscious sexpot wife of Brando's captain (Maximilian Schell); and Montevecchi performs as a French girl who initially insults Brando (because he's a German occupant) yet ultimately falls for his charm.It should be pointed out that The Young Lions is not a war action film, but rather a powerful war DRAMA. Yes, there's quite a bit of action (France, Northern Africa, etc.), but the emphasis is on the characters and their stories. The climax involves a horrified and utterly disillusioned Brando, leaving a strong impact.FINAL WORD If you're looking for a mindless action flick this is not the one to see. This perhaps explains some of the less-than-stellar reviews. Yet, make no mistake, The Young Lions is without a doubt a WAR film. It's also a masterpiece of cinematic art, not to mention one of Brando's most mesmerizing performances.GRADE A "},{"Title":"An interesting drama that is very well done","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The Young Lions is a war movie from the late '50s, but it is different from any other war movie I have seen.The film tells the story of three very different soldiers told from three very different points of view. The first (portrayed by Marlon Brando), supplies one of the most interesting aspects of this movie  he is a Nazi named Christian Diestl who isn't completely sure he agrees with what Hitler is doing, but isn't quite sure he disagrees either. The second is Noah Ackerman (Montgomery Clift), an American Jew who is very sweet and shy. The third is Michael Whiteacre (Dean Martin in the role that proved he wasn't just a crooner who could play comedy-- he was a crooner who could do drama, too!), a singer who is battling fear but doesn't want to be a coward. Though all three leads are great actors and are good in their parts, I would have to say that this is Clift's movie, though Martin ran him a close second. Brando is great, and I love Dino to pieces, but Monty really steals the show in this one. His performance as Noah is very touching and real.All in all, an interesting drama that is very well done. I would definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Not what the author had in mind, but works well in its own right","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" In his last successful film in several years, Marlon Brando is once again given opportunity to showcase both his ability to adopt accents as well as his stubbornness as an actor, in the positive sense, as Lt. Christian Diestl in THE YOUNG LIONS. Although essentially based on one of Jewish author Irwin Shaw's novels, the film changed direction when Brando, during a stay in the hospital, decided to use his rights to re-write parts of the script, as told in the actor's much later autobiography. In Shaw's book, literally every German, and Christian in particular, is portrayed as thoroughly evil people, with bad intentions in every possible way. The author's perspective may be understandable considering what he and his family had to suffer during the war, but Brando was nevertheless disturbed by Shaw's generalization of Germans because, he pointed out, that's exactly what Hitler did. The actor wanted the film to take more into consideration that not all Germans, after all, were sympathetic toward Hitler and the Nazis during the war, and hence made his own character into an entirely different person than as portrayed in Shaw's book. While Christian admits to support Hitler at the beginning of the film, he gradually changes his opinion as he witnesses the war with his own eyes. One of the highlights in the film has Christian exclaiming to his officer how tired he is of war and fighting while riding on a motor-cycle.Another highlight of THE YOUNG LIONS is the performance of another actor, who just a few years before was considered the only threat to Brando's position as the greatest actor alive, but whose career had begun to go downhill after a car-crash and an increasingly self-destructive life style Montgomery Clift. Clift's portrayal of the insecure soldier Noah is almost disturbing to watch at times, as the actor makes the character come alive within his own flesh and blood. The performance (and character) is unlike anything Clift had ever had the chance to do before, and somewhat resembles the actor's small but powerful performance in JUDGEMENT AT NÜRENBERG a few years later.THE YOUNG LIONS may not be perfect; I can understand that some may think it drags at times. However, its beautiful photography and several memorable performances make it into a powerful experience as an entirety. It is definitely not what the author had in mind, at least not altogether, but should instead be seen for what it is in its own right. "},{"Title":"A Surprising Mix Bag","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I did catch myself laughing in a couple of moments and I stopped, surprised at my own reaction. What was I laughing about? Marlon Brando for starters, his performance has the makings of a great comic creation. A relative of Cloris Leachman's Nurse Diesel in High Axiety The film was released in 1958, seven years after A Streetcar Named Desire and Brando was not only a huge star but already something of an icon. I'm trying to find out what the reaction to this performance was in its day. I thought it was outrageous, entertaining but outrageous. Montgomery Clift, a year after his nearly fatal accident shows the signs of the tragedy all over his face. Brando and Clift were the the most revolutionary actors of their generations but here they don't have a scene together. Clift plays the meek Jewish soldier that becomes a hero and he manages to be believable under the most unbelievable circumstances. Maximilian Schell, three years before his Oscar winning turn in Judgement At Neuremberg dominates every scene he is in. He has a scene, escaping in a motorbike with Brando that could easily have become a Saturday Night Live sketch but the intention, clearly was quite different. The biggest surprises are Dean Martin and Barbara Rush. Martin is movingly real and Rush injects a very welcome element of truth and survives triumphantly some of the impossible dialogue. I also felt the ending was unexpected and rushed. All together an oddity worth watching for the cast alone. "},{"Title":"Always Wanted to Like 'The Young Lions'","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" 'The Young Lions,' flaws have prevented my liking it as much as I'd like to.Mongomery Clift was too old for his role as young man Pvt. Noah Ackerman. Clift looks old enough to be the same age as the actor who portrays the father of Ackerman's beloved Hope. Also, the near-repetition of his 'From Here to Eternity' pugilist part feels perverse, excessive, monotonously voyeuristic. Those circumstances aside, Clift's performance finely communicates Ackerman's plaintive, good-hearted tenderness.Brando's effort is solid, though I'd like to have seen more character development we know nothing of Christian Diestl's upbringing in Weimar/Nazi Germany except for his revelation that he was a shoemaker's son who ran out of money midway through medical school. More could have been made of the intellect of a young skier whose medical ambitions were, in parallel with the German people's interwar ambitions toward a place in the world befitting their view of themselves, thwarted until their vile demagogue rode the wave of such ambition to utter destruction.Dean Martin's work is adequate, but not stellar; perhaps a result of his playing the would-be shirker. In some moments his slender dramatic gifts exceed their natural power, but in most of his screen-time he seems to be coasting on his Hollywood persona's legendary charm.Maximillian Schell's work is first-rate, but it seems to have gotten him typecast in later films as the rabid, or otherwise intrinsically flawed, Nazi officer - which he only managed to again turn into solid effect in 'The Odessa File.' Solid actresses Hope Lange and Barbara Rush aren't given much decent scripting to work with. WWII veteran-writers, the unsurpassable James Jones included, had difficulty portraying women characters often their female characters seem stilted, if not downright stereotypes. Thus I suspect that 'The Young Lion's' screenwriters hadn't much in the original novel from which to develop its women characters. This also applies to Diestl's girlfriend Francoise (in fact, the most credible female role here is that of Simone who portrays, briefly but heart-rendingly, a woman in dread for her about-to-desert boyfriend Brandt's fate). May Britt, as the opportunistic, adulterous Frau Hardenburg, is adequate; but for her corrupt role the scriptwriters faced no great challenge.Most preventing my liking this film are its stagey sets and lighting. There's just one superb location scene the Afrika Korps's dawn ambush of a British unit; the other location scenes - especially of Ackerman's and Whittaker's infantry company - seem much too bucolic in the midst of history's most violent war. The other complaint I have, about this and other post-mid-50's WWII films, is that the women's hairstyles, makeup, and clothing are not of the 1940's, but of the later vogue in which such films were shot this disjoints the viewer from belief in the period which such films attempt to portray.'The Young Lions' script leaves much to be desired. It might have been more thoroughly fleshed out, from Irwin Shaw's novel, than it turned out to be. Its best-written scene is of Hope's father taking Noah Ackerman for a contemplative walk round the square of Hope's Vermont hometown, as it flourishes the only writing impressive in economy and power.One glaring continuity gaffe, in the scene in which Diestl and Brandt meet Simone and Francoise it's night, yet when Diestl leaves the studio-shot sidewalk table to pursue Francoise to the nearby riverbank, the cut shifts to a location shot made plainly at midday. Quite a few other interior-to-exterior, and vice-versa, scene shifts also detract from the 'The Young Lions' visual flow and credibility. One instance in which it succeeds is actually one in which many other WWII films suffer egregiously 'The Young Lions' manages to seamlessly weave bits of actual WWII documentary/file footage into its narrative (in one moment, however, this doesn't work the too-long sequence depicting the El Alamein offensive, which uses documentary clips but which also reuses Hollywood footage from, I think, 'The Desert Rats' or 'The Desert Fox'). This sequence is followed by the almost comical - yet intended to be tragical - motorcycle retreat of Diestl and Hardenburg, which is poorly done in rear-screen projection with the pair astride a bucking, but plainly otherwise stationary, motorcycle (which, by the way, is an American, not a German, bike).One blooper I caught (but then I'm familiar with such details) after Diestl's African tour he meets Brandt in France, and in the exterior shot Diestl's wearing the old-style Wehrmacht officers cap sans silver chin cords, but when the duo steps into a building to continue conversing, in the interior shot Diestl's cap has magically sprouted the later cap style's chin cords.An element of unreality in 'The Young Lions' is the remarkable survival rate of Ackerman's infantry squad mates - which doesn't reflect the grievous casualties suffered by U.S. units that fought from D-Day to the final campaign that ended in Germany. (Indeed, ETO commanders howled for replacements for their units' casualties; even the procrustean Patton had reluctantly to accept Negro units as replacements for his decimated formations - though to his credit Patton acknowledged the fitness and combat excellence of those Negro units, about one of which Kareem Abdul Jabbar has well-written a fitting history-cum-tribute).Though some detail moments of 'The Young Lions' give the story enough meat for the audience to chew and digest satisfyingly, its scopic plot's enormous, world-ranging bones could not have been given enough sinew and muscle to have yielded thoroughgoing excellence, else the film would have run six or more hours. This prompts the expectation that a thoroughly-fleshed mini-series (are you listening HBO?) deserves to be adapted - much more closely and roundly than this 1958 film could have been - from Shaw's novel. In sum the major flaw of 'The Young Lions' is, despite fine acting efforts made on necessarily scant script matter, its failure to have met its ambition of capturing the whole meat of Shaw's story. "},{"Title":"A very good film.","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This is a very good war film. However, at almost three hours in length, it still feels way too short--way too rushed. In many ways, the story seems a lot like The Winds of War--and that was a 20+ hour mini-series. That's because the film starts just before WWII and ends in the waning days of the Nazi regime--a much longer time period than you'd find in a normal war film.The Young Lions is the parallel story of three soldiers. One is a German (Marlon Brando) and two are Americans (Montgomery Clift and Dean Martin) who are friends. Their stories really don't intersect until the final scene and there aren't that many parallels between them. This is very unusual in style but works well enough. The film could have just centered on Brando or Martin and Clift and worked just fine.The German portion of the story is interesting because it presents Brando as just a loyal soldier--not a Nazi. In fact, this is a conflict in the story--between an honorable soldier a dishonorable regime.As for the Americans, the most interesting portion of the story is Clift--who is scapegoated in boot-camp and he is literally fighting mad. As for Martin, his is a struggle with taking the easy way out of the war or working hard to prove something to his girlfriend and ultimately to himself.Overall, a very good film--mostly due to the acting. While I am not a particular fan of Brando (I think he's overrated--at least in his later films), here he seemed very good as the German. Native Germans might blanch at his accent--I don't know. But, he seemed quite good. As for Martin, in his first dramatic role, he was very good and Clift put in a typical performance. As for Clift's character, he was very good because unlike in From Here to Eternity, Clift's tiny frame was realized and was part of the script--him begin THAT tough in the From Here to Eternity always seemed a bit silly and was a HUGE stretch.Parley Baer as a Nazi How good does the German accent sound to Germans? grainy stock footage could have been a lot longer--like WOW FYI--the evil Mayor (John Banner) was actually Jewish "},{"Title":"Forgotten War Classic","Date":"15 May 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The destiny of three soldiers during World War II. The German officer Christian Diestl approves less and less of the war. Jewish-American Noah Ackerman deals with antisemitism at home and in the army while entertainer Michael Whitacre transforms from playboy to hero.There is not much to say about this film other than the following three things One, it is a great war epic. War films can be told in shorter forms and longer forms, but I feel like this length (just under three hours) is a fair amount of time to develop characters and show how they have adapted to their changing surroundings (particularly Diestl and Whitacre).Two, it is forgotten. At least, largely forgotten. I am sure film historians and critics know it well, but I have a strong knowledge of film history and criticism, and it is not one I had come across until now (2013). With all the other better-known war films out there i have to wonder how this got lost in the mix...And three, although it was criticized for having a sympathetic Nazi, that should be where the film gets its most praise. Whether we like it or not, not everyone in Germany or who served in the German army was evil to the core. Most were regular citizens who were caught up in the situation. Had America tried to take over Canada or Mexico, they would have had just as many soldiers willingly going along for the ride -- the leaders and policies are to blame, and to show that these were questioned is this film's strongest statement. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, very disjointed","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This is a fine concept piece and the acting by Brando is a fine piece of work. Dean Martin isn't bad and Montgomery Clift is quite good as well. Unfortunately, it's a very disjointed, very long piece that really should have been edited down to something closer to 2 hours (it's almost 3 hours). We follow the lives of 3 men from 1938 through the end of WWII and watch as they discover who they are and what they might become as they discover both the world about them and what they're made of. For some, it's the women in their lives that brings about this realization, for others, it's the broader general circumstances. All too often however, I found myself asking what had just happened or what the import of a particular scene was. "}{"Title":"Book vs. Film","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Although the book and the film try to discuss the reasons that lead to fascism and debate fascism (anti-semitism) within the American army itself, both the book and the film have a lot of flaws that I would like to address here. First of all, I think that although the characters played by Marlon Brando and Montgomery Clift are meant to be portrayed in a differentiated way I still felt throughout the movie and throughout the book that we were only watching or reading about stereotypes. Montgomery Clift as the good Jew who is more American than the Americans themselves and the fact that he embraces all the values that America (thinks it) stands for was just too much to be true. When he goes back across the river to save the soldier who had beaten the s* out of him back in the American military station, I just couldn't help thinking So much neighborly love just doesn't exist. His bravery and his patriotism after all he endured in America and all the anti-semitism he was exposed to by his comrades just does not fly. Marlon Brando as the German character was rather evil and not at all portrayed in a differentiated way. While Noah loves his wife and only his wife, Marlon Brando is portrayed as the casanova who just tries to bang every woman he can and who doesn't care whether she is French or whether she is his lieutenant's wife. He is clearly depicted as a baddie and when he finally snitches on one of his comrades because he deserts the army, every one watching this movie surely thinks that the Brando character deserves to die. In the book the Dean Martin character dies, in the movie he survives. They probably did that to have the Americans believe that the victory they won over the Gremans was total and that only the baddies died whereas the goodies survive. All in all, I think the movie was just too much of a run-of-the-mill movie and did not deal with the issue of WW II as good as Catch-22 or Slaughterhouse No 5 did. Both the book and the movie try to rationalize an event which is everything but rational it is a truly despicable event that just shows what twisted minds people in high places have. "},{"Title":"Brando was Great, too bad it wasn't only about his character.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I stayed up late to watch this movie and I regret it.  Brando was awesome and totally believable as a German soldier.  I felt for his character and the difficult choices presented to him.  Maximilian Schell also did a great job as Brando's Captain.  The bad part about the movie was there were three plot lines  Brando's, Cliff's and Martin's.  The other two guys stories were not interesting.  I just kept waiting for them to get back to Brando.  Because of the other characters the movie is way too long, just under three hours.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend renting it unless you are willing to fast forward past the Cliff's and Martin's stories.  "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking epic","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Entertaining, rewarding big WW2 epic starring Marlon Brando as a somewhat sympathetic Nazi. Before the war Christian Diestl (Brando) was a lower class young German who believed that Hitler's party would dissolve Germany's rigid class system. We follow Diestl throughout the war, where he begins to question everything he may have believed in. The German soldiers are juxtaposed with the American, represented by Dean Martin, the self-confessed coward who does not want to fight, and Montgomery Clift, the poor Jewish boy who is forced to fight against prejudice from his own side. I really liked this film- it challenged me and Dymtryk handles the drama well. Brando is fascinating as always as Diestl, but Clift is slightly off as Noah Ackerman (and he really does look in physical pain in some scenes, a result from his accident). Unfortunately Dean Martin didn't seem to get a strong enough story arc for his character. Maximillian Schell and the women, Barbara Rush and Hope Lange, are excellent. I was disappointed that Brando did not meet again with Rush (who he shares the first scene with) later in the picture. It's adapted from a novel, so it clearly wasn't written that way, but it would have been excellent if they could have, I felt that was going somewhere. "},{"Title":"Brando is the more compelling part","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Lt. Christian Diestl (Marlon Brando) is a dutiful German who finds the war more and more troubling. Meanwhile back in the US, Jewish Noah Ackerman (Montgomery Clift) finds love, and entertainer Michael Whiteacre (Dean Martin) try to avoid the war.This movie is split in three. I find the Marlon Brando part very intriguing right from the start. A straight movie with just his character would be very interesting. Brando sets a serious compelling tone. Clift and Martin's movie starts slowly. Quite frankly, it starts as an old fashion melodramatic romance with puppy dog Montgomery Clift. Martin has even less to do as he debates whether to join the fight or not. The movie crawls along at times, and would probably be better served to just keep Brando. Although Clift has some minor drama. At 167 minutes, this is like 2 movies jammed into one. The connection between the stories is tenuous at best until the very end. It seems it took forever to get there. Once there, the point of the movie is made crystal clear, but it seems that it could have been done with a much tighter story. "},{"Title":"Good, amongst Brando's best, and almost great","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" War films tend to be a snap shot of the time they were made as much as the time they are portraying. The Young Lions is no exception. A sprawling epic over 167 minutes includes a fine cast, a thoughtful script, and some messages which resonate as much with the time they were written, as with the time they portray.The plot centres around three main characters, a playboy actor/ singer, Michael Whiteacre, ( Dean Martin), a Jewish immigrant conscript, Noah Ackerman ( Mongomery Clift), and a German Officer, Christian Diestl, ( Marlon Brando). Filmed in 1958, the war was 13 years past, the Nuremburg Sentences had been either enacted or commuted or in many cases served, the Cold War was at its height, and McCarthyism was raging. The Second World War had moved on from being simply a story of good versus evil. Based on Irwin Shaw's novel of the same title, some of the plot differences explain some clunky bits of the screenplay.Whiteacre's role is the one most underwritten. He appears as a cowardly lounge lizard who meets Ackerman at the draft board .He introduces Ackerman to his future wife, befriends him while he battles anti-Semitic prejudice, uses his influence to avoid front line service, then sees the patriotic heroic light and joins the front line at the end. Yet in quite a long film, Whiteacre gets precious little screen time and appears in vignette. The book has him as a more thoughtful ands his distaste for war being more cerebral, rather than cowardly.Montgomery Clift has the most satisfying part. From mumbling virgin innocent with Hope Plowman, through battling Barrack Room bullying and prejudice, to heroism in battle and a safe return to wife, children and the American Dream. He acts the part superbly and his bloody defiant resistance to his tormentors viscerally unfolds. Sadly the comeuppance of the prejudiced junior officer who allows the bullying is awkward, sudden and unsatisfying, as if a moral point had to be made.Marlon Brando is quite superb as the doubting Nazi. He is the conscience of the film. At the pinnacle of his youthful good looks he convinces as he is confronted by a series of moral dilemmas throughout the story. He mainly plays opposite Maximilian Schell as Captain Hardenberg, his commanding officer who obeys orders but for whom the audience still has considerable sympathy. A stand-out scene (of many) is when Deistl is asked by his commanding officer to deliver a present to his wife in Berlin. He finds her, May Britt, in an alluring evening dress and in a beautifully constructed seduction and tease they succumb. In a savage coda, Deistl subsequently revisits her to discover that her rejection of her critically injured husband has resulted in his committing suicide, this time he rejects her amorous advances in disgust.The women in the film excel in both performance and beauty. Britt is gorgeous and convincing and it is surprising that she did not have a more successful subsequent career. Hope Plowman playing Ackerman's wife is the epitome of the wholesome all- American gal, Barbera Rush and Dora Doll glow. And in a supporting role Lee Van Cleef is rather good as a Barrack Room bully too.So why does it fall short of greatness? The stories are poorly interwoven and the 20 minute turnarounds on the respective stories feel awkward. A Concentration Camp scene towards the end feels forced and unconvincing, the nexus with Ackerman's character doesn't quite work. And crucially, Deistl's role is so symbolic that on several occasions, in real life, his CO would have had shot or at the very least Court Martialled.And where does it excel? It gives both Clift and Brando parts that they can really act in. Clift's marathon journey to take his future wife to be home on their first meeting is wonderful, and Brando's scene with his seriously injured CO when he asks for a bayonet to enable a fellow injured soldier to commit suicide, ostensibly, is poignant and moving. Dean Martin is of course in his element with a Bourbon in his hand, a piano in front of him and girls by his side. However with all of this going for him, I doubt that Director Edward Dmytryk will feel too disappointed with what didn't quite make the grade. "},{"Title":"Long but Absorbing","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Based on the popular novel by Shaw, this film looks at the impact of WWII on three soldiers - two American and one German. It features fine performances from Brando and Clift - the only time the two Method actors worked together. Brando (dyed blonde) is a disillusioned German soldier. Clift, in a variation of his role in From Here to Eternity, plays a sensitive Jew persecuted by fellow soldiers. Martin plays a cowardly soldier while Lange, Rush, and Britt provide the love interest. There are some superfluous scenes in the middle that could have been trimmed to reduce the running time of nearly three hours, but for the most part it does not drag. "},{"Title":"My own favorite war movie of all time","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I saw The Young Lions when I was 18 years old, the year it came out. I went into the theater a college kid from Texas who totally bought the swagger of American war heroes. I came out of the film absolutely devastated -- and decided I was now a pacifist and would dedicate my life as an artist to living up to the high standards of this film.All the acting is extraordinary -- Cliff is at his very best, Dean Martin is a surprising revelation playing a dissolute Broadway star he was perfect for. Maximilian Schell is amazing -- I don't know how he wasn't given an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Barbara Rush, Hope Lange and May Britt are all indelible portraits of the three faces of 40's women.The cinematography is black and white at its best, sharp elements of chiaroscuro unmatched by color films. The musical score is on a level with Holst's The Planets, unrelenting and devastating.But the outstanding feature of the film is the incandescent performance by Marlon Brando at the peak of power as an actor. I don't think I had ever tried to imagine how the Third Reich came to be and how it might have affected a normal German citizen until Brando's brilliant work illuminated it for me. He is at his most handsome, obviously in great shape inside that tailored uniform, and truly epitomizes the Golden God of War who is enlightened by the horror he is expected to deliver, and is transformed into a tragic figure.This is as good as Saving Private Ryan or Schindler's List -- one of the most neglected masterpieces of American cinema a Greek tragedy of our own era. "},{"Title":"OK, but very poor end","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" After the book I became very sad when I was watching the movie. I am agree that sometimes a film should be different from the original novel but in this case it was more than acceptable. Some examples1) why the ranks are different (e.g. Lt. Diestl instead of Sergeant etc.)2) the final screen is very poor and makes Diestl as a soldier who feds up himself and wants to die. But it is not true in 100%. Just read the book. He was a bull-dog in the last seconds as well. He did not want to die by wrecking his gun and walking simply towards to Michael & Noah. So this is some kind of a happy end which does not fit at all for this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best WWII movies","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This movie covers a lot of ground. It starts in a ski resort in Bavaria in 1938 and ends in New York after the war. In the interim we move from scenes in a U.S. boot camp, to the fall of France, to the North African campaign, and to a Nazi concentration camp. We follow the lives of several people and their relationships. There are the German soldier Christian Diestl (Marlon Brando), a shoemaker and ski instructor before the war; Noah Ackerman (Montgomery Clift), a Jew who was a store clerk before the war; Michael Whiteacre (Dean Martin), a Broadway playboy; Captain Hardenberg (Maximillian Schell), a hard core Nazi; and various spouses and lovers. Squeezing all of this into less than three hours was an ambitious task and interleaving the disparate stories is a challenge that I think the film editor handled with skill.There is not a weak performance in the lot. Diestl is a German who initially supports what he naively thinks Hitler is trying to accomplish, but during the war becomes increasingly disillusioned. Brando creates a distinct, believable and sympathetic character and I think that his nuanced performance is among his best. Schell is impressive as Captain Hardenberg and May Britt is a standout as his wife. I found Dean Martin to be surprisingly effective and Montgomery Clift plays the high-strung and edgy Ackerman with perfection.The black-and-white wide-screen cinematography and musical score were deserving of their Oscar nominations.Some difficult issues are broached such as the anti-Jewish sentiment among U.S. soldiers and the portrayal of a sympathetic German soldier. The scenes at the concentration camp are particularly haunting.There are weaknesses. Noah seems idealized, as does his relationship with his wife Hope (Hope Lange). The rapidity with which their relationship develops struck me as a bit unbelievable, but I suppose Clift's wounded sensitivity might bring out mothering instincts. The ending is a bit pat. The characters could have been more fully developed, but that would have pushed the run-time to four hours or more, so I guess that was not practical.I have read the book and indeed there are significant differences between it and the movie, particularly in the portrayal of Christian Diestl. However, I do not see that as a basis for criticizing the movie. "},{"Title":"Hollywood v. Literature","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I've commented before on THE YOUNG LIONS but I don't see my notes posted here, so I'll run the risk of repeating myself. My main comment was the change from Shaw's view of the Germans of WWII and Hollywood's presentation a little over a decade later. Brando's character (Diestl) in the book is only a blunt, unromantic sergeant; in the film he is a handsome, Nordic-looking (and very romantic) lieutenant. In civilian life, he was a cynical opportunist; on film he is a noble idealist, who must, in the end, atone for serving the bestial Nazi regime that corrupted his idealism. Thus his death scene has a Christ-like quality about it. In the book, Diestl is still an ardent Nazi soldier when, at the end, he shoots and kills Noah, the Montgomery Cliff character. His gun then jams and Michael (Dean Martin) summarily 'executes'him in revenge. (As Michael aims his rifle at point-blank range, Diestl grins and says Welcome to Germany.) In the film, Noah lives and returns to his wife and new baby - nice, warm and emotionally satisfying Hollywood ending. (It was commented at the time that, with Brando and Cliff in the same movie, there could be only one sacrificial character Brando.) In the 1950's, Brando was crusading for civil rights (both for African-Americans and American Indians). His message of justice, toleration and healing of old animosities included an understanding (and forgiveness) of the 'average' German of the 1940's. Shaw viewed all Germans as Nazis and his novel was a bitter diatribe against them. In that vein, the producers chose to shift the emotional focus to Brando's view - after all, Brando was a MAJOR star and Fox wanted to sell the movie in Germany. Shaw, who lived in France, didn't even know Hollywood was making the film until Brando stopped by for a visit, even offering to debate Shaw on TV over the issue of international tolerance dad reconciliation. The debate never occurred. As for the artistry of the production, it is impeccable cinematography, production values, performances and, especially, the music score. (I own a CD of the score and it is still memorable and exciting to listen to.) This was a major Hollywood studio at it's professional best. One could wish that the excellent DVD had some interesting extras (such as the making of the film), but it is enough to have a very good picture and sound transfer. On its own - discounting its connection with a best-selling and well-known book - the movie is quite enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Great film but...","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This film is well-made. It's amazing how it seems to be overlooked. All the actors did a fine job. The movie itself depicts the lives of three different men and their relationships with women. It seems that Dean Martin played an important role but it seems at the end of the film he's been completely forgotten and the closure for Marlon Brando and Montgomery Cliff's characters were finalized. Does anyone know what the reason might be for this?Also, the film certainly covered a lot of angles that could be seen throughout the war. How could this not be a noticeable movie back then? Guess people weren't interested in it at the time. "},{"Title":"Star studded cast in a pretty good film","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" One expects a lot from a star studded movie. Usually they turn out to be terrible movies, such as McKenna's Gold. This one is a good movie. It covers the lives of three different men during World War II, up to the moment they converge. Brando is a German soldier. Clift and Martin are American soldiers. At the time, it was heresy to say anything bad about Dino, but lately, since he's been exposed as a total ass, I feel free to say he was never a good actor, and was out of place in the film, particularly when the others performed so well. He never convinces us as a character, even a shallow character. When he is on camera, you know someone is saying lines, and it averts from the experience everyone else worked so well to achieve. Another fallacy in the film is the contrivance of the chance meeting at the end. It is just a bit Hollywood, but since it is the only real Hollywood part, it is remotely credible. There are some major scenes, mostly involving Brando or Clift. The scene in which Clift watches the resolution between death camp survivors and mayor, by Franz, is easily the classic scene of the movie, and one of the all time great scenes. I grade hard, so my rating means it is a good movie. A few flaws, but better than most. Would have been much better if someone else had Martin's role. "},{"Title":"As you can see I liked the film.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Very outstanding war film. Caught this late at night and boy am I glad I decided to watch. Brando is fantastic as the blonde haired Nazi soldier, Clift is very, very convincing and Martin is just as good. This movie has very few weak points, and although a little long at right under 3 hours, it has to be in my top 10 war film list. "},{"Title":"You may want to read the book and skip the movie","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This is a pretty good movie, with two first rate actors (Brando and Clift), and if it hadn't been based on a first rate book by best-selling author Irwin Shaw, I'd have rated it a bit higher. I realize that a movie is not a book, but when a book has high merit and a distinctive character, and is then bowdlerized in typical Hollywood fashion, the resulting film cannot just be judged on its own merits.Shaw's book is considered one of the great WW2 novels (though many elite critics have characteristically dissed him because his books were popular), but it's more accurate to think of it as a book about anti-Semitism set in the context of America's war with Germany, than as simply a war novel. At the same time, The Young Lions is a long book, indeed, an epic, rich in both incident and observed detail, with many well realized episodes of combat and wartime crime, barbarity, and horror. It's a story of three young men of disparate backgrounds (ironically dubbed young lions), two Americans and one German, drawn together by fate, much like the characters in War and Peace, which this book resembles in many ways, though it has more focused themes.All three of these men are in their own way exceptional, and they rather epitomize than typify certain elements of the cultures they represent.The German, Christian Diestl, is meant, both in the book and the movie, to represent the mythic good German. Diestl is good looking, attractive to women, and athletic (an expert skier and part time ski instructor), and he is reasonably well-mannered, well-educated, and cultured in the Germanic mode, though he is no intellectual. Diestl is also, however, somewhat naively politically active, and is in fact (in the book but not the movie) an avowed Nazi, but only after several years as a communist, and given Hitler's persecution of the communists in the 1930's there's more than a suggestion that Diestl has switched allegiances to survive.The American, Noah Ackerman (played by Montgomery Clift), is the typical, largely assimilated, second generation American Jew&#x97;not overtly religious, but introverted, intellectual, and subtly alien. In the book, he is called out to California to attend his dying father, a reprehensible man and a caricature of a refugee Eastern European Jew, for whom Noah feels only revulsion. After his father's death, he removes to NYC and obtains a low-level job there.Finally, the Michael Whitacre character (played by Dean Martin) is a middling journeyman in the artsy NY theatrical business, loosely married to a more successful movie actress, and generally at loose ends in his life, and already tending toward dissolution in his early 30's. He too is attracted to communism, or at least to a die-hard communist whom he meets at a NYC theatrical party, in town to raise money from the feckless show biz set for the Republican cause in Spain for which he fights. Michael's problem is that he has talent but no character, and nothing that he believes in very much, including himself. As a result of his anomie, he is doing what he can to evade the war, and the inevitable duty that he feels as a man and citizen, yet he's not really a coward, any more than the next man of imagination.If these thumbnails already seem a bit different from their opposite numbers in the movie&#x97;more complex and problematic&#x97;I am here to tell those who haven't read the book that their significant evolutions in the course Shaw's epic, through seven wartime years (horribly telescoped in the movie) are vastly different from the realizations of these characters in this rather routine Hollywood WW2 movie, despite the distinguished acting by Clift and Brando.I've hardly broached the deliberate sanitizing of the book's major theme, anti-Semitism, American as well as German, which is at most hinted at in the movie. For starters, Whitacre's half-hearted show business infatuation with communism, and Diestl's overt Naziism, and earlier communist background have been scrubbed from the movie by its Hollywood creators, who were at the time living through the HUAC and McCarthy era. Also, the overt American anti-Semitism that Noah encounters, the loathsome caricature of his dying Jewish father, etc. have all been meticulously expunged or retouched. I don't remember a single word or phrase suggestive of American anti-Semitism being uttered beyond the one time identification of Noah as a Jew.But the evisceration of one of the book's major themes, pervasive anti-Semitism, isn't the only unforgivable distortion. Shaw's novel has also been largely gutted of its character development. In the book, we have three young men of different backgrounds being sucked into a common war between their countries and cultures, but each is primarily fighting his own personal war Noah, provoked by discrimination he encounters in the army, is intent on proving that he is a better man and soldier than those of his fellows who despise him as a Jew; Michael, to become a man in the larger senses of the word; and Diestl to measure up to his commanding officer, Lieutenant Hardenburg, a German superman.In the movie, Michael's only issue is to prove that he's not a coward; Noah that he's a regular American guy, despite his somewhat exotic and intellectual bent; and Diestl that he's still a decent person despite the horrors he has experienced as a dutiful German soldier. At the end of the movie, Diestl is ground down by war, but morally he has hardly evolved at all, yet in the book he slowly degenerates into a monster.The book is far darker and disturbing, but also more absorbing and rewarding, than the movie, as one becomes invested in each of these characters, their personal crises, and their ultimate fates, and for those who have a taste for old-fashioned adult fiction on the grand scale, my recommendation is to read the book and skip the movie. "},{"Title":"A Gold Warrior -- and Two Not-So Golden.","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This film would be outstanding if only because it brought together three actors whose talent was unimpeachable -- Marlon Brando as the idealistic but ultimately disillusioned German lieutenant, Montgomery Clift as the wimpy but spunky Jewish GI, and Maximilian Schell as the ruthless, professional but not entirely unsympathetic German officer. Brando and Clift were both a bit past their prime, displaying mannerisms that would become habitual, and both were a bit old for their parts. Brando spends most of his time towards the end glowering. And Clift has the Make Up Department pin his ears outward, giving him and his already ruined face an outlandish prospect. But, man, can these boys act! Schell came into his own with superb performances in later, sometimes regrettable films like Judgment at Nurenberg. But even in small roles, as in The Freshman, he was a constant delight on the screen.The rest of the cast is up to professional standards. May Britt looks like some kind of Aryan predatory animal. (Yum.) Dean Martin established his acting career with this movie, after his split with Jerry Lewis. He could always be relied upon to play Dean Martin, though never memorably, his talents best suited to light comedy rather than dramatic parts. Here, he's a coward who, after a multitude of tergiversations, finally makes an existential decision prompted by Barbara Rush.There are, almost of necessity, romances involving the three principals -- Brando meets a French girl who despises Germans but comes to sympathize with his increasing despondency. I didn't find Francoise particularly appealing. She seemed to enjoy her exuberant attacks on Brando's character a little too much. And she's groomed a la gamin, petite, girlishly cruel voice, big black eyes with furry lashes, and short, curly black hair. Needs a good spanking if you ask me. Dean Martin does everything possible to avoid the Army and, after that fails, to avoid combat. Barbara Rush is his conscience as well as his main squeeze among what we take to be many.The love story involving Clift and Hope Lange is actually touching and even moving at times. It probably wouldn't be, except that Clift is SO homely, helpless, and needy, and Lange is SO bluntly candid and conventionally beautiful with her long blond hair and ski-slope nose. I felt deeply sympathetic for Clift's character when he accompanies Lange home to Brooklyn by means of a combination of bus, subway, and walking -- and then finds himself lost in the middle of the night. I had an almost identical experience, took her back to the hushed streets of Brooklyn after midnight. It was four hours before I reached my own home, less than 20 miles away in a Newark suburb. And if anyone had told me I'd be acting in two movies with Hope Lange years later, I'd have found it amusing.I wish there had been more combat scenes because the director, Dmytryk, handles them pretty well. I honestly don't think we need the dreary scenes at the concentration camp. They've become an unpleasant cliché. Even worse is when the German mayor of the nearby town objects to the Rabbi holding services for the now-liberated Jewish inmates and is thrown out by the Americans. It's insulting when writers treat the viewers like idiots.At that, though, I have to say the writers have made the characters a little more nuanced that they were in the novel, in which the Brando character was an unrepentant and cold-blooded stereotypical Nazi from beginning to end, as if Irwin Shaw were getting his revenge against the Aryans, right down to the character's name -- Christian.Finally, I don't know how anyone can watch Montgomery Clift in this film without noticing the similarities between his treatment by anti-Semites in basic training and the treatment of Clift's character in From Here to Eternity. "},{"Title":"An Antiwar film","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" An excellent film, which is a classical antiwar film, starred by Marlon Brando as a Nazi officer, and Montgomery Clift and Dean Martin as American soldiers, all with their scheme of ethics and behavior in their lives. Looking at this film one immediately notes the waste of innocent human beings during any war, how the people are managed and conducted to a war despite they might be peaceful people. Brando was a good person, a peaceful one, but Hitler confused him with his speeches, slogans and false programs and drove him to a war. He understood well that the Germans were wrong in this war once he arrived in Paris and meets young French ladies. Monty Clift represented a courageous humble person also able to do anything to have the things in the right track. He was victim of a plot against him organized by stupid officers who lack principles. Dean Martin was a good 'boy', always trying to live his life as best as he can, who initially did not understand the need to go to war. The plot of the film put different characters, whose lives developed in different societies (environments) and made a very good analysis of each. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly acted but implausible war film","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I just watched this film on cable, seeing it again just about 40 years after I first saw it in the theaters. My impression remains largely unchanged after all this time--it is an excellent film, superbly acted, especially by Brando and Clift. Even Dino comes alive toward the end, but he is severely outclassed by his two counterparts.Having said this, I must add that one way in which my opinion has changed is in my impression of the Brando character, German officer Christian Diestl. I now find the Diestl we see in the film not quite believable. In the Irwin Shaw novel, Diestl was a more typical fictional German, i.e., was an avid Nazi, loved Hitler, etc. In the film the character is changed so that he is much more of a good guy. This change is largely attributed to Brando, who so forcefully advocated for the change that he overwhelmed the screenwriter and director into making them. Not surprisingly, this infuriated Shaw. The change was considered daring, and a positive one, at the time. In other words, there had been so many evil movie Nazis, it was a refreshing change to see one who was a decent man and who questioned what his country was doing.The problem is, it doesn't work. Brando's Diestl now just comes across as dimwitted, and his disillusionment with what the Germans did during the war now comes across as completely implausible. I won't say any more, but see the film and decide for yourself. None of these criticisms keep it from being great entertainment. "},{"Title":"A rather long anti-war drama .....","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Dear Edward Dmytryk,I have watched noirs like Crossfire and Murder, My Sweet which were directed by you. The Young Lions is unlike both those films. It is a rather long and slightly boring anti-war drama. The film has a huge star cast. Brando is great as a sympathetic and humane Nazi. He is all body language as usual. His German accent was a bit funny. Montgomery Clift and Dean Martin play reluctant American soldiers. Clift looked very old and doomed as a Jewish soldier. Martin's was a towering presence and his acting was effortless. The film explores the three characters love lives in detail. The film is as much about their love lives as their war experiences. I liked the fact that neither side is portrayed in very good light. American war movies tend to be overtly partisan and portray Germans as goofy idiots.May Britt as the frustrated wife of Brando's senior officer made quite an impression on me. The scene where she tries to seduce Brando's character with her sullen face and bovine presence was an interesting erotic interlude in what was otherwise a pretty sleep inducing film.The many discussions on the nature of man and war were rather trite. The film did have some great boxing scenes when Clift's Jewish soldier is bullied by fellow American soldiers. Hugo Friedhofer's score is pretty good. I liked the rambunctious title score and the romantic tunes as well.Best Regards, Pimpin.(6/10) "},{"Title":"For the Greater Glory of Marlon","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I really enjoyed the book by Irwin Shaw.It chronicled the war experiences of three average soldiers, two American and one German.I went to see the movie as soon as I could. What a disappointment! Marlon had made key changes in the script I think to suite his own ego. The first change being that his character, Christen Diestl. Diestl was not a blond stereotype. He had brown hair and he was not an officer. Like his American counterparts he was an enlisted soldier &#x96; a sergeant.The book ending is an example of powerful military writing. While Ackerman and Whiteacre are in the concentration camp, Diestl has been roaming the woods not too far away. He executes two US paratroopers who have been hung up in trees. He admires them because like him they are brave soldiers. Some time later he happens upon Ackerman and Whiteacre and decides to tale two more for the Fatherland.In the fight that ensues, Ackerman is shot. Whiteacre, who is not a warrior, has to fight back and clumsily falls into a deep ditch. Diestl in pursuit is ready to make an easy kill. Whiteacre then panics and throws a grenade. It mortally wounds Diestl who as he dies laments that only an American would throw a grenade. He dies an unrepentant soldier.Very little of this is in the movie. The ending scenario is quite different &#x96; thanks to Marlon.Outside of that it was a fairly good film.What Brando changed completely lost Irwin Shaw's literary intent.In this case, I felt, somebody should have read the book. "},{"Title":"Two films in one...","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Adapted from an Irwin Shaw novel, The Young Lions follows the lives of three men from the beginning of WWII to its final days. Marlon Brando plays a modest German villager who finds that he makes quite an effective soldier even as his innate humanism causes him to continually question the cause for which he is fighting; Montgomery Clift is an American Jew willing to fight for a country that is still rife with anti-Semitism, and Dean Martin is a showman whose reluctance to join up is due more to a trace of cowardice than any moral conflicts.For the most part, it's almost like watching two films although Clift and Martin share plenty of screen time, the three stars only share one fleeting scene. Sometimes, this can work if the separate strands contain some mirroring, but in this case there are few comparisons between the German and American stories to be made, leaving the film with a disjointed feel that refuses to go away.I'm not sure whether Brando's performance is good or not. His accent definitely sounds German, but occasionally seems to tip over into parody. I suppose you'd need to be a German to know for sure. Anyway, his performance is good enough. Martin, although making his dramatic debut, is still just Dean Martin in a uniform. They even manage to squeeze in a couple of numbers for him. His character isn't very likable for much of the film &#x96; especially towards his girlfriend (who shares a few scenes with Brando's character early in the film). It's possible his guilt causes him to push her away, but knowing that doesn't really help us like him. Clift's performance is hesitant, low key. It's supposed to hint at hidden depths. He takes on four of his unit's biggest men after they claim to have stolen his twenty dollars, receiving a sound beating for each of the first three fights before overcoming his final tormentor. It's a pretty poor piece of storytelling, if you ask me, but I suppose it serves its purpose. Maximilian Schell is also in the film, and provides the most memorable performance as a proud German officer whose wife cheats on him with Brando, and who ends up disfigured by a bomb that leaves Brando unmarked. And you can read into that what you will&#x85; "}{"Title":"Great Book, Shame About The Movie","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Irwin Shaw's novel The Young Lions was arguably the finest of the post-war novels about World War II; unlike the majority of novels that appeared between 1945-55 it concerned itself with ALL the major theatres of war in Europe and North Africa whilst others - The Naked And The Dead, Pacific island; The Cruel Sea, North Atlantic; Mr. Roberts, The Caine Mutiny, Pacific, Battle Cry, Pacific,etc - confined themselves to one arena. Shaw began his novel on New Year's Eve, 1938 and took in the North African campaign, D-Day and the war in Europe and was notable for including a German perspective in the shape of one of the three leading characters, Christian Diestl - the other two were American, WASP Michael Whiteacre and Jew Noah Ackerman whilst a fourth 'character', the bullet that finally kills Noah, which was followed from its manufacture until it got to Diestl, was 'dropped' by the publishers before it hit the stands in 1948. The basic storyline of three disparate soldiers has been retained but because of Brando's childish tantrums, which were ultimately successful, he was able to completely upset the balance of the movie by playing Diestl as a 'good' Nazi, culminating in the scene where, far from shooting Noah from ambush as he says 'welcome to Germany', he smashes his gun to pieces and is shot by Michael (as he was in the book but ONLY after he had first killed Noah). Clift must have experienced a sense of deja vu as he was called upon to fight the toughest guys in the platoon because he'd done the same thing five years earlier in From Here To Eternity; another echo with Eternity is that in both films senior officers who look the other way whilst Clift's characters are bullied are later themselves reprimanded by their own senior officers. The only thing wrong here is that Lions was published in 1948 but reached the screen later than Eternity, published in 1952. Clift, as usual, acts everybody else off the screen but there is some good support. It's certainly worth seeing but could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Strikingly different view of life","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  As some other commenters have written, I also saw this on late night TV indicating the schedulers don't necessarily think of this as a mainstream war movie, and was very glad to do so.While the film is undoubtedly flawed in many ways - I don't consider Clift's character to be at all engaging, for example - Brando's performance is masterful.  Dino is just plain awful, but I did find the fact that it is the drunk, cowardly, playboy American (hey, haven't we all seen Dino play this role before) that shoots the moral, honest, human German should send a real message to those that think war movies are all cut and dried.Powerful stuff. "},{"Title":"The Master Race attacks Europe","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  If you want a real treat read the book. Decent enough film but too long on the home front and not enough on the front lines. Brando was good as the idealistic kraut who believes it takes war to end war. Unfortunately, each new generation breeds a fresh supply of these dupes to keep battle a booming business. I felt much of the dialogue was good albeit thinned down, however the writer still managed to capture some of Shaw's insights into the horrors of war that were apparent in his excellent novel. The story bounced around way too much with little in the way of explanation and covered too many years too fast, but at least we weren't forced to submit to an overload of Dino's silver throated warbling. And just why was L.Q. Jones uncredited? What an injustice! "},{"Title":"Tell me --- are we civilized human beings... or are we wild beasts?","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" For a war film, perhaps the most compelling element of the picture has to do with the three protagonists remaining true to their personal codes of honor and integrity. That they were presented doing so with the backdrop of World War II was probably immaterial, though for Marlon Brando's character, the senselessness of war was repeatedly underscored by way of confrontations with his superiors and behavior on the battlefield. An anti-war sentiment resonates throughout but doesn't get in the way of patriotism. Perhaps to emphasize the futile nature of war on it's combatants, the picture occasionally meanders along disjointedly as well, scenes changing abruptly between the battlefields of Europe and North Africa with images and street scenes of New York and Brooklyn.You know, I often marvel at the way continuity in a movie is sometimes completely overlooked when the finished product is released. This one had a couple of examples that seemed glaring to me. When Noah (Montgomery Clift) meets Hope (Hope Lange) at Michael Whiteacre's (Dean Martin) party she's wearing a low cut evening gown, but when they step out for a walk along the river, she's wearing a dress with a collar. A similar scene occurs later on the first time Lt. Diestl (Marlon Brando) visits Gretchen Hardenberg (May Britt) at her Berlin apartment. Leaving her apartment for a prior engagement, Gretchen leaves wearing only her evening dress, but returns with a coat on. How is it no one caught those errors? Regarding the principal players, Marlon Brando stands out as the disaffected Nazi soldier, unable to reconcile his personal feelings about war with the mentality of the Nazi machine as personified by his commanding officer Hardenberg (Maximillian Schell). With no room for individualism, Diestl's loyalty to the Nazi cause erodes over the course of the War, and results in outright refusal to follow orders when he fails to shoot an opposing soldier upon Hardenberg's command. I thought more would come of that scene relative to his disobeying a commanding officer, so that left me a little puzzled.With Montgomery Clift's character, you had a Jewish retail clerk fighting bigotry both on the home front and among his fellow soldiers. The scene with Hope's father was done quite effectively to change the older man's feelings of prejudice, just as the overall tenor of the picture attempts to present every day Americans and Germans as people simply trying to make their way in life dissociated from the ideological extremes that make their countries war with each other.As for Dean Martin, this was the second movie I've seen him in within a short period of time in which he basically portrays himself; the other was 1960's Ocean's Eleven. He comes across as a relatively happy-go-lucky kind of character, a singer and performer who likes to have a good time and with little regard for responsibility or authority. To his character's credit, he was a stand up guy for sticking by Noah against the barracks bullies who beat him to a pulp. One thing I hadn't seen before, Dino goes for a beefcake shot during the induction physical. I don't recall seeing him in anything similar in any other picture.The picture's finale offers contrasting scenarios - Brando's character comes to an untimely and inglorious end at the hands of Private Whiteacre, while the movie closes on Noah Ackerman's joyous return home to his wife and new baby. One wonders whether Mrs. Ackerman's name was written specifically for the intended effect of having a battle hardened soldier return to a new life filled with Hope. "},{"Title":"Noah and Hope (It's All in the Name)","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" After the opening credits, we begin with New Year's Eve, 1938 in Bavaria, Germany. Blond shoemaker Marlon Brando (as Christian Diestl) is working part-time as a ski instructor. He enjoys a romance with American beauty Barbara Rush (as Margaret Freemantle). They break up when Mr. Brando joins the Nazi army. She is suspicious of German chancellor Adolf Hitler's political intentions, but Brando is not. He hopes Hitler will bring prosperity to Germany. World War II begins. On the other side of the Atlantic Ocean, American men are drafted as the country prepares for a war. At the draft board in New York City, Jewish store clerk Montgomery Clift (as Noah Ackerman) surrenders a cigarette to nightclub and radio singer Dean Martin (as Michael Whiteacre) and the men become fast friends. At a party, Mr. Clift begins a romance with pretty blonde Hope Lange (as Hope Plowman) while Mr. Martin dates Ms. Rush...The Young Lions was based on Irwin Shaw's 1948 best-selling novel. The 1958 adaptation does not really work &#x96; in this particular case &#x96; as it really plays out like two different films, weightlessly edited together. Brando and director Edward Dmytryk appear to have cooperated on changing his character to appear more sympathetic. Perversely, this strengthens Brando's portion of the film, giving his characterization more depth; however, it does little for the film as a unit. The most interesting role is portrayed by Clift, who is engaging in a role which recalls his classic appearance in From Here to Eternity (1953). Heralded as the third lead, Martin is good as a supporting player in Clift's half of the story. The three men may be little old for the parts, but are plausible...Rush is an underrated actress and she shows that here, especially in her scenes with Martin. Now appearing without comic partner Jerry Lewis, Martin remains appealing. Rush is a tenuous link between the US and German men. She, Ms. Lange and a seductive May Britt (as Gretchen Hardenberg) are distinctly beautiful &#x96; but the story is not about them. Brando's half benefits by contrasting his character with more loyal Nazi soldier Maximilian Schell (as Hardenberg). Filmmakers would have been wise to increase Mr. Schell's role and parallel him &#x96; through cinematic trickery &#x96; with Clift's character. Brando and Martin are also parallels. For reasons unfathomable in hindsight, there is no real scene for Brando and Clift to play, together. They do cross paths at one point, but do not really interact like you may be hoping. That someone could not write a small scene, at least, for the two highly regarded actors is a major disappointment.******* The Young Lions (4/2/58) Edward Dmytryk ~ Marlon Brando, Montgomery Clift, Dean Martin, Maximilian Schell "},{"Title":"Strong Acting and a Bit Different","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" An Actor's Showcase Featuring Monty Clift and Marlon Brando with a Good Supporting Cast. Oh yea, this was Dean Martin's Try at Seriousness. It is Debatable whether Brando or Clift came out on Top here, but Suffice to Say that it is a Tie. But Brando does have the more Colorful Role as Monty is Withdrawn but Suffers Quietly, Making Up for what He Lacks in Physical Prowess with some Inner Strength.It is All About Character here with the War as Ideology rather than Militarism, Interwoven among Three Soldiers, Two American Draftees and a German Military Officer who is not a Nazi who Looks Around and Sees that the Nazis are Evil and will Bring His Country to Ruins, but it is His Love for His Homeland that Keeps Him Reluctantly in Uniform.The Film is Long and Episodic and is Seamed Together with Disconnected Locations that Singularly Focus on Each Character. By Now (1958) Enough Time had Elapsed that there could be Included some Sympathies not yet On Screen Regularly, like Anti-Semitism and the Stereotypical Portrayal of All German Soldiers as Evil and that America too was Flawed. That is the Heart of the Movie.Underrated and Mostly Ignored it is not a Typical WWII Movie by any Stretch and is Worth a Watch for the Acting, Slightly Out of Orbit Screenplay, and some Good Direction. The Weakness lies in the Length, some Stock Footage, and a Fifties Feel or Production Design that Never Quite Captures the Film's War Time and Setting. "},{"Title":"Brando plays the Good German","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Marlon Brando's patrilineal ancestor, Johann Wilhelm Brandau, was a German immigrant to New York in the early 1700s. Marlon must have had the genes for his part in this rather soggy drama, as Christian --- would you believe! Actually, in real life, Brando was raised as a Christian Scientist. See Wikipedia. He did not play a Nazi in this film, in spite of what some reviewers say. They could not have been listening to the dialogue. Nor was he a member of the SS. He is supposed to have been a Bavarian cobbler, living in a mountainous ski-resort, who should have stuck to his last. Why does he then say Uh, I vish I vas back in Austria! I vish I was beck in ze snow... in ze vinter... in ze mountains... ???? The truth is, in spite of what is misquoted on this site, he doesn't say Austria. There is something faintly ludicrous in the motorcycle scene, with two Germans, Brando (Brando is NOT a Nazi --- another misdescription) and Schell, talking to each other in English with German accents. The language problem remains unsolved in many movies.There's something dissatisfying about this movie, but difficult to say exactly what. It's certainly overlong. It also seems just a wee bit too goody-good for its own good, and therefore lacks the bite that it might and ought to have had. Dean Martin is an unattractive character; Clift is just too shy, sweet, and weedy for words; Brando is very good, very charming, and makes one keep wishing the Germans had won. Some very silly reviewers wonder if his German accent would be considered plausible by Germans. How the devil would they be able to tell? I thought it was excellent --- better than his English accent, when he played the Fop on the Bounty.Worth a watch, but very dated. Will appeal more to Americans. Half-marks. "},{"Title":"Brando looks cool in aviators","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" See it &#x96; This is a uniquely gritty and depressing war drama. Notice I said drama. This is an entirely too-long movie that has just enough action to keep you interested. It has three battle scenes, but then again it is a three hour movie. The ratio of talking to fighting is not satisfactory for it to be called a great action movie. Having said that, it is still a great movie. Marlon Brando plays a nice nazi and is phenomenal in his role as usual. The other two main characters are Americans played by Dean Martin and Montgomery Clift. The movie is about the separate stories of these three men. Eventually, all three of their paths cross. A pretty cool idea for a cool war drama. Brando looks cool in his aviators too. 3 out of 5 action rating "},{"Title":"Good historical drama","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  The film was long and interesting both in a historical way and in a character development way.  It was actually pretty deep especially in terms of Christian's internal conflicts.  I liked all the actors and actresses and for the most part they were well-chosen and believable.  I felt the film hit a little too much and too hard on the Jewish issues for one.  With as much long running scope with regards to time periods covered, the footage could of and should have been used to make the story have less of a skippy affair. For instance all of 1940 was skipped.  That was a very important year for the German Army. A year indeed of it's greatest victories.  How could this have been missed?  Furthermore, I thought the ending was rather a cheat and not in character for Brando's character.  I was greatly disappointed with it. "},{"Title":"Brando stood out","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Since the passing of Marlon Brando, I stopped at this picture on AMC (hate the commercial interruptions!). I saw just a few scenes of this movie towards the end (scenes with Parley Baer as Sgt. Brandt ) and it was amazingly clear how Brando appeared to be a man among boys in this film.The very weak German accent that fluctuated by Barr (just couldn't get past his role as mayor in Mayberry from the Andy Griffith Show) was on screen with Brando's effective German accent. Marlon stood out so superior an actor in these scenes it was like watching two different movies! There was just huge presence with Brando. Dean Martin and the others (I missed Montgomery Clift as Noah Ackerman) appeared to be Hollywood from old meeting Hollywood new. The acting was what you would expect seeing Dean Martin--good singer and decent actor, but hardly an actor if you know what I mean.Maybe it's Brando's ability to simply stare at you that gives him such an edge over others--his mere facial strength is amazing, and then his subtle use of speaking enhances this quality. Maybe he has so immersed himself in his character that his face reflects what needs to be communicated for a particular scene. I'll admit, I was watching Brando more than the movie itself and will catch as many tribute films for the man this weekend. I have never seen a movie all the way through with him as an actor, so I might be way off in my review here--but from what I did see&#133;  "}{"Title":"Only the last sequences are impressive today.","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Edward Dmytryk had just directed the raintree county another war epic,which also featured Clift-after-the-accident .His best works were already behind him ( cross -fire the caine mutiny broken lance ) and  in the works to come ,only Warlock is worth watching.Instead of one lead,Dmytryk 's follow-up to raintree county -which features a second lead,but a female one ,Taylor-young lions  has three main characters ,but mainly focuses on a blond Brando whose part is the most interesting ,but who finally is not credible as a German officer;main problem is languageit's impossible to believe in a story in which everybody speaks English,even the poorest French woman.The two young girls utter one or two words in their first langage,but I hardly heard a German word in the 165 min of the movie.The characters are sketchy for instance Martin's one exists only because of the cowardice he's got to fight against -abetted or not by his squeeze Rush-;Clift is too subtle an actor to content himself with this cardboard character his private resembles From here to eternity 's Prewitt,and if he is credible when he reads Joyce,he's definitely not a boxer.Clift is a superior actor but elsewhere (suddenly last Summer  Freud misfits a place in the sun ...)This is not a linear story but rather slices of life ,and once more,it's Brando who gets the lion's share (no pun intended).He's one the screen at least twice as long as his two co-stars.The best scenes are the final ones,when Brando and then the American discover the concentration campthe rest of the movie fluctuates between valid drama and soap opera ,but these scenes set the record straight and just one shot showing the survivors does more than all the rest of the movie.Another good scene deals with euthanasia and thus predates Johnny got his gun .It's a good Hollywoodian product ,quite watchable but which lacks depth and strength.  "},{"Title":"Young Lions-They Were Young and Rebellious ****","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Highest rating to this 1958 film with an all-star cast once again proving their mettle.Didn't Montgomery Clift remind you of his brilliant Pruitt five years before in From Here to Eternity? Dean Martin had a fabulous 1958 year proving his worth in dramatic acting with this film along with Some Came Running.This is definitely a film of moral conviction with Marlon Brando outstanding as a German, caught by the Hitler lies and promises to the German people only to see the hell of war. In America, Dean Martin is an entertainer, a pacifist, who will use any means possible to evade military service. Montgomery Clift as Ackerman views for himself religious prejudice in the military. "},{"Title":"Brando and Clifts characters are the highlights.","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  The experiences of three men in war, one German and two Americans is told in this late 50's film . Clearly the Brando and Clift characters are the most interesting. The film shifts back and forth between the three and Martins and Clifts characters are together so the old two in one applies to them. A pretty decent supporting cast is on hand but doesn't seem to help make this a memorable WWII picture. Clifts Ackerman character is quite similar to his Pruitt from 53's From Here to Eternity. Don't pass up the novel by Irwin Shaw the film is based on.    "},{"Title":"The Young Lions","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Brando is impressive as a confused Nazi solider in this engaging WWII character study about the lives of Brando's Nazi and the lives of two American soldiers, played by Clift and Martin. Clift is adequate, while Dino looks like he's awaiting the word cut, in every scene.The story develops beautifully and the plot is simple enough, but the film is entirely too long. Director Dmytryk didn't really know what to do with his two American soliders. Frankly, it would have been better to cut one out, preferably Dino, and concentrate more on Clift, who was at least slightly interesting in his role. The film works, more with Brando, in a challenging role, who is complimented by Schell in a nice supporting role, showing the emergence of his incredible talent. Lange, Rush and Lee Van Cleef co-star.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre presentation","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I don't believe that Xanax and other more recent tranquilizers were available when this film was produced, but Miltown and others were. Whatever, Marlon Brando's performance proves that even Babe Ruth could occasionally go 0-for-5. His accent is effected and very annoying - he sounds more Arte Johnson when he portrayed the German soldier/buffoon on Laugh-In, and even Arte was more animated and interesting. Thus, we can only conclude that either Brando was undergoing shock treatments while filming, or consuming Miltown sandwiches daily. Whatever he didn't consume, he passed along to Montgomery Clift, whose always laconic persona (appropriate in other films), was equally annoying in this flick. Finally, Maximilian Schell chewed more scenery than a horde of beavers could have consumed. A very mediocre representation of a fine Shaw novel. Would that the producer and director had viewed Stalag 17 just prior to casting and filming. "},{"Title":"Brando goes to war!","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Edward Dmytryk directs this film version of Irwin Shaw's novel and it's not particularly good. That's a shame because at nearly 3-hours long, one would expect something beyond a well polished soap opera. It's the story of WWII told from both the American & German perspective. On the American side, there's Broadway entertainer Dean Martin and lost soul Montgomery Clift. On the German side, there's Marlon Brando as a disillusioned army captain. The film follows their trials and tribulations as well as their love lives. Brando plays his part like an actor afraid to go all out. His German is made into an idealistic saint. Clift, however, is a complete disaster. He's woefully miscast and about 10 years too old for his part. He's also clearly infirm, this being some of his first acting following his near catastrophic car accident in 1957. Martin comes off best, as he's playing a less comic version of his own persona. Dmytryk does a dis-service to the entire proceedings by relying heavily on war-time stock footage. The supporting cast is large and includes Lee Van Cleef, Hope Lange, Barbara Rush, Dora Doll (as Simone), and French chanteuse Liliane Montevecchi as Brando's strong-willed love interest. Maximilian Schell gives a fine performance as Brando's commanding officer. Hugo Friedhofer contributes a rousing score, but it's largely lost on this snail-paced epic. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Picture","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I think that everyone that says that Marlon Brando is the only one that is good in this picture is wrong. I should say that he maybe is the worst of Dean Martin, Monty Clift and him. I think that Montgomery Clift is absolutly brilliant in this picture in fact he wad been in a car crash 1 year before and this picture is a prove that he was a great screen legend. I think that Dean Martin is doing a great job in this picture. I think that Marlon Brando is doing a good job in this picture but I think that he is more good in ON THE WATERFRONT and in THE GODFATHER.....  "},{"Title":"A real barn-stormer","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This is the movie that started the barnfires.  That presented the twisted psychological motivation that makes some tick.  Sad but somewhat melodramatically honest portrayal of WWII characters.  Likely, sugar=coated as only a '50's film can do.  Interesting as a character sketch of the twisted emotional individual.  Flashes James Dean in Montgomery Clift and an evolved Brando that appears at his fluttering height.  As I read a bashing review of Brando in Uncut recently, I can see how he leaves himself open for reinterpretation.  "},{"Title":"Brando vs. Clift (spoiler included)","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  There's only room for one Christ-figure in this picture!  Note the different approaches to martyrdom by these two 1950s screen idols in this uneven, long, but very interesting film.  Brando gets the crucifixion scene, Clift gets battered and bruised.Too bad the stories are parallel; wouldn't it have been great to see these two act together?  Well, maybe not... "},{"Title":"splendid film of war","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  MONTGOMERY CLIFT IS SUPERIOR !!!!! We are in front of one of greatest war films of history. Magnificent scenes by Dmytryk, an excellent director of movies who tells a dramatic story about the horror of war. All the actors are splendids, Montgomery Clift specially who plays with too sense his rol. Brando is great, but MONTY IS SUPERIOR !!! Probably Montgomery Clift is better than ever in this film. Even the germany actor Maximilian Schell is more talented than Brando, allthought many persons don't think it. "}{"Title":"A Brando vehicle, an under-performing supporting cast","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  A good movie based on parallel structure.  The only thing that bothered me was Dino - he looked like he was in a Rat Pack film until the final thirty minutes of the movie.  Brando tears your heart out - fantastic. "},{"Title":"Thank God Dmytryk didn't make Why We Fight!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Previous consumer-reviewers seemed split on this one, so I took a chance. I would have wasted less money on a lottery ticket! What is wrong with this movie? Well, let's begin with the DVD, which has too few extras to be interesting. A commentary track might have elevated the disk to an average rating, but the producers probably realized that would be as wasted an effort as an aging star trying to recapture the image of youth. Brando's performance is actually decent, but hardly exceptional. Maximillian Schell shines doubly in this movie, firstly because of his acting ability, and secondly by comparison to all the others, with the sole exception of Barbara Rush who does well despite lines as vapid as those for the other characters. Dean Martin's death took his fine voice from us, but did nothing to impair his acting. Usually, it is said of a bad actor that, He looked too much like he was acting. In this movie, Martin does not even seem to be doing that. The lighting is a joke, and the sets look totally false. I get the impression that the set director gained most of his experience in live theater. The sets might have been adequate there, but are substandard for a movie. This is especially true for widescreen, where the panoramic view tends simultaneously to increase our expectations while making this lighting and these sets look even smaller and more artificial. The scene cutting was amateurish and awkward. The music scoring was unbelievably bad, and the plot was predictable and trite. With all this so very wrong with the movie, it hardly seems anything but trifling with details to mention that the historical depictions are inaccurate. In short, this is a terrible movie, and if you have a fondness for war movies generally or for WWII movies specifically, there are many, many finer films available. "},{"Title":"Too long, boring - one of the worst films I have seen","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This film was strongly recommended by a friend and, being a great fan of Brando, I ordered this film from Harrods and eagerly waited  for it to arrive.  I have seldom been so disappointed by a film.  Brando was good as a German officer but the rest of the film was simply unbearable.  You never get to like or care for any of the characters (except Brando, maybe).  The acting was OK. Story, what story?  Maybe that's the point.  It's war after all,  but I've seen far better war films. (Lawrence of Arabia, Apocalypse Now, even Star Wars) It was so boring I kept checking my watch...Overall this is one of the worst films I have seen.  Please don't waste your time and money on this.  May I also add that this is the first user comment I have written, I just had to let my feelings about this film known.By the way, my all time favourites are Casablanca, The Godfather 1 &2, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Pulp Fiction and Amadeus.  If you haven't seen them yet, please spare the time to do so.  And Amadeus MUST be in widescreen 2.351 "}]