[{"Title":"Cause He's Got High Hopes","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Hole in the Head is based on a Broadway play that ran for 156 performances during the 1956 season by Arnold Schulman. So popular and enduring has it proved that a full musical version was done on Broadway in 1968-1969 that starred Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme in the parts done here by Frank Sinatra and Eleanor Parker. High Hopes didn't make it to Broadway, but the song I've Got To Be Me was introduced there by Steve Lawrence and made popular by fellow Rat Packer Sammy Davis, Jr.In Frank Capra's autobiography he says that Schulman was not happy with the change of characters from Jews to Italians, but Capra brought him around to his point of view on this and other things. The ending in the film version is not as upbeat as in the original play.Capra had heard a lot of stories about how disagreeable Sinatra could be to work with, but he says that Sinatra was nothing, but cooperative during the entire work. His biggest difficulty was the fact that Sinatra likes to do things in one take because he becomes bored with repeated efforts. Whereas Edward G. Robinson likes to go over things repeatedly until it was perfect. Capra did work out a compromise where Robinson did his rehearsing, but without Sinatra.The story is about a widower who owns a ramshackle motel in a not popular area of Miami Beach and he's got money problems. Sinatra as the widower also has a son, Eddie Hodges and they are devoted to each other. Edward G. Robinson and Thelma Ritter are his brother and sister-in-law who are visiting from New York and Sinatra is hoping for a touch from him. Robinson's bailed him out a few times and he puts a lot of conditions on future help. Like maybe a remarriage for instance and Ritter tries to hook him up with an old friend, Eleanor Parker. They actually hit it off. But there's still a whole lot of complications.High Hopes which is sung by Sinatra and Eddie Hodges sold a few platters for Frank back in 1959 and won the Oscar for best movie song. Sinatra also sings All My Tomorrows over the opening credits and that song did not catch on at first. Later in the mid Sixties, Sinatra recorded it again this time for his own Reprise label, before it had been done for Capitol as had High Hopes and this time it became a minor hit for him. It's quite a poignant ballad.Keenan Wynn has a small, but important part as a real estate kingpin promoter who came down with Sinatra to Miami Beach, but made a big success. Sinatra also tries to hit him up with not so good results. Funny thing is that his big idea was a Walt Disney like park for Florida and life imitated art there, though the park got located in the Orlando area.Frank Sinatra is not as noble as some of Capra's populist heroes, but he's also down to earth and likable. It's one of his best screen performances in one of his best films.Though I have to say with that red hair Eddie Hodges looked a whole lot more like Eleanor Parker's son than Frank's. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Gem","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is film is a rare commodity as a Hollywood product - a wonderful little film.  By little, I mean unpretentious.  Perhaps this is because Frank Capra had a talent for telling inspirational, uplifting or message stories without seeming to preach.  We all know the Ralph Cramden character - the botched hero with high hopes.  This is Frank Sinatra's Tony Maneta. Unlike Jimmy Stewart's George Bailey in Capra's It's a Wonderful Life, Tony Maneta isn't beset by problems circumstantial so much as personal. Yet, whether the antagonist is an ungrateful world or a character flaw, Capra and playwright/screenwriter Arnold Schulman recognize the abiding nobility of the human spirit's determination to overcome the odds.I love the setting in Hole in the Head.  It's a treat to see South Miami Beach during a period when formerly glamorous hotels had gone to seed, knowing that they would one day rise again.  I don't think anyone would have given them a chance  at the time of the story, just like Tony Maneta's prospects.  But Hole in the Head makes us want to believe, that just by surviving, like South Beach, Tony will one day triumph.By the way, there's a wonderful performance by the underappreciated Eddie Hodges, whose minor billing is unjustified, considering his character's major part in the story.  "},{"Title":"A great warm film","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had never seen this movie before renting it the other night and was surprised to see it was directed by Frank Capra.  Once I watched it, I wasn't surprised anymore.  This was a wonderful film driven by characters rather than plot devices and an example of vintage Capra.The performances are what make the film.  Frank Sinatra was great as a self-centered dreamer with a new idea every minute and some method of working the system.  The guy's a heel but he still manages to keep our sympathy.  Edward G. Robinson is hilarious as his much-put-upon brother who is constantly making social gaffes and never figures out how to sit in that rocking chair! Despite the fact that his character is a comic figure, there are some scenes of real poignancy between him and Sinatra.  The ever reliable Thelma Ritter is also very funny as Robinson's caring and weepy wife.  Eleanor Parker!  Wow!  I never saw her look so good.  There wasn't enough of her in this film but perhaps that's when you know a character succeeds, when you wish to see more of them.  Her gentle elegance was a perfect contrast to Carolyn Jones' character's unabashed self-absorption.  And Eddie Hodges was perfect as the boy old beyond his years who stubbornly loves his father no matter what.And the ending is happy (Hey, it's a Capra film!)without resorting to any schmaltzy plot devices.It was well worth my time.     "},{"Title":"Perfect domestic comedy/drama","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I keep saying that Hollywood can't go wrong when it picks a PLAY as the basis for movies. This film is one more illustration of the correctness of this thesis. It's full of charm, humor, warmth, relevance and STRUCTURE. It doesn't seek to impress, just to please. And pleasing is no mean accomplishment. The subject is taboo in most movies economic dependence on relatives. In most movies money is no object, a purely tangential issue, when in fact it plays a huge role in real life. Sinatra plays a loser, and to make him less despicable, he is adorned with a lovely young son. I find that a bit too manipulative, as if the writer weren't sure that a childless loser would be likable enough. Sinatra is very good in the role, but I would have picked an unknown actor, to make the role more believable. And, wonderful as Eddie Hodges always is, I think a childless loser would have been more poignant.I liked the ending very much. It is happy, but not in the trite and trivial way. The main character does NOT overcome his limitations! This film is in the wonderful tradition of Harvey, which also deals with an embarrassing family member. I can't recommend both films highly enough. "},{"Title":" If everyone is so happy, why is my brother hiding behind a tree? ","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frank Capra has left his indelible mark on many memorable films and this is one of them. The movie is called  A Hole in the Head ' and is a complete triumph for young Frank Sinatra. He plays Tony Manetta a Florida hotel owner with big dreams. Unfortunately, those dreams require large investments of capital and this is one element Tony does not possess. However, he is blessed with several options which promise to alleviate the major element in his life. His one major assesses is his son Allie (sincerely played by Eddie Hodges) who loves him, believes in his father and his scheme. Then there is his brother Mario (Edward G. Robinson) an old fashion businessman who calls his brother a bum as he a girl-chasing widower and dreamer. Thelma Ritter plays Sophie his wife and loves Allie. Eleanor Parker plays Eloise Rogers a lonely widow who is chosen as a match for Tony and his son. Years ago Tony befriended an army buddy named Jerry Marks (Keenan Wynn) who has returned to Florida a rich and successful entrepreneur and seems to be just the kind of guy Tony is seeking. The story is touching with odd characters and with hit songs like  High Hopes  adds to the memorable film which is considered a Family Classic. Recommended. **** "},{"Title":"There is Better Carpra, Sinatra, and Robinson Out There","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Read all my reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.comI received A Hole in the Head for my birthday in a Frank Sinatra double pack with the original Manchurian Candidate. I had put off watching it because it did not seem like a movie I would particularly enjoy. But in my quest to watch and review all of my movies, I had no choice but to put it in the player. Of course the fact that my wife wanted to watch it prompted me a little further even to the point of watching it out of alphabetical order.Frank Capra is the great godfather of sentimental movies. Many of these are deservedly hailed by fans and critics. From Mr Smith Goes to Washington to It's a Wonderful Life Capra made movies about the little guys fighting the system and coming out on top. These movies are sentimental enough to be dubbed Capracorn by the system, but are handled with masterful hands that rise above the schmaltz created by so many others. Besides little guys he also flooded his movies with eccentric characters standing out in a world full or normal folk. Arsenic and Old Lace and You Can't Take it With You are standouts of this form. Sadly, A Hole in the Head tries to mix both of these Capra types and fails on both accounts.The film is the second to last picture ever made by Capra and was the beginning of an attempted comeback from a few years break from making Hollywood pictures. But instead of a comeback this film serves only to remind us of what Capra used to be. Frank Sinatra plays a down on his luck big dreamer who is about to be evicted from his hotel business in Miami, Florida. He calls up his brother, Edward G Robinson and sister-in-law Thelma Ritter for help pretending his son is sick. Robinson and wife quickly head down from New York to see what's going on. Hilarity and sentimentality ensue. Swinging Sinatra butts heads with button down Robinson until a quick ending and easy solution are found.The performances of the stars are fine. At this point in their careers Sinatra and Robinson are essentially playing themselves. Although Sinatra is more up and coming to the declining Robinson. There are some good jokes and the simple story is fair enough as it is. Capra fills Sinatra's hotel with an odd collection of eccentrics that seem to have no other purpose but to fill up some time and tell a few jokes. The ending of the movie seems tied on and creates changes to some characters without any real provocation. The cheese factor is high even for a Capra film and it's not subdued by any superb performances. The drama is not elevated above the schlock you would see in a made for TV movie.The stand out of the film is Sinatra and son singing the classic High Hopes. Being a fan of Sinatra more as a singer than actor this amusing break in the middle of the picture helped keep my hopes up for a decent picture. Those hopes were not shattered, nor were they completely fulfilled. For beginners of Capracorn you should pick out some of his earlier, superior films. But for a lonely night in need of some corny sentiment, this is some fluffy candy that just might fill.More reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Hole in the Head Makes A Hole in One! ****","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hilarious comedy where Florida hotel owner Frank Sinatra, a widower, with a precocious young son, (an adorable Eddie Hodges) can't seem to get a handle on life. A compulsive gambler, he is about to lose everything.Edward G. Robinson steals the show as Sinatra's old brother, a clothing store owner in New York, who is forced to come to Florida to help his debt ridden brother out. Robinson's wife is played with genuine comedy ability by the wonderful Thelma Ritter. This was one of Robinson's few portrayals in comic pictures, and he succeeds beyond belief.Carolyn Jones portrays the girl after Sinatra, a nasty woman who will do just about anything. Eleanor Parker is simply marvelous in a supporting role as Mrs. Rogers, a widow who is a friend of Ritter, and therefore a likely match for Sinatra.The picture has everything going for it including the Oscar-winning song High Hopes sung by Sinatra and Hodges in a memorable scene.There are laughs by the minute with Robinson also trying to get away from his adult son, Julius, the latter spending his days using a hula hoop. When Mrs. Rogers is introduced to Sinatra, Robinson says I understand that your husband died and left you a couple of bucks!A simply great family film affair memorably played by all. You'll feel good after seeing this one. "},{"Title":"Mr Capra goes to Miami - and inspires his cast.","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The memory plays strange tricks.Movie fans in 1959 described Carolyn Jones as hip,a beatnik,and - was it wacky?I truly hate that word.Together with kookie(she was called that too)it smacks of Rat Pack smugness and closet misogyny.Anything or anybody remotely off-centre could be referred to as wacky(accompanied with a wiseass grin)with it's inference of slight contempt for things that deviated from the accepted norm. I have a nagging fear that I might be misremembering the time when that most irritating word came into general use by a few years,but any number of other adjectives meaning strangewill do to describe her various screen personas.To admit to liking Miss Jones was in itself Wacky/Kookie because she was by no means the average young up and coming movie girl in the 1950s.She capitalised on her distinctly unaverage appearance,and I would imagine many better-known actors were wary of sharing the screen with her because she could certainly grab your attention.When I think of A hole in the head,hers is the image that defines the film for me,not Mr.Sinatra,Mr Robinson,Miss Ritter or even Mr Keenan Wynn in a very showy part indeed. It is not a typical Sinatra vehicle;he plays a not particularly sympathetic single father who owns a run-down hotel in Miami.No playboy lifestyle here,broads wall-to-wall and ring-a-ding-ding all night. He looks careworn,battered by life.This is the only film I've ever seen him in where I could actually believe he had an existence when he wasn't on-screen.When he does eventually get to sing,it's not the usual Hollywood mush but the defiant High Hopes,deservedly an Oscar winner and he is very nearly outshone by little Eddie Hodges who plays his son. Mr Robinson and Miss Ritter ,possibly responding to the hand of Frank Capra,give performances far beyond the call of duty,investing their roles with real humanity.Miss Eleanor Parker - previously seen with Mr Sinatra in The man with the golden arm - is equally impressive. Miss Carolyn Jones steals the film with her usual adroitness and the great Mr B.S. Pulley appears as a gangster,a role he is clearly comfortable with. Mr Keenan Wynn is very exuberant as Mr Sinatra's old army buddy. All children are of course born actors and there are no accepted criteria for their performances to be judged against in any meaningful way.Eddie Hodges ,fortunately not terminally cute,projects well and seems to have a rapport with his screen father. A hole in the head was popular in the U.K. on its first release then was promptly forgotten.My personal feeling is that it is long overdue for reassessment.Mr Frank Capra directed many better-known films in a distinguished career,but this one deserves recognition as a major example of his work,a worthy addition to his oeuvre. "},{"Title":"sophisticated black comedy from the Fifties","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1950s had a number of strong films, and this is one of them. It's not what most people would call a black comedy, but I do. I agree with the previous poster who called this an under-rated gem.First of all, I like Sinatra better as an actor than as a singer; he's also really strong in the original version of the Manchurian Candidate and in The Man With the Golden Arm.This film reminds me a bit of the much more recent Full Monty, with a middle-aged father who acts like a young adolescent who is essentially being parented by a pre-teen son who has had to grow up too fast. That's what I mean by black comedy; it's a situation that is so sad (and, alas, so common) that you have to laugh to keep from crying. (Another comparison, but not quite as apt, is to A Thousand Clowns.) Sinatra's character is matched by that of his girlfriend, who says, without a trace of irony to the idea of having a baby, I'm a baby myself.It wasn't until I came here just now that I realized this was directed by Frank Capra; I should have been able to guess it.Everyone mentions High Hopes, and rightly so, as a terrific (and award-winning) song. But you gotta love any movie that has a tune about how The monkeys have no tails in Zamboanga. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film...funny and touching.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I find it hard to believe that some critics dismiss this film as one of Frank Capra's lesser films.  It's wonderful.  Frank Sinatra is in top form as the loser with big dreams and portrays his role as father with great sensitivity.  The movie's greatest scenes occur when Edward G. Robinson and Sinatra appear together...they are hilarious.  Thelma Ritter is perfect as the sister-in-law, and Carolyn Jones plays the cooky girlfriend with an interestingly strange edge.  The supporting cast is flawless (watch for the character Sally!) and all blend well to create a lighthearted, comical, but poignant story.  I can't stress the comical effectiveness between Edward G Robinson and Sinatra enough...they should have made more films together! This movie is one of my all time favorites and I show it often to many people, never receiving a negative response.  It's one of those that can be viewed over and over.  Give it a chance...I doubt you'll be disappointed. Send me some comments!  (Watch for Edward G Robinson's reaction as he sits in a crazy rocking chair!!!....and listen to the dialogue...just great!!!!) "}{"Title":"Hilarious Eddie G. leads solid cast in Frank Sinatra's Capra movie","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A HOLE IN THE HEAD (1959) might not live up to Frank Capra's earlier classics like MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON (1939) or IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE (1946), but it's a fine film. The story deals with a single father struggling to keep his Miami hotel business afloat while dreaming of bigger, better things. The material comes from a stage play, but there's a sense of the familiar Capra values. The Capra-esque resolution is not as powerful as in his earlier films, though, and isn't completely satisfying.The film has its weaknesses, but should not be dismissed. The movie is actually pretty funny at times, to go with the family-friendly themes. The cast is universally excellent and boasts Frank Sinatra (in single dad mode), the great Edward G. Robinson (hilarious as Sinatra's square older brother), the incomparable Thelma Ritter (as Eddie G.'s wife), Eleanor Parker (as a lonely widow), and even Keenan Wynn (as Sinatra's successful friend). Sinatra's on-screen son is played well by young Eddie Hodges and Sinatra's out-there, bongo-chick girlfriend is played by Carolyn Jones (Morticia Addams on The Addams Family).Robinson and Ritter are superb as the shop-owning husband and wife who fly down to Florida to help out Sinatra. Who knew Edward G. Robinson was so adept at comedy? The man could do it all. He's great complaining about his no-good brother, his hula-hooping embarrassment of a son, the peculiar rocking chair in Sinatra's room, and the holes in the ice cubes. Ritter is the voice of reason between the brothers and wants what is best for Sinatra's young son. Frank Sinatra does alright, playing a loving father who's still a playboy at heart. He struggles along financially, but never admits defeat.Apparently the script was adapted from a Yiddish play, which explains why Eddie G. and Thelma Ritter (and sometimes even Sinatra) seem to be doing some Jewish-style shtick. It's funny stuff, but it was a little odd thinking of Frank Sinatra coming from a Jewish family. (In the movie they're Italians, I guess.)Frank Capra's direction allows the actors time to inhabit the scenes. I noticed the many relatively long takes, which are always impressive. Scenes in Sinatra's living room feature the bickering brothers on opposite ends of the widescreen frame, with Ritter in the middle. The characters are standing up and sitting down and carrying on back and forth without the camera cutting away. Later, Sinatra and Hodges sit down together and sing High Hopes in one take and there seems to almost be a spontaneity to the duet (flubbed lines? ad-libs?).When hotel owner Sinatra is desperate for cash before an approaching deadline, we don't feel for him the way we feel for busted banker George Bailey. I guess it's because it seems that Sinatra's character put himself in that position. But considering that he needs to support his darling of a son, we feel sorry for Sinatra. Especially when we see him take what little money he has to the racetrack with his high-rolling buddy.One of Frank Capra's last movies, A HOLE IN THE HEAD has value at least as a curiosity. Frank Sinatra sharing the screen with Edward G. Robinson? Thelma Ritter thrown into the mix as Robinson's wife? The origin of the hit (and Oscar-winning) song High Hopes (familiar to fans of another film about a single dad and his son, A GOOFY MOVIE)? But I think the film also has merits of its own. There's some great comedy, particularly from Eddie G., and the widowed-father-meets-lovely-widow story might warm a few hearts. "},{"Title":"Nice, warm film","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a good movie. Frank Sinatra and Edward G. Robinson are good in this but I love the young boy's performance. He was just great in this. This movie introduced High Hopes or the ant song which is great! This is a great movie with a good ending! Anyone would enjoy this! "},{"Title":"First Frank movie I ever saw","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was in the mood for Frank and this was my pick. I have seen this before, twice through the years. It was one of the earliest classic films I saw and one that got me into watching movies from this era (and before) so I have a particular fondness for it. Ahh, Frank Capra, a legend, the man who brought us It's A Wonderful Life, turns in his second to last big screen directing job. Then there's the Frank I wanted to see -- Sinatra. He turns in a fine performance as a single dad looking to make it big in Miami so he can take care of his son instead of being the bum he is. Edward G. Robinson also stars, not exactly someone you'd picture as Sinatra's brother, but suspend belief for a moment and enjoy his work! Not the best Capra or Sinatra but it's fun, and has the Oscar winning best song for 1959 -- High Hopes. Definitely a worthwhile picture.--A Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Frank Capra does it again with A Hole in the Head","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frank Sinatra is Tony, the owner of the declining Garden of Eden hotel in Miami. Eddie Hodges is his pre-teen son, Ally. Eddie G. Robinson is Tony's brother, Mario and Thelma Ritter is Mario's wife, Sophie. Carolyn Jones is Tony's free-spirited girlfriend, Shirl. And Elennor Parker is Mrs. Eloise Rogers. They are all in Frank Capra's version of Arnold Schulman's play A Hole in the Head. Oh, and there's also a pivotal supporting player named Jerry Marks played by Keenan Wynn. All I'll say now is I liked the atmosphere of the Florida setting and the possibility of chance that permeates the whole thing. And Capra still had the sense of humor to put pertinent gags where they fit in the narrative. So on that note, I recommend A Hole in the Head. P.S. I've loved the Oscar-winning song High Hopes since I first heard Cindy Williams & Penny Marshall sing it in the first ep of Laverne & Shirley back in 1976! "},{"Title":"Oops, there goes another rubber tree plant","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The story is set in Miami, where down-on-his-luck Tony (Frank Sinatra) is struggling to keep his shabby hotel in the black. He's also got his hands full raising his precocious son Ally (Eddie Hodges) and romancing a free-spirit (Carolyn Jones). His wealthy brother (Edward G. Robinson) agrees to support Tony but in exchange, Ally must come to live with him.This is a wonderful, feel-good comedy/drama with excellent acting all around. Sinatra's Tony is a handsome and cool dreamer who can't seem to catch a break but he's a loving father and has many tender scenes with young Eddie (who mugs a bit too much but is very talented). Robinson and Thelma Ritter as the rich relatives provide a lot of dry, Brooklyn humor and are wonderful as is Eleanor Powell in a small but endearing role.This 1959 movie is a bit dated but still quite enjoyable. I had a smile on my face and a little tear as well. Sweet and wholesome; highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Underrated and aged well","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it's me but I think this movie, Frank Capra's second-to-last, has aged really well.  It seems very relevant today.  Frank Sinatra is very convincing in the lead role as Tony Manetta, a ne'er-do-well struggling to keep his head above water, but the key character in the film is Edward G. Robinson's Mario, Tony's uptight, shopkeeping brother, who's come down to Miami to bail him out, but not without conditions.  While Tony will always be Tony, it's Mario who will have to learn to appreciate him.  There is great supporting work all around, by Thelma Ritter, Eleanor Parker, Eddie Hodges (unfairly buried in the credits), Carolyn Jones (remember The Munsters?), and my personal favorite, Keenan Wynn, as an old buddy of Tony's who knows him too well to be conned by him.  Features the famous song High Hopes, sung by Frank and Eddie. "},{"Title":"Anyone knows an ant can't move a rubber tree plant!","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adaptation of Arnold Schulman's play about feckless Miami Beach widower with a young son who needs a fast loan to save his ramshackle hotel, considering the idea of marrying into money with a shy (but beautiful) young widow. Slick, but not very moving comedy-drama won an Oscar for the memorable tune High Hopes, but--with Frank Sinatra, Edward G. Robinson, and Eleanor Parker in the cast--it should have been much better. The youngster is played by sharp, yet Hollywood-smart Eddie Hodges, who is decent with the kind of lines concocted for him. Frank Capra directed, weakly. Some good scenes, but it runs too long and has too few jokes. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Two Franks, Capra and Sinatra make a mildly amusing comedy","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie, originally a Broadway play, tells a story of a man, who runs an unsuccessful Miami Hotel.This man, Tony Manetta, is constantly broke, therefore he has a hard time taking care of his 12-year old son.But those two have an undying love for each other, and he doesn't want to let go of him.A Hole in the Head (1959) is directed by the legendary Frank Capra.It's written by Arnold Schulman.The lead, Tony Manetta, is played by Frank Sinatra.Edward G. Robinson is terrific as his brother Mario.Eleanor Parker is very good as Eloise Rogers.Carolyn Jones is wonderful as Shirl.Thelma Ritter is fantastic as Sophie Manetta.Keenan Wynn does a great job playing Jerry Marks, a character based on Walt Disney.Dub Taylor is great as Fred.The kid, Alvin Ally Manetta is played by Eddie Hodges, and he does the job very well.Frank Capra certainly came up with better than this in his career, but this still isn't a bad movie.I don't think Frank Capra was able to make a bad movie.There was something enjoyable in this movie, like the song High Hopes.So even at his worst, Capra was quite good. "},{"Title":"Hip Replacement","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, sometimes they get it wrong. Oscar certainly did. They gave the gong to a piece of cheese like High Hopes whilst completely ignoring the gorgeous ballad from the same stable (Jimmy Van Heusen-Sammy Cahn) and the same (this one) movie, namely All My Tomorrows which Sinatra sings over the opening credits. They also got it wrong with the choice of director, Frank Capra. Indisputably a great director in the thirties and forties but out of touch with the modern world. And did they really think that Beatniks were here to stay in 1959. What was a great role and a great performance by Carolyn Jones in 1959 is now embarrassing to watch. Okay, Sinatra's charisma can get him through a role like this standing on his head but his style is totally at odds with Eddie Robinson as his brother-in-law (they would appear in the same film fifteen years later but on that occasion Robinson's cameo was self-contained in the first reel and they never shared a screen). There's very little attempt to 'open out' what began as a stage play and we have to wait almost one hour before Eleanor Parker appears. E for Effort and that's about it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie is clearly a forgotten classic film with a great cast. Primarily shot on location with some scenes obviously shot on sound stages in Los Angeles. Over all a great movie. Gloria Estefan's Cardozo Hotel was used at Sinatra's Garden of Eden. That hotel was also used in There's Something About Mary. The Fountainebleu also provided a great location shot in 2 scenes. I did notice in one beach scene that was to take place in Miami Beach, in the background was Catalina Island, which is in Los Angeles. There is also a tribute web-site for this movie that features original memorabilia like lobby cards, still shots, information about the Broadway play and other cool things. "}{"Title":"Good Meal, Bad Dessert!","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a classic case of how a good storyline (about a loser who can not or will not overcome his personal flaws) is ruined by an everything will work out if you let it ending.You get the feeling the producers did not feel the audience had the maturity to accept a less-than-pleasant finale'.This is disappointing, but not unusual. During the time period, feel good family movies were the rule rather than the exception. It was very rare to see a family film that didn't have some sort of sugary-sweet happy ending. It was that mentality the nearly ruined the Disney industry.You make sense of it! "},{"Title":"Two Franks combine on a classic","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frank Capra pulled together a great cast (Frank Sinatra, Edward G. Robinson) and produced one of the late night classics that just isn't seen on the TV channels much any more.One film trivia note Frank Capra was the first director to shorten the time of each take to under 4 seconds (see Our Mr. Sun TV show), but in this movie he has a tracking shot during one of the songs (was it High Hopes?) that starts upstairs and stays on all the way to the street.I think it might still be the longest single take in the history of sound film, maybe all film.The theme of the movie is possibilities and living your dream, a recurring Capra theme. "},{"Title":"A nice film with a warm ending.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Frank Sinatra shows once again how great a actor he was in his portrayal of a 41 year old widower who never grew up. His love for his son and his son's love for him show how no matter how desperate a situation becomes, the 2 can never be separated. Great supporting roles of Edward G. Robinson as the brother who has all the money but not the love from his own son that his brother has and Thelma Ritter as the caring and sensitive sister-in-law who just wants her nephew to be happy. "},{"Title":"Capra desperately attempting screwball again.","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a late movie that seems to have been made in the vein of the screwball comedy genre, which was at its peak during the '30's and '40's. Now, screwball movies just never have been among my favorite ones, so this movie also really isn't.Probably most amazing thing about this movie is that's directed by Frank Capra. His touch is however nowhere to be found in this movie, even though he had worked on lots of comedies and the screwball genre before, prior to this movie. I think the foremost problem is that the movie doesn't try to be just a comedy but also a serious and heavy drama. The two things aren't that well balanced out within this movie and because of this both elements fall sort of flat.The story and characters also just aren't that appealing in my opinion. You don't ever really connect emotionally to any of the characters because they are doing some very stupid and also irresponsible things throughout the movie. This is especially a problem with the main character, played by Frank Sinatra.No, even despite its really solid cast the characters just don't work out too well. Edward G. Robinson's and Thelma Ritter's talent all goes to waste in this movie and they are two of my favorite actors actually.It's also a movie that is (too) heavy on its talking. This gives away that the movie is based on a stage-play. Seriously, they should had really cut some of the dialog and add in some more comical moments, to make this movie at least more entertaining to follow. The movie is OK for about its first 30 minutes but after that you soon start to get tired of all characters sitting around and talking to each other, expressing their emotions and feelings and you'll most likely start to loose interest in this movie after a while, just like I did.It's not the most horrible movie you'll ever see but I can't think of any reason either why you should ever watch this movie in the first place. Perhaps just for Sinatra's musical moment, when he sings 'High Hopes', which also actually earned this movie an Oscar.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Capra's Kiwi","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Capra's A Hole in the Head tells the story of kiwi Tony Manetta and his son. Tony has potential but as kiwi he is unable to fly - which means he can't live his dreams and fails. Of course there is another thing that is more important after all... It's not just subjective to say that Frank Capra is one of the most important Hollywood directors of all time. He is one essential brick for château Hollywood. While watching his A Hole in the Head what came to my mind was that probably every excellent director career has at least one movie which somehow doesn't work out even though they try hard to be good - think about Coppola's Cotton Club, Hitchcock's Under Capricorn, Huston's Casino Royal and in my point of view A Hole in the Head is another addition to the long list. For my taste this picture itself is some sort of kiwi. It holds several great moments but it's never becoming a great whole. I think the plot fails to live a duality of comedy and drama and the end is abrupt and sudden as if the director suddenly lost interest...So on the whole A Hole in the Head indeed has some good moments and it's no weak movie. Only it never achieves the certain greatness Capra is capable of... "},{"Title":"sad and funny","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I dug this film out of my vaults today and I believe this film is a loosely based bio on the real life of comedian Jack E. Leonard back in the 20s and 30s.  Tony, played by Frank Sinatra, seems to be a very hard luck widower who always gambles his life away.  He has a 12year-old boy who is a strong asset to him.  But when Tony loses everything and tries to get his brother, Mario, played by Edward G. Robinson, to stake him and lets them bring up his son, it doesn't work out.  His son loves him and doesn't want to live with anyone else but him.  The highlights of this good comedy, directed by famous Frank Capra, is the song Sinatra sings High Hopes with his little boy.  Good acting and fine performances by Sinatra.  Eleanor Parker plays the love interest.  But, who plays the son, Ally?  I couldn't find his billing.  7/10 "},{"Title":"You forgot to mention the most important actor in the film the boy Eddie Hodges","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You forgot to include the name of the most important actor in the film, the boy Eddie Hodges (Ally). The whole film revolves around him, and he has the big moment when he sings with Frank Sinatra the academy award song HIGH HOPES/ Prior to this movie the boy was famous as the boy of the Music Man on Broadway. I wonder if he made any more films afterwards. He is extremely talented in this film. Also this film conrains two important songs by Sinatra All my Tomorrows the title song, in which you get to see spectacular views of 1959 Miami Beach. The Other song was High HOPES/ Both of these songs by Cahn and Van Heusen. Please update the information. "},{"Title":"This sure could have been a lot better.","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before this movie even began, I marveled that any of the movie execs could have been crazy enough to cast Edward G. Robinson as Frank Sinatra's brother! They seemed as unlike as they could be. Perhaps with the big age difference between them Robinson (22 years) could have been cast as Sinatra's uncle or father...but his brother?! Plus, they looked nothing like brothers! Other than both being short, I can't see any reason for them to be cast together in the film other than they were available! Frank plays a widower who has a young son. He owns a hotel that is just inches away from bankruptcy and he lives a carefree lifestyle--chasing women and being rather irresponsible. The only real good thing in his life is the boy--a nice kid who idolizes him. When the money finally runs out, he contacts his brother (Robinson) who will bail him out financially IF he marries and settles down with a nice lady. In fact, Robinson has picked out a widow (Eleanor Parker) for him. But, Sinatra can't bring himself to marry a woman he doesn't love--plus he's smitten with a crazy bohemian (Carolyn Jones). So, if he doesn't marry, he won't get the money--he'll lose his business and perhaps his son as well, as Robinson wants to take the boy away from this less than wholesome atmosphere.Despite having the Oscar-winning song (High Hopes) and some decent acting, it was hard to love this film. The reason is that despite trying to say that Sinatra loved his kid, he sure didn't act like it. He was just too selfish and too interested in having a good time--and it was darn hard to like the guy. His latest love interest (Jones) didn't like kids--and this didn't seem to bother him! What a cad! Instead, had they made him be a bit less selfish and more of a dreamer, it would have worked much better. As it was, he just seemed like a jerk who needed to grow up--fast. And unfortunately, the ending seemed very abrupt and impossible to believe--tying everything up too neatly and inexplicably. Too bad, as I really wanted to like the film.Overall, a glossy time-passer but unfortunately not much more as the film is hopelessly flawed. "},{"Title":"sad and funny","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I dug this film out of my vaults today and I believe this film is a loosely based bio on the real life of comedian Jack E. Leonard back in the 20s and 30s.  Tony, played by Frank Sinatra, seems to be a very hard luck widower who always gambles his life away.  He has a 12year-old boy who is a strong asset to him.  But when Tony loses everything and tries to get his brother, Mario, played by Edward G. Robinson, to stake him and lets them bring up his son, it doesn't work out.  His son loves him and doesn't want to live with anyone else but him.  The highlights of this good comedy, directed by famous Frank Capra, is the song Sinatra sings High Hopes with his little boy.  Good acting and fine performances by Sinatra.  Eleanor Parker plays the love interest.  But, who plays the son, Ally?  I couldn't find his billing.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Frank Sinatra and Edward G. Robinson","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After acting with Tony Curtis in 'Kings Go Forth', Frank Sinatra went on to act with Edward G. Robinson in 'A Hole in the Head'. Robinson, only having 'The Ten Commandments' to his credit in the 50's, and 'Key Largo' in the 40's, was lapsing behind his 30's contemporaries, James Cagney and the late Humphrey Bogart. Sinatra was still on the up and up as an academy award winner for 'Young at Heart', which meant that both of them gained from appearing with each other in this film. "}{"Title":"Memories of this from long ago","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well I've not seen this since I was 10 or so--they showed it to us in grade school, all of us kids seated in the gym. Never remembered it's title-but certainly remember things like 'High Hopes', some cartoon lamb running through a calender(?), and the kid we were supposed to root for.My impression as I sat and watched it-I distinctly remember thinking that the lead looked kinda grumpy and wasn't nice. Never having heard of Sinatra back then-well you can imagine later on how accurate I think that was. Kids just call'em as they see'em.I'd be interested in seeing this again as an adult, just to see late-era Capra, w/ Edward G in a comedy etc. Am sure it's worthwhile, plus Thelma Ritter is good too.*** from wayyyy back there, old memories. "}]