[{"Title":"Low-budget film raises disturbing questions","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  There's a lot more to this little Western than the cheap thrills the title might suggest. The film itself may have been made in black and white, but the off-beat story is shot through with shades of moral grey. Indeed, I'm not sure that it would be entirely baseless to describe it as an implicit indictment of US society.This picture uses familiar Western stereotypes - the corrupt sheriff, the land-greedy tycoon, the sinister hired gun - in a depiction that subtly undercuts much of the entire genre. I don't think it's too far-fetched to see the long shadow of McCarthy over the townspeople who allow themselves to be cowed and driven off one at a time, only to turn at last as a mob not on the man who bribed their silence, but on the outsider employed as a tool to do his dirty work.(Having just read the IMDB entry for this film and discovered that the scriptwriter was himself blacklisted by the McCarthy regime, I'm now almost certain I was not imagining this!)The whole story is framed by that final confrontation and the flashbacks (?flash-forwards?) that follow under the opening titles. After all, it's not every Western that features a man walking the length of Main Street to face down his father's killer... with a harpoon. This one *opens* with that image!But as we catch up with the flash-back scenes in real-time we soon realise that things are not as they seem. This is no standard Western, there are no stand-up gunfights and no galloping horses; the only quick-draw we see is performed under duress as a humiliating party-trick. Virtue is not rewarded and those who make a stand on principle only suffer thereby. The hired killer is an aging gunman whose trade has lost him the use of his good right hand; the dogged hero is no cowboy or plains drifter but a seaman from a Swedish whaler, and the script makes it very clear just what value he can place on American justice.Inexorably, driven by the sinister jaunty little tune of the theme music, the story winds on until we reach again that final face-down - and now the close-ups make sense, and they are not what we thought they were. That man with the moustache is not the sheriff; that blonde is not the hero's girl; the crowd is not spilling out of a saloon.And it is not any longer, for me at least, the clear-cut question of good and evil the genre has led us to expect. When it is all over - when the shots are called and the dice are down - the crowd pours past the Swede without a backward glance. Society doesn't want to know; doesn't want to face its own complicity. It wants a scapegoat to sacrifice, and for life to go on.Morally, this film is very far from black and white. If it is a B-movie, then it is by far more unsettling than the vast majority of cheap and cheerful productions made in that budget. I cannot imagine what its intended audience must have made of it. Am I the only viewer to find myself drawn as much to the cold-blooded, isolated 'villain' as to the nominal hero? "},{"Title":"Greatest B-Western Ever","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A bizarre, intense, frightening unsung masterpiece filled with original and compelling characters.  It's hard to tell what the main interest is  the Swedish hero; the leather-clad Bogie-inspired villain; the brave young Mexican; the callous, quick-tongued fatcat.  The cinematography is stylized yet subtle.  The dialogue is trenchant.  Then, of course, there is the unnerving harpoon showdown.  There is no movie quite like this one, folks. A must-see. "},{"Title":"A great, cluelessly forgotten, 50s Western from a B-Movie genius.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  When people discuss the Western in the 50s, the richest decade of the genre, they invariably cite Anthony Mann, Budd Boetticher, THE SEARCHERS or RIO BRAVO .  Only the specialised, however, will single out Joseph H. Lewis. A LAWLESS STREET electrifies a banal story with inventive technique. TERROR, though, is something else.  I have watched hundreds of Westerns, and I can safely say that this is the most remarkable pre-Peckinpah/Leone effort I've seen.  It may not be as rich as the above-mentioned, but its formal daring is unparalleled.Like Mann, Lewis came to the Manichean world of the Western from film noir, a genre defined by its moral ambiguity.  The opening sequence is the most astonishing of any Western (except THE WILD BUNCH, of course), and cleverly complicates everything that follows.  It starts with the shoot-out, an innovative device, but one of the combatants carries a large pike.  His opponent, face unseen, taunts him.  The scene is highly charged, even if we don't know why.The result of this sequence is cut, and we get the opening credits, featuring an elliptical series of scenes, some lyrically pastoral, others brutally violent, none making any narrative sense because we don't know the story yet.  The film proper hurtles us into a violent arson attack.  So in the first five minutes, the viewer is assaulted by sensation and violence. There are none of the reassuring signifiers of the traditional Western - noble music (the score here is as bizarre, inventive and parodic as any Morricone spaghetti); John Wayne or Henry Fonda above the title; contextually explanatory intertitles.  We have no idea what is going on, we are left staggered, breathless, excited, reeling.What follows is an explanation of these events.  But the unforgettable effect lingers, and colours what seems to be a traditional Western story - big business trying to muscle in on small farmers.  The most interesting figure is not the hero, Sterling Hayden, a gentle man forced by circumstance to find savage violence in himself (and saddled with a ridiculous, faltering Swedish accent, but little character), but the villain.  In many ways he is the archetypal baddie - dressed in black, a gun for hire, snarling, brutal with women.  But he is also a complex psychological portrait - a once great shot, now a cripple, lush and impotent.  The familiar story is subverted to become the tragedy of an evil man.  The film's surface detective element - who killed Hayden's father - is subsumed thematically by the investigation into this fascinating character (we know early on who killed him anyway).Stylistically, Lewis  turns the Western, traditionally about open spaces, new frontiers, hope, escape, into a bitter male melodrama about entrapment, failure and death.  The stark, clear visuals are as beautiful and aesthetically exciting as THE OX-BOW INCIDENT, another morbid masterpiece. The disturbing editing, and exagerrated compositions seem to belong more to Nouvelle Vague deconstructions than a Hollywood Western.  Almost as awesome as GUN CRAZY, this is provocative proof that Lewis was a great director. "},{"Title":"Hiring It Done","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In El Dorado John Wayne has occasion to remark to Ed Asner that since he doesn't carry a gun himself he hires it done. And then the Duke went on to make some remarks about the quality of his help.But the reverse of the coin is when who you hire is too good for you to argue with. That was the problem that Sebastian Cabot has with Ned Young, a brooding killer who he hires to intimidate some farmers to get off land that unbeknownst to them has oil. It was at the end of the frontier days and the great oil discoveries that were to make Texas and oil synonymous were just being discovered. One guy who won't be pushed is a Swedish farmer who Young kills. His son played by Sterling Hayden comes to town asking questions. Like Hayden in real life, the son is a seaman who's strange in that western environment. He carries no gun, but only a harpoon from his seafaring days.By this time Hayden was ready to leave Hollywood for Tahiti and was just trying to earn enough money to sail there with his kids. He'd been a friendly witness at the House Un American Activities Committee It must have been a bit strained on the set because the screenplay was by Dalton Trumbo, one of the Hollywood Ten. Trumbo was still writing under pseudonyms though. Hayden walks through his role, the real acting here is done by Ned Young and Sebastian Cabot. Both of them are a pair of hateful people, Cabot the greedy capitalist and Young the stone killer.Western fans won't be disappointed however, especially at the final confrontation at the end. "},{"Title":"Can a harpoon defeat guns?","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The success of High Noon caused many westerns to be made which had a lot in common.Actually it created a new genre, the High Noon style western. This is certainly one of them, and one that came out very good. It has many assets, like the script by Dalton Trumbo and the direction of Joseph H Lewis. It has also a great performance by Sterling Hayden. He gives us the best moments of the film as the Swede who does not yet understand what is going on the town. Ned Young and Carol Kelly as the mean gunfighter and his suffering girlfriend also stand out. Another very meaningful character is Eugene Martin as Pepe Mirada a man who lives in fear. The duel of Hayden against Young, where Hayden is using an harpoon is extremely well filmed. Considering its low ambitions Terror in a Texas Town is quite an accomplishment. "},{"Title":"Gritty Western Noir Worth Checking Out","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When oil is discovered on the properties of peaceful homesteaders, fat-cat Sebastian Cabot sends his one-handed gunman to terrorize them into leaving. When stubborn Swedish whaler Sterling Hayden's father is killed by them, he takes on the bad guys with only a harpoon and the truth!The premise is a bit familiar but the story is artfully told with great acting by all involved. Hayden plays an offbeat, interesting, and unconventional western hero and Cabot is a wonderfully sleazy villain. However, Academy Award winning screenwriter Nedrick Young gives the film's best performance as Cabot's vile hired killer.Entertaining from start to finish, this is a really compelling low-budget movie that really knows what buttons to push, especially as Hayden tries to get his neighbors to break their fearful code of silence.The final showdown, glimpsed in the opening scene, is both memorable and exciting "},{"Title":"Worth it for the shoot-out","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is the last film from western and crime movie specialist, Lewis. It`s the complete opposite of what you would expect from the title, a slow and character-driven film, beautifully shot in high contrast black and white. Cabot is especially good as a complex and troubled baddie. The final shootout comes as a complete surprise (I won`t tell you.) Recommended to Western fans.  "},{"Title":"Truly unique","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This strange, surreal film is unique among westerns of the era. While it contains most of the standard western clichés, every cliché has a twist. The music is bizarre and often doesn't seem to fit, but that just adds to the offbeat feel. The acting is odd but perfectly suited to the film. Hayden's take on a Swedish accent and speech patterns bounces from realistic to annoying to non-existent, but his performance is excellent, as is Cabot's. The story is riddled with moral dilemmas that give it surprising depth. Don't be fooled into thinking this is just another B western. This movie has a quality that is difficult to describe. Strangely great. "},{"Title":"A tawdry High Noon but vivid and powerful archetypes at work","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Terror in a Texas Town (1958)The first five minutes of this movie is fabulous a play of archetypes, with a showdown, some cattle breaking free and stampeding, a raging fire, and some close ups of sad faces lit by the flames. In fact, in the wide screen black and white, it seems most of all like a precursor to the spaghetti Westerns, dramatic and just a hair arch in its excess, music, photography, acting and all. It all takes place in a little Texan town called Prairie City.This is a great movie right off the bat, but it isn't sustained. It tries too hard sometimes, and unlike The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly it talks too much for its own good. There is an overweight bad man (Sebastian Cabot of all people) who has a maniacal laugh, a tough guy gunslinger (Ned Young) with a fast draw and a metal arm, and there is a stoic good guy (Sterling Hayden) who depends on his stoicism and morality to stand up against them. Men are strong, women are to be kept in bed (or so the gunslinger tells his dame), and life is hard. In addition to the wood frame one street town and the hardworking farmers there is the discovery of oil, and lots of it, an appropriate twist in this final chapter of the Wild West.The director is a favorite of mine, Joseph H. Lewis (Gun Crazy and The Big Combo both precede this one), and it has some of the same crudely cut archetypes and stiff dialog. But this is part of the style (he surely knew what he was doing), and adds to the blunt force of the story. There are moments of raw and brutal violence and sections of peaceful bucolic life. People are oddly realistic even if the movie isn't. This is a kind of warm up to about fifty episodes of a classic television show called The Rifleman that Lewis directed, playing with simple stories well told but quickly arranged. Sam Peckinpah initiated that show, and we can see some back and forth influence between the two directors.It is a bit odd to hear Sterling Hayden with a Swedish accent. He plays a kind of simple fellow, but good hearted, and neither quality is exactly useful in this rough town. Hayden ends up a caricature, and not a good one. He is filled with such strained affectations, and he plays a good person, but he doesn't sweep you into his cause because he's just plain weird. But of course he prevails, and the last five minutes is much like the first, and you see that justice is sometimes the hardest thing to achieve but you have to keep trying anyway. It's a strain, but an archetypal one. "},{"Title":"Weird Western","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A Swedish whaler comes to a Texas town to visit his father but learns the latter has been murdered. This is an unusual Western from Lewis, who directed the B-movie classic Gun Crazy. It starts with a showdown between a gunfighter and a harpooner! and then fills in the story via flashbacks. Stanley Kubrick effectively used Hayden in The Killing and Dr. Strangelove, but he was a limited actor who generally turned in wooden performances. In this film, that awkwardness actually fits in with his fish-out-of-water role. Faring better is Cabot as the heavy (literally and figuratively), but the best performance comes from Young as a black-clad gunslinger who looks and acts like Humphrey Bogart. "}{"Title":"The Whaler and the Western.","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Joseph H. Lewis was something of a B movie king, with his best directorial efforts coming via Westerns and film noir. After this Sterling Hayden starrer he signed off from Hollywood for good, as a legacy it's difficult to say if it's a fitting point of reference to Lewis and his talents, or entirely apt for his career? It's an often quirky, even bizarre, picture that manages through its surreal like tendencies to detract from its formulaic Western plot. Set in Prairie City, Texas, the tale revolves around George Hanson (Hayden), a Swedish whaler who after 19 years away, returns to Prairie to find his father has been murdered. As he delves deeper with a staunch undaunted determination, he finds that the law is corrupt and a horrible land baron called McNeil (Sebastian Cabot), aided by gunslinger for hire Johnny Crale (Ned Young), is behind his fathers death. It appears there is oil in the land and McNeil is using force to buy up the land at ridiculously cheap prices. But if he thought George was going to be forgiving? Or going to be easily frightened? Well he and Crale are in for some big shocks. Shot in stark black and white, Lewis' film throws up the always interesting conflict between homespun virtue and greedy evil. There's compelling villains and some nicely drawn characterisations for the decent citizens of the town, such as those who are on the periphery of the protagonists struggle (note Victor Millan's poor Mexican farmer and Carol Kelly's downbeat girlfriend of Crale). What of Hayden, though? It's a fascinating performance, where saddled with the task of trying to do a Swedish accent, and wearing a suit a size too short for him, it's difficult to know if he is in tune with the off-kilter nature of the film, or he's just on robotic auto-pilot while Lewis chuckles to himself off camera. Either way Hayden gives us a character to root for with our every breath. Hanson is a bastion of good and well meaning, we ache for him to outdo the lobster eating land baron and the metal clawed outlaw. There's some controversy in the tid-bids here. The script was credited to Ben Perry, but actually was written by Dalton Trumbo who was blacklisted. Hayden, although not blacklisted, appeared before the House of Un-American Activities Committee and simultaneously admitted past communist affiliations and named names. Lewis was not involved in the unsavoury chapter but was a close friend of Ned Young, who was blacklisted for taking the fifth, but whose impact on the film was to not only be in it, but to also be instrumental in getting Lewis to direct it. Boy was that an interesting time in American history. Stylish, odd and certainly different, Terror In A Texas Town has enough about it to make it worthy of a night in. And it gets better on repeat viewings once you buy into the kookiness. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"ordinary movie, interesting style","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In most respects, this is a completely unremarkable low-budget western. Greedy rich guy hires evil gunfighter to terrorize local farmers. Upstanding good guy arrives and it's just a matter of time before the final showdown. It's competently executed most of the time. Some of it is imaginative and some of it is predictably cliché. Contrary to what some other reviewers have written, the final showdown did not surprise me in the least. Die-hard western fans and followers of Sterling Hayden will want to view this, but I don't know about anyone else.Except that it is successfully filmed in an interesting and unique style, as if it were a 1950's comic book or pulp-fiction novel brought to the screen. This is immediately apparent in the opening credits, with its teaser glimpse of the final scene and including the alliterative hyperbole of the title, and continues consistently throughout the film. Perhaps many little known low budget 1950s film accomplished this feat, but this is the only one I'm aware of that does it so well. "},{"Title":"This movie brings a harpoon to a gunfight.","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This movie is probably most well known for the unusual choice of weapon used by the hero in the final showdown, but as fun as that is, there's more to this movie than that. The plot is not complicated or even very original, and there are slow patches, but it has enough unique elements in it to keep the viewer interested.As in many westerns, the characters in this movie are archetypes. When confronted with a choice of action, the viewer can usually correctly predict what the characters will do. This could have been a bad thing, but the writing in this movie is intelligent enough to present the characters with choices that are not always clear-cut. For the good characters, sometimes the choice comes down to picking the lesser of two evils; interestingly, the same is true for the bad characters as well.Despite their archetypal nature, there is room for character development. In a scene near the end of the movie with no dialogue or action, the viewer is presented with a still life of a room, and from what is shown on screen and the character development that has occurred, we can tell what happened, why, and what the situation is now for the hero.Overall, an entertaining, non-standard western with some above average writing, and worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"This one stands out.","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Good original western revolving around a murder and the unstoppable justice that follows in the shape of a determined Swedish immigrant. my oh my there was some lousy acting to behold here, with the exception of Hayden, Cabot and..... let's just call that last one the bad guy(Bogart lookalike). I must say i find the whale spear vs. a revolver kind of amusing, but actually quite plausible if you can believe it. The story ain't much but it aims to please. It is always satisfying to see the average Joe stand up against tyranny and evil s.o.b's. So by all means watch it if you enjoy old school western's that stand out a little from the rest. "},{"Title":"I Saw a Man Who Was Not Afraid to Die","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Dalton Trumbo's ideological script and Nedrick Young's complex hired killer drive this interestingly weird and elegant Western. Director Joseph Lewis brought immense skill to this work, as did cinematographer Ray Rennaban and editors Stefan Arnstan and Frank Sullivan. Gerald Fried's original score has the same minimalist intensity as the script and production. Several old-time actors with excellent skills play in this movie. I think anyone connected to this movie had to feel pride.Sterling Hayden, Carol Kelly, Eugene Mazola, and Sebastian Cabot play a bit more traditionally than Ned Young does, but that makes for interesting counterpoint. You never have a sense of haste in making this film. This is not a subtle work. It is an effective one.I rate it highly because for a small movie, it is a fine piece of work. "},{"Title":"A whale of a tale","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" ***SPOILERS***The Sterling actor Sterling Hayden who was promoted by his studio Paramount back in 1941 as being the most handsomest man in Hollywood is whaler George Hansen who's now back home in Prairie City Texas from the high seas after a 19 year absence in the Pacific. Only for him to find out that his dad the old salts Sven Hansen,Ted Stanhope, has been brutally gunned down the day or, give or take a day, before! Hayden/Hansen sporting a weird and almost laughable Swedish accent now decides to find his father's killer and bring him to justice. It later turns out that the elder Mr. Hansen refused to vacate his farm to the greedy and land grabbing McNeil, Sabastian Cabot, who in return had his top henchman the all dressed in black and one handed Lefty Johnny Crale, Ned Young, gun him down. It's not just old man Hansen's property that McNeil want's but the entire towns that he found out is swimming in Blacak Gold or oil. And being the all for me and screw you individual that McNeil is he not only want's a piece of the action but the entire caboodle as well!Peacful and law abiding at first Hansen in getting no cooperation from the intimidated towns people that McNeil and his goons are targeting then decides to take them on single handedly all by himself. It's not an easy task for the peace loving Hansen who ends up getting worked over and run out of town on a rail by McNeil's goons only to come back for more, beatings and abuse, of the same. It's when McNeil overplayed his hand when he has the non violent and never making trouble for anyone, even for McNeil, farmer Jose Mirada, Victor Millan, gunned down by Lefty Crale. That was to keep him from telling the local sheriff Stoner, Victor McVey, that it was Crale under orders from McNeil who murdered Old Man Hansen. Instead of feeling he's now off the hook, in the Seven Hansen murder, Crale gets religious and turns on his boss McNeil by shooting him for ordering him to gun Jose down as well as keeping his mouth shut about it.***SPOILERS***It's now high noon time at Prairie City with Hansen fully recovered from his injuries faces the gun slinging Crale, who murdered his dad, in the town square to not only see who's the fastest gun, or in the case of Hansen harpoon thrower, in town. Made just after the height of the Red Scare or Communist Witch Hunt era in the US the film starred two actors, Hayden & Young, who were victims of the dreaded Communist Blacklist as well as the man Dalton Trumbo, using an assumed name of course , who directed it. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Easily one of the worst westerns I have ever been forced to watch. It starts out with clips from different parts of the movie, including most of the ending, and then settles down to tell the story (such as it is). First of all, though this is a town in Texas NOBODY carries or even seems to own a gun except for the bad guy. Then, this one man terrifies everyone except a Swedish ex-whaler who is basically a pacifist. Not only is the script lame but the acting is poor and unbelievable. Most of the actors seem to be just going through the motions. This is a grade D movie in my opinion. Watch it and make your own decision. I watched it because I had a friend who was an extra in the film. "},{"Title":"is she born yet...is the little BROWN baby born yet?","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The common man, in this respect a Whaler from Sweden, versus slick and soulless Capitalists. The greedy, rich Men representing the System can purchase fancy attire, and expensive and flashy weapons of destruction. But our lower class type of an immigrant sod buster dresses in plain clothes and is forced to use the tools of his trade to defend his honor and exact revenge.There are no subtle representations here and it is all framed like Artful arrogance and what this stylish B-Western presented is nothing less than one of the most unique and classy Proletariat Pictures from a decade that was full of mediocre meanderings from others by the wagon load.This Norish Western was the last for an unsung B-Movie Master Joseph H. Lewis and his underrated work was missed but not forgotten among Film Historians and Movie Lovers. This is not as good as The Big Combo (1955) or Gun Crazy (1950), but very few Films are. He was great at entertaining and messaging with a flat out frenzy of style and pomp that made His Movies, and this one is certainly no exception, quite different and much better than most. "},{"Title":"Impressive visuals  but could  have been much better with a tighter  script","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Didn't know this was scripted by Dalton Trumbo , or by someone on his behalf let's say, due to the circumstances which surrounded the guy during the 50's. His script here is not particularly impressive , plot is quite dull indeed ,typical revenge history focused on the clash between the righteous and noble country boy and the hired gun whit conscience troubles who knows that the end of the road is getting closer for him . We have seen this history a million times , so accomplishments of this films are mostly on the visual side, the way it was beautifully shot in black and white , relying on the dark ambiances to make up for the lack of budget ...Lewis definitively knew how to do that . The whole tone of hopelessness and deception given to the film reminds me a bit of Ow Box Incident ( but that was a much better film ) The impression I get after having seen this is that with a tighter script the outcome could have been much better , ( for instance why Sterling and his father are using an harpoon ? it appears this was the only weapon they could find but it's clear that there are people in the village who have guns and ammunition &#x85;ok maybe it's just a symbol )Sterling never was a hell of an actor let's admit it. He was quite solid and managed to complete dozens of good films throughout his career but when it comes to acting he was not specially skilled .He knew to play though characters which made him a perfect choice for film noir and westerns , but don't ask him for much acting , his presence was enough . Problem here is that he had to play a Swedish character and his accent is a bit ridiculous , but his impressive presence and his stiff face contribute a lot to the elegiac tone of the film . "},{"Title":"Unsatisfactory Western Saga with a Gimmick","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Big Combo director Joseph H. Lewis' offbeat western Terror in a Texas Town is a low-budget endeavor that tweaks the formula and offers a little something different. The typical protagonist who performs the heroic duties is not a stud in a 10-gallon hat with a six-gun. Sterling Hayden, who played a gun-toting lawman in Top Gun, plays George Hansen, a Swede with a slight accent who has made a living wielding a harpoon as a whaler on a sailing ship. He has arrived to take care of his late father's property. Lewis opens the film with part of the climactic showdown that occurs later at the end when our hero totes his father's harpoon to a gun duel. Lewis doesn't let the action loiter and Terror in a Texas Town clocks in at 81 minutes. One flaw is the death of the villain at the hands of another villain, an act of violence which occurs off-camera and deprives us of any closure in seeing how the villain accepted death. This western imitates all those that came before it with regard to the town boss plot.Basically, this Dalton Trumbo-scripted black & white frontier epic qualifies as your standard town boss western with an elegant city-slicker (Sebastian Cabot) as the villain. He never abandons the comfort of his hotel room in town. He controls the town and has the sheriff in his pocket. The second-in-command villain is a black-clad hombre, Johnny Crale (Nedrick Young of Gun Crazy), strapping a matched brace of six-guns. Since can no longer shoot with his right hand, he handles his gun with his left hand. Symbolically, this tough-talking Hemingway type character is castrated because his hand doesn't work. Moreover, to enhance his evil, he wears a solid black outfit from Stetson to boots. He has a moment toward the end where he learns that some men aren't afraid to die and it rattles him. The town citizens that cower at the feet of the town boss are embroiled in a land dispute with him, and this individual&#x97;MacNeil&#x97;has obtained the legal right to all the territory around town. He has hired a former comrade, injured gunslinger Johnny Crale to help him dominate the people and the land. Later, our hero learns that oil soaks his father's land. All Hansen knows is that a man shot his father in cold blood. He finds a witness, Mexican landowner Jose Mirada (Victor Millan of Touch of Evil), who agrees to testify in court that he saw Crale murder Hansen's father. Mirada dies not long afterward when the black-clad killer confronts him on his property. Tragically, Mirada's wife has just given birth to a baby. Previously, she had refused to let him reveal his knowledge of Hansen's murder. All this makes it imperative that Hansen kill Crale in the most unorthodox western showdown.Altogether, despite its differences with the typical western, Terror in a Texas qualifies as something of an oddity. The way that Lewis and Trumbo has tweaked the formula is clever, but the overall impact is less than satisfactorily in pure entertainment terms. The William Wyler western The Big Country, made after this one, attempted the same thing by making the protagonist a sea captain who was going to marry into a cattle owning empire. The Big Country was flawed, too. Terror in a Texas suffers from contrivance and the omission of the villain's death scene in the hotel. "}{"Title":"Decent Western","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a pretty standard run of the mill western...good guy versus bad guy.It had way too many clichés to be considered a good film but it is watchable if not too much else is on at the time.The film is sort of mis-titled,I didn't see too much 'terror' ,just a whole lot of standard oater stuff.Sterling Hayden is quite good has a Swedish man who comes to America to a small town in Texas after his father is killed there.Hayden comes to the USA to inherit his fathers' land but finds out that the local mean big wig is buying up all the land and he has the local sheriff on his side to convince people they should pack up and move.The big meanie,played by Sebastion Cabot,also has a gunslinger,dressed in all black and black must be terribly hot in summertime in Texas, that helps convince the locals to give up their land to Mr.French.Of course Cabot ain't playing Mr.French in this movie ,but to this kid who grew up in the 1960's watching Family Affair he will always be Mr.French. Anyway the big Swede don't take too kindly to anyone pushing him around and he soon runs afoul of the local bad guys who want his land.The movie isn't too bad nor too good.It just sort of plods it's way along to the predictable conclusion although I will give it points for being at least a little bit original in the final showdown.You'll see a few familiar faces besides Hayden and Cabot...some of those faces you'll remember from TV shows like The Andy Griffin Show and Green Acres.This movie was OK .I gave it a 5.But honestly if I catch it on AMC again I'd probably flip on by it.It's good enough to see once but not nearly good enough to sit through twice. "},{"Title":"Bullying western with a hard edge and a nice look, but disappointing performances...","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Greedy land baron in the tiny western town of Prairie City wants all the ranchers off their land, using intimidation tactics and arson to get them to vacate; seems the town is swimming atop oil, and when a Swedish farmer refuses to leave, he's mowed down by the baron's hired gun. The farmer's seafaring son soon arrives, slowly realizing what he's up against and attempting to rally the rest of the residents to fight. Another lawlessness-in-the-West story, with everybody under the thumb of the villain (who naturally holds all the cards). Derivative and uncomfortable at times to watch, with a long wait before our stoic hero finally gets his dander up. Sterling Hayden's half-hearted Swedish accent is a big problem, though he cuts a sturdy, sympathetic presence on the screen and almost makes the picture worth-watching. Director Joseph H. Lewis stages most of the scenes stiffly, like a TV western, and Gerald Fried's bugle-heavy score is no help, though the rich black-and-white cinematography by Ray Rennahan is excellent. An independent production released via United Artists, the film has a bizarre start (beginning with shots from the finale, followed by shots from the movie's midsection), yet it does have a certain needling power which most assuredly gets the viewer on Hayden's side. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A unique musical score boosts this routine oater.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is a western that tries to be different.  The hook here (pun intended) is that the hero(Hayden) is armed with a harpoon instead of a gun.  Hayden's stiff acting is encumbered by an attempt at a Swedish dialect that just doesn't seem to work.  The old land baron vs squatters story-line is uplifted with the aid of an almost jazz-like score, that drifts between classic western music and some great contemporary trumpet sounds.  The solid supporting cast, great score, and predictable but exciting climax, make this worth a view. "},{"Title":"Torpor in a Trumbo Western","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Big (and we mean plus sized big) baddie Sebastian Cabot is trying to run salt of the earth farmers off their land in order to get the oil rights. When sea faring Sterling Haden's pop is killed, how will Haden put an end to TERROR IN A Texas TOWN, armed only with a harpoon? First off, this isn't a B-western. There are no singing cowboys, no daredevil stunts, no interesting action sequences. It's just an independent movie -- you know, the ones that use unimportant actors to say important things and cover the general low budget vapidity of the goings on with Interesting Camera Angles.Second, this movie, to avoid compromises (one expects) that would cause the elimination of Trumbo's Important Statements about Justice in America, and the rather sick relationship between the chief henchman and his girl, IS really low budget. The main problem that causes is that the acting is really, really bad. Sterling Haden is decent enough in tough roles, but he is the last guy you want playing a sensitive Swedish sailor gone to find his fortune in the West. Sebastian Cabot tries to do a Sydney Greenstreet as (very) bloated plutocrat. It's not a bad idea, but Cabot does not have the acting chops for it. The guy who plays the hired gun with the missing arm and soul (Johnny Crale) has the best role in the film. He does nothing with it.Third, the script really isn't all that. Trumbo gets some digs in about the immigrant isn't going to get a fair shake from the sheriff in a corrupt town, and the people, when up against real oppression tend to back down. This is a pretty stale movie message by 1958 -- High Noon, Bad Day at Black Rock, Devil's Doorway -- are all Westerns that deal with the evils of Western society with an eye to the evils of 50s America. Trumbo, in '59, certainly had every personal reason to agree with those sentiments, but he isn't doing anything new or interesting with them.So, given all the negatives, why does this movie get a 4? Mostly because there are interesting quirks throughout the movie. (The relationship between Crale and his girl is, um fascinating.) And Trumbo, while a mediocre writer when pursuing his political affectations, is very good in creating both interesting characters and intelligent interactions between them. Just when one is ready to pass out from Indy movie boredom, will come an exchange of dialog or simple quirkiness that gets one realize that guy writing the script was not simply a hack.If you don't like Trumbo or westerns, give this one a miss. Otherwise, try it. You might like it more than I did. "},{"Title":"Other than a harpoon, there's nothing special about this Western","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Sebastian Cabot is a rich jerk who wants to buy up all the land because there is oil--though none of the locals are aware of the oil. With the help of an evil gunfighter in black, they kill and terrorize everyone. When the son of a murdered man arrives, he refuses to back down and stands up to these forces of darkness.Wow. As I watched TERROR IN A Texas TOWN, I felt as if I'd seen this film many times before and would probably see something like it again. That's because aside from a few novelties (such as Sterling Hayden using a harpoon on the bad guy), it has a plot that is too familiar. Once again, we've got a rich guy who is trying to drive out all the farmers in order to gain control of all the land. And, to do so, he's brought in hired guns to force people to sell or kill them. Been there, done that in just too many films.I love Sterling Hayden in films, but just couldn't recommend this as anything other than a poor time passer. "},{"Title":"Great Plains Ahab","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Terror in a Texas Town has the look of a film that was made on the cheap over a long weekend but it's harpoon toting hero and quirky villain make it interesting enough to go the distance with.Swedish immigrant George Hansen comes to Texas with the intention of working on his father's farm. He arrives however to find out his father has been murdered by Johnny Crale a hired gun of greedy and treacherous oil man Ed Neil who is out to steal farmers oil rich property. When Hansen can't get any satisfaction from the law he takes it into his own hands.When you look at Terror's roster of black listed players (Dalton Trumbo,Sterling Hayden, Nedrick Young) you get the feeling this a desperate quickie trying to put food on the table but Trumbo and director Joseph Lewis give this generic western with a twist a lot more bite. Taken as microcosm Terror in a Texas Town takes a swipe at a corrupt capitalist society. The sheriff is in the oil man's pocket and wears his xenephobia on his sleeve thwarting any attempt by Hansen to get the justice he has a right to. The power of big oil flexing its muscle and influence in Terror eerily reflects the arrogance displayed today by BP and the Gulf oil spill that as I write has still not been remedied. Performances are unremarkable save for Young as the rusting gunslinger who does a Bogart/Marc Lawrence hybrid that is inconsistent but interesting. Everyone else looks like they may have had only one take to get it right. Still, Lewis is to be commended for his savvy decision of capturing audience interest by inserting some of the final scene into the film's opening. This B movie king certainly understood the public. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Gel","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There was so much gunsmoke in Hollywood, 1958, the producers of this low-budget indie can hardly be blamed for the harpoon gimmick. All in all, the movie is neither the best nor the worst of oaters of that day, as some folks hold. It does have points of interest, but overall the 80 minutes lacks the intensity that many of the elements promise. For example, Ned Young's killer dresses the part, postures the part, and leers the part, but the total never gets beyond the impersonation stage. There's no real sense that he means it. Compare Young's black clad gunman with his counterpart, the fearsomely memorable Jack Palance of Shane (1953), as illustration. Then too, as another reviewer notes, Cabot's scheming mastermind fails to convey much beyond a grumpy old fat guy waiting for dinner. Thus the needed sense of evil-incarnate never really materializes, despite the posturing. In fact, in my little book, it's Carol Kelly as the conflicted Molly who delivers the movie's one really convincing performance.Now, I have as much respect for director Lewis as the next old movie buff, particularly for that overlooked Korean War drama Retreat, Hell! (1952). However, it looks like he was just going through the motions here, especially in his work with the actors. As other reviewers note, the movie does have points of interest absent from other little Westerns of the day, including that stunning back shot of Hayden stalking down railroad tracks that stretch to infinity-- a memorable visual. Nonetheless, despite the many script opportunities and dramatic situations, the action never really gels into the riveting essay on greed and evil that writer Trumbo evidently desires. In passing&#x97; the low-budget Western was a favorite refuge for those in Hollywood blacklisted by HUAC, like Trumbo and Young, or those compromised, like Hayden. My favorite is The Tall Texan (1953), not a very good movie, but featuring a whole array of compromised Hollywood talent looking for a needed payday. Watching such stalwart city types as Lee J. Cobb and Luther Adler tell their horses to giddy-up amounts to a real hoot. But unfortunately, it hasn't turned up on the movie channels lately. Then again, maybe that's fortunately. "},{"Title":"Gunslingers take over a small Texas town","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Well, if you can ignore single action revolvers that don't require cocking, punches that never connect, and Sterling Hayden's atrocious accent, this is not a bad production. An evil land baron is intent on evicting all the land owners from their property in order to reap huge financial rewards. He does this by using the tried and true method of instilling fear and dealing out violence whenever necessary. The owners outnumbered the thugs, but were to gutless to band together and boot the criminals out of town. Until the right man came to town, that is, and set a courageous example.  "},{"Title":"Sterling Example of What Not to Do","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I do not believe I watched the whole thing. I tried. I really, really tried. I tried to like something of it but let's face it. This isn't Gary Cooper and this isn't High Noon and no one is going to Yuma. What a politicized mess. tell me something I don't already know. Bad guys are bad and good guys are good and bad girls are good too. Glad we got that straight. Now let's get on to the trashing of normal everyday folks to Dalton can be happy in his red diaper. Feel better now? Good. I think this one belongs back in the drawer. Back of the drawer. If you want to watch a western, there are many better ones readily available. This one is not worth the time. Sterling is better served in his other ventures and so are the others in the cast. Even if you only have one station and this is the only thing on, read a book. Rent Sparticus. Don't bother with this waste of film and effort all around. "},{"Title":"Campy Nonsense","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This strange, little B-picture has a lot of the same characteristics as a mid-season replacement TV series. It also has quite a bit of camp value, with its improbable but not unentertaining premise of a Scandinavian Whale Harpooner taking on unscrupulous Land Grabbers in the Old West. The shot of grim Sterling Hayden lugging his giant harpoon through town for his big showdown with the villain is a scream - sort of a bizarre homage to High Noon.Joseph H. Lewis has an unusual take on Westerns here. His direction seems fragile, overly sensitive. When there is violence, it's staged very methodically, clumsily. (For some reason, people have a deadly habit of standing motionlessly whenever the bad guy gallops into view, instead of gee, I don't know, running?) And while Lewis supplies some style, at other times, he's surprisingly amateurish; like when a third character wanders into a Two Shot without any warning. There's a lot of scenery-chewing going on too between Sebastian Cabot's fat, wicked Land Grabber and Ned Young's snarling, black-clad gunslinger. Particularly Young, who seems to have strayed off the set of the latest Mel Brooks' spoof with his hilariously noisy leather outfit (it constantly creaks and groans whenever he moves) and his vague, frustratingly obtuse insinuations before he is about to knock somebody off. He's quite ridiculous but quite watchable.Hayden, as the reluctant hero, sounds somewhat comically like a refugee from the cast of Fargo, but he's an intelligent actor and an appealing lead. At the time this film was made, he was nearing the end of the first phase of his career, where he was often a leading man in generally standard, lower budgeted films. He would soon enter a second and much more memorable phase as a formidable, mountainous character actor in all time classics like Dr. Strangeglove and The Godfather. "}{"Title":"Intended for release in 3-D?","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Does anybody else think this was intended for release in 3-D?  So many of the shots have what seems to me to be a peculiar set-up.  Most of the scenes have a staircase, long hallway, or pole of some variety as prominent features.  I mean, a showdown with a harpoon for Pete's sake!  (No, I'm not spoiling anything.  You see the showdown start before you even see the title of the film and opening credits.)And Sterling's accent!  Phew!  Some other interesting aspects though, like the gunslinger, and Sebastian Cabot's always fun to watch.  Possibly the most uses of the name `Johnny' in film history.  `Come here Johnny.' `What do you think, Johnny?'  `Where are you going, Johnny?'  And on and on, ad nauseum.John Thompson  "},{"Title":"Hayden's Worst Picture?","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  In late 58 or 59, a friend and I went to see this movie at the GLYNCO,GA Naval Air station theater. We had a saying that any movie was worth a dime. For some reason this picture has stuck with me all these years. I cannot critique as the others viewers have done. All I can remember was the Swede,coming up a dirt road,looking ridiculous with a harpoon in his hand,the road was marked with Caterpillar tractor tracks,the highway in the background was full of moving vehicles and the sky had contrails in it.This was not a B movie. It had to be a D if there is such a thing.Hayden,a decent actor,must have been horribly embarrassed at appearing in a turkey like this.So much for the any movie is worth a dime theory.  "}]