[{"Title":"Why all the irony?","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How come there are so many negative reviews about this one? It actually holds up better than many other sci-fi films of that period (wasn't Teenagers From Outer Space also made in 1959?), and if it's clunky at times, its clunkiness is part of its innocent charm. The effects and the  matte drawings may not be perfect, but they're sure colorful and entertaining, and the movie's restrained approach (at least more restrained that the title indicates) is most welcome. The presence of a woman scientist is also worth noting; although her treatment by the ship's captain is often sexist, ultimately she proves to be quite intelligent and competent.      (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Hard to believe only 8 years between this and 2001","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently saw a nicely restored print of this film on the Showtime cable network. The color is not the best, but certainly very good, and the monaural sound is probably better than what one would have experienced in a typical 1960 theater.A few visualsThe mission clock on the spaceship bulkhead has a huge BULOVA on the face. The day numerals on the mission-elapsed time display look like they was made from black electrician's tape. They only show numbers of days that could be displayed with numerals that had no curved lines 1, 17, and 47.The female astronaut carries a stylish black purse on board.There is a very large indicator on the spaceship bulkhead that says Oxygen Consumption, with a green light indicating Normal and a red one indicating Excessive.The astronauts have oxygen cylinders on their backs while on EVA, but there is no glass on their helmet visors; their faces are completely open to the atmosphere.The shots of the Martian exteriors are really pretty cool, quite innovative for the era and the limited budget. Not only is everything a monochromatic red, but there is an interesting solarization effect, which adds a bit of surrealism and makes the backdrops look less cheesy.Memorable linesYou know, I can't say that I recommend spacesuits for beautiful young dolls. What happened to all your curves?and the classic,I know you think I acted like a hysterical female there back at the ship, but I can assure you I'm perfectly capable of taking care of myself! "},{"Title":"This movie has it all...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...no kidding!  Take every hackneyed gimmick you've ever seen in bad science fiction movies, add in bad acting, cornball dialogue, extraordinarily amateurish special effects, silly 'Martians', and add a garish crimson filter for your 'Martian landscape' shots, and you have a monster of a movie like this one turned out to be.On the other hand, the monster ameba with the rotating eyeball was fun to watch, as was the gigantic rat-bat-spider creature.This was made in those grand old days before 'political correctness' was so common; the Astronauts waste no time in wasting the local flora and fauna whenever they get the chance.  Hey, why conduct a serious scientific expedition when you can romp around roasting the locals?All its faults aside (and there are many of them), this is a fun movie to watch, particularly if you enjoy screaming in delight at all the bizarre events depicted on the screen.Go ahead and rent this one, just make sure no one sees you with the evidence. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully awful!","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of the so-bad-it's good style of film making will have a real hoot with this film. Contains virtually all of the prerequisites for cheeseball sci fi, i.e. really bad effects, cornball dialogue, comic relief, and sexual stereotypes and innuendos. What the film lacks in budget and execution it more than makes up for in pure spirit and fun. Sci Fi fans will remember Jack Kruschen from Abbott and Costello Go to Mars playing, what else, comic relief in this film as well. Red tinted Mars scenes are pretty cool and psychedelic looking. Marionette  rat-spider is a scream. Overall, a very entertaining way to spend a rainy Sunday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"A Fun B-Movie","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely one movie I grew up watching when I was a kid.  The acting may be bad and the science may be convoluted, but it is still a fun ride.  You know you are going to have a good B movie when Les Tremayne, who was in so many B's during the 60's, is one of the stars.  Also, did you ever notice that the mail crew members were in wing tips?  At least they flew in space in style.  Also, the character of Dr. Ryan is supposed to have earned respect with her degree, but she is constantly referred to as the girl, but then again, this was the early sixties and what good b-flick doesn't have a female scientist that is all business until she's in peril and then she becomes the typical damsel in distress.  This film isn't great, but it definitely is fun. "},{"Title":"along came a spider-rat","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Angry Red Planet will be a treat for anyone who admires sci-fi flicks from the '50s and early '60s. Basically, a group of astronauts travels to Mars looking for life. They find an over-sized being which appears to be a cross between a rat and a spider. And the Munchkin mayor from The Wizard of Oz.I guess that there's nothing particularly unique about this movie; that era yielded many movies about people finding things in outer space. But like I said, if you have a special affinity for old-fashioned B-movies, then this is the movie for you. Watching the DVD with Spanish subtitles makes it even more interesting. "},{"Title":"Don't Anger Mars; it May Send a Giant Amoeba","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spaceship returns from Mars; about a couple of months earlier, a 4-person expedition had been sent to the red planet. Most of the picture is a flashback to what transpired over there. The picture is saddled by inane, melodramatic dialog, typical of many sci-fi efforts of the fifties & sixties. Note, for example, how the ship's commander (Mohr) tells another crew member to 'stay there' for no reason; as if moving to another spot inside the ship will cause a problem. Later, the commander orders two of the crew to remain in the ship while he and another go outside. The two he ordered to stay say 'no way' and follow out; I didn't have high hopes for the expedition's success by this point. There's much talk of 'ears twitching' and hugging a freeze-ray gun named 'Cleo' (short for Cleopatra, of course). It would at least be pretty funny, unintentionally, if the story didn't drag.There's a very slow pace to the whole thing; the astronauts spend as much time looking out the ship's window portals (which change color from red to blue), commenting on what they see, as they do outside actually exploring. The martian landscape, advertised as filmed in 'Cinemagic,' usually resembles animation cut-outs, or drawings, shot through an orange-red filter to give the illusion of interacting with the actors, who do take on an odd surrealistic appearance due to the process. But I don't think it fools anyone over 10 years old. The one clever mention I did notice was that the memories of the surviving astronaut would be tinged with unreality, so that would explain the unreal nature of the martian vista. Oh, okay...I was amused by some of the astronauts' actions as they begin to explore; right off the bat, they test their freeze gun on a plant, killing it, just for the hell of it. Then the female member hacks with a machete at what she thinks is a tree but turns out to be the leg of the spider-rat monster. Nice going, lady. Look up next time. No wonder the 'intelligence' on Mars gets upset and doesn't mind that one of the lower lifeforms, a giant amoeba, attacks the explorers. The acting isn't too impressive. Mohr especially, had a very annoying technique, saying a line and then abruptly erupting into a huge grin which always creeped me out - reminded me of It! the Terror From Beyond Space. The ending is fairly anti-climactic; don't expect any huge revelations beyond the 'no more expeditions' with freeze guns named Cleo. "},{"Title":"Campy but enjoyable early sci-fi","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film begins with people on Earth discovering that their rocket to Mars had not been lost but was just drifting out in Space near out planet. When it's retrieved, one of the crew members is ill, one is alive and the other two are missing. What happened to them is told through a flashback by the surviving member.While on Mars, the crew was apparently attacked by a whole host of very silly bug-eyed monsters. Oddly, while the sets were pretty good, the monsters were among the silliest I have seen on film. Plus, in an odd attempt at realism, the production used a process called Cinemagic. Unfortunately, this wonderful innovation just made the film look pretty cheap when they were on the surface of Mars AND the intensity of the redness practically made my eyes bleed--it was THAT bad!! Despite all the cheese, the film did have a somewhat interesting plot as well as a good message about space travel. For lovers of the genre, it's well worth seeing. For others, you may just find the whole thing rather silly--see for yourself and decide.While by today's standards this isn't an especially good sci-fi film, compared with the films being made at the time, it stacks up pretty well.PS--When you watch the film, pay careful attention to Dr. Tremayne. He looks like the spitting image of Dr. Quest from the Jonny Quest cartoon! Plus, he sounds and acts a lot like him, too. "},{"Title":"Average Sci-Fi film","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this when I was 8 years old on a Saturday afternoon. I didn't see it again until a few years back. It's not a great movie but is still fun. Get a load of the rat-bat-spider-crab monster! It is pretty lame but still has a low-budget special effects charm to it. The scenes on Mars would have better if the sky and ground were orange instead of everything. The process used made the actors look like they dove face first into pancake make-up. OK, now for the positives the acting is good and features some B movie vets in Gerald Mohr, Les Tremayne and Jack Kruschen. The spaceship and interior are for the most part convincing(given this was made in 1960). The film moves at a good pace. Direction was pretty good despite the fact that this was made in 9 days. Worth a look for fans of 1950s and 1960s Sci-Fi films. "},{"Title":"Mysterious planet is home to gruesome monsters.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sci-fi adventure is not the best and by no means the worst. I agree with the statement that bad sci-fi is comical. Bizarre pink tinting and unusual special effects make this a favorite for the late, late, late show viewers. Space explorers on the planet Mars fight off strange giant amoeba-like monsters and other strange creatures. Pretty cool.The cast includes Les Tremayne, Naura Hayden, Gerald Mohr and Jack Kruschen. Get comfy and enjoy. Don't feel bad if you nod off for a moment. I agree with adding this to the list of cult classics to not miss. "}{"Title":"The Angry Red Planet is classic B movie Sci-fi film","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" MGM still made movies on the cheap in the early 1960's and The Angry Red Planet (costing less than $200,000) is a prime example. Despite the low budget and some dubious special effects, the film is highly enjoyable and fun to watch. Gerald Mohr stars as the rugged and unpretentious Colonel O'Bannon, leader of the first manned space exploration to Mars. With him on board is good-looking redhead Naura Hayden (as Dr. Iris Ryan) and gentlemanly Les Tremayne (as Professor Geddell). After landing their craft in the middle of the red-atmosphere of this ominous planet, things slowly but surely begin to unravel for the crew. It seems as though the planet itself is very angry about their arrival and is intent on destroying them as quickly as possible. Some very weird creatures then start popping up all over the place and Ms. Hayden does her best Fay Wray screams right on cue. Mohr remains calm throughout the proceedings and viewers are assured that he's the right man for this job. Directed by Ib Melchior, the original creator of the concept for the Lost in Space TV show, The Angry Red Planet is a few steps ahead of the usual late 1950's and early 1960's Science Fiction B movie. I remember seeing it in the theater as a young kid (the 25 cent Saturday matinée) and was duly impressed. It didn't give me nightmares but it did help to dissuade me from a career as an astronaut. Gerald Mohr, a prolific TV and film character actor with an uncanny resemblance to Humphrey Bogart, is the best thing about the movie. During his long and productive career, he could play either heroes or villains effectively without ever missing a beat. One of his more memorable TV roles was as Doc Holliday on Maverick. The beautiful Ms. Hayden also contributes to the scenery; her red hair blends right in with the eerie Martian atmosphere. As for director Ib Melchior, he's still around and as active as ever. I spoke to him at a Book Publisher's convention in Los Angeles a few years ago and he looked healthy and fit. Unfortunately, Mr. Mohr passed away at the relatively young age of 54 in 1968, leaving behind a volume of very watchable work. "},{"Title":"Scared spit-less","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie scared the be jeepers out of me.Well, I saw the original release, and I was eight years old. But it scared me good. There was all the red. There were the scary actors who had really bad five word lines out of a comic book.There was always something OUT THERE.There were all the kids crying and running for the exit doors.and then the nightmares. Took me at least three days to get over this one.This movie was made for kids. Why are there so many comments up here about this grade D flick?And some of you are watching this thing as adults? "},{"Title":"Tale from a man called Ib","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is funny and painful at the same time.  The Cinemagic almost gave me a seizure.  Despite what they imply, Cinemagic is not some innovative technical procedure.  It was developed as the result of an accident, and they used it because it disguised the fact that their monsters were so stupid-looking.  I also don't think it's a coincidence that the writer is Sid Pink.This movie is good for a laugh, if you are really looking for a movie made in 9 days on 200,000 dollars.  It is entertaining; at least I can say that about it.  The bat/rat/spider is the highlight. "},{"Title":"Not to be confused with The Boring Red Planet from 2000 with Val Kilmer.","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What guarantees a mission's success to the red planet? Sending a cute redhead, of course.TARP is a wonderful piece of cheesy sci-fi nonsense from the 50s, with the usual cardboard-rocket crew composition the ditsy woman (with a hand-bag!), the bearded asexual scientist, the suave playboy astronaut who strikes poses a lot, and an unfunny fat comic relief. The first problem they face is - what else - a meteor/asteroid/whatever, like in dozens of films from that era. The playboy, in fact only a shriveled old f**t, is only interested in flirting with the red-head, even when they land on Mars. Talk about a scientific mind! As soon as the crew lands there, the first order of business is to shoot some flora. Kill, destroy, wipe out - and ask questions later. No wonder the playboy polishes his pistol with such tender-loving care his second true love, after the ginger. However, when the redhead screams only minutes later that she saw a monster, he refuses to believe her. After all, they've only landed on Mars, in a cheap 50s film! In the meantime, while he isn't too busy thinking up new gags to bore the other three with, the comic relief prepares his ray gun, giving the viewer the unmistakable impression that the silly Earth quartet was sent on an extraterrestrial plant-shooting safari, and not a scientific mission. Just so we never doubt that the fantastic four are sent there to annihilate rather than explore, Ginger hacks of a lower part of what turns out to be a rather large bat-spider. Oh, I wonder what this is...? I think I'll cut off a bit of it, see what happens... But if you think the scientist is the only stable or serious person aboard this little ship, then think again. Paranoia guides his every thought he is constantly ranting about an alien conspiracy. The flawless reasoning behind this belief is that everything is too quiet, which leads him to conclude that Mars's environment is unnatural.The (space) world according to TARP should entertain anyone who loves 50s B-movie monster innocence. Great dialogue, lovely science, cheerful visuals - enough to keep you on your toes, and not fall asleep as is the case with so many allegedly serious sci-fi films of the 90s and 00s. "},{"Title":"This is SOOOO Good!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Extremely entertaining SF Hokum about a trip to what is probably the strangest looking Mars ever put on film. Even better than that, this film features some very unforgettable creatures...which are extremely cool! Loads of Fun. Truly Great SF B-Movie..one of the very best. "},{"Title":"Fever Dream of a Ten-Year Old Kid in 1959","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I'd like to say that the user comments alone left me with tears in my eyes from laughing.  One comment that bad SF movies become good comedies is right on the mark.  MST3000 made it's living off that.If you look at THE ANGRY RED PLANET as the fever dream of a 10 year old comic book reader from 1959, you'll have the handle on this sucker.  All the elements are there  the pseudoscience, occasionally logical, more often hilariously infantile.  The adolescent boy attitude toward sex, with the gigolo captain (good call on that one, guys!) making eyes at the buxom scientist with hair so red it's a wonder it doesn't set off the fire alarms.  The ridiculous conception of Mars as a planet so alien that everything glows red, yet one alien monster has a mouse face, and the blob alien has an eye that rotates like a kid's toy.  The comic relief, an overweight astronaut (!) who sounds like he never finished the 8th grade in Brooklyn and has a psychotic fixation on his ray gun.  And of course, the mere fact that alien = dangerously evil.  If these people had met E.T., they would have roasted him in two seconds flat!  OW indeed!Don't get me wrong.  I rated this movie low.  Still, it's never boring (except when the scientist tries to explain everything - only to make it all sound more and more ridiculous), and you have to admit, in your little kid core, it makes you jump a few times.  Okay, then don't admit it.  I guess you were never 10. "},{"Title":"A personal comment on an admittedly awful film","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This generation produced many B films in the horror/science fiction genre.  This particular one was broadcast on tv when I was nine years old, and it frightened me so much that I had to sleep with the radio on as my security blanket for about five nights.  This is basically a monster movie, and the worst one, oddly, was not the most menacing, but the depiction of the intelligent Martian with a very distorted face.  He didn't look worse than a Klingon, but what is a nine-year-old never exposed to Star Trek supposed to know.  (I had the same problem with the brief portrayal of the Yeti in The Abominable Snowman of the Himalayas starring Forrest Tucker).  If there is a lesson in this, it is to be careful about what young people see.  I was in fact frightened half to death by many of the poor quality s.f. movies I saw on tv before the age of 11.  Why did I watch them?  Not much else on tv.  Good thing I didn't see Alien back then.Oddly, Angry Red Planet was broadcast not too long ago, and it did seem strange to view it after almost 40 years and recollect an almost traumatic childhood experience.  Oh yeah, check out The House on Haunted Hill, too.   "},{"Title":"Classic drive-in B movie","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's telling that as of the entry of this comment, NO females have submitted a vote of any kind for this movie.  Not surprisingly, cheesy science fiction doesn't appeal to them quite as much... If you like a good B movie, and especially if you like to satirize them as you watch, you will like this.  If you don't have fun watching bad movies, this one's not for you. "},{"Title":"A sign of its times","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I'll give the film makers this much credit the planet sure seems angry. And quite red, for that matter. This is fairly typical low-budget 1950s sci-fi right here, complete with shoddy effects and no more than a passing knowledge of science, or even the laws of physics. It's about a manned mission to Mars in which stuff goes wrong, which is a theme that shows up even in today's movies; here, it's told mainly in flashback by one of the survivors.Rocketship MR-1 (you know, for Mars Rocket 1) blasts off with four crew members on board - Tom O'Bannion (Gerald Mohr), Iris Ryan (Naura Hayden), Theodore Gettell (Les Tremayne), and Sam Jacobs (Jack Kruschen). A couple of days later, they land on Mars. To put that in perspective, if the fastest spacecraft around today left while Mars and Earth were closest to each other, it would arrive at Mars in a little over a month. That's if it's an unmanned craft, as the human body can't take super-duper fast speeds. But, okay, this was 1959, so we'll just have to accept that the writers were spitballing some ideas and didn't care if they fudged some numbers.Contact is lost a couple of months after departure from Earth, and suddenly the MR-1 is detected in orbit around Earth (yeah, I know); immediately, the science types spring into action and return the rocket to terra firma by remote control. Which is totally a thing, at least in science fiction. Anyway, Iris staggers out of the ship and is essentially in shock, while one of her crew mates is rushed to an operating table with some green thing on his arm. It's up to amnesiac Iris to fill in the blanks for the doctors, who for some reason need her to explain just what in tarnation happened before they can do anything.This is where the flashback comes in, as Iris is hypnotized. We learn, in quick order, that the ship did land on Mars. Upon landing, the crew note only vegetation - no, as they said, life. Plants aren't life, people! And if someone from 2015 told this crew that plants are, indeed, life, the answer would be along the lines of well, not REAL life! Anyway, the plants are there, and they appear to be completely still. This unnerves everyone, particularly Iris, who as the lone female is prone to emotional outbursts, not like the manly and/or thoughtful men on board.Much of the movie was shot in Cinemagic, a process that was supposed to simulate hand-drawn animation. It doesn't really work to that extent, but the scenes on Mars do have a very strong reddish hue to them. Seems appropriate. But here are a few other interesting bits that this laugher provided. 1) while the crew is on board their ship and looking out of the portholes, the sky changes from red to blue and back again between scenes. I'm not sure if the blue was supposed to mean daytime and the red was night, but even in 1959 people knew why the sky looks blue to us. 2) While on Mars, the crew encounters what they call a lake (although it's massive enough that ocean would have been the first thing to pop into my mind), so they come back later with a - wait for it - inflatable raft. Just the kind of thing you'd take onboard a spaceship that needs to be as lightweight as possible to escape Earth's gravitational pull. And then 3) about that gravity. The ship itself appears to have plenty of it, as no one's floating around. Understandable, since it would probably break the budget to turn on the antigravity in 1959. Mars also has plenty of it. In fact, it's the same gravity Earth has! Neat little coincidence.But sure, this was 1959, and the extent of outer-space exploration was...what, Yuri Gagarin? We can let them slide on a lot of this science stuff. Science is for nerds, right? Let's see this crew take on the aliens! Which they do, and spoiler alert, the aliens aren't at all pleased we're on Mars. After a while, you can kind of see their point.The Angry Red Planet is a relic of its era; it's light on facts, light on humor (other than the forced or stereotypical kinds), light on drama, and just plain light overall. Even the tone is light. I did get a kick out of the prehistoric Mission Control, which consisted of a bunch of people crowded around one terminal. Who knows how big the mountain was that housed the actual computer. Gerald Mohr, who plays the crew's commander, is sort of a poor man's Peter Graves and looks like a poor man's Humphery Bogart, which is why he was hired. Kruschen, who plays Sam the warrant officer (why?), is your garden variety comic relief. He's even from Brooklyn, which means he's got your back and just let him at those aliens! Tremayne, who had had a long, illustrious career in radio by this time, is the requisite thoughtful scientist on board; Iris is also a scientist, but everything she says is dismissed, because she's a woman. "},{"Title":"Damn good entertainment","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, 190.000 bucks to make this one, thats the old spirit! I usually don't give that high rankings to movies of that quality, but this one earns a 7/10. It's so cheesy and just so much fun to watch, that blob thing with the eye going round in circles is a killer!!! A story to shake in laughter, crappy effects, scientific mistakes everywhere, thats the way to make a b-movie that rocks! I love that one, glad I bought it on tape via ebay so cheap. "}{"Title":"Still fun to watch after all these years","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This flick came out the year before I was born, so that makes me an old f**t who grew up with bad horror and sci-fi films. Yet, as excruciatingly painful as it may be to watch this film with a straight face, bear in mind it was made the same year as the Mercury Program's inception. What'd we know about Mars? We're still learning. The Atlas rocket with a control room the size of an office building set into the base where the engines are and the obvious reversing of the film to show a landing are almost unforgivable. But they only had a quarter-mil budget. Whaddaya want for that? I loved the spider-rat creature, and actually felt sorry for it being blinded. Talk about having a bad day. All it wanted to do was play. Did it ever actually do anything hostile? Now it has to go back to its spider-rat wife and tell how she has to go and do the shopping for spider-rat food for the spider-rat kids. The two worst ones were the ameoba with the revolving turret eye and the ten-year-old's drawing of a Martian peeping tom checking out the window without blinking. I always thought he looked like he was saying, I hope you enjoyed trashing my planet, blinding and freezing my pets and making me look like the bad guy. The movie needed closure. The alien city glimpsed on the lake is something that they should have explored. Might have run into the Three Stooges.  "},{"Title":"A Bizarre, Psychedelic Adventure","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers Ahead**Gerald Mohr, a busy B-movie actor during the Forties and Fifties, leads an expedition to Mars.  Before we get to the Red Planet we're entertained by romantic patter between Mohr and scientist Nora Hayden; resident doofus Jack Kruschen; and the sight of Les Tremayne as another scientist sporting a billy-goat beard.  The Martian exteriors feature fake backdrops and tints ranging from red to pink&#150;-the Cinemagic process touted in the ads.  Real cool monsters include a giant amoeba,  a three-eyed insect creature, an oversized Venus Fly-Trap, and the unforgettable rat/bat/spider.  The whole bizarre adventure is recalled by survivor Hayden under the influence of hypnotic drugs.  THE ANGRY RED PLANET reportedly has quite a cult following, and it probably picked up most of its adherents during the psychedelic Sixties.  "},{"Title":"There's lots worse out there","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I saw this movie in the theater when I was 5 years old and it stayed in my memory all these years. By today's standards it comes up short, but I've seen movies with hundreds of times the budget that were a lot worse. Sure the acting is bad, but anything John Wayne did before 1939 could not be called good acting either.   This movie does have some positives working for it. The female among the 4 astronauts is a biologist/zoologist and is not just window-dressing. The martian monsters and landscape/city are imaginative. They had some kind of 1g drive that allowed their rather capacious spacecraft to not need zero gravity effects, although they could have showed the turnover at the halfway point.     All in all this is not the stinker some other viewers have labeled it. My score 6/10.  "},{"Title":"A good movie for a rainy day..","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" **Warning! Spoiler Information Inside**The Angry Red Planet(1959) has been mentioned to me in several ways from several different persons in film discussion over the years , Having just had the chance to see the full movie(I did catch several scenes on 90's late night cable, but I fell asleep)I can review.The movie is a confusing story arc of crossed genres. At it's surface it is easy to lump it in the back closet of Sci-Fi history.The movie appears to be poorly framed out , thus creating the long drag of the film for it's short length. This is not a fault of bad acting, writing or directing , which is unusual but true here. My personal take having seen the whole film , with it's divided storyline, is that Angry Red Planet is an Alien style precursor. Or to be more specific a cinematic early attempt at the Psychological thriller , with Sci-Fi as the casting template.Why does the movie come off so hammy? It was 1959. 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968) would not be released for another 9 years. It being acknowledged today as a paramount film in the development of effects exposes the problem with this movie. The times cannot support the gravitas of the idea. In the end that is not the fault of anything but circumstance. had this film had the benefit of effects, it would have fared well in say the 1980s horror/sci-fi culture.This is a good film to watch , it will be slow but any film lover will appreciate such an early attempt. The Rat/Bat - Spider creature is a work of horror art that deserves the weighty respect of the Horror audience. It might also explain Director Tim Burton's obsession with giant mechanical spiders? Worth a look.Three stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"AIP In Space","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of only two survivors from a Martian expedition is so traumatized she (Naura Hayden) does not remember the circumstances of the trip.The film stars Gerald Mohr and is directed by American International Pictures regular Ib Melchior. Melchior was only given 10 days and a budget of $200,000 to make the film. All things considered, he did alright.The New York Times wrote, The Angry Red Planet solemnly warns its audiences not to go to Mars. Stubborn patrons who ignore the advice will discover that the planet looks like a cardboard illustration from Flash Gordon and is inhabited by carnivorous plants, a giant amoeba and a species resembling a three-eyed green ant. Well said.Great film? No. Fun film? Yes. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable 50's sci-fi outing","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The crew of an exploratory expedition to Mars must fight for their lives after they encounter various lethal alien lifeforms on the angry red planet. Director Ib Melchior, who also co-wrote the engrossing and imaginative script with Sid Pink, relates the entertaining story at a steady pace and treats the neat premise with admirable restraint and seriousness. The cast play their roles commendably straight, with nice work by Gerald Mohr as the amiable Col. Thomas O'Bannon, ravishing redhead Naura Hayden as the strong, smart, and resourceful Dr. Iris 'Irish' Ryan (this film scores extra points for not presenting Ryan as your usual demeaning shrieking helpless damsel in distress), Les Tremayne as the sage Prof. Theodore Gettell, and Jack Kruschen as the hearty and easygoing CWO Sam Jacobs. This movie further benefits from a nifty array of gnarly creatures a deadly Venus Flytrap-type carnivorous plant, a briefly glimpsed three-eyed behemoth, a giant amoeba, and, best of all, the famous enormous bat-rat spider beast. Moreover, there's a real sincerity to the whole picture that's impossible to either dislike or resist. Both Stanley Cortez's vibrant color cinematography and Paul Dunlap's rousing score are up to par. A fun little film. "},{"Title":"Martians to Earth, don't come moving into our neighborhood","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I well remember The Angry Red Planet from when I was a lad as it appeared on double bills as a second feature to some class A film from MGM. Although it certainly has not stood the test of time as the Mars rover has indicated, the film still has a nice fun and imaginative quality to it.The film is done in flashback as a lost spaceship to Mars is found apparently dead in space. One of the survivors after some shock therapy tells the story of the expedition.There were four on the crew Gerald Mohr, Nora Hayden, Jack Kruschen, and Les Tremayne. The place is a forbidding red tinted world accomplished on screen through a red tint filter. The crew meets up with some really strange life forms and they do get a glimpse of what looks like the Emerald city on Oz if it were red instead of green.I really loved the giant Bat/Rat Spider, one of the lower forms of life on Mars. There was also a giant amoeba and a carnivorous plant for your thrills and enjoyment.The end is really something as a recording is played where the Martians tell the people of Earth to stay away from their planet, they don't want them messing up the neighborhood as earthlings are primitive and warlike. I'm betting space exploration was put off several generations.I rather enjoyed The Angry Red Planet and I think most viewers will. "},{"Title":"More red than angry","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The names of Sidney Pink and Ib Melchior are associated with two of the less satisfactory science-fiction films that I saw in the 1960s this unbelievably boring and moronic film and, three years later, Journey to the Seventh Planet, made in Denmark, with a story that resembles Stanislav Lew's novel Solaris. (I have not seen The Time Travelers, but apparently things improved). It takes almost 30 minutes of its running time to get to Mars and a few more to get out of the ship, only to discover settings in a horrid process called Cinemagic, that makes everything look like a cartoon in red. The cast is terrible. Watch the astronauts' shoes and socks. "},{"Title":"Mars Oughtta Be Angry!","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Surely no Saturday morning TV kids' show was ever done this poorly. After all, those producers had to count on the audience coming back. Well, in this awful offering, they could at least count the money they saved on sets. The script could have been a reject from some long-forgotten space opera serial, with a few smarmy lines added for cool-dude Gerald Mohr to murmur to Naura Hayden. No director could have done anything decent with such a loony storyline, so the action just plods boringly along. The spaceship props are absurd--a Bulova wall clock and portable typewriter, for example--but the planet sets have got to be some of the worst in cinematic history. Most are crude drawings, and it's all bathed in an often misfocused red light. Even Mohr's bare hairy chest is used as a prop. And it's a bad one--as rib-thin as the plot. Any viewer who can make it to the end of this movie will hear a message from the Martians--and will probably agree completely! "},{"Title":"King Kong big Brother Rules!   Alias Batratspidercrab!","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the worst movies ever made but I loved it!Bad effects and all its to me is one of the funniest entertaining bad movies ever made!How did Mystery Science Theater 3000,miss this one? The batratspidercrab is the most memorable monster and how the hell is anybody going to mistake that for a damn tree all they had to do was look up when they first came upon the thing the whole body was visible! My favorite scene in the movie was when Iris was attacked by the plant creature you can actually see her rapping its tentacles around her it was hilarious! This movie is worth buying if you don't take the movie seriously it is a very enjoyable fun movie! "}{"Title":"cult classic","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is pure 'cult' film-making at its cultiest. I mean. this is one wild, off-the-wall B-movie sci-fi flick.You have to start with the recognition that Gerald Mohr is PURPOSELY doing a Humphrey Bogart impersonation. Add to this a character that reads comic books who then acts like a comic book character. Wash the whole film in some funky solarization process through a red filter, quite like many Russian sci-fi films of the same period. Add all kinds of dippy monsters that are quilted together from film monsters from the 1950s. What the heck is going on here? Actually, it's impossible to figure out. All we do know is that someone who really wanted to make sci fi B-movies made a film that absorbs all previous B-movies and then stands them on their heads. This is a film that utterly refuses to be like any other of its genre, even at the same time reproducing all the clichés we expect from its genre. It therefore achieves the impossible - it becomes unique by not violating any genre conventions, simply pushing them to their logical extremes.I cannot promise that you will like, or even respect, this film, once you've seen it; I only insist that, for a thorough education in the possibilities that are cinema, that you watch this film with an open mind. It may just surprise you. "},{"Title":"Sure it's terrible...but those monsters!","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spaceship from Earth travels to Mars to see what's up there. Aboard are the usual bunch of idiots with the obligatory hot woman. They land on Mars (where everything is shot through a red filter) and encounter some truly memorable monsters.Yeah it's silly and stupid but if you saw it as a kid you probably have fond memories of it. I caught this on TV in the 1970s. I thought the red scenes in Mars looked cool and the infamous rat/bat/spider creature scared me silly the first time I saw it. It LOOKS real (I think the red tint had something to do with it). Then there's the monster from the ocean with a revolving eyeball (!!!), a man-eating plant and the space amoeba holding them down. It all ends with an ending that actually spooked me when I was kid but just makes me smirk now. The acting is, considering the script, not bad.No great movie at all but the red color and those cool monsters really make this one stand out! "},{"Title":"Better than you think","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie made a strong impression on me when I saw it on the Big Screen in 1960 (I was 10) and I jumped for joy when I found a videotape of it about 12 years ago. And my attitude towards it has been shaped by my reading articles about the creation of it in Filmfax. I recall reading in a book about science fiction movies in which the author quotes one Hollywood producer of sci fi movies as saying When you don't have a big budget you have to use your imagination. By our modern Star Wars-CGI standards the special effects may seem a little cheesy thought I personally find CGI SFX still a little cartoonish while this at least looks real, and after having read with what they had to work with, I think they did a pretty good job.I haven't watched it 10 or so years, so a lot of the details escape me. It starts out with a clever twist, the only survivor who is in halfway decent shape is the girl (actually a well qualified scientist) who has brought the rocketship back to Earth. The story is then in flashback, much it reflecting what she remembers. The Cinemagic is a bit of a gimmick but it does create an otherworldly atmosphere that reminds us we are on a totally alien world. The scene where Warrant Officer Jacobs is killed by the amoeba absorbing him is pretty dramatic-and imaginative. The final denouement where the Martians angrily tell the Earthmen Do not return here!-I can still hear the Martian's basso tones.Again, it's not George Lucas, Steven Spielberg or Ray Harryhausen, it was made in 1960 and shows it. Approach with an open mind instead of an MST3000 attitude, you just might be entertained. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully awful!","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of the so-bad-it's good style of film making will have a real hoot with this film. Contains virtually all of the prerequisites for cheeseball sci fi, i.e. really bad effects, cornball dialogue, comic relief, and sexual stereotypes and innuendos. What the film lacks in budget and execution it more than makes up for in pure spirit and fun. Sci Fi fans will remember Jack Kruschen from Abbott and Costello Go to Mars playing, what else, comic relief in this film as well. Red tinted Mars scenes are pretty cool and psychedelic looking. Marionette  rat-spider is a scream. Overall, a very entertaining way to spend a rainy Sunday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"A turkey, sure ... but fun anyway!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it's low-rated severely by most critics, this one is a lot less boring than many others from the 1950s.  It's so rich in the beloved elements of the 1950s sci-fi films that it's like a very ambitious spoof of the genre, complete with creepy theremin music, borrowed sound effects from `Forbidden Planet', and characters who want to claim Mars in the name of Brooklyn.  The ship's control room is rich in electronic gizmos -- and the computer is labeled in big letters across the top  BURROUGHS (as in Edgar Rice').  One of the spaceship crew members passes the time enroute by reading `Super Fantastic Science Fiction Stories' -- which is exactly the kind of story this is.  Sci-fi alumni Les Tremayne (the general in `War of the Worlds', and the opening narrator in `Forbidden Planet') is among the cast.  Nora Hayden is a reasonably attractive heroine.Mars is depicted more imaginatively (though less realistically) than in such films as `Rocketship X-M', using matte paintings of strange vegetation and weird landscapes (instead of dull desert shots in Arizona).   But beware of `Cinemagic', those red-tinted color-negative shots which were intended to give the Martian landscape an unearthly quality.  The effect is overdone for most viewer's taste.Despite the fair cast, the acting is substandard.  The fault lies primarily on the screenplay and direction -- both of which can be blamed on Ib Melchoir (`The Time Travelers'), and co-producer Sid Pink.  There are entirely too many `talking head' close-ups.  The dialogue is dull and sometimes illogical.  In several places the story simply leaps over events that should have been shown, even if only briefly.  As a result, the plot seems disjointed.  Pink and Melchoir also wrote the screenplay for the Swedish film `Reptilicus' (which is apparently Latin for `ridiculous puppet dragon').On the positive side, the Martian bat-rat-spider-crab is a pretty memorable monster.  The Martian city (seen in only two brief shots) is gorgeous, a perfect example of the futuristic designs so popular in the 1950s.Lastly, the poster for the film is a classic, even if the movie isn't.  It shows the wild Martian landscape, the rocket, the monster, and the Martian city, and the astronauts!  If only they made the movies as good as the posters . . . "},{"Title":"Great in remake","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I disagree with most peoples comments about this movie. I think Story Great. Creatures and planet design Great (I really liked the man eating plants) acting bad. THEY SHOULD DO A REMAKE. And, they should have a little more history with the creatures on the planet. Like that huge monster walking thing. Also, they should have had on Earth, the guy with the growth on his arm, get his arm amputated or something. "},{"Title":"Great Acid Trip RED color cinematography!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has a tired old plot, but great character actors and an out of this world Solarized red film special effect that would be hard to beat even with todays digital special effects. Les Tremayne really works the crowd with his excellent performance. Hoky monsters and living room sized spaceships really make you chuckle, but this is camp science fiction at it's best. They should make movies like this today. "},{"Title":"Hilarious fun!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know many people would consider Plan 9 From Outer Space as the funniest sci-fi movie ever, but this gets my vote. The special effects and monsters make the grade for unintentionally funny, but what sets this apart is the characterizations. The cliched engineer/super with the blue collar new york accent is great, but the slimy gigilo captain is the topper. The best thing you can say about his acting is he has great chest hair. "},{"Title":"Perfect Popcorn Fodder","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"      In spite of it's multitude of shortcomings, (for example, in the acting department, Colonel O'Bannion's demeanor in the first half of the film seemed more like that of a gigolo than a spaceship commander), I found The Angry Red Planet to be a delightfully entertaining film.     Very original and creative in certain respects  the CineMagic red filtering gives the Martian atmosphere and landscape an eerie, glowing quality; the artwork, while evident, is impressive, especially the Martian City across the lake; the giant Venus (I mean Martian!) flytrap was barely passable, but the bat-rat-spider-crab creature was cool and well-constructed; the giant ameoba with the rotating eyeball is an incredible, hilarious sight - intended or not, it's got to be one of the most comically imaginative creatures ever conceived!     I would place The Angry Red Planet in the third tier of the 180+ sci-fi films made during that era - better than dozens of dull, boring, unimaginative low-budgies in the fourth and bottom rung, but well below the second tier (When Worlds Collide; This Island Earth,etc.), and the cream of the crop top level, (Forbidden Planet; The War of the Worlds, etc.).     Perfect popcorn fodder for both the 50's sci-fi fan and general family entertainment. "},{"Title":"I've seen better, and I've seen a lot worse","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In many ways THE ANGRY RED PLANET is a typical 1950s sci-fi flick.  The mighty Earthers going where no man has gone before (apologies to Gene Roddenberry) to explore Mars.  And there is, of course, the evil looking space creature (the peeping tom alien).  And we can't forget the less than ILM special effects.  But, on the other hand, THE ANGRY RED PLANET is not a typical sci-fi film from this period.  The headache producing red filter effect used when the on Mars, while it isn't STAR WARS quality, I found it rather creative for the time.  Also here is a film that has a female in a role other than the usual damsel in distress.  Again, we're not talking Susan Sarandon or Rene Russo here, but for late 1959 early 1960 it certainly was cutting edge.  If you happen to catch it on American Movie Classics one night, throw some popcorn in the microwave and kick back and escape for a while.  There are a lot worse ways to spend a evening.  "}{"Title":"Bad Sci Fi is always great comedy.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A bad historical romance movie, over time, is a bad historical romance movie.  A bad mystery film, over time, is a bad mystery film.  However, a bad science fiction film, over time, is a great comedy.  The Angry Red Planet is one of the funniest.The mood is set by the awkward cinematography and slam-bang editing.  Character close-ups within a scene appear to have been filmed in different sets from the main action.  This is best illustrated in some opening sequences in the conference room.  Watch as the conference table appears to grow and shrink, relative to the actors, from close up to wide angle.  Also, reaction shots linger a bit too long to be taken seriously. On the plus side, stock footage of rocket launch facilities is handled quite well and lends, although briefly, a large budget feel to the film.  Similarly, the unique magenta-biased film processing for scenes on the surface of Mars evokes a suitably eerie atmosphere.But the acting and script is pure corn and good for lots of laughs. "},{"Title":"60's Space Adventure","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this in its first release in 1960.  It's typical Saturday matinee fare.  It was different (a red tint process for the action on the planet), and cheap, and even laughable, but, it was fun.  The heroes were good guys, and the heroine was a 60's heroine.  It was danger on an alien world, yet safety in the theater. If you don't like a good bad movie, then pass on it.  If you want to see a movie without all the gore and violence, then check it out.  I still enjoy watching it. "},{"Title":"Mars has every right to be angry !","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Four bloodthirsty simpletons travel to Mars (after an interminable prologue) and wreak havoc in the name of scientific exploration. The martians don't like this one bit. And who can blame them ?Redeemed slightly by some suitably strange martians, most notably the wondrous batratspider, whose vicious treatment at the hands of a supposed scientific expedition is actually quite distressing!  "},{"Title":"The Murky Red Planet!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hopelessly inept and dull movie in which the characters stand around in rooms or a rocket ship and talk endlessly. You might think things would perk up when they explore Mars but these scenes are filmed through a heavy red/orange filter which makes everything very murky. The Martian landscape/vegetation consists mainly of drawings and the monsters are entirely unconvincing. There are echoes of 'Bride Of The Monster' when the heroine carefully winds the octopus like tentacle of a flesh eating plant around her before weakly thrashing about, the difference being that the Ed Wood film is a hundred times more entertaining. Better wear earplugs when watching otherwise the 'sci-fi' music score, repeated endlessly, will drive you insane. If you find yourself unable to sleep one night just slip this one into the VCR and your insomnia will be cured in no time. "},{"Title":"Only for serious sci-fi fans","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this movie a 2, and though I consider myself a science fiction fan, I found this movie very difficult to take seriously.  It was on AMC one late night, and I'm glad I saw it for free.  This movie is probably good for a few laughs, but not much more.The special effects are about average for the time period - not awful, but not great, either.  Of course we know more about Mars now than we did back then, but we really can't hold that against this film.  The main reason I did not like this movie is because of the story.There were several parts of this movie that I wish would have been explored in a little more detail - the astronaut's injury/condition, the city on Mars, the creature in the lake, etc.  Overall, the movie is much like a lengthy episode of the 1960s version of The Outer Limits - complete with a cheesy ending. "},{"Title":"Easy, Irish, Easy","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very bad but watchable science fiction film that suffers from abominable special effects, poor acting, and a ridiculous story. The film opens with a spaceship returning from exploration on Mars with a woman and a man with green slime on his arm. She, through some hokey plot contrivances, begins to tell what happened on this fateful trip as almost all the tapes seemed to be magnetically wiped off. Four astronauts take on this journey a military type played by Gerald Mohr, a poor man's Humphrey Bogart who enjoys saying the word Irish and has the acting savvy of a codfish, then there is Naura Hayden, a beautiful redhead and only female crew member on flight with three men wearing the most formfitting suits possible to accentuate all her curves, next, Les Tremaine, a wonderful character actor from cheap sci-fi films like this as the egghead, and last, Jack Kruschen as Sammy - the guy from Brooklyn with jokes and doesn't seem too bright although chosen for his expertise in electronics. None of these performers are really any good, and all of them say their dialog with little conviction. Watch Tremaine as he utters that scientific nonsense! Really, the best out of the four is Kruschen - and that really says a lot about this film. But bad acting aside, the movie just falls apart when they land on Mars via flashback. The Angry Red Planet had a real cheap budget because Mars is really the American Southwest with a heavy red tint over it. When the story calls for something that might look Martian, there are drawings placed with a heavy red tint over them. You can tell they are drawings The monsters are perhaps even worse as we get a Bat-rat-spider with a size upwards of 40 feet that looks like some kids got together piecing dead animals together. The other significant creature is a giant amoeba with an oscillating eye. Whew! These are bad. There is a nice drawing of a Martian city, but there just was not enough of this in the film. Despite all these big problems, The Angry Red Planet is a fun bad film. It is really fascinating to see how far we have come as a civilization. Most of the stuff they used in the movie is so outdated. One guy is using an electric razor with a cord and I thought they can get to Mars but they are still using cords. Director Ib Melchior gives an interesting look to much of the film even with the budgetary constraints, but the story by him and Sid Pink doesn't fly. And how bout that ending with the music and the psychedelic colors? Groovy man! "},{"Title":"Diverting, likeable nightmare tale about a courageous band of space explorers and their adventures on the forbidding and mysterious planet Mars.  Despite some technical inadequacies and the static staginess","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE ANGRY RED PLANET was theatrically released on July 1960 however this movie was actually filmed in September 1959 and was given its early preview screenings the following November.  The film strongly embodies the 1950s sci-fi visual form and styling and is an important artifact of this colourful and sadly bygone era.  Generally this project was a little too ambitious for the budget and resources allotted to it and much of the scenic effects involving views of the Martian landscape, environment and civilization are basically sketches courtesy of a talented comic book illustrator (and one-time son-in-law of Moe Howard of the The Three Stooges) Norman Maurer.  But this artwork is so representative of the distinctive style native only to this particular decade that while its inclusion was probably considered embarrassingly amateurish and shoddy during this film's original release Maurer's illustrations can now be viewed with a more historical perspective and appreciation.THE ANGRY RED PLANET was filmed in an experimental process developed by Norman Maurer referred to as Cinemagic and the intent behind this proposed technique was to give everything in the Mars sequences a uniform appearance so that when Maurer's drawings and sketches were employed for visual reference their insertion would not be apparent to the movie audience. Problems with the film processing lab developers arose from their lack of understanding how to properly utilize the special lenses and components supplied in connection with Cinemagic.  The final result on film was a reddish and yellow tinting coupled with an irradiated glow effect to the planetary sequences and a complete failure to camouflage Mr. Maurer's interesting but obvious artwork.Technical limitations not withstanding THE ANGRY RED PLANET achieves an uncomfortably tense and threatening mood during the spacecrew's tenure on the weird and alien world which is largely conveyed through the quartet's total isolation in their spacecraft surrounded by an apparently dead and motionless terrain devoid of even sound that seemingly inscrutably lies in wait for the earthlings to exit the comfort and security of their spaceship. Moments where the three-eyed Martian intelligence peers through the rocketship's large observation porthole (one of Maurer's drawings coupled with a superimposed ripple effect) and is seen only by the female crew member are genuinely startling and memorably haunting.  The different life forms which make an appearance (the carnivorous plant, the bat-rat-spider-crab and the giant amoeba) while not the most convincing incarnations crafted are still inspiringly creative and original manifestations and help impart to this cinematic recreation of the red planet an appropriately nightmarish quality and the unearthliness of a frontier totally beyond human ken.  Film composer Paul Dunlap's novel and engaging score which blends conventional musical instrumentation with electronic orchestrations suitably complements the varied moods and events of this most extraordinary adventure.The strong focus placed upon the female biochemist crew member Iris as someone much more than a mere token figure or romantic interest is an impressive distinction for a sci-fi film of the period and worthy of attention.  The events on Mars are revealed in flashback reconstructed from Iris's subsconscious recollections through drug-induced hypnosis (due to her suffering from a traumatized mental block and the inability of the other surviving crew member to be questioned).  Upon liftoff from the inhospitable red planet, Iris has the thankless, unpleasant task of disposing of the elder Professor Gettell's body after he suffers a fatal heart seizure (presumably releasing it out the airlock into the vacuum of space) while also caring for the incapacitated Colonel O'Bannion.  Later it is Iris who resourcefully comes up with the solution to the truly horrible amoebic growth on the mission commander's arm saving his life while her male colleagues at the space centre hospital remain ineffectually stumped and merely assist Iris in her anxious research for a remedy.The denouement where the seemingly malevolent Martians (who have monitored the evolution of life on Earth since the dawn of time) permit the survivors of the Mars mission to return to Mother Earth with a taped message denouncing mankind's propensity toward violence and destruction, referring to the human race as technological adults but spiritual and emotional infants and flatly prohibiting any further visitations to their planet unbidden is a genuine revelation and remarkably mature for a decade where it was a foregone conclusion that man's destiny was in an unbridled exploration and conquest of the universe.  THE ANGRY RED PLANET takes the stance that before mankind boldly and hastily ventures into this final frontier it would be prudent to be conscious of the possibility that we might be encroaching upon someone else's domain and what is taken for granted as an ordained right of trespass may well prove to be a granted privilege instead.THE ANGRY RED PLANET while pockmarked with shortcomings and compromises in production is a unique and imaginative work whose strengths and virtues far outweigh its weaknesses.  This film is really the kind of project that should have been handled by the major studios or by master craftsmen like George Pal or Ray Harryhausen but quite often some of the most interesting and inspired ideas were usually tackled by the smaller independent filmmakers without whose significant contribution and involvement sci-fi cinema in general would be much poorer. "},{"Title":"Is Mars Rocket Crew Alive?","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is Mars Rocket Crew Alive?So screams the newspaper headline when it is found that the Mars expedition rocket is on its way back to Earth. When only two of the four original crew are found on board, one with a horrible fungus growth attached to him, the scientists and doctors desperately try to get to the bottom of what happened on the mission.It's a raging B schlocker, but a fun one. Filmed in CineMagic in New Eastman Color 5250 no less! It essentially pits the crew, three men and one woman, in a situation where they land on Mars, gel in various ways, then start going out onto the Red Planet itself to gather information etc.The art designers bathe everything in red, using a whole ream of interesting paintings to project an alien planet, and then the fun really starts. The creatures arrive, including one legendary rat/spider hybrid that is an absolute riot. Suspense exists, even though the acting is distinctly average, and et voilà! Story has unfolded and the big message ends the pic.Nutty sci-fi movie for sure, but the makers kinda get away with the cheapness of it all, and that is something that not all B schlockers can say is that! 5/10 "},{"Title":"That Glowing Red Planet","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Angry Red Planet (1959) ** (out of 4) After a failed mission to Mars, a spaceship lands back on Earth with only two astronauts surviving. One of them, Dr. Iris Ryan (Naura Hayden) tries to remember the events of the mission where they discovered that they weren't alone on the planet.THE ANGRY RED PLANET is a gimmick film if there ever was one. The Cinemagic process that was used basically has the entire screen tinted red whenever they are actually on the planet Mars. This effect actually is pretty neat and I always found it to be a good way of trying to cover up other issues with the movie. The tining certainly works extremely well during a few scenes where they're on the spaceship and the glow from Mars can be seen. The effect works well once they're on the planet but I do wonder how much of it was just the producers and filmmakers covering up really bad effects.The monster here is some sort of rat/bat/spider creature that looks really, really bad. I think the red tinting probably hides some more of its ugliness but there's no question that it's one of the least impressive from all the 50s sci-fi movies. Another problem is that the film can't afford special effects so instead of that stuff we get a bunch of dialogue scenes that are just downright boring after a while. You know you're in trouble when a film just keeps talking and you slowly lose interest in what they're saying. So, is THE ANGRY RED PLANET a horrible movie? No, it's decent for what it is but there's no getting around the fact that it's a low-budget movie that wants to do more but can't. "},{"Title":"Planet Mars beautifully drawn flora, hospitable monsters!","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the glorious 1950s &#x96; THE golden decade for unhinged Sci-Fi and monster movies &#x96; comes this wonderful but sadly obscure gem with a dark atmosphere and deeply melancholic morals, and yet delightfully silly and inept special effects and set designs! This is, in fact, the most entertaining combination possible because it means that the stern actors are citing their lines about mysterious unknown planets and deadly alien lifeforms with a straight face and a serious tone of voice, while at the same time the landscapes and monsters look preposterous, cheap and downright ludicrous! And it has to be said that the team behind The Angry Red Planet really did their best in order to provide an intense and overwhelming Sci-Fi/thriller, however the budgetary restrictions made it quite difficult to succeed and the film didn't pass the test of time very well. Still, for admirers of '50s Sci-Fi flicks and cinematic oddities in general, this film definitely comes with my highest possible recommendation. The story opens captivating and suspenseful enough, that's for sure! The NASA space-center on earth suddenly receives automated radio messages from the Mars expedition rocket that was considered lost for more than 60 days already. When it lands back on earth, it turns out that two of the four crew members have survived their journey, but the male commander Tim O'Bannon is unconscious from an unknown disease and the female biologist Iris Ryan has no recollection of what happened. At the hospital, doctors and scientist try to revive Iris' memories and she gradually narrates their horrific encounters on planet Mars through flashbacks. The scenes that are supposedly taking place on the Red Planet are just stupendous! You may take the planet's nickname very literal, as the explorations on Mars are filmed through a reddish/orange filter attached to the camera's lens. The landscapes and flora on Mars actually exists of drawings and sketches, massive amphibious monsters and carnivorous plants included! Our protagonist heroes also face a humongous rat-creature on spider legs, which is undoubtedly one of the most imaginative Sci-Fi creatures ever designed! But, as said, the overall tone of the film is deadly serious and thus features The Angry Red Planet a philosophical climax about the Martians being vastly superior to us and they do not want us to come and wreck their planet like we do with ours. In other words, Martians are intolerant racists but can you blame them? In spite of being the target of sexist jokes and disrespectful behavior (I can't see your lovely curves in that spacesuit), Nora Hayden depicts a strong female lead character. Ib Melchior's directing skills are somewhat pedestrian, but he certainly deserves all our respect for also being the writer of other terrific genre gems such as Planet of Vampires, Reptilicus and Robinson Crusoe on Mars. "}{"Title":"It Certainly Is Red!","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the highest rating I can give this film, not because I didn't have fun with it; it just isn't very good. The story is told in flashback after a rocket, floating in space, is retrieved by remote control When it lands, there are two on board a macho guy whose arm has been enveloped in what looks like lime Jell-o and a pretty red-headed woman. They were two of the original crew of four that piloted a first Earth ship to Mars. Mars, of course, has long been known as the red planet. In this film, it is red during the day and apparently blue at night. When the explorers go out, they turn red. Of course, this is cheaper than figuring out a way to contrast the with their environment. The crew are typical fifties types. The macho guy is full of testosterone and lusts after Iris (whom he calls Irish). She powders her nose and puts on perfume before attending to her duties. She also carries a purse. There are frequent wolfy comments about her womanhood. On board are a scientist and a guy whose job it is to protect them. He uses a sonic gun he calls Cleo which, for some reason, freezes what it is fired at. This is also cheaper than showing actual gunfire and its affect on the target. Anyway, they explore and encounter Martians and their livestock. They bumble around stupidly without natural precautions. At one point, a giant mouse thing with forty-foot legs attacks them. Later, it's an enormous amoeba. Much of the story is talky and tiresome. Once we return to present time, the issues must be dealt with. The woman's memory has been tapped (there is some pretty convenient science involved here). Mr. Jell-o arm is the primary concern. The other issue is a tape recording, the last surviving one after all others have been erased. You must make it to the end to find out what was said. Pretty typical 1950's stuff. "},{"Title":"I like it, but I can't defend it.","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I originally saw this at the local theater a year or so after it came out. Naturally I had no criticisms whatsoever as it contained all of the elements that an 8 year old proto-nerd could want science, space and monsters. When I came across it some 30 years late on a late night movie I was quite excited. I will admit that the puppet-beast was really bad and Sam's love affair with his cryo-gun was just a bit too weird. The background sets appeared to literally be cardboard and were poorly painted. The acting was campy though they tried hard and by-and-large made a decent ensemble. There were, however, far worse low-budget sci-fi efforts of the era and when this came out on DVD I bought it without hesitation and still dust it off from time-to-time when I'm suffering from insomnia at 3 AM. "},{"Title":"A Ground Breaking, Outdated Sci Fi Classic","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Age has not treated this early sci fi space thriller well unlike the sci-fi/horror classic of Jules Verne' The Journey to the Center of Earth (1959) released the same year. To their credit, the writers, director, producer attempted to incorporate a serious approach to science fiction, but they apparently were unable to detach themselves from the traditional Hollywood stereotypes and supposedly mandatory flourishes of what back in the 50s was considered entertaining film-making.There are references to clearly technical scientific concepts, more than just used for tokens sake that suggests that this production attempted to be much more than eye candy. Interestedly the alien creatures that are revealed are not that strange and Stephen Hawkings, the brilliant physicist might even accept some of the possible versions of such life forms as attested to Into the Universe with Stephen Hawkings (2010). The plot outline is more subdued than the typical sci fi action thriller and instead actually has a more cerebral approach to alien like.Surprisingly, this movie seems to have incorporated many lofty concepts but came at a time when the sci fi genre hadn't quite found its own and instead had to resort to already aging movie techniques and directing that didn't really fit science fiction. Had more time and money been put into this movie, it might have become one of the true classics. "},{"Title":"The unsung fifth member of the space crew....","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ..is Gerald Mohr's chest hair. Really. It's all out there in color and takes up a lot of room in the spaceship. Initially peeping out of the neckline of his spacesuit, and finally once completely revealed, it becomes as memorable as the famous bat-rat-crab-spider monster, and can match that beast follicle for follicle. Gerald gets infected by a giant amoeba, which means he has to wander around the spaceship with his shirt open for the last third of this supersaturated red solarized trip to a very unfriendly Mars. I think the Martians wanted him to get off their planet before he started to shed.Angry Red Planet is about what you'd expect from an outer space adventure filmed in 1959. It has some big ideas that weren't served well by a small budget. A single low grade set serves for the spaceship interior and of course there's Cinemagic, a process using red/pink filters which accounts for the eyeball blasting red sequences on Mars. Some surprising local creatures wander around creating havoc, among them are the bat-rat (everyone's favorite) and a fairly sexy carnivorous plant that looks like a huge vagina. Yes indeed. It must have been related to another lady parts monster seen a few years later in Battle Beyond the Sun. Still, this features an ahead-of-its-time performance by Nora Hayden as a very smart scientist, a female who manages to upstage the men by coming back alive with Gerald Mohr and his chest hair.Nostalgic fun for a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"You Wont Like Mars When It's Angry!","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth authorities finally hear back from the presumed lost first flight to Mars rocket ship. Two of the four crew people are still alive, though one has an alien parasite attached to him, and the other is in shock, though she is interrogated, and tells how they successfully landed on Mars, only to encounter a huge monster, an underwater amoeba, and finally aliens who warn them to stay away from Mars.Silly film is remembered for its towering bat/spider/crab monster(a truly memorable sight!) but little else. Cardboard characters, tacky cinemagic processed film, and pulp clichés and science damage the film; better as a poster than anything else. "},{"Title":"Can't say I liked it that much.","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Angry Red Planet starts as the US spacecraft the X1 returns to Earth after a 60 day radio silence, the top brass at the US military are particularly interested in X1 as it was the first manned mission to Mars. Only two of the original crew that left Earth have returned alive, female scientist Dr. Iris 'Irish' Ryan (Nora Hayden) & the Captain Col. Thomas O'Bannion (Gerald Mohr) who has a strange green fungus like growth on his arm. It is quickly discovered that all the tape logs have been erased so the top Dog's have no idea what happened, the only chance of finding out what happened & to possibly find a way of saving Col. O'Bannion is to hypnotise Iris & unlock the secrets of her mind & provide the answers that their bosses want. As Iris is put under & starts to recount the expedition some of the things that she says may not make for easy listening as various encounters with martian aliens threaten the very existence of Earth itself...Co-written & directed by Ib Melchior this is one of those 50's sci-fi 'classics' that many people to seem remember for various reason & still enjoys a somewhat cult following even today, personally I think there are better sci-fi monster films out there from around the same period (It! The Terror From Beyond Space (1958) to name one I much, much prefer) but for what it is I suppose it's watchable enough. The script is your basic space adventure in which a team of astronauts find themselves on an alien planet battling native dangers including killer plants & three eyed Martians. Despite the potential for a cracking sci-fi adventure I found the majority of The Angry Red Planet quite dull, it takes ages to get to Mars & then not that much really happens, the crew walk around a bit, talk a lot & finally leave. As for Col. O'Bannion back on Earth infected with alien fungus I am surprised they just didn't cut his arm off, hell limbs have been amputated for a lot less that the potential threat of wiping out all mankind with an alien disease before! At 80 odd minutes it's not too long but again not that much happens, its hardly exciting & it just felt a little underwhelming to me. The final moral message about mankind destroying itself & becoming a threat to everything else in existence is a well used one & comes as no great surprise, it was clichéd even back in 1959 when The Angry Red Planet was originally made & released. I guess the word 'classic' can mean different things to different people but it's hardly a term I would endear The Angry Red Planet with.While watching The Angry Red Planet you have to bear in mind the period in which it was made, it goes without saying that the scientific & technical aspects of the film are laughably bad. From huge computers to the clichéd cylindrical rocket ship to the fact the US military seem to be pulling all the strings & making the decisions rather than NASA or any proper scientists to the idea that plants grow on Mars to the fact that the crew seem to enjoy perfect Earth gravity throughout their entire journey including in the X1 & on Mars itself. The makers advertised they had used a new filming process called 'Cinemagic' which was apparently supposed to blend hand drawn paintings & monster puppets with the live action actor's seamlessly, it failed although it does hide some of the cheapness of the effect since the whole screen is just tinted an annoying orange colour. The process was also used in The Three Stooges in Orbit (1962) a few years later & looked just as bad.Shot in about ten days on a budget of about $190,000 a lot has actually ended up on screen to be fair, maybe with a bit more time & money The Angry Red Planet really could have been a classic. The effects aren't too bad considering when it was made although it's hard to believe none of those scientists saw that Rat-Bat-Spider monster in an open clearing! The acting is pretty wooden here.The Angry Red Palnet is alright for a few laughs & a bit of light Saturday afternoon fun, it's an innocent enough sci-fi adventure that doesn't really hold up to inspection & hasn't dated that well but it'll pass 80 odd minutes harmlessly enough I suppose. "},{"Title":"Giant brat (bat/rat)...","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE ANGRY RED PLANET makes extensive use of both vintage stock footage and often long-winded, pointless discussions (this use of on screen storytelling- or exposition- is an oft-used featherbedding tradition in low budget movies; it not only eats up screen time, it also allows no-budget movies to take the cheap way out and reference some grandiose fx they can't afford to actually SHOW). The performances here are all uniformly uniform (which may be why one scene- the mysterious incident that takes actor Les Tremayne out of the action- is never even shown). The sonic blaster is a conveniently cheap way to zap the BEMs (Bug-Eyed Monsters) and the solarization effect helps hide the fact that many of the fx shots look like cartoon drawings, but the highlight of the movie is easily the giant BRAT (Bat/Rat) puppet (the poster child of the movie). There's also a nifty sea monster who eats one crewman in a fairly graphic sequence in which we see the man being digested INSIDE the monster. The spaceship via which these Earthlings have invaded Mars is shown simmering in a large puddle of bubbling gelatine at one point, but these fx sequences aren't enough to make THE ANGRY RED PLANET a classic (nor is the closing score, which sounds not unlike the theme music for the original LOST IN SPACE teleseries). "},{"Title":"Strangers aren't welcome.","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wanted to like this one more than what I came away feeling from it, but it wasn't as fun as I hopped for. I've never even heard of it, until catching on TV last night. It's quite modest low-scale b-picture, but it's rather talkatively confined with a real cornball script and little in the way of excitement from what feels like a half-finished story. A rocket ship that held an expedition to Mars returns back to earth, where one of the survivors recites what she encountered on the red planet. Bulky, but charming nonsense with a fascinating gimmick that involved an red/orange tinge when the astronauts decided to leave the rocket ship (where they spent too much time pondering about with their stiff scientific explanations) to do some exploring of the planet that was illustrated with tidy, amusing etched matte drawings for landscapes that were surprisingly effective. This probably is the only colourful aspect, outside some of the striking variety of eerie aliens/monsters they come in contact with and not forgetting the ominously otherworldly high-pitched score. There just wasn't enough exploring in the end, which only bogged down its already breezy momentum and made the story feel as if it was simply made up on the spot despite the surefooted direction. The performances are dedicated (Jack Kruschen, Naura Hayden), if a little plain (Gerald Mohr, Les Tremayne) but never unbearable. Although Mohr's character did begin to rub me up the wrong way. The movie title pretty much sums it up, as it does also end on an angry note (or warning). "},{"Title":"Classic 50's film fare....","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film us full of unfortunate film gimmicks. These film gimmicks include Martian expedition 'dyied' red scenes to pump-up the alien nature of those scenes. This film is a late John Rice Borrough's idea for a science fiction film. Most people of that time period knew that Mars was a rather lifeless desert planet. This film tries to revive the old myths again, canals and all. Somehow this Mars is a lush rain forested planet with large rubbery plants. It is also populated by many very odd cartoon-like dangerous creatures. The crew uses a sonic rifle to dispatch those threats quickly. Actress, Nora Haden is a screen/scream queen of some note. She latter ran for Los Angeles mayor based on her film popularity. But she lost in her election to that high office. Be sure to watch for a mild 'blooper' with the male lead crew leader character, played by Gerald Mohr. In some scenes you can readily see while the other crew members are wearing military jump style boots, Mohr's is wearing silly black low top slip-on dress loafers with white gym socks, to boot ! With the lame giant monsters and unseen alien main Martian intelligence only hinted at in scenes, the film leaves you flat and becomes a mindless Martian travelogue. Campy fum and not too serious as other film makers of that time like George Pal and others. "},{"Title":"Be Careful What You Chop","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" An unusual movie in many ways. Firstly; it's back to front. We see the rocket return before we know what's been going on. That's not quite an original idea; the same approach was taken by Nigel Kneale to his 'Quatermass Experiment' some years earlier. Secondly, the only 'competent' walking survivor is a woman. Now there's a hint of Ellen Ripley.The rest of the drama is a re-enactment of their mission that is drawn from her memory. She has astounding recollection. It's meticulously detailed and chronologically perfect. In fact, it's almost like a movie.They're on a mission to Mars three blokes and a woman - which is quite forward-looking for 1960. They get there and its a bit like tropical Earth seen through red filters. They encounter strange like forms. A hokey plant with naff tentacles but excellent taste makes a grab at her. They come to a desert area with a small clump of what look like palm trees. Unbowed by the groping plant, our feisty heroine takes a chop at one of the trunks. There is a scream of distress, and suddenly the trunks reveal themselves to be a group of legs belonging to one of the most wonderful creatures ever dreamt-up for science fiction. It's a sort of rat-bat-spider-crab. And it's very annoyed. I'm afraid words won't do justice to this creature; you've just got to see it. The thing is far better than the rest of the movie put together. At some point it traps one their number between two rocks and starts to crush him with its big pincers. Another of the team, armed with a huge ray-gun shoots it in the face and apparently blinds it. For me that is one of the saddest moments in movie history as we watch this poor benighted beast stumble-off sightlessly into the desert, doomed and uncomprehending. Little wonder the Martians think Earthlings are bad news; they've already convinced me.In due course they come to a big lake. There are soaring skyscrapers on the far shore. The team rustle-up a dingy and start paddling. They don't get far before a jellyfish the size of our Millennium dome rises into view and comes after them. It's got the most amazing rotating eye-balls you've ever seen.It comes ashore and chases them back to the spaceship. Before the crew can open the door, the jellyfish snags the bloke with the ray-gun and we see him dissolving in its gut. Serves him right. The others shut themselves inside the ship and it lays siege. There are take-off problems. From time to time, the Martians appear on their telly warning them to push-off because they're not wanted. And you can't blame 'em. Eventually, they escape. The rest of the (male) crew are sickened one way and another. Quite straightforward really.I saw this as a kid at the cinema and found it quite scary. Though my over-riding emotion was one of sympathy for the rat-bat-spider-crab. I imagined it endlessly walking, getting hungry, thirsty, tripping-up, until it finally died. It seemed a pretty lousy trick to do to anything.There's better and worse sci-fi stuff around from these early decades. But by 1960 this ought to have been a lot more sophisticated than it was. Check-out 'The Forbidden Planet' of 1959. The budget for 'Angry' must have been pitiful. Most now regard it as a bit of a laugh.Still worth a watch though for that hallucinogenic beastie. "}{"Title":"Well, there's good new, and there's bad news . . .","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it's low-rated severely by most critics, this one is a lot less boring than many others from the 1950s.  It's so rich in the beloved elements of the 1950s sci-fi films that it's like a very ambitious spoof of the genre, complete with creepy theremin music, borrowed sound effects from `Forbidden Planet', and characters who want to claim Mars in the name of Brooklyn.  The ship's control room is rich in electronic gizmos -- and the computer is labeled in big letters across the top  BURROUGHS (as in Edgar Rice').  One of the spaceship crew members passes the time enroute by reading `Super Fantastic Science Fiction Stories' -- which is exactly the kind of story this is.  Sci-fi alumni Les Tremayne (the general in `War of the Worlds', and the opening narrator in `Forbidden Planet') is among the cast.  Nora Hayden is a reasonably attractive heroine.Mars is depicted more imaginatively (though less realistically) than in such films as `Rocketship X-M', using matte paintings of strange vegetation and weird landscapes (instead of dull desert shots in Arizona).   But beware of `Cinemagic', those red-tinted color-negative shots which were intended to give the Martian landscape an unearthly quality.  The effect is overdone for most viewer's taste.Despite the fair cast, the acting is substandard.  The fault lies primarily on the screenplay and direction -- both of which can be blamed on Ib Melchoir (`The Time Travelers'), and co-producer Sid Pink.  There are entirely too many `talking head' close-ups.  The dialogue is dull and sometimes illogical.  In several places the story simply leaps over events that should have been shown, even if only briefly.  As a result, the plot seems disjointed.  Pink and Melchoir also wrote the screenplay for the Swedish film `Reptilicus' (which is apparently Latin for `ridiculous puppet dragon').On the positive side, the Martian bat-rat-spider-crab is a pretty memorable monster.  The Martian city (seen in only two brief shots) is gorgeous, a perfect example of the futuristic designs so popular in the 1950s.Lastly, the poster for the film is a classic, even if the movie isn't.  It shows the wild Martian landscape, the rocket, the monster, and the Martian city, and the astronauts!  If only they made the movies as good as the posters . . . "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Revival","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ----SPOILER IN REVIEW---- I have no desire to offend my fellow film-addicts but seriously, if I actually paid to see this film in a theater, I'd be miffed and ask for my money back. If I attended a Funtementalist church and they showed this feature, I would feel more comfortable. This is a mixture of The Bible with a little Sci-Fi tossed in. It doesn't take long to discover a very simplistic script with actors who are one sided and predictable. You have the science guy, the loving wife who has a religious God-loving core, and an evil, Satan-loving Nazi, with Ruskies from the USSR built in and a Bible quoting, Billy Graham clone as the US President. The basic premise is that God lives on Mars and he has begun replying to our science couple living in San Diego, who are trying to contact Mars, only WHOOPS it was the evil Nazi tricking all of us instead, including the Reds who toss out the Commies and replace them with the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, but then WHOOPS AGAIN, it really was God in the first place. The worse and most farcical part is Peter Graves telling the Prez that we shouldn't release the first religious message cause it ain't science, while his wife says otherwise along with the Prez later making speeches in King James language. I want my 90 minutes back. "},{"Title":"ow.","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Warning, Mars is red. I mean RED. Between that and the piercing whistle laser, this is a migraine-inducing film.Standard B film sf plot of its era. Astronauts (old guy, chick, leader, and comic relief) go to Mars, there are monsters, they barely make it home. The best thing I can say about it is that they didn't suffer the cliché meteor storm, just one meteor. About 50 minutes of actual story (lame as it is), padded by a totally superfluous framing device involving military talking heads.Oh, and guys, two pickup lines to never use 1) I'd like to take you into a dark alley and 2) When I use your name, you'll know it. "},{"Title":"The Last Gasp of 50's Sci-Fi!","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1950's in many ways was the Golden era of Science Fiction Films, and this film was one of the last gasps of that genre.The plot is simple. A space ship lands on Mars, only to encounter some fairly imaginative looking monsters, including a giant-woman-eating plant, a monster which is a cross between a rat and a spider, and a huge ocean-going blob. The Astronauts are sent home with a warning not to come back.It's got all the cheesiness you'd expect from 50's SF. A spaceship which amazing has earth normal gravity even when in space, fixtures that look like office furniture, a woman on the mission who is treated like a secretary despite having advanced degrees in some science or the other.Some of it is comic looking today, but still fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Sexism and smoking... In space!!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Angry Red Planet (Quickie Review) Like The Man From Planet X, this is a bizarre science fiction tale culled from an era where fantasy and science fiction were still damn near the same thing. Meaning, we have some highly laughable special effects and rampant pseudo-science masquerading as science fiction. And yes, it's another classic released in a high quality transfer with a crisp picture and sharp sound--by Midnite Movies.So, the main reason to watch this film? Oh, it's definitely the whole time our space crew is on Mars. (What, you thought Angry Red Planet referred to Neptune?) Prior to that is some rather poor quality space crew boarding a space ship, inside of which they smoke and toss around sexist chauvinistic banter aimed at the puny female member of the crew. It'd be somewhat offensive by today's standards if it weren't so damn funny. But Mars is the real reason we're watching this thing. The film is generally black and white, but Mars, well Mars is screaming bloody red. It's filmed in this bizarre red plasticy sheen giving the angry red planet quite an interesting look of overexposed redness. It's really quite a sight&#151;as are the (ha ha) aliens viewers are to witness. The best being the ratbatspidercrab. You think that's a joke? That's what they call it in the movie! It's a gigantic chimera (small puppet) of a thing combining traits of rats, bats, spiders, and crabs. It bounds along all puppety and scares the sh*t out of our heroic crew. There are other weird, and poorly imagined, aliens to be seen, but that one takes the cake. Eventually, after their harrowing experience on Mars, the sexist crew boards their ship and returns to whatever planet it was they came from.This ain't for everyone. Science Fiction film buffs & curiosity seekers, and some general film buffs. Fans of Mystery Science Theater 3000 will have a field day with this one (if they never got to it on the show).2/10 Modern score, 6/10 Nostalgia score, 4/10 overall.(www.ResidentHazard.com) "},{"Title":"Are we really ready for space travel?","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The title of the movie caught my attention as a possible anti-communist movie, but the release date falls outside of the time when a majority of the anti-communist movies were made. The last HUAC hearings were in 1953 and the bulk of the movies appeared between 1951 and 1958 (though I have not seen many of them). Angry Red Planet is not an anti-communist movie, and if it is, it is very subtle. Rather Angry Red Planet is a reaction against technology. The theme really rises up at the end of the movie when the Martians deliver a message to Earth demanding that they do not return to their territory. One begins to think that the Earthlings come to Mars peacefully and are attacked, but the Martians say at the end that they have been watching Earth develop and because of their endless wars, they desire nothing to do with them. Earth is a violent and offensive planet and has been commanded to stay away from Mars. The main idea that comes from Angry Red Planet is that we are not ready for space exploration. Though the movie is slightly in the future, when the expedition arrives on Mars, they encounter creatures that are very hostile, and very dangerous, such as the human eating plant, the giant spider, and the amoeba. The expedition catches a glimpse of the huge technological achievements of the martians when they see their city through binoculars, but they never reach the place. Humanity is humbled with the experience on Mars. All that remained of the journey are two of the four members. None of the recordings remained except for the message of the martians to stay away from Mars. There is no emphasis on humanity approaching Mars peacefully, but rather they are being chased away and told that to return would be to invite the wrath of the vastly superior Martians. This seems to be a reaction against uncontrolled expansionism and modernisation. It is a movie designed to humble the American people, to remind them that they are not the most power people in the world. This is not a pro-Russian movie, but rather one that shows that our desire for expansion will never be unchecked. Even though we might have great technological wonders, there is always going to be somebody that can stand up to us. Maybe it is more of a warning not to anger the Russians too much because they have the power to destroy the United States. The title, Angry Red Planet, has the connotations of the possibility of advanced life on Mars, but more so, seems to me a warning against Soviet retaliations against unprovoked attacks. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable B-movie","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Martians get mad.....then get even!! One of the best B-movies of all time, The Angry Red Planet is a cult classic for all sci-fi buffs. If you try to ignore the extremely outdated special effects, you will actually have a good time! With the most creative sci-fi creatures in history, including a colossal amoeba, a bat-rat-spider-crab, a bug-eyed Martian, and a man-eating plant. The story is about a crew who goes to Mars, and face many various terrors. Starring Les Tremayne.Grade 8/10MPAA Rating not ratedMy Rating Ages 7 and up (frightening images)  "},{"Title":"Good B-Movie","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Best thing here is definitely the Monsters! Who knew in 1959 what might be lurking on Mars? This film gives us some very entertaining and imaginative prospects. A bit slow getting started but once we get to Mars-Oh Boy! Heartily recommended for those who love Science Fiction B-Movies and Monsters. Often overlooked and underestimated but is great fun for those who can appreciate its merits. "},{"Title":"nice plants","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the cardboard miniatures and the alien-things. They could have done a lot better on plot, acting and techniques. Nice service from the dialogue-writer to let one actor repeat the other actors line as sort of explanation, as if we didn't get it the first time.Putting a red filter on the film sure made it a red planet ). "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe I've not seen enough of these B-Sci-Fi-Movies, but this one definitely has Ed-Wood-Qualities.Spoiler (for those, who want to search for funny details alone)Look out for painted landscapes, Monsters who are so passive the actors have to get themselves caught in the arms, oxygen-controls with two Bulbs signalizing normal and excessive, the famous rat-spider with six legs, who delivers two additional legs after being blinded for being able to hold the claws in front of the eyes.Makes you think, Ed Wood wasn't that bad at all, maybe even just slightly beyond average at that time. Very, very, funny. 8/10 for those who like that, otherwise of course 1/10. "}{"Title":"Goofy movie that hurts your eyeballs.","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All I want to say about this movie is that it hurts the eyeballs.  Sure, the acting is typical B-movie fare, with budget sets and limited special effects, plus real dorky writing.  But when the crew is checking out Mars, everything if filtered red.  This hurts, a good kind of hurt, but still a hurt.Watch this one drunk, and it'll be better. "},{"Title":"Like Watching a Car Accident","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so awful that you feel compelled to watch it.  It's kind of like when you drive by an accident scene and look to see if anyone is being loaded into the ambulance.  The red filter on the planet scenes is unique, but really awful with the clearly painted landscape.  The ending is abrupt and really, really dumb (as if the rest of the movie wasn't).  The best part is the goofus who's in love with his gun.  He's even named it.  To bad it couldn't save him or this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh, if MST3K was still around...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All I can say is that if Mystery Science Theater was still on the air, this would be a prime candidate for lampooning. It's angry, it's red, and it's a planet. The dialogue and special effects are top notch. (See how I use quotation marks so effectively) Any way...it's a great B-movie with a budget, sci-fi. Please enjoy, won't we? "},{"Title":"This movie had the dumbest monsters I have ever seen","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I could not believe how bad this movie was. It had good color in it but that was it. I guess the best thing about this was the movie's ending music. I am a musician and I love jazz music. As for the monsters I think that they over did it with the blob creature that ate one of the guys. Or the spider thing that had the face of a mouse. "},{"Title":"El Stinko","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  About the worst picture I have ever seen, "}]