[{"Title":"In Love With A Wonderful Guy","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Though it is only the second longest running of Rodgers&Hammerstein's musical shows, South Pacific I believe contains the best score with The King and I running a close second. On Broadway it opened in 1949 and closed 1925 shows later in 1954. It gave Mary Martin her career role on Broadway and made a pop star out of Metropolitan Opera basso Ezio Pinza.Opening on Broadway only four years after VE Day, South Pacific found a ready made audience with the American public who believed in the rightness of the cause just fought for. The show is based on two short stories from an anthology of stories entitled Tales of the South Pacific by James Michener. The success of South Pacific boosted Michener's reputation as a novelist in no small way.It's only too bad that South Pacific was not made with the original Broadway leads because it took so long to come to the screen. Ezio Pinza had died in 1956. He had done a couple of films in Hollywood that didn't do that good, but Pinza scored another great success on Broadway in Fanny. Too bad he didn't get to do that film either.Mary Martin was also getting a bit long in the tooth by 1958 to be playing young Ensign Nellie Forbush. Also in a previous sojourn in Hollywood she hadn't done that good for some inexplicable reason. Mitzi Gaynor stepped very nicely into Mary's shoes and being more of a dancer than Martin, Gaynor's part had more dancing than on Broadway. Check the routine she has when she sings and dances about that wonderful guy she's just fell in love with. It's a shame that Mitzi Gaynor did not come along when musicals were at their height. How great she would have been in some Busby Berkeley epics.Pinch hitting for Pinza is Rossano Brazzi and for Pinza's voice, Giorgio Tozzi. The big hit of South Pacific, probably the greatest hit from Rodgers&Hammerstein is Some Enchanted Evening. The popularity of that song made the South Pacific original cast album a big seller. And a whole slew of singers recorded it. Bing Crosby and Perry Como had big selling records in 1949 and Al Jolson as well. The comedy is supplied by Ray Walston who was fresh from Broadway and Hollywood playing Mr. Applegate in Damn Yankees. He plays Luther Billis, sailor and conman extraordinaire. On Broadway the part was done by Myron McCormick. In fact Walston's big scene is a reminder of how film can do things that on stage you can only imagine. He accidentally falls out of a plane with a parachute fortunately just off a Japanese held island. He's thrown a rubber life raft and has to paddle like mad to get out of range of the enemy weapons. And then sits back and enjoys the show as a whole slew of fighters pound the Japanese on that island. It's described on stage, but here you can enjoy it first hand.The primary story is the romance between nurse Nellie Forbush from Little Rock, Arkansas and French expatriate planter Emile DeBecque, Brazzi's character. The secondary story line concerns marine lieutenant Joseph Cable, nicely played by John Kerr with dubbed singing voice. Juanita Hall who is from the original cast is Bloody Mary is trying to match Cable with her daughter Liat played by France Nuyen in one of her first screen roles. She's quite the operator herself, Bloody Mary and more than a match for Walston.Three young players who made it big later and had bit parts in South Pacific were James Stacy, Doug McClure and featured prominently is Tom Laughlin, the future Billy Jack.It's too bad that we don't have a nice technicolor version of Mary Martin and Ezio Pinza, but this is a pretty good group of players who worked hard and made a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"South Pacific Update","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I remember when South Pacific was first released in the movie theaters, and if a person had been around for that time and witnessed the viewing on the large curved Todd-A-O screen with surround sound stereophonic sound like Cinerama had. Yyes dear people; surround sound is nothing new, then the younger critics today would have a different outlook on this film, but I will admit that it is a little bit too long, but a beautiful movie it is. The only thing that I find wrong is that it's just too perfect. You expect a little flaw here or there, but there's nothing, and even though most of the actors and actresses singing voices were dubbed except for Mitzi Gaynor, you can't see any flubbing up of the lip-sync hing. Look at Rozzano Brazzi - his lips look like he's really singing. Even his breathing is right in there with Giorgio Tozzi who did the actual singing.This was directed by the very manic-depressive Josh Logan whose insanity is all over the screen in his directing of the movie version of Paint Your Wagon, but Logan said that his first choice for Nelli was Elizabeth Taylor, but when she tried to sing for Rogers and Hammerstien, she was so nervous that her throat closed up on her, and she lost out. He was too afraid that Doris Day would turn South Pacific into a Doris Day vehicle, and then one day Mitzi Gaynor showed up and told him, I know you probably think I can't play Nelli, but I'd like to test for it anyway! After the test, he asked someone what he thought of her as Nelli and he was told, Oh! She'll be very good if you can get her to do the things she should be doing instead of the things she's doing, her Gaynorisms - big winking eye's etc., and then he added, Of course, you'll have to police her! She smoked cigarettes like a chimney. So, Mitzi got the part, and at the world premier it was then well known that everyone's voice was dubbed except for Mitzi Gaynors and some woman in the audience was explaining to her friend who sang for who, and then ended up asking, I wonder who sang for Mitzi Gaynor? and not knowing that Ms. Gaynor was sitting in front of them, she turned around, looked at the two women and quipped, Frank Sinatra!Personally, I love the filters on the musical sequences, and it really adds to the enjoyment of the film. Josh Logan didn't like them, but he was warned not to film the movie in Technicolor for fear that it would look like a picture post card that you could turn over and write Having a Wonderful Time, but with it being a little bit too long, I love the movie, and again, it's just a shame that these movies cannot be seen in a movie theaters anymore. Then - the would see the expert craftsmanship in such movies as the glorious South Pacific!So, considering Glenn Close in her version of South Pacific. Take it for what it is, it's not that bad. In fact, a big surprise that it turned out as well as it did. I understand that the Josh Logan version with Mitizi Gaynor is going to be released into the movie theaters again. After everyone today see's it as it should be seen, maybe this will cause the release of other musicals such as Oklahoma, The King and I, Carousel, and Guys and Dolls to be released into the theaters again. What a treat that will be, but here's another version, and a wonderful surpriseYou can purchase the South Pacific Concert on C.D. starring, ready for this, Reba McIntyre as Nellie Fobush, with audience response on the disc, and is everyone in for the surprise of their life. Beba is perfection. All of the music is combined with bits and pieces of the shows Dialogue so that you feel you're watching the complete show on the stage. Reba sounds like someone from Little Rock, and her singing is wonderful. All I can say is Rogers and Hammerstien would approve 100% and be very proud of this version. Reba and the cast is perfection! Reba knocked their socks off on Broadway playing a dynamic performance as Annie in Annie Get Your Gun! No wonder she is simply wonderful playing Nellie in South Pacific! If Reba is smart, the next role she'll play is Sally Adams in the Ethel Merman hit Call Me Madam! Go girl! Go! "},{"Title":"New 70MM Re-Release and Restored DVD!","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" This film is due to be re-released in 70MM for limited engagements next year. A new restored DVD is also being prepared by Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment which includes scenes that were cut back in 1958. Somebody commented recently about the fact that lap-dissolves were used between many scenes in this film and this person obviously felt that this was some kind of fault. This was a common editing technique utilized in the past and was used usually to signify the passage of time. It is rarely used these days and obviously that person has not encountered this technique before and has assumed that it is a fault, but this is not the case. I am curious to know if the new transfer will feature the Broadway continuity(the Emile-Nellie Plantation scene before the Bloody Mary scene)? I hope it is an anamorphic transfer? "},{"Title":"'South Pacific?' It's Terrific.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  When are folks going to give 'South Pacific' an even break? It's a wonderful film. A great big, colourful, emotional wallow, filled with  romance, song, splendor, humor, and expert acting. Sure the colour filters are somewhat jarring. Blame it on the awful prints now (and it seems, forever) in circulation. Back in June 1958 the Films and Filming reviewer put it this way, Logan has hit on the ingenious idea of using colour rather in the way that a composer underscores a films drama with music. As the emotions of his characters find their expression in music, so the cold clear tones of reality dissolve into the warm yellow and red hues of fantasy. I found this a wholly acceptable compromise, and many of the effects (indeed the whole level of the Todd-AO photography) were outstandingly good. Works for me to - and goodness knows I've seen them often enough. It also worked for the millions of cinemagoers who flocked to see the film - over and over again. Mind you, had Logan decided to supervise all aspects of the cutting etc., instead of trotting off to direct 'Blue Denim,' Fox might, possibly, have been persuaded to remove the filters before release? Perhaps, with film preservation on so many agendas these days, some of this colour-filter-exasperation could be channeled in that direction.Now, regarding all this rubbish about 'South Pacific' being a financial and critical disaster? How? In Great Britain, where it had a four-and-a-half year run at the Dominion Theater in London, it recouped three times its negative cost before going into general release. It ran for three-and-a-half years in Sydney and Copenhagen. For over two years in NYC. It even broke box office records in Salt Lake for goodness sake. And this is just the tip of the successful iceberg. The critics? Sure there were dissenters, there always are, for any film. Most, however, echoed the headline which ran in London's Daily Mirror, 'South Pacific is just terrific.'Which brings me to my final irritation, the casting of Mitzi Gaynor as Nellie Forbush. The delicious Mitzi is bloody marvelous in 'South Pacific.' She gives a beautifully multi-layered performance filled with truth and honesty. Her Nellie is real, human, and natural. In scene after scene this immensely talented actress subtly conveys, with humor and great sensitivity, her character's ever-changing moods. And, again, from NYC's Daily News to London's Daily Express, by way of Picturegoer and Films in Review, the majority of critcs agreed that, Mitzi doesn't leave a palm-leaf on the trees when she goes into action.'South Pacific?' It really is terrific. "},{"Title":"Josh Logan's colour-filter paradise","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This slush-fest version of Rodgers and Hammerstein's famous musical suffers on the small screen because of its constant use of colour filters during the songs.  On a big screen, this looks great, but just looks odd on TV.This aside, though, this film of 'South Pacific' has much to enjoy.  Mitzi Gaynor is a bubbly personality and is clearly enjoying herself as Nellie Forbush, 'washing that man out of her hair' and so on.  Rossano Brazzi is charming as Emile (the singing is expertly done by Giorgio Tozzi); we can have a pang of regret that Ezio Pinza was seen to be too old to play the role by the time the film appeared - his work with Mary Martin in the original cast survives in cast recordings - but Brazzi looks the part.John Kerr is a bit of a wet fish as Lt. Cable, while Juanita Hall as Bloody Mary is excellent, and Ray Walston as Luther, and France Nuyen as Liat, make an impression in smaller roles.  The musical numbers are done extremely well - 'Bali Ha'i', 'I'm in Love With a Wonderful Guy', 'Some Enchanted Evening', 'Younger Than Springtime', and 'Happy Talk' and the rest. Where the film does flag is in the sequences where Emile and Cable go to the island to report on the Japanese invaders.  This was handled rather better in the 1990s remake, and also moves along better in the stage version.  Here, it clashes a bit with the romantic overtones of the rest of the production. "},{"Title":"Cinema Paradiso","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I did a significant amount of my courting to this film.It was on for so long at the Astoria,Brighton that I must have taken at least 5 different girls to see it during its run.It may even have moved to another cinema in the town later,my memory is a bit hazy about that,but by the time it was taken off at the Astoria I had become a little more sophisticated and was going up to West End shows (15 shillings on The Brighton Belle),but I knew all the words to There is nothing like a dame. Based on James Michener's Tales from the South Pacific it has some of Rodgers and Hammerstein's finest songs blended into a stirring tale of love,prejudice,redemption and heroism in wartime.Everything a 1958 audience could wish for,simple people that we were. The world is now a much smaller (and scarier)place,and what to us was exotic is now the everyday.We have lost our sense of wonder,become blase,what once evoked a gasp now merely evokes a yawn. To make any meaningful criticism of South Pacific we must regain our lost innocence. In 1958 American Culture was universally coveted.The American Way was the way everybody wanted to go.The idea that U.S. military personnel were ordinary decent human beings(now considered laughably naive) was widespread. Lt Cable,then a legitimate target for a mother with a beautiful daughter would now be a legitimate target for a suicide bomber. Of course the movie seems trite and laboured,disingenuous and clichéd in 2006 if viewed with nearly half a century of hindsight,but,please believe me,it wasn't always so. Rossano Brazzi was impossibly handsome and sophisticated,Ray Walston your wisecracking All-American noncom (homoerotic subtext?you're having a laugh,surely?).OK so John Kerr was a bit of a milquetoast but he was from Princeton N.J.And France Nguyen.......surely no child was ever more beautiful. I was a bit puzzled as to why Juanita Hall was dubbed because I had an L.P. at home titled Juanita Hall sings Bessie Smith and she sounded pretty good to me.But that was showbiz;they'd dubbed Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge in Carmen Jones hadn't they? And Mitzi Gaynor,surely one of the most underrated song and dance women in movies.I'm as corny as Kansas in August......brilliant. If I'm ever on one of those endless white beaches looking out to sea and shielding my eyes against the sun,I shall fully expect Nellie Forbush and her fellow nurses to come running through the surf towards me and then I'll know I've died and gone to heaven. "},{"Title":"Possibly the most complete musical ever made","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" While I was too young to have seen the original Broadway production - and thus that might account for the previous criticism posted above - I think the fault lies with the reviewer (seeing a 1950's musical in 1990's terms).The lighting, so criticized, added and accented the moods of the film as few films did at the time. The music, possibly without match in an American musical, fit the moods equally well - taking the viewer from the high tensions of the Young Lovers or of the eventual return of Emile. At the same time, the bawdy humorous numbers add temporary humor while the tension of the story line mounts.Socially, the themes of race and general human cruelty are delivered to the audience without them even noticing. Something in which so many of the modern-day productions fail miserably.Truly the most complete American musical on many levels! "},{"Title":"Gauguin, Race and Pulchritude","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Many comments here strike me as rather peculiar -- in criticizing the distance between this film and the successful play as if filming the play would faithfully convey the play. I'm a very tough grader, and I rate this film high because--The story is much edgier than any other musical I have seen prejudice and war, and places each generatively in the other in a way that comes closer to intelligent comment than we might expect for the period. More effective than contemporary `drama.' It is hard to project one's self back in time to postwar afterglow, years before the civil rights movement. Pretty remarkable if you consider the context.--I love the cinematic vision, and yes, the use of color (and smoke and focus). It _is_ intrusive. It _does_ misdirect from the beauty of the setting. That's the point! Start with the self-conscious staging and lighting of Gauguin (`Where Are We Going?') and then distort the colors in precisely the same way! The point of the story is how defects in vision distort natural beauty (love, honor). The mapping of this to the Gauguin myth (which concerns the same matter) and the framing in an acutely self-aware camera is brilliant. The viewer is _supposed_ to be disturbed on occasion, folks. But this is placed in a context of staging that is carefully placed between reality (as much as tropical settings can be called real) and the literal stage. I cannot think of a better middle ground than this. We are reminded of the `real' stage by the show within the show. It's just all too intelligent an eye to not admire.--I do like these two women, probably for the same reason their careers never took off. Raw natural sex, not preening glamour.--I also like the subdued music. It clearly is not the go-for-the-rafters style one got in the broadway original, and that will put off some who should probably just listen to a record. Tastes differ, but I want to watch a successful film, and I think the toning down of the musical exuberance is a wise move. Much closer to a `Victory at Sea' feeling. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, despite critics' criticisms","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" This is my favorite R&H musical and I play the original Broadway s/t frequently because I love Pinza.I agree with an earlier poster who commented that Mary Martin was much too old and earthy for the young innocent Nellie. Mitzi Gayner was perfect. I also love the different hues for the singing. It does give the movie a different feel to it.Of all the R&H musicals, this one was the best to transfer to the screen (with exception of King and I). Too bad they can't find a complete reel of the latter movie.And my favorite song from the show/movie is This Nearly Was Mine, a heartbreaking song if there ever was one. Pinza breaks my heart on the OBC recording. Tozzi is good, too, but Pinza is the peak.And R&H were pressured to drop You've Got to be Carefully Taught and they refused. The racial prejudice runs right through the picture without hitting you over the head with it and it was way ahead of its time. But then the book was written by James Michener who had an Asian wife and who knew about prejudice.I love this movie -- still! "},{"Title":"Top 5 in the best Musicals of all Time","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" There aren't many musicals that get better than this! I have to say that my favorite part has to be the very ending when Nellie realizes how stupidly she acted and learns to love the children cause she loves Emil. I cry almost all the time. It just tugs at my heart and it's about what really went on at that time. I love the song I'm gonna wash that Man right out of my Hair. It has a good upbeat turn and corny lyrics to go with it. The songs are joyful and easy to sing along with. I've watched it so much that I can say the lines and start singing the songs before they even do. The first time I saw this I was in love. I remember the first time I was in tears when Emil sang Once nearly was mine. My heart just went out to him. It's differently top five in my book and come highly recommended by me. "}{"Title":"As Corny As Kansas In August, But High As A Flag On The Fourth of July","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Commence groaning as necessary for that summary, but at least prepare to be dazzled by R&H's most amazing, underrated musical of all time.The love story is between a spirited young Navy nurse and an older French planter who's afraid of losing anything. While that makes for some very groan-friendly moments, everything is forgiven when you peer through the weird, multi-colored lenses and pay attention to what's actually going on a fantastic story (besides the romance) is unfolding. It's the story of a world where everything is changing, and the road down that way could not have been better.There's lots to love here, so don't be distracted by what you can use to maul this movie. The performances are great, the songs are probably the only songs I've never minded having looped in my head that weren't written by Richard O'Brien, and the beauty of the South Pacific is something that would be amazing to behold anywhere from a majestic silver screen to a tiny little kitchen-table TV set.As far as musicals go, this is one of my all-time favorites and should be the same for more people. "},{"Title":"The best of R & H","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Although Rogers and Hammerstein wrote many great musicals, I believe that overall the score of South Pacific is the strongest, producing many 'old standards'.There is Nothing' Like a Dame, Younger than Springtime, Bali Hai, Gonna Wash that Man Right outa my Hair, and the eternal Some Enchanted Evening are major highlights, but many other delightful and strong songs help fill this impressive musical.Of course there is a love story, but there is also a strong lesson of the dangers of bigotry even for people who would never imagine themselves to be so.Many have criticized the filters used in camera shots during many songs (and a few other scenes). It was ground breaking at the time, and certainly different. Although I myself would certainly rather see the 'pure colors' of those scenes as well, I can respect the wish of the cinematographer to try something that had really seldom been done in major films, but is a staple of still photography.Unless you just hate musicals, this is a must see film in its genre. "},{"Title":"Singing a Slow Song in the Pacific","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The Broadway version of South Pacific was an amazing breakthrough in confronting attitudes that today's politically correct culture would consider completely racist. According to Mary Martin and others, she received death threats and the play was picketed regularly, which is hard to believe now.I have to hope the Broadway version moved along a bit faster than the movie version, or there would have been a massive exodus from the unforgiving New York crowd. I can only guess that Josh Logan was feeling the humid heat of those islands, because the pace of the film is not just temperate, it's downright slow. I know it's hard to fit in songs when you're not used to doing musicals, but it only got worse from here for him (Camelot and Paint Your Wagon were just dreadful). If we're trying to get across that the machine of the military moved inexplicably slow, I got it, but I don't think that's it. I think it's Josh.The music, of course, is wonderful. And I loved Mitzi Gaynor. I think she's perfect as light-hearted, silly Nellie, who lives within boundaries she's never even thought about, but suddenly finds some strength of character when she realizes that she loves someone without reservation. I'm not a fan of choosing the actor and having him lip sync, but Rossano certainly did so with feeling. Ray Ralston played his usual belligerent/con artist character. And who knew Tom Laughlin could act like a human being instead of just Billy Jack? Nice appearance there.The colored filters are unfortunate. Good thing all the other directors saw Josh's mistake and didn't head down that rainbow road.And I still find the job that Oscar Hammerstein III did of condensing James Michener's collection of short stories into this socially relevant (at the time) play truly amazing.I gave the movie a seven because musicals always get five from me, the concept of the movie/play is great (if it gives us a reminder of where we've been), and the acting solid. I have to think that, in the hands of a better director, this movie might be dated, but truly wonderful. "},{"Title":"More comments on the color wheel","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This is indeed one of the classics of musical theater but the use of the colored filters during many of the musical numbers was very distracting. I have this movie on laser disc and every time I watch it I want to choke whoever was responsible for giving the go ahead to this failed experiment. There they are in one of the most beautiful places in the world to shoot a movie and they use colored filters to take out most of the color during the best moments of the film. I also felt that with certain songs (particularly Mitzi Gaynor's) that there should have been considerably more dancing.  Instead she sings 70% of most of her songs directly into the camera.  Why did they hire a dancer for that role in the first place if they weren't going to have her dance? "},{"Title":"Flawed but entertaining!","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The most obvious flaw is its running time, it's very long. I think it's longer than Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. Unfortunately there were other flaws with the movie, so I can't overlook what I've just said. Another flaw was the colour filtering;the orange and yellow picture did get a bit distracting after a while, although the Pacific does look beautiful. Rossano Brazzi, whose singing voice was dubbed, looked wooden, but was he ever not wooden? I must say though, the dubbed singer did a marvellous job.However, there were a lot of truly excellent things about this movie. Mitsi Gaynor was a lovely lead, and she was wonderful in the musical numbers. She does get a little tiresome toward the end, but most musicals do have the same problem. But Juanita Hall was just perfect as Bloody Mary, I had absolutely no problem with her. The songs were absolutely outstanding. Rodgers and Hammerstein have given us some truly fantastic music scores, and South Pacific is among them. Ray Walston gives comic relief as Luther, I think, and the focus on the war was very endearing. The real star was the stunning choreography, that made the musical numbers so energetic.All in all, an entertaining, but flawed film, that is underrated in my opinion. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Classic Film Treatment Of A Popular Play...complete with it's problems.","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" My parents took me to see this film when it came out, and it had a powerful affect on me. I sensed the profound sadness in the film, concerning the loss of life and love as a result of war. I loved the musical numbers and to this day, some of these songs still reverberate in my mind. South Pacific was also one of the motion pictures that would influence me to seek a career in the film industry.If by some chance you've never seen this film, rent the DVD, turn up the home theater system, pop some corn and enjoy it for what it is, a slice of cinematic history. Accept it for what it is, a beautifully photographed movie about war and race acceptance, advanced for it's day.Try to ignore the negatives that have been written about it here. Yes, the directing seems like it could have been better. I think director Logan wanted the visuals and music to tell the story, rather than the typical, unrealistic overacting of the day. To me, this is not deary or plodding, it is the way real people are. Plays typically push acting over the top, to get the audience involved in what is going on up on the stage. Understatement is a real film technique in which Logan was probably ahead of his time with. Another technique he used, which breaks another rule, is having Mitzi Gaynor sing I'm In Love directly into the lens of the camera. This breaks down the traditional fourth wall found in most theater and film. He seemed to want to push new, radical ideas, while at the same time, pull way back on the performances.The one thing I have trouble getting past, and forgiving him of, is the filming of musical and other scenes through colored gels. He actually shot the raw footage with the gels on the front of the camera lens, which means that all the film is stuck with the color and other affects. Even in that day, this could have been easily done in post production, when the final master print was being created. That way, the original would not be ruined with an experiment that doesn't work. Of course, with today's computer technology, most of the color could be stripped from the film. But, that would be revisionist and monkeying with a classic film and won't ever happen. Plus, the expense would be high. So it is what it is. A distracting and annoying experiment that didn't work.I've also read some remarks here about the sync of the film, critical of the actors lip syncing. As most movie buffs know, the actors sing along with a prerecorded sound track, that was recorded in a sound studio, sometimes months prior to filming. They do practice to the track before filming and typically can match the song perfectly, even if they didn't sing the original. But I've noticed as I watch the film today, that the whole sync is out. This would be an artifact of digital technology, in which the picture and sound are processed separately, and when broadcast, don't always arrive to your TV set exactly at the same time, as it appears to be the case as I watch it on TCM. Also, if the sync is out in the original film, that is more the fault of the film editor, than the actor. By the way, this whole film was looped, which means all the dialog was re-recorded afterward in a sound studio, with sound effects added afterward. But this was pretty standard for the day, as well.Personally, I think the strong but restrained performances and wonderful songs make this a film to be watched at least once if you are a fan, lover, or student of classic cine. "},{"Title":"Ambitious","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I would recommend the soundtrack of this film far more than seeing the film itself. There are some really fun and catchy songs (Wash that Man Right out of my Hair and There is Nothing like a Dame) as well as the provocative You have to be Very Carefully Taught. The movie itself is very (way too) long, story too wide-spread, and it seems to be (clumsily) strung together only to incorporate the great songs, whose arrivals are generally awkward. The love story- it's hard to care about. Mitzi Gaynor was a cold fish. Mentally you wanted her to overcome her raised in a small town closed-mindedness, if nothing else to just give a chance to Emile's character- but there wasn't any romance you could feel. Cable and Bloody Mary's daughter's romance evoked more affection, strangely, since they barely spoke two sentences to each other.The hazy color that would come on for every other song was bizarre; we wondered if it was an old worn out tape at first until the frequency of the occurrences cleared that up. I think the movie aimed admirably high and landed somewhere in the middle. I think the message is that love can be found anywhere, that it forms in the heart, mind and soul- and is not to be determined (or deterred) by skin color or nationality.Worth seeing once. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Film","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Having read the original stage script for this show, I find the film version very disappointing. Much of the connective dialogue was axed for scenery shots and a rubber boat. Even the wonderful songs were hyphenated. Luciano Brazzi may be a 'hotty' for the ladies, but most of the time he wears a constipated scowl and does a lousy job of lip-syncing to songs. Mitzi Gainor is fabulous; a saving grace.The real culprit here is the director, Joshua Logan. From what I understand, an accomplished stage director, but it is very obvious he is lost in the film medium. Clunky staging and lonnnnnnng static shots abound. Emile crooning his love song of 'Some enchanted evening' to Nellie while his body language with his arm blocking her off makes me cringe. And don't get me started about those color filters! They actually work in the Bali Hai number, but later on in the love scene, well, as another reviewer wrote, obviously, love is best served soaked in urine There are good acting performances, however. Ray Walson, as Billis, is excellent, but a lot of his dialogue is axed and butchered, and that coconut bra stage dance is embarrassing, not funny.All in all, the movie is paced too slow, and with the connective dialog removed, has no flow. Too bad. This could have been a lot, lot better. I hope this movie will not stop people from seeing a good stage production of it. It is an excellent musical. On the other hand, if you like this movie, you're gonna LOVE a good stage showing. "},{"Title":"1958 film version of South Pacific is a fine addition to R & H canon","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Having taped this off HBO nearly 22 years ago, I finally got to see the 1958 version of Rodgers and Hammerstein's South Pacific just now (I had also seen the PBS Great Performances Carnegie Hall version with Reba McEntire, Brian Stokes Mitchell, and Alec Baldwin last year). Mostly wonderful film version although I agree with most posters that the color filters during the songs can be a little distracting. Mitzi Gaynor is fine as Nurse Nellie Forbush in singing, dancing, and especially acting that I don't understand the criticism against her. Rossano Brazzi is likewise (although his singing, like the other cast members, was dubbed) as paramour Emile de Becque. John Kerr does indeed seem stilted and the dubbed singing of him is so obvious and I can't believe completely his love for France Nuyen. Ms. Nuyen is luminous, by the way. Juanita Hall and Ray Walston (who I first encountered as Mr. Hand in Fast Times at Ridgemount High) also lend fine support. That all said, this is classic R & H all the way in line with The Sound of Music, The King and I, Oklahoma!, and Carousel. P.S. Thurl Ravenscroft was the singing voice of Stewpot in the There is Nothing Like a Dame number. You might know him best as Tony the tiger and the singer of You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch in How the Grinch Who Stole Christmas. "},{"Title":"A rave review by an enchanted viewer.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This is one of the seminal musicals of the modern age. The music is magnificent and very memorable. The tunes have remained American classics for over four decades. The cinematography is breathtaking, especially the Bali Hai scene.Mitzi Gaynor's performance is one of the most under-rated roles in cinema history. It was virtually slandered by lovers of Mary Martin, who was reportedly magnificent on Broadway but could not have carried the role on screen. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Show, Wonderful Music!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a stellar presentation of a fantastic musical. The acting, music, setting, costuming, etc., are perfect. Some have criticized Mitzi Gaynor in her role as Nellie Forbish, but it must be because she is NOT Mary Martin (The stage creator of the role). Granted that, she is wonderfully cast. The Songs are fantastic. I have NO problems with casting or music.In fact, the movie has one flaw--the use of bizarre color filters for many of the major songs, presumably to enhance the mood. But let us grant that this is simply a failed experiment--and is certainly not much different from the color tinting used in the silent era.The recent DVD incarnation of this film is wonderful--finally to have the film in glorious wide screen, with colors and definition and sound at their best!The message of the movie--race relations and individual prejudice, could have dated badly; the truth is that the movie's message is as strong as it ever was! "},{"Title":"Fantasy Island With Music","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this movie as a teenager. It was at the Valley Theatre in Cincinnati, Ohio, and was presented in Todd-A-O with Stereophonic sound which is now known as Surround-Sound. Nothing new! Surround-Sound was first used in Walt Disney's Fantasia and was revitalized in the first Cinerama Movie This Is Cinerama, but Todd-A-O which was the creative genius of Mike Todd was to rival Cinerama without those annoying lines down the screen. Years later, one of our theaters was showing Cinerama Movies and sure enough, they showed South Pacific on the giant Cincerama Screen, and - it fit the screen and was still a glorious movie to see! When Josh Logan was casting South Pacific, the first person he wanted to play Nelli was Elizabeth Taylor. He stated in his autobiography that she was so right for the part, and could sing, but when she came to the audition to sing in front of Rogers and Hammerstien, our Liz's vocal cords froze and that was it. No Lizabeth Taylor to play Nellie. Then Doris Day was considered, but they were afraid that she would turn it into a Doris Day vehicle, whatever they meant by that. At the time Mary Martin was too old despite Hedda Hopper stating that proper make-up could make her look younger, but then one day Mitzi Gaynor went to see Josh Logan, and she said, I know you probably think I can't play the part, but I'd like to audition for Nellie Forbush! So, she did, and Josh Logan asked someone, What do you think of Mitzi Gaynor in the lead? And the answer was, Oh! She'd be very good, if you can get her to do the things she should be doing instead of the things she's doing. And, of course, you'll have to police after her! What was meant was her to stop using the Gaynorism's; bugged eyes and all that, and that she smoked cigarettes like a chimney and would always be stamping them out wherever she was1 So, then came the rest of the cast Rozanno Brazzi could sing, but they replaced him with Tozzi. John Kerr couldn't sing so they used Bill Lee, and Juanita Hall could sing, but her voice was no longer a musical comedy voice, but a night club voice, so they dubbed her also, then Josh Logan started to think, Well, if everyone was being dubbed, why couldn't we use Elizabeth Taylor in the first place? Then someone gave Logan some advice and said, Please Josh! Don't film this movie in Technicolor or it will look like a picture post card that you can flip over and write, Having a wonderful time! Wish you were here! Then at the premier, women were talking during the film about who sang for who, and the one asked, I wonder who sang for Mitzi Gaynor, and Mitzi Gaynor turned around and said to them, Frank Sinatra! There are many newcomers in this film, but no one seems to see Ron Ely who later would play Tarzan on the T.V. series, but the movie is great and, again, it's just too bad that this film, like others of its time, cannot be enjoyed on the large theater screen with stereophonic sound the way they should be. Even though enjoyable on T.V., it just isn't the same when seen in the movie theater! What a shame! "},{"Title":"This film is technically and musically a masterpiece","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Almost every review of South Pacific is unfavorable, I cannot understand why. I am not a great fan of musicals, but, when one considers the fact this film was released in 1958, the quality is astounding and far ahead of other films of the day. I first saw this film as a seven year old child, and thanks to Video/Digital versatile disc, I now own it and can view it whenever I like. It is one of my most treasured possessions. It has not dated at all and still has a powerful impact visually. The music is beautiful and the songs are well used and fit the story exactly. The performances of the actors, especially Mitzi Gaynor, must have inspired many young future performers.  "},{"Title":"Memorable Rodgers/Hammerstein musical set to film","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  The excellent musical play becomes a great film, supervised in production by Hammerstein, Rodgers, and Logan (and it shows!).  Quality production, authentic tiki atmosphere and lots of cross dressing.  Good musical numbers, but only Gaynor dances; instead most of the movie is filmed in operatic style with color tinting attempting to make up for the stasis.  Good performances  Kerr and Nguyen are a memorable pairing for Happy Talking.Speaking of that song, I wonder what people think of the fact that it was left out of the recent TV version.  I guess they thought its coy nature would offend asian people, or something like that, but it makes me sad because it seems like politics is taking all the fun out of life (well, certainly out of the movies).  C'mon, you stupid Hollywood producers (and I include the misguided Close in this; way too old for the role she played), audiences used to like movies because they were fun.  I guess we can have thousands of people killed and blown up on TV every day, and that's OK, but not two people in love singing a song and swimming together. Also, I read some comments Ms. Close gave in an interview which showed me she did not understand the premise of the original musical (the only reason I'm picking on her is she was one of the producers) -- she commented that it seemed to hurt the play's reception that the nurse character is so offended that the frenchman has 2 children who are asian.  Ms. Close seemed in her comments to be assuming that the nurse's only objection to the children was that they were asian, whereas both the play and the movie are careful to spell out that a more important issue is simply the fact that she suddenly realizes that the frenchman is older and has already lived much of his life, whereas she is starting out fresh on hers.  This point was amply made in dialogue and in the song she and Kerr sang together (in the film version) about where they came from and how they didn't know where they were going.  Of course, the Glen Close version will miss all this because she is so much older than the character is supposed to be, and will leave only the racial element.  So, it is her own fault that this problem really became a problem.  They should have left the play alone.  This film does, and the payoff is a big one -- it's a classic. "},{"Title":"Rodgers and Hammerstein Genius","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I grew up listening to the Broadway and movie soundtracks of many musicals , and this was always one of my favorites.  While I find John Kerr's performance questionable, I loved Ray Walston's.  Aside from his work on Picket Fences, this is Walston's finest hour.  Mitzi Gaynor is appropriately sweet, charming, and naive for this role.  When I see her struggle over the colored vs white issue I actually believe it.  Rossano Brazzi is a fine actor (too bad that he couldn't sing!), and is certainly sexy as Emile deBecqueThe camera work in this film is ASTOUNDING.  The use of color and light is innovative and adds considerably to the story.  If you want to see South Pacific then watch this version. "},{"Title":"Mitzi Gaynor is perfect; color filters add to the movie","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The production values, photography and lush, beautiful scoring make this a wonderful rendition of the musical, faithful to the heart and soul of the stage success. I want to go on record against the conventional wisdom, and say that I think Mitzi Gaynor was perfect for the part and played it perfectly - sincerely and with great energy and passion, whether credit is due to Logan damping down her cuteness factor or not; she makes a simply irresistible Nellie F.I also think the colored filters in some of the numbers add to the aesthetic/emotional impact of the film.One of the best R&H film adaptations. An overall success! "},{"Title":"been a favorite of mine a long time","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" since before internet and IMDb existed so I an unfazed by the snipping trivial criticisms here.it is basically an very good, not outstanding, effort to show some of the romanticism associated with that terrible event, the war in the pacific.there are 100s of thousands of islands in that great ocean, can we not believe a bali hai exists undiscovered somewhere, if only in our imaginations? the DVD which I just bought today has the Michner 60 minutes interview. he refused to let the film crew on the island out over the water in the distance. he wanted it to stay an idyll.cant we all do that? France Nuyen is the most beautiful actress of her generation and a very talented and strongly principled and intelligent lady.the racism angle has been flogged enough here, suffice to say it is handled fairly accurate in depicting the mood of the times.and thank you to those who explained what 'road show' version meant. "},{"Title":"The 3 best entertainments!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  The best story(Its main plot is timeless).The best songs.Most people do agree that as well as I.And the best sound recording that deserved Oscar.Besides,you will see good acting.Mitzi was suitable for her prominent role,a nurse from country-side.Her voice was full of emotion.This spectacular one will give you relaxation and colorful feelings as it has been whenever you wish,especially in every summertime.  "},{"Title":"An enchanting musical","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" This movie doesn't disappoint if the watcher loves great songs. Although the film has flaws--the insipid use of filters to muddy the luscious scenery (what were they thinking?!); careless dubbing--the whole of the film is memorable and a tribute to the times in which it was made. After viewing it, if you don't walk around the house humming and singing some of these tunes, then you probably don't like musicals to begin with. My favorites are Some Enchanted Evening, Bali Ha'i I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair and Younger Than Springtime With an underlying theme of racism, it was a progressive movie for its era and the thoughtful song Carefully Taught is memorable for its tune, lyrics and relevance.A musical that is romantic, makes you think and has a social theme--its hard to ask for more, unless its to wish those filters never were used. "},{"Title":"Bali Hai","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" This 1958 Joshua Logan film of the long-running Rodgers and Hammerstein musical South Pacific is better than its reputation might indicate. Yes, it should have starred the original production's Mary Martin and Ezio Pinza, but it's not a perfect world. Logan proved himself to be on occasion a vigorous director, and his passion and sincerity are right for this story. Ironically, he handles the incidental and secondary aspects of the movie so well that some of the big set piece, such as the I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out Of My Hair and One Enchanted Evening seem overproduced.Mitzi Gaynor gives an energetic performance as Nellie Forbush, and I only wish that she was better at portraying the hick side of the character. I believe her in her romantic and musical moments, but never for an instant is she a credible girl from Arkansas. Rossano Brazzi brings his ineffable cosmopolitan charm to his role of DE Becque, the aristocratic French planter. Juanita Hall is a plump and wicked Bloody Mary, while Ray Walston's scheming Luther Billis is likewise a welcome relief from the prevailing sincerity of the lead players. Only Harvard man John Kerr falls flat, as Lieutenant Cable, and while I believe him in character I don't care much for the character. France Nuyen is lovely as Liat.Logan nicely balances the more virile aspect of the movie (war, and all that) with the prevailing feminine tone of the story. Corny as they are, the sailors do seem like sailors; and the shadow of war is never far from the action. Leon Shamroy's experimental use of color filters was much criticized at the time. It doesn't ruin the film when it goes from natural light to purple, though it is distracting. The more normal location photography is splendid, however, and here Shamroy did one hell of a job. At times you can almost smell the ocean, feel the sand beneath your feet. The tragic aspects of the story are never soft-pedaled, and overall the movie shifts from the romance of the lovers and hijinx of the sailors to the grimness of war with a kind of awesome efficiency. "}{"Title":"Some enchanted evening","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Nellie(Mitzi Gaynor)is an army nurse posted to the pacific who meets,befriends and falls in love with handsome plantation owner Emile(Rossano Brazzi).The relationship between these two is really the heart and soul of the film and is one of those timeless will they or won't they get together relationships.Featuring beautiful use of colour photography and some truly gorgeous scenery and filled with memorable songs including There is nothing like a Dame,Bali Hai,I'm In Love With A Wonderful Guy,Happy Talk and the classic Some Enchanted Evening. The film also takes an unflinching look at the issues of racism, and prejudice which turns the film into something more than just a musical.This is a beautiful film and is without a doubt a must see. "},{"Title":"I'm Not in Love With This Movie","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I have seen this movie adaptation on the big screen and many times on television, most recently on 9/28/06. I also directed a stage production in Ohio. Regrettably, Joshua Logan was not a superb movie director (this has been evident in other movie versions of stage musicals)...the movie languishes at a tepid pace, the movie is too long, the principals are miscast (and unfortunately most singing voices are dubbed, including Juanita Hall), and the bizarre color filters are a major distraction. Having seen the beaches on Kauai, I fault Logan for not letting that beauty show through. I do not know what possessed Logan and others, after viewing any dailies, to go along with the final product (probably, MONEY). The great humanitarianism of Oscar Hammerstein II still shows through, however, like in You've Got to Be Taught. "},{"Title":"Listen, watch, enjoy a film to relish","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" They don't come bigger than this!!!!Who cares which is the best version , just listen to those songs and the clever lyrics....nothing to put on a clean white.... suit for .......what we want is what there an't no..... substa tuit for! brilliant.It got it all.... comedy , drama, romance,and that song...Some Enchanted Evening. virtually every song is memorable and uplifting. Sit down and really watch it! This is a film for the whole family to watch together, make the time. Switch off your mobiles, leave the web, you can even sing along. Seriously, we could all find fault in this somewhere especially in these cynical and frought times, but if your willing let this film take you away, maybe to Balihi, just let it and don't forget your coconut drink (non-alcoholic)....Happy viewing! "},{"Title":"holds up very well","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I have always had a soft spot for this musical, as I recall my parents (my mother, especially) playing the original LP over and over. My uncle, who served in the Navy in the South Pacific during WWII, loved it, too. The Blu-ray transfer is breath-taking and it is fun to see the restored version (though for those bits, the picture quality is quite faded). Yes, it's old fashioned, yes, it's a bit creaky, and, yes, those filters are a little strange, but just listen to that glorious R&H score, look at the beautiful scenery, and immerse yourself in excellent performances, and you have be taken away. I am a fan of Mitzi Gaynor, though many feel that Doris Day should have played the role. Doris could have done it justice, no doubt, but Mitzi had a wide-eyed freshness, excellent voice, and believability that was refreshing. They don't make musicals like this any more and I'll take this any day over most of the frenetic musicals of today (with their unmelodic scores). "},{"Title":"See this on Bluray","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I first saw this movie in 1968 in a TODD-AO 70 mm print on an 84 Ft. D-150 screen with full six channel surround. (The screen was almost as big as the first IMAX I saw and the film grain wasn't as bad as the IMAX film.) I was seventeen. I was blown away. It was gorgeous aurally and visually. It is a very good film, somewhat misunderstood by the new crap of critics (did I accidentally say crap instead of crop?). Most modern audiences don't understand classic film because of the effects laden and violent garbage they are being fed at the multiplex. Real movies sometimes take their time and use beautiful music and color. The casting is fairly perfect. The visuals are stunning and the camera work is wonderfully scenic. As for the color filters, they are only thing that could be held against this beautiful film, although newer films like Gladiator seem ten times worse to my eye and have an obnoxious blue fog or golden glare (The Lord of the Rings movies appear to be bleached at times.) Give this movie a chance and see it in Bluray with a proper home theater sound system (no sound bars please). You might be surprised how wonderful this film and other classic movies come across when viewed this way. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The only reason I didn't give this movie a 10 is that I didn't like the use of filters. It made the movie too hard to see, and took away from the overall greatness of this classic musical. The scoring is great and I loved the acting, but they could have used some other way to accent the mood. However, I still regard this movie as a classic because of the overarching success of this musical. This movie has been tainted by the bad use of filters, as I have already said, but it is still a great movie, and should be watched by everyone for the lesson in racism. While I think that the filters are unnecessary, I understand the idea behind using them. The director thought he could accentuate the mood of the film by using the filters at certain times during the movie, but it only took away from the movie's greatness. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I've read through the other comments and while I agree with some of them I consider this film to be a classic.  I can watch this over and over again.  The one thing I would change is the muting/removal of the color filters.  I don't think Juanita Hall's face should be purple, for instance, when singing Bali Hai. If they can colorize black&white movies, why not fix this.* SPOILER ALERT *When I first saw it as a kid in the 60s I remember being confused about (1) Nellie's behavior after she discovers that Emile has two children by his former Polynesian wife and (2) Joe Cable's breaking off with Liat when Mary mentions they will have beautiful children. To me, these more than anything demonstrated the insanity of racism!  To allow your feelings/happiness to be subjugated by a group of people/your family/friends/neighbors... forget that!  This was one of the first things that opened my eyes to the narrow constraints some people live their lives in.Favorite quoteI know what you are against!  What are you for?  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  The magical and mystical quality of the film is what makes it special. Made in Hawaii, the movie captures the enchantment of the south seas and gives us a Bali Ha'i that is both believable and fairy tale.The distortion of colors is interesting, although at times it comes across as a bit too clever. All the same, this is a beautiful film of a touching musical classic. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  South Pacific is a good film and a good musical.  In my opinion, it would be better in the hands of Robert Wise, but it is still great to see and hear.  Usually, anyway.  The color filters seemed kind of misused.  At first, I thought there was something wrong with the sky.A few of of the voices are dubbed, but it is handled pretty well, and didn't distract me at all.  Some have said that the movie is too slow.  It takes its time to get going, but the actors do their jobs well, and bring the story forward.So, overall, this is a film I would recommend.  Finally, I will mention the best thing about the movie.  Its score is so beautifully orchestrated and sung.  I fell in love with the songs.  Also, the instrumental medley at the end is a joy to listen to.  Rodgers and Hammerstein are always great, and this film is a good example of a classic musical! "},{"Title":"good adaptation of wonderful musical","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Nothing bad can be said about the music and lyrics here, and the orchestration in the film version adds to the greatness. My parents owned the LP of the soundtrack and as I kid I used to sing along regularly. It's fun to experience the overture and intermission on the DVD, too. I can't complain about the acting, either. What a marvelous character Bloody Mary is, and how well played. She gets two terrific songs, as well. And Ray Walston is grand in everything. The anti-racism message is still (alas) applicable today and keeps the story relevant.What keeps this from being a 10/10 star film for me is the use of color and other filters. Geez, what was the director thinking? In particular, his opinion that sulfurous yellow somehow was the color of new love befuddles me. Perhaps he was colorblind? It is weird enough that it detracts from a great musical. The opening shots of the islands at dawn and sunset in natural color are gorgeous, though. Too bad it wasn't all shot like that. "}{"Title":"Some Enchanted Evening","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Rodgers and Hammersetein created a masterpiece on Broadway in South Pacific. After WW2 these two cerebral men got into the hearts and minds of the returning veterans of the Pacific War and created magic. Mary Martin immortalized the role of Nellie on Broadway but Ms. Martin a super star on Broadway never made the transition to films, a point that even mystified the Queen of Hollywood Bette Davis.Josh Logan who brilliantly directed the film versions of Picnic at Columbia with Kim Novak and Bill Holden and in the process created one of the more erotic moments on film in the dance sequence between Holden and Novak and Bus Stop at 20th with a celebrated performance by Marilym Monroe that should have resulted in an Oscar nomination for MM, was assigned the job of bringing South Pacific to the screen.Beautiful movie, literally with great scenery of the South Pacific and a wonderful performance by Mitzi Gaynor who like Ms. Martin never made it as a great movie star, a point that baffles this reviewer. Mitzi had it all Sexy great looks and could sing, dance and act but the mysterious factor of what makes a star is never truly understood. Susan Hayward a box office powerhouse and a star at 20th wanted to play Nellie but refused to test for the role. Susan Hayward would have brought her intense and unforgettable presence to this movie. Doris Day was also mentioned for the role.I never like to see great films of the past remade but South Pacific should be remade. In the meantime, enjoy this film for the Songs alone. Some Enchanted Evening "},{"Title":"South Pacific is Bigger, Longer & Uncut!","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Some enchanted evening, you will meet a stranger. True to form, during World War II, perky blonde nurse Mitzi Gaynor (as Nellie Forbush) and handsome navy Lt. John Kerr (as Joseph Joe Cable) find their strangers on a lush South Pacific island. She meets middle-aged French planter Rossano Brazzi (as Emile De Becque). And, he finds nubile native girl France Nuyen (as Liat), with help from weighty mother Juanita Hall (as Bloody Mary). Unfortunately, racial prejudices and other factors threaten to railroad both romances. Above all, there is a war going on. Comic reliever Ray Walston (as Luther Billis) dons a makeshift bra for his grass-skirt number.Rodgers and Hammerstein's soundtrack music remains excellent for this adaptation of their great stage hit. However, the story involving the mixing of American and Asian, considered daring and/or forward-thinking at the time, looks more plainly like an old-fashioned sex date; other versions of what you see here have played the match-up better. South Pacific is also lengthened past its endurance level. Even greater deterrents are the often eye-bleeding color enhancements and other peculiar choices, especially Mr. Brazzi as the male lead. It's an incredible tribute to the soundtrack that sustains this version of South Pacific through its flaws.****** South Pacific (3/19/58) Joshua Logan ~ Mitzi Gaynor, Rossano Brazzi, John Kerr, Ray Walston "},{"Title":"Lush exoticism, great tunes, and more than a fluffy romance","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" *One spoiler in the last paragraph* South Pacific is one of Rodgers and Hammerstein's best. The hit rate with the songs is remarkably high. 'Younger than Springtime' and 'Some Enchanted Evening' have entered many a singer's repertoire, and songs like 'I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out Of My Hair' and 'Honey Bun' add some up-tempo fun.Mitzi Gaynor is adorable as Nellie, the young American nurse who falls in love with charming older Frenchman Emile De Becque, played by Rossano Brazzi. Brazzi is old enough to make the age gap noticeable but he is no OAP. He's your typical cultured 'maturer' man, with good looks. Their romance is believable.John Kerr has been unfairly maligned in reviews. Lt. Cable is a secondary character who exists to contrast this secondary romance with the main one. It's your typical pretty man role and Kerr is sufficiently attractive. He also gets one of the best songs to act (although he doesn't sing it as his singing voice is dubbed) 'You've Got To Be Carefully Taught', a song which argues that it is parents (and on a wider scale,a society) who pass on their racism to their children.It's a long film but with the static camera, it's essentially a night in at the theatre. You can make an evening of it- there's even an intermission. The colour filters are clumsily done. They do add a feeling of strangeness and exoticism but they are overused. You do get used to them eventually though.Back in the fifties and before, musicals were quite innocent entertainment. There is a sweet innocence in South Pacific with the relationship between Nellie and Emile but this is still wartime. Both romances would probably never have started if Nellie and Cable weren't on the island and it wasn't wartime. The theme of racism is handled subtly but daringly. Nellie and Cable are not bigots but simply the product of an intolerant society. Luckily the film doesn't sell out and pair Nellie off with Cable, which would be the more conventional romance. "},{"Title":"Even Cornier Than Kansas In August","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" It seems odd to think that hokum like this was absolutely top-drawer movie-fodder back in the 1950's. Today, it has the appearance of an implausibly strange artifact.The post-war decade saw a flush of over-the-top musicals engaging the 'grande-romance'. And I should know; my mum had a thing for them and the family got hauled off to see every one. 'Oklahoma', 'Carousel' 'Pal Joey' the entourage seemed to culminate in 'The Sound Of Music'. I don't include 'Mary Poppins' because that wasn't a romance.Rogers & Hammerstein were household names. How far away it all now seems - like Philadelphia. It's easy to sneer after all of these years; and however clichéd the lyrics may be, no-one could reasonably refute that the songs and their melodies are absolutely first-rate. Old-hat, yes; but definitely first-rate. And I think 'South Pacific' is probably R&H's magnum opus. I was watching it yesterday and thought the musical arrangements were note-perfect, the singing choreographed beyond fault. You may hate it; but if you're honest you have to admit it is bloody good. In its day, on the big, wide screen, it was a jaw-dropping experience.The stars of the movie are pretty diminutive. Brazzi plays the hero, whilst Mitzi Gaynor turns for the heroine. Both are more than equal to the task - at least in their acting roles, but I suspect that there was some miming during one or two of their numbers, particularly Brazzi's basso-profundo. The rest of the cast were, again, capable B-movie also-rans. Filming is lavish in every way. It's pretty obvious that they've gone somewhere tropical at times, though the long-shots of Bali Hai itself look so painted you can almost see the brush-strokes. At some stages filming has employed coloured filters. I cannot see the purpose of this. Perhaps it imbued a sense of mystery in the 1950's, but today it looks strange and contrived. I thought there was actually something wrong with the print.Perhaps the most telling aspect of this movie is the modern-day loss of innocence, obligation and responsibility that it underscores. The 'grande-romance' was popular in the 1950's because people really did imagine that they were realising a life-changing destiny in marriage, and that sex (never more than hinted at) was secondary to emotional commitment and family-planning. Today, In the western world, such social mores are passe. Now, sexual gratification is all important, children just an incidental by-product that can be disposed of or abandoned if needs be, and commitment has almost become a cliché. Perhaps not all change is progress...If you like old - and more important, old fashioned - movies, if you like big, roistering songs with an orchestra blazing away full-tilt, then you can't fail to be knocked sideways by this over-long over-blown Rogers and Hammerstien's epic. But if you got hauled-off to the cinema too often, to endure people wailing about emotions you were too young to possess, then it may not hit the spot. "},{"Title":"South Pacific was my 1st musical (age 11) in 1958 - I LOVED it!","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I was 11 and I was visiting my grandparents in New York city. From Norfolk, Va. I hadn't had a lot of exposure to top notch musicals and I was naturally excited to be going to a BIG theatrical production. Well, a few years later, as a result of that night's viewing, I talked my junior high school choral teacher into letting our class produce SOUTH PACIFIC, the play as a spring show for all the students and parents to come and see. It went over so well we were asked by several other junior high schools in our region to preform at their schools. My voice was quite a bit more bassy than the other guys in the class, so I was the singer of This Nearly Was Mine. Later, in my senior year, I won the chance to do the same part again. From there I got up with a few other singers and we started a fairly successful 'Folk Music group that lasted for 5 years. Quite profitably too , for the times. A wonderful musical, play and incentive making production. Even now as a grandfather of 5, my kids and theirs love the movie. "},{"Title":"Enchanting fairy tale behind unfortunate yellow filter","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"       It is generally understood that fairy tales are good for the soul,and South Pacific fits the bill nicely for children of all ages. Thestory and dialogs remain on this side of the ridiculous - even if barelyso; the lyrics are witty, and the movie hails from that golden age ofmusicals when composers could think of catchy tunes, and actors couldsing them with voice and heart. For a major American movie, it comesamazingly close to depicting what the criminal justice system rudelycalls statutory rape, and it shows that such goings-on can be reallysweet and romantic.     The one flaw of the movie is the yellow filter the director put onthe camera lens whenever the mood turned exotic. It obliterates theenchanting scenery and knocks the enchantment of the viewer, whichotherwise would be perfect.   "},{"Title":"MY ALL-TIME FAVORITE FILM","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I get so tired of people saying what a lousy motion picture SOUTH PACIFIC is.  I have seen the musical on stage and feel the film version improves on it.  The casting was perfect.  I can not think of anyone else better as Nellie Forbush than Mitzi Gaynor.  Seeing SOUTH PACIFIC, for the first time in the TODD-AO 70mm process was truly a life changing experience, for me. This is the film that got me interested in motion pictures.  I loved the color changes, which influenced future films, including WEST SIDE STORY.  I have shown this film to new generations and everyone loved the use of the color changes.  One comment, from another member stated this film screams for a remake.  Well, TV remade it.  Now you can scream.  I had the honor to talk with SOUTH PACIFIC's director Joshua Logan and asked him what Rodgers and Hammerstein thought about the film and Mr. Logan said Richard Rodgers liked it except for the color changes and Oscar Hammerstein liked the whole picture.  They also thought the staging of the musical numbers was the best of any of their plays put on film.  Now I only wish we could see the original un-cut version of SOUTH PACIFIC, which runs 171 minutes.  So, what it comes down to is if you don't like the film version of SOUTH PACIFIC, than you really just don't like Rodgers & Hammerstein's SOUTH PACIFIC. "},{"Title":"Lush Sound Recording","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I grew up in the '60's, and saw this film several times on B/W TV.  In the '70's, I worked in a TV station.  We were copying this film onto video tape for broadcast.  The film was running smoothly when the first color shift hit the screen.  I thought the production chief was going to explode!  He actually tried to adjust the color on the camera to make the images look more natural!South Pacific is a musical.  The music won an Academy Award for its sound recording.  It deserved this.Rossano Brazzi is not my first choice for DeBeque. Mitzi Gaynor was fine as Nellie. John Kerr, while being young, did not have the body to play a military man.  His voice was irritating, and the dubbed singing voice was a scream.The colored filters were a mistake.  In the 'Cockeyed Optimist' number, Nellie mentions the 'sky is a bright canary yellow' and then up comes the yellow filters.  On a whole, the photography on the islands is dull and looks faded.  It should have not been done this way.Anyway, the star of the film is the music.  If it ever is remade, I'd like to see the same music arrangements used with equal modern music talents.By all means, if you have not seen South Pacific, please do.  It is an experience.  If possible, see the letterboxed version on TV.  You miss alot when watching the pan-scan version, believe me. "},{"Title":"South Pacific is to be seen on a BIG screen in 70mm.","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Recently I had the opportunity to see South Pacific in gorgeous 70mm !!! It's fantastic to see it this way. It is better to judge a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical on film when you see it in 70mm. A DVD is not right.When you let this happen, South Pacific is beautiful. You must of course forget all the post WWII stuff that might be over the top today. Try to see it in its context.There is a 70 mm festival in Oslo, Norway every year. Then you can sit back in a dark cinema and pretend you are the 50's or 60's and just let the music form South Pacific or an other musical flow into your heart. "},{"Title":"This production sets the standard for musicals.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Although many reviewers get distracted by the use of color filters  and other special effects, I feel that these are an hommage to the Broadway version and suggestive of the magic of romance at work at specific points in the movie.  The musical numbers are so integral to the story that the show is somewhat operatic.  The theme of racism versus tolerance is no less relevant today than when the movie was made.  It was never before and never again treated with such sensitivity.  The scenery is gorgeous.  Brazzi is an incredible film presence whose resonant voice and good looks should entrance the female audience.  I am amazed that his career wasn't catapulted to the John Wayne/Cary Grant/Jimmy Stewart echelon.  To paraphrase an old Remington razor commercial, I was so impressed I bought the movie. "}{"Title":"A great man, Emile","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" We all know this is a brilliant movie... telling, true, and so well executed. I'm curious if anyone has drawn the connection that I just did... I just saw the Life of Emile Zola for the first time (with Paul Muni) - amazing film, true story, about a Frenchman named Emile, from the end of the 19th century, who knows that affluence is not all there is to life, and that it is each of our responsibility to stand up to fight injustice and change the word to make it a better place. Sound like the hero of South Pacific perhaps? The one with the same name? Coincidence? Both movies are gems. I'd love to know if the connection was purposeful. "},{"Title":"Island Love in the South Pacific","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  The story takes place in the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific in the year 1943 where a naval base is set up to prepare for an invasion in New Guinea which is held by  the Japanese. On this island a French plantation owner named Emile de Beque (Rosseno Brazzi) lives. The United States armed forces want to enlist the Frenchman's help in establishing a base on one of the occupied islands. Nellie Forbush (Mitzi Gaynor) met Emile at a dinner and became friendly with him. They get to know each other well.Meanwhile, Lt. Joseph Cable (John Kerr) lands on the Island for a dangerous secret mission. When he gets off the plane he runs into an island woman named Bloody Mary(Juanita Hall)who thinks that Lt. Cable is the person to marry her daughter Liat(France Nuyen). Bali H'ai means Special Island. The Islanders believe that true love can be found there.The navy asks Emile to join Lt. Cable on this dangerous mission. At fisrt, he says no but then agrees after Nellie turns down his marriage proposal.  While the story is still moving along with Emile and Nellie, Lt. Cable and Liat are together on Bali H'ai and they are falling in love. Bloody Mary says now marry Liatand Lt. Cable says he cannot. So Mary says Liat must Marry someone she doesn't love, and drags Liat away.Emile and Lt. Cable leave for there mission they are in place on the Island for two weeks reporting the location of the enemy fleet sadly Lt. Cable looses his life. Emile returns home to find Nellie with his children.The view that Joshya Logan and the writer Oscar Hammersteinis trying to put  across is that we can find true love everywhere. When the lighting and music changes, it sets the scene for the dramatics that take place to accomplish a heart rendering love story.  "},{"Title":"Miscast and plodding","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This musical is one of the legendary classics of Broadway and it is tremendously underserved by the film version.  With the exception of Mitzi Gaynor as Nellie Forbush, every actor is dubbed for their musical moments. The audio gap between the actor's dialogue and the singer's song is so jarring that it is laughable.  I get the unvoidable feeling that the producers just cast this film recklessly with dependable stars, relying on the success of the original show to enhance word-of-mouth.  Aside from the voices, the acting (particularly from the men) just doesn't have the juice.Still, I strongly believe that this was the fault of the director, Joshua Logan.  I say this for two reasons the cinematography and the pace of the film.  The location photography (filmed in Hawaii) should be breathtaking. Instead, color filters are used during the musical numbers which not only distract from what is taking place between the characters but also make the screen appear alternately murky and just plain ugly.  You have to see them to believe them.Even this could be overlooked, though, if the pace of the film were not so ABYSMAL!  The pauses that occur in the dialogue are simply interminable. The film does not trim the original Broadway show (not always a necessity), but rather adds several scenes (including one where Ray Walston almost bungles the DeBecque mission and a song that was cut from the original show before it opened in New York) and, although they are supposed to progress the narrative, here they only seem to drag the story down because they go on FOREVER!  Where is the charm?  Where is the excitement?  These were exciting times and this music is unforgettable.It is a shame that the film musical is considered extinct because this is a movie just screaming to be remade.  I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Rendering of a Great Musical","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I have always considered SOUTH PACIFIC to be Rodgers and Hammerstein's finest work a musical drama in an era when musical dramas were rare, it was probably the most innovative and controversial of all their shows, with its anti-racism story line (epitomized in the great song You've Got to Be Taught), and its willingness to combine the cheeriness of the traditional musical comedy with the dark realities of the subject matter (World War II).Unfortunately, the film version, despite being directed by the legendary Joshua Logan and scripted not only by Logan and Rodgers and Hammerstein, but James A Michener, author of the source novel, is just not all that wonderful. Rodgers and Hammerstein knew how to write musicals, and all of their works, even the lesser ones, are at least interesting.I don't know what happened in the transition, but this movie is an over-produced, bloated, dreadfully photographed (the color palette is just awful) piece of work, clumsily assembled and poorly cast. Mitzi Gaynor is way too young-looking for the role of Nellie Forbush, and lacks the star power that Mary Martin brought to the role on the stage. Rossano Brazzi and John Kerr are okay, but WHY did Hollywood insist on casting actors in musicals who could not do their own singing? At least Gaynor does her own vocals; Brazzi and Kerr are both dubbed, and so, inexplicably, is Juanita Hall as Bloody Mary. Hall was more than capable of singing the role herself she created the character on Broadway, but for some reason the filmmakers decided to use Muriel Smith's voice, throwing all credibility out the window because Muriel Smith's singing and Juanita Hall's talking did not bear the SLIGHTEST resemblance to each other.About the best thing I can say about this film is that the show is presented pretty much intact (the made-for-TV remake, while improving on some things, inexplicably excised the song Happy Talk on the grounds that it was too politically incorrect. Oh please.). But of all the R&H shows, this one needed singing actors; it did not, for the most part, get them, and even one player who could sing was saddled with a bad overdub job. Thankfully, Ray Walston as Billis gets to do his own vocals, but that character is the one role in the show that does not require a great voice.Plus the thing goes on too long (some cuts run almost three hours); an egregious fault that one would not have expected from Logan, who should have had a better sense of pace than is shown here.I have seen regional theatre productions of this show that put the film to shame. Watching this film, I cannot help but ask why so much went so wrong. "},{"Title":"Island Escape.","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" South Pacific (1958) Dir Joshua Logan / Cast Rossano Brazzi, Mitzi Gaynor, John Kerr, Ray Walston, Juanita Hall Colorful scenery highlights this musical about the distractions life can issue when turmoil looms. The war against Japan is in full but one island off the Pacific holds a private paradise. Rossano Brazzi plays Emile de Becque, a good man who fled from France after accidentally killing a man. He is sought after for his military background for a mission. Mitzi Gaynor plays Ensign Nellie Forbush, a nurse who has a romantic fling with Emile but is troubled when she is asked to seek out information on him. John Kerr plays Lieutenant Joseph Cable who has just arrived on the island and ready for service but is sighted for a romance. Ray Walston provides comic relief as Luthor Billis, who ends up in dangerous situations while he only desires to quest to another island to enjoy the paradise offered there. Juanita Hall plays Bloody Mary who provides a welcome entertainment to the soldiers while suiting Joseph Cable up with her daughter. The scenery is stunning but the musical numbers are hardly memorable and are mostly dubbed. Director Joshua Logan paints the scene with luscious colors that highlight a theme that reminds viewers that while life presents its share of trauma, there is always the calm after the storm that momentarily distracts us. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Not a big fan of Rodgers & Hammerstein","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Positive1. Absolutely beautiful locations (especially compared to the low-budget sound stages of Oklahoma!, another Rodgers & Hammerstein musical)2. When the story progresses at a steady pace, it's a pleasant experience.Neutral1. Mostly singing, minimal dance numbersNegative1. When the story trudges, harping ad infinitum on one topic such as Emile De Becque's murder of a bully or any of the romantic interludes, the audience screams with frustration, Move forward!2. The director employs a cheap tactic of making the frame edges fuzzy and changing the background tint when an emotional scene occurs. Doesn't the director trust the dialog and the actors' skills to convey these emotions? "},{"Title":"Innocuous Production","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The creators and copyright holders of the successful stage production certainly went all out to make this a blockbuster. South Pacific Enterprises, owned by the composer and lyricist, was created especially for the film. These enterprises encompassed Magna Theatre Corporation, owners of Todd-AO, later 70MM, and the film was all under the supervision of 20th Century Fox. Add to this second unit aerial footage and color filer special effects, and we have a gigantic work from the start. With a final box office of $36.8 mil. against a budget of $5.2 mil., one can't say this project was a financial failure. It wasn't exactly an artistic success either. There is something staid and bland about the whole thing, try as the cast does to breathe life into the proceedings. It's hard to pin down just what went wrong, but the sea-bees look almost like mannequins going through their paces. Their lips move (obviously to a pre-recorded track) but their hearts don't seem to be in it. The leads are all professional enough, yet there's something stagy and stock in their work. Bloody Mary in particular looks lame and lifeless (probably because they didn't allow Juanita Hall to do her own singing). Finally the controversial use of color filters look extreme and overdone. The entire production's deficit must lay at the feet of Josuha Logan, who seemed to have a very spotty directorial career, veering from the brilliant to the average. This was not one of his banner products. Yet, with all the initial battering ammunition pumped into the proceedings, it really couldn't fail. It's an acceptable, inoffensive filmization of a genuine Broadway classic. "},{"Title":"Romance, racial issues, R&H music, humor, and tragedy, in wartime exotic South Pacific","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Two love stories, each involving an American and a non-American, occurring in some unnamed small island grouping in the SW Pacific, near Japanese-held Solomon Islands, in WWII, form the 'heart' of this R&H musical. The two love affairs are based on two different stories from James Michener's Tales of the South Pacific. Some other aspects of the screenplay are derived from some other 'tales'. Near the end, looks like both these romances will fizzle because of indirect racial prejudice. Specifically American navy nurse Nellie(Mitzi Gaynor) discovers that her beau  middle-aged wealthy French expatriate Emile, has two children from a deceased Polynesian wife, which she cannot emotionally accept. Meanwhile, Lt. Cable, after an erotic whirlwind romance with young Tonkinese(Vietnamese)Liat, whose mother(Bloody Mary) was brought to this island by French colonialists, implies he can't marry her because she wouldn't be accepted by his upper crust family and friends , back in the US. The film ending suggests that Nellie eventually overcame her emotional prejudice sufficiently to marry Emile, who unexpectedly arrives back from a dangerous war mission he barely survived. After, initially rejecting taking part in this mission, because he was sure he would die, he signed up after Nellie told him she decided not to marry him. Lt. Cable decided he would remain in this area after the war, implying that he now felt he could marry Liat. However, he never got the chance, as he was killed on this mission. Thus, this secondary romance, as in the case of the secondary romance in the subsequent The King and I, has a tragic ending, with the fate of the girl undetermined. Actually, in Michener's story, Emile had 8 children, all illegitimate, from several mothers some Asian , other Polynesian or perhaps Melanesian. It is the latter than Nellie cannot accept, initially.The racial and location aspects are rather disjointed and confusing. We have light-skinned mulatto Juanita Hall playing a Vietnamese. Her daughter, Liat, is played by part Vietnamese France Nuyen. The people, dances and costumes at the Bali Ha'i festival suggest a mix of Polynesians and Melanesians present  an unlikely mix. Probably , the location is meant to be in the (then) New Hebrides, to the south of the Solomon Islands, where the nearby Japanese are. The New Hebrides were a joint protectorate of France and the UK, with the natives nearly all Melanesians. Michener met an old lady there, called Bloody Mary, who was imported by the French from Vietnam, to work the plantations there. This is the origin of the character in the film. Contrary to the general assumption that Bali Ha'i was named after the Bali in Indonesia, it was actually named after a family pig that Michener happened across in his tour of the South Pacific!Emile explains that he was motivated to emigrate from France to this isolated island group after a brawl with the village bully, in which the bully died accidentally. He was generally considered a hero, but not by the judicial system. Thus, he hopped a freighter and eventually landed here. During this screenplay, he becomes a much greater hero by guiding the mission to spy on the Japanese in the Solomons.Nearly all the featured singing was dubbed, except for Mitzi Gaynor's several songs. Even true for Juanita Hall, who actually sang her parts in the stage version. The other leads were replaced from the Broadway version. Ezio Pinza, as Emile, had since died, and Mary Martin, as Nellie, was consider too old, especially since there is some discussion on the pros and cons of marrying an older man. Her mother favored it, but Lt. Cable didn't. Thus, after The Cock-eyed Optimist is seduced, as Emile sings Some Enchanting Evening, she has a moment of doubt, expressed as I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out of My Hair, as she is washing her hair, followed by a quickly reconsidered I'm in Love With a Wonderful Guy, when Emile appears  my favorite of her musical performances. The extensive lyrics of the first major song There is Nothing Like a Dame I found clever, as expressed by several SeaBees. But, the most memorable song for me is the haunting Bali Ha'i, which most succinctly expresses the charm and mystery of these islands and their native peoples.After 3 very successful stage productions or films scripted as taking place within the US, and involving only Caucasians in the cast, R&H did 3 very successful plays, followed by film adaptations, scripted as taking place far from the continental US. South Pacific still included a dominating Caucasian American presence among the characters, but included several other ethnic groups. The later King and I and The Sound of Music lacked any significant American characters. The dominating American military presence, along with the spectacular tropical settings, periodic inclusion of exotic cultures and a variety of memorable songs makes for a memorable film that Americans could easily identify with. However, the periodic extreme use of color filters(red, yellow or blue) I found quite disconcerting. Also, the depiction of the mission to assess the Japanese in the Solomons is quite amateurish and overblown...The romance between Cable and Liat seems forced and all too spontaneous, initially. Obviously, Liat was coached by her mother to immediately fall for Cable, as the most available US naval officer. "},{"Title":"Michener's thoughtful observations come through, if you look","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The wartime South Pacific depicted here is populated by youthful Americans, the most emotionally sensitive of whom are seduced by Orientalist visions of an exotic paradise. Also dwelling here is a European expatriate, less naive than the Americans but with complex and very personal ties to the place. Locals live here too, of course, but they are viewed, intentionally, through the imperfect lens of foreign observers. The film's style vacillates between that of a mainstream movie musical and that of a more abstract work of cultural criticism; it is entertaining and intellectually satisfying, especially for those who have some familiarity with the subject matter. "},{"Title":"South Pacific","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" There is no better musical or a production with so many great songs. And I don't think there ever will be again. Mitzi Gaynor is one of the better actresses in the business. She can sing,dance,as good as anyone and in most cases, better. She has appeared in the South Pacific musical at the Municipal Opera in Saint Louis and also her one woman show at the Muny as well. That particular show also displayed her very good comedic talents as well. As a Marine in Korea during the war, Mitzi was kind enough to send me several beautiful pictures of her to hang up in our quarters. I don't believe she is still acting as I have not heard or have seen anything about her recently on television or in the news. "}{"Title":"How would you remake this masterpiece?","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  A previous poster commented that this a film crying out for a fresh remake. Do to the odd color filters, directing, what have you. The Musical Orchestration for this film is not replaceable. Thats what sold the tickets! The great and unique musical genius of Ed Powell, Robert Russell Bennett, Pete King, Bernard Mayer, Lionel Newman are regrettably silent. Yes, I know there is a new crop of this kind of talent.  "},{"Title":"Crummy direction but the music more than makes up for it.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw this film as a child in 1959 and have not seen it since, until a few days ago, 40 years later.  The music and lyrics are just terrific, and they are well performed, particularly by Ms. Gaynor.  Some of the dialogue seems stilted, however, and the cutting leaves uncomfortable jumps between some scenes.  But, then, when we are prepared to accept that characters stop what they are doing and burst into song, backed by full orchestra regardless of location, we must make allowances.  The songs are the stars here and they will make the film an everlasting treasure.  For me, the short one, This nearly was mine is the best.  Unforgettable. "},{"Title":"They missed the boat with this one!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Make no mistake, Rodgers and Hammerstein are two of the giants of the American musical theater, and South Pacific was one of their greatest successes ON STAGE. The movie, however, could best be described as fine but flawed, with the bad points outnumbering the good.The good points can be easily discussed First, there is the energetic performance of Mitzi Gaynor as Nellie Forbush, a role for which Doris Day had supposedly been considered when filming was announced. Yes, it would have been great to have had Mary Martin repeating one of her greatest stage successes. But Martin, at 45, would have been just a little too old for the part when viewed by a merciless movie camera, plus, none of her half-dozen or so movies were all that satisfactory. She seemed to need a live audience to bring out her best. Gaynor, on the other hand, had just the right qualities for the part. She had plenty of bounce, lots of personality, and, at 27, was young enough for the role. Juanita Hall was also super repeating her Broadway role as Bloody Mary. Why she had to be dubbed, and why she wasn't even nominated for Best Supporting Actress at Oscar time (Dame Wendy Hiller won for the all-but-forgotten Seperate Tables) is almost as great a mystery as Maurice Chevalier's not being nominated for Gigi that same year.So much for the good points. Most of the other performers come off as stiff, particularly John Kerr as Lieut. Cable. Ray Walston comes off as just plain wrong for Luther Billis, loud and unfunny most of the way. And Rossanno Brazzi, who was more of a prescense than an actor anyway, is all wrong as DeBeque.The biggest bone of contention, however, is just this Whose idea were those stupid colored filters, anyway? They add nothing to the film and are, in fact, just plain distracting. The first time I saw this movie, I kept adjusting the color controls on my TV, thinking that it had gone out of order.But, I guess, a flawed version of this American classic is better than no version at all. But a great R&H adaptation it is most definitely NOT! You'd have to go to Oklahoma!, The King and I, and, towering above them all, The Sound of Music for that.  "},{"Title":"Aside from a couple minor flaws, a terrific musical.","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" No matter how good South Pacific is, it clearly loses a point due to the god-awful use of filters throughout the film. The director, apparently, thought this was the biggest mistake of his career and they made a few of the scenes truly bizarre...really, really bizarre.As far as the rest of the film goes, it really is terrific. While I am not overly fond of musicals with THIS many musical numbers, there were so many good ones that I could look past the weak ones (such as the awful Happy Talk)--and I found myself singing along with many of the numbers. And, fortunately, it has something that make a great musical great--it has a really strong story. If you like romance, then the film is for you, and I found myself reaching for Kleenex a couple times. Touching, excellent and very watchable. While not the best Rogers & Hammerstein musical (a personally LOVE State Fair and The Song of Music), it's close.By the way, why did they use an Italian to play a Frenchman? Mr. Brazzi wasn't bad but didn't sound French plus he didn't do his own singing. While not quite so famous, Yves Montand could have handled this role really well (provided they grayed up his hair a bit)--and man, could he sing. "},{"Title":"South Pacific","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" From director Joshua Logan (Bus Stop, Paint You Wagon), seeing one short advert for this Rodgers and Hammerstein (makers of The King and I) film was enough for me to want to try it for the likable sounding songs. Basically it is 1943, during World War II, and the United States Navy have established bases in the Solomon Islands, ready to invade New Guinea and the Central Pacific. On one of the island lives French planter Emile De Becque (Rossano Brazzi), who is wanted by the Navy to be a scout to snoop around the Japanese held islands. To make this possible, he is approached by U.S. Navy nurse Ensign Nellie Forbush (Golden Globe nominated Mitzi Gaynor), but is is obvious it's not just his services she is interested in, they slowly fall in love. The other slight love story going on is between Lt. Joseph Cable (John Kerr)and islander Liat (France Nuyen), daughter of philosopher Bloody Mary (Juanita Hall). You also see a musical comedy show as they wait for war to get closer, which is does with some planes bombing nearby, but don't worry, all live happily ever after. Also starring Ray Walston as Luther Billis, Russ Brown as Capt. Brackett, Jack Mullaney as The Professor, Ken Clark as Stewpot, Floyd Simmons as Commander Harbison, Candace Lee as Ngana - Emile's Child, Warren Hsieh as Jerome - Emile's Child, Tom Laughlin as Lt. Buzz Adams and Rebecca's Joan Fontaine as Polynesian Woman. The performances are alright, and there are some good moments of war and romance combines, but personally, I would only see it for the songs, but not bad at all. The songs included There Is Nothing' Like A Dame, Some Enchanted Evening (number 28 on 100 Years, 100 Songs), I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outta My Hair and Happy Talk (remade very well by Captain Sensible). It won the Oscar for Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography and Best Music for Alfred Newman and Ken Darby, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical. It was number 39 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Good! "},{"Title":"Excellent Music and Scenery - but negative points abound too","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Being a fan of the great US musicals such as Carousel and Oklahoma, I had heard of South Pacific but never actually seen it until today ( 2007 ) thanks to a cheap DVD I found on a recent visit to the United Kingdom. My feelings about the film are somewhat mixed - of course the songs are fantastic and beautifully executed and the Hawaii scenery is magnificent. My main negative contentions are firstly, like everyone else I have read, the use of coloured ( mainly yellow ) filters on numerous occasions. It is a sacrilege to distort beautiful views of Hawaii with colourized filters and I cannot imagine which nutter had this hair brained idea - presumably they wanted to be innovative at the time but the frequency of these filtered passages spoils much of the film - an occasional use of filters is OK for a particular situation or to make an isolated point but, used so often, it becomes tiring, irksome and frankly annoying. The storyline is a little confused to start with and, quite frankly is rather slow - the beautiful music does compensate for this up to a certain point but I did have an overall feeling of slowness. Other incomprehensible things are for example using Rossano Brazzi ( pukka Italian ) as a Frenchman - his accent is so obviously Italian that it just does not ring true. If they wanted to use Brazzi absolutely, he should have been cast as an Italian planter and not as French. There are some good love scenes though, notably a fairly erotic one between Cable and Liat though it seems to me a little implausible that love could develop between them so quickly as they hardly knew each other just a short time before the scene in question. Some commentators here have discussed the absence or non of racism in the film - I will not fall into this trap as I am sure that the film is for entertainment value and is not trying to make some social point - problem is that nowadays a certain number of people mostly in the USA or Western Europe are now obsessed by racism, its presence or its absence - this to me translates a certain state of mental obsession and deterioration and they would be well advised to take the film for what it is - entertainment. Whether someone chooses to fall in love with someone of their own race or of another is entirely a personal matter for them and is not a matter for endless sterile discussions and preaching. To return to the film, as I saw it on DVD, it was in Cinemascope 220 therefore with large black bars on the TV - better than nothing but I would have liked to a see a version in 43 Pan and Scan to compare. Unfortunately the DVD does not provide this possibility and what a shame it is as many of the USA DVD's do propose films in BOTH formats, something which is sadly lacking on European DVD's ( which is why I buy most of mine in the USA ). One obviously has to accept the film as it is but if there was one thing I would change, it would be to get rid of those damned filters !! "},{"Title":"South Pacific","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Believe it or not this motion picture was nominated for an Oscar for best cinematography? It reminded me of the episode of Seinfeld when George was turned purple. The infamous coloring very annoying at first, and shortly after the first couple of scenes became highly anticipated.Boy was I upset with the sepia presentation of Some Enchanted Evening. (I would have though a mixture of puke-green and cobalt blue with a negative art effect would be used)I sat and wondered why a studio would spend all that money to film in a lush tropical setting then ruin things with a Christmas Tree color wheel type of filter. The Ompa Loompas from Wonkaville obviously once dabbled in Technicolor.I feel sorry for the actors and actresses who worked in this film because they did a great job of acting. The problem is who can notice when the camera is playing tricks all the time.Even though there was voice-dubbing all of the place I thought that the numbers were pretty well acted. Mitzi Gaynor was very beautiful even when she was all wet. Her hairstyle is another thing though. John Kerr was very good in the role of Joe Cable.I think the musical voice of Stew Pot was Thurl Ravenscroft of You're a Mean One Mister Grinch fame. "},{"Title":"Someone did a terrible job casting island extras.","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Even with all it's faults, I can watch this movie over and over just to see Rossano Brazzi stand there. Ooh la la & yum! But the reason for this comment is to make a point that I haven't seen in any of the other comments I've perused. I suppose because it's probably politically incorrect, and I half expect to be dubbed a racist for even thinking this, but here goes The extras on the island of Bali Hai are supposed to be South Sea islanders called Tonkanese. However, you don't have to look too closely to see a multitude of racial differences among the actors. What a ridiculous mish-mosh of physical attributes! African Americans, Asians, Polynesians, etc. I mean, how hard would it have been to achieve a cohesive, unifying look to what is supposed to be an isolated island people, by casting actual Pacific Islanders or at least some other group exclusively. I dunno, perhaps in those days it would have been difficult. However, the result makes me think that someone, somewhere had the antiquated, stupid thought they all look alike referring to any non-Caucasions. Bottom line...it was crappy casting. Also ironic considering the powerful theme of prejudice in the movie. "},{"Title":"Giorgo Tozzi; Doug McClure; Joan Fontaine; Beverly Aadland!!!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I just watched it last night. The mixture of Michener stories is skillfully managed in the musical book but the movie moves at a glacial pace and switches uneasily back-and-forth between a stylized, staginess and gritty realism. Giorgio Tozzi, who was Brazzi's singing voice, ended up playing the part of de Becque onstage (to very good effect...they could have used him in the movie!) after his Met career was over. Did anyone notice these three names in the final credits Joan Fontaine (as a lark) was one of the Polynesian women; Beverly Aadland (Errol Flynn's last girlfriend when she was a teenager) played a nurse, and Doug McClure appeared briefly as a wounded pilot. Joshua Logan's use of color filters in the musical scenes was inspired by the lighting in the original Broadway musical. He was told that, if he changed his mind about it, the filtering could be undone. He did change his mind after the film was assembled but was then told that it would be too expensive to undo so he was stuck with it and the result is frequently bizarre and pretentious. Pedantic point if France Nuyen's Liat can't speak English, how can she mime Juanita Hall's words in Happy Talk? I've never been completely satisfied with this 1958 movie or with the 2001 TV remake, which does have a swifter, more realistic (despite the integrated military) quality to it. I admire Glenn Close's performance in the 2001 version as Nellie even though she really was too old and seemed too sophisticated to play a self-described hick. I could do with a lot less Luther Billis, whose stupid clowning is reduced in the 2001 version...a point in its favor. His antics never amused me and he holds up the action. In the 1958 version, Brazzi, Mitzi Gaynor, John Kerr (Unlike some commentators, I think he's absolutely right for Lt. Cable), Juanita Hall, Ray Walston, Russ Brown, and the rest of the cast are excellent. In the final analysis, I think the 2001 version does more justice to Michener and the 1958 version does a little more justice to Rodgers and Hammerstein. They are both enjoyably frustrating, if that's not an oxymoron! "},{"Title":"Poor Directing of a Classic","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Will someone please tell me what went wrong?  Did the Director become too full of himself?  Was the Producer even on the set?  Did the studio screen it before releasing it?What motivates a Director to take his crew to a beautiful polynesian location for filming, and then use color filters over the lenses?What motivates a Producer of a musical to cast actors who can't sing in the majority of the major roles?And what motivates a studio to let them get away with murdering a classic?See the movie.  See it for Mitzi Gaynor and the Rodgers and Hammerstein score.  See it for the story a lesson against racial bigotry couched in two beautiful romances -- one tragic, one happy.  Then dream of what it could have been, and scream for a remake. "}{"Title":"The lone African-American sailor...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  While watching South Pacific on TCM last night, I noticed something interesting in the opening musical number on the beach, where rough-hewn Seabees and sailors strut about bellowing There is Nothing Like a Dame while pretty white nurses jog demurely past. Among the sailors is a single buff, shirtless African-American man. Not only is this unusual in itself, as most U.S. military units were not integrated until after the war, but the black sailor is one of the handful of soloists who sing about specific attributes of women. Since the only women in the scene are the white nurses, we are led to believe that the nurses possess these attributes, and by inference, that the black sailor desires them.Given the white American public's (or at least the Southern public's) long-standing prejudices against black men and our women this could be seen as an extraordinarily in-your-face gesture on the part of the producer. Remember that around the time the film was being produced (1958), the National Guard was being called out to enforce Federal court orders to integrate Southern schools, and Southern governors were openly defying the Supreme Court's integrationist decisions. I'm surprised that this particular anti-racist moment hasn't received the attention it deserves, since it establishes the theme of cross-racial romance and desire that dominates the rest of the film.  "},{"Title":"An anti-racist film that blends everyone who isn't white.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" (Mild spoiler)It amuses me that South Pacific is ostensibly about and against racism (some reviewers don't seem to get that) Nellie conquers hers and is rewarded, Cable can't conquer his and dies (unhappy). Yet the whole film is racist in practice, by annihilating and merging everyone who isn't white.Bloody Mary, played by an Afro-American, is based on a Samoan (Aggie Grey) but she is described as Tonkinese. The Tonkinese were (North) Vietnamese, brought by the French colonists to the New Hebrides (now Vanuatu). De Beque's children are described as Polynesian - it's never explained where their mother came from.Nowhere in the film do any real ni-Vanuatu or Solomon Islanders appear. Melanesians are often very beautiful people, but, dark-skinned and fuzzy-haired, they don't fit the USAmerican myth of the South Pacific - which is mainly based on Hawai'i, in the NORTH Pacific.The people of Bali Ha'i look like Polynesians (Tahitian, Samoan or Hawai'ian) as Billis and Cable approach, and like Melanesians on land, but the men escorting the chief look like Fijians, everyone is dressed like Papua Niu Ginians and the music is a pastiche/parody. With de Beque and Cable on Marie Louise (a fictitious - why? - Solomon Island) are two uncredited men who look like white men in blackface and afro wigs they don't have Melanesian features. As Western Solomon Islanders, they should be the colour of ebony.The word Melanesian is not used anywhere in the film. The underlying principle is South Pacific people are interchangeable. The filters make the picture nearly monochrome they would work better if they were over the UNromantic scenes - all the military scenes. When they come off it's like Dorothy entering Oz, the reverse of what the makers wanted. It's not clear why they're used in the pig-ceremony or on Marie Louise. The locations never do justice to the real beauty of Melanesia. Only the path up to Liat's house comes close. We spend a lot of time in De Beque's civilised garden, which just happens to have a great view.But in spite of all that, for its time, it was a great effort to create an American musical with a contemporary theme, for which Hammerstein, Rogers, Logan et al deserve a lot of credit. "},{"Title":"Rodgers & Hammerstein's immortal WWII musical classic is all wet coming to film, torpedoed by sluggish direction and leaden acting.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Rodgers & Hammerstein's prize-winning WWII musical play South Pacific is given an ambitious but heavy-handed treatment in its transference to technicolor film, ultimately sinking like the Titanic in about as much time and with a number of acting casualties.When did anybody ever have to tell indefatigable Mitzi Gaynor to take it up a notch?  The singer-dancer was born with extra spring in her step. Granted, in most of her earlier musical offerings, she zipped right through either as a top support (There's No Business Like Show Business) or as a light, undemanding co-star (Anything Goes).   With South Pacific she was handed THE musical ingenue of a lifetime, and approached the highly-coveted Mary Martin role with reverence, sincerity and utter seriousness...to her detriment.  Under Joshua Logan's ponderous direction, Nurse Nellie Forbush comes off amazingly dull and sulky, with Gaynor treading uncomfortably between pathos and bathos for much of the film.  What boggles the mind is that she and co-star Rossano Brazzi, as the aging but worldly French planter Emile de Becque, are perfectly suited for these roles -- she has an infectious, gamin-like appeal and he is the essence of continental charm. But here they cater far too much to the bitter, bathetic aspects of their characters while driving away all sense of joy and wonderment in their discovery of each other, commiserating more in misery than in love.Also underwhelming is John Kerr, whose immobile, sad-sack features are just plain off-putting.  Lifeless as the bewitched Lt. Joe Cable almost to the point of catatonic, it makes one want to stick one of those huge diaper pins square into the backside of his fatigues (pun intended) just to see if the guy really bleeds.  Less than impressive in the physique department as well, I keep imagining the robust, virile, handsomely chiseled figure of a Jeffrey Hunter or John Derek giving off the requisite staunch, red-blooded sex appeal expected.  Likewise, Ray Walston, in another strange performance, is a real drag as Luther Billis.  Stripped of all energy and lacking all sense of comic rhythm especially in his acting scenes, he comes off more like Popeye on a severe spinach withdrawal.  There is a big difference between dead and dead-pan.With the lead and second lead romances more or less torpedoed by the leaden direction and the top comedy relief ineffectual, we are left with weatherbeaten Juanita Moore (from Broadway) and the stunningly beautiful France Nuyen who sail above this near-disaster providing exotic atmosphere and allure as the pandering native islander Bloody Mary and her docile, innocent-eyed daughter Liat who tempt the desires of newly-arriving American seamen in an effort to scrounge up a good marriage deal.  Moore is all amusing screech, scowl and sass while making the most of her mesmerizing Bali Ha'i ballad.  (Note A strong stage singer on her own, her voice was dubbed anyway, to her utter dismay.) Nuyen is an absolute vision while displaying a touching innocence and subtle playfulness in Happy Talk that gives the film some badly-needed magic.  But these few savoring moments are not enough.The arresting on-location camera work is by far the film's most engaging aspect.  Alas, it also is its worst enemy.  The cast is not only dwarfed by the exotic, large-scale South Seas locale (actually filmed in Hawaii) but the ultra-realistic background sound elements as well (pounding surf, etc.) create a strange vacuum between the singing voices and the studio-produced orchestrations, further distancing the viewer and lessening the full effect of the exhilerating R & H score.  It also over-emphasizes the listless, unimaginative choreography.  These problems are particularly glaring in Gaynor's enervating I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair I'm In Love With a Wonderful Guy and A Cockeyed Optimist, not to mention the company's zombie-like There Is Nothing Like a Dame.Typical of the times, the 1958 movie waters down the prejudicial themes almost to the point of non-issue, while the individual dramatic vignettes have no pulse of their own anyway.  Every scene just sits there.  But, unlike most critics, I enjoyed the rather garish, color-changing filters used in the musical numbers if for the mere fact that it offered an unusual, pleasant diversion - notably during the interminable, disenchanting Some Enchanted Evening.  The rainbow-like technique actually was quite effective in Bali Ha'i, imparting a surreal, dream-like quality to the number.  It served itself well as a mood effect in this case and not as just an interesting gimmick.The highly-anticipated Glenn Close TV version is coming up in the next month or so.  Budget or no budget, it has to be an improvement. "},{"Title":"Dull Screen Adaptation of Rodgers & Hammerstein's Classic","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Joshua Logan turns the Pulitzer-Prize-winning stage musical into a lumbering, charmless film. You can tell he doesn't know what to do with stage material, because his instincts to open the film up and take advantage of stunning South Pacific locations (though who knows where it was actually filmed) fight constantly with his tendency to bathe every musical number in highly stylized and saturated color. Everything feels inert, nothing about the film moves, and nobody seems to be having a good time. However, we do get Mitzi Gaynor as a consolation prize, who fights all the odds to deliver as perky a performance as Logan will allow.This is one of those movies you could watch and come away from having no idea what made the source material so beloved.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Fairly Drab Paradise","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" South Pacific starts out with good energy, bogs down in slow-moving melodrama, and then peters out in a choppy and anti-climactic last section. There's great potential here, with its exotic and beautiful island setting, two interesting romances, war-time adventure, comic relief, and music from the great Richard Rodgers, but the movie never really comes together. Joshua Logan's directorial pacing grows increasingly uneven, with overly long and unexciting passages mixed with crucial scenes that go by in a flash. The worst case by far concerns the fate of the two male leads. What should be the most important event of the movie, its emotional and dramatic climax, is not even shown but rather told to us in a dull, almost off-hand manner by another character. Very strange.Another major problem, as many people have mentioned, has to do with the color filters used during the original production. We can only assume that this effect worked better on 1958 movie screens than it does today on video and DVD. Interesting at first in a campy kind of way, the technique becomes incredibly irritating by the end of the film. What's sad is that the parts of the movie shot in regular Technicolor are so luscious and vivid - the deep greens of the tropical island, the blue sky, and the bright yellows, reds and oranges of some of the costumes all work together splendidly.Mitzi Gaynor does fine in her role as Nurse Forbush, though it's difficult to know why a cultivated Frenchman like de Becque would ever be interested in her. Brazzi, as de Becque, also does okay, but why couldn't the producers find an actual Frenchman to play this part? Why not Yves Montand?He was active in Hollywood at that time and was a wonderful singer with experience in musicals. John Kerr generates almost zero screen excitement as Lt. Kerr, and his dubbed singing voice is the worst match of all among the many awkward dubbing jobs in the film. Only Gaynor actually sings her own songs. I don't understand why Rodgers and Hammerstein utilized such wonderful singing actors for their stage productions but relied so heavily on dubbing for their films. It's annoying to watch the obviously fake singing on the part of the actors, and it seems totally unnecessary. Even Juanita Hall, who played the role of Bloody Mary in the Broadway production, doesn't sing here. For me, the only real acting delight in South Pacific is Ray Walston as Luther Billis, a butch-effeminate sailor with his shirt undone and a huge tattoo of a clipper ship on his belly who's a bit of a black marketeer and gets into various kinds of trouble. Having seen Walston in many other films and TV shows, I wasn't expecting such a campy and hilarious role in a musical. He even shows up as a tropical-island drag queen in a Thanksgiving show for the troops - the movie's only attempt at a dance number. It's all very weird. As the film wore on, growing stodgier and stodgier, I kept hoping to get back to Walston for some much needed comic relief.Compared to other Rodgers and Hammerstein films, the music in South Pacific is some of their least interesting or memorable. I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Our of My Hair is a great tune, and the scene is one of the more lively ones in the film, but Logan cuts it off quickly. The other entertaining number comes at the beginning of the movie, with Walston and his campy sailors singing There Is Nothing' Like a Dame. This sets you up to believe that the film will have a somewhat zany, fast-paced feel to it - a kind of musical Operation Petticoat or something - but, alas, it's not true. Logan never pursues the comic elements of the film like he could. Nor he does he pursue the action/adventure elements that could have helped with the overall pacing. They are in the story - he just ignores them. We are left with a lot of plodding or overly melodramatic scenes that circle around but never quite capture the tension and emotional resonance of the two romantic relationships. The tunes that accompany these scenes also seem plodding and melodramatic, with Some Enchanted Evening and You've Got To Be Carefully Taught being the best of an otherwise drab lot. This latter tune was fairly radical in its message of racial tolerance in 1958, and it's about the only moment in the film that John Kerr (Lt. Cable) shows any emotion.All in all, South Pacific isn't a bad musical; it just drags on too long and never really feels like a cohesive whole. There are some good moments, but it doesn't reach the heights of something like The King and I - Yul Brenner's tour de force acting, the brilliant set designs, or the adventurous dance sequences - or Oklahoma. And it doesn't come anywhere near the cinematic and musical power of The Sound of Music, which remains the best Rodgers and Hammerstein film by far. "},{"Title":"The Weakest of the R&H Films","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" South Pacific is regarded as one of the all time great musicals, making it very curious that Broadway had never had a full scale revival (London has had two major revivals). A possible reason for that is that South Pacific was made into two fairly disappointing film versions (the second a t.v version with Glenn Close). One would think that original stage director Joshua Logan would have been the best man for the job when transferring the piece from stage to screen. However, he mad some unusual choices, such as the pretentious color filters spread throughout the film. Casting is also problematic. Mitzi Gaynor lacks the spunk Mary Martin had on stage, (it's a shame Logan couldn't get Doris Day as he had hoped), Rossano Brazzi is handsome and dashing as Emile de Beque, but somewhat bland, (Giorgio Tozzi does a good job as his voice double). The one bonus is that we get Juanita Hall recreating her Bloody Mary (even though her singing is dubbed by Muriel Smith, who played the role in London), and Ray Walston, who played Luthur Bills in London. The t.v remake was not much of an improvement, but is still superior to this all around disappointing film "},{"Title":"Great material, poor presentation","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" You're handed one of the all-time greatest works of musical theatre to convert into a movie. It has compelling story lines, interesting characters and a thought-provoking field of subjects that ranges from the war in the Pacific to racism to many variations on the themes of love and loss. The music, lyrics and arrangements are arguably the supreme accomplishment of perhaps the greatest musical-producing team in theatre history.Could you make a bad movie out of it? You or I might have a hard time trashing such sublimity. Unfortunately Joshua Logan and crew did not. The filters; good grief, what were they thinking. The languid pacing. The dubbing of all those vocals. John Kerr (no offense to him; he was miscast for this role). The standard issue performance turned in by poor Mitzi Gaynor. This was a play that cried out for real locations; what we get here is plastic. And filtered.I don't know what Richard Rodgers or Oscar Hammerstein thought about this movie but they couldn't have been that happy with it.This is a show that should have the sweep of the whole Pacific behind it. Instead the movie version leaves you wanting to catch it in the confines of some local high school theatre production. 'Nuf said. "},{"Title":"Great Musical Spoiled On Film","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" When there were so many great singers in 1950's Hollywood, why oh why did thy cast non-singers to sing such timeless standards as 'Some Enchanted Evening', This Nearly Was Mine' & 'Younger Springtime'? Was it because they needed the star-power of Rosanno Brazzi and John Kerr? Has anyone ever gone to see a movie just because Rosanno Brazzi or John Kerr were in it? Even the dubbed voices weren't great. I was fortunate to have seen Robert Goulet in the part of Emile back in 1988 in a revival of South Pacific. That was singing at it's best. Mitzi Gaynor was fine as Nellie. She can sing & dance and she's very sexy. I thought she was a good (not great) actress.But oh, the colored filters drove me nuts.What's up with dubbing Juanita Hall's voice? Were they nuts? She sang that part on stage!While were on the subject of Rosanno Brazzi, what's up with casting an Italian to play a Frenchman? They did that in the original stage production with Ezio Pinza. Can't they find a Frenchman who can act & sing? Maybe they think that all European accents sound alike to to us crude, unsophisticated Americans.Ah well, Hollywood would cast another non-singing Italian box office powerhouse (Franco Nero) to play Lancelot in the movie version of Camelot. Maybe Robert Goulet, who nailed that part on Broadway and who owns 'If Ever I Would Leave You' just didn't quite cut it.I did enjoy seeing a cigar chomping Tom Laughlin (way before Billy Jack) pilot the plane that picks up Luther Billis. "},{"Title":"Vivid photography... undermined by unforgivable tinting & mediocre songs","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I first watched this with my parents in our living room. They're from the generation this movie was made for. Even at 12 years old, I noted the sorrow of the movie. I'm sure my parents sentimental reaction to it assisted. Something about S.P. made it seem more alive than movies of the period.Now I know that it was the location filming that made it impressive. Location filming took off for prestige pictures around this time Call Northside 777, Summertime, South Pacific, Sayonara, Mutiny on the Bounty (Brando) Roman Spring of Mrs Stone & The Quiet Man would all be unwatchable today without the legitimacy and beauty of their location photography. In most of those cases, it remains the single reason interest is sustained in the movie. The foreign locations that the studios cheapened out on (Brigadoon) and filmed on sound-stages are not in such good shape. The best scenes in Oklahoma are beautifully filmed on location, but once night falls, exteriors switch to a sound-stage, torpedoing the movie's quality. After the masterstroke of location filming, every other choice works overtime to crush that decision Josh Logan's usual crap direction, stiff unlikable John Kerr as Lt. Cable. No one sings their part except Gaynor and the lip-synching is very distracting. DeBecque and Nelly have already met in their first scene together (!?). Brazzi is an Italian barely attempting to be French. Gaynor cute-sies her way through every scene. There's crappy improvised 'dancing.' Songs are run of the mill or worse. Dubbed voices sound nothing like the actors actual voices. John Kerr is a squinty, unsexy (though termed 'sexy' in the movie) runt who has negligible swagger and even less in his shirtless scenes.South Pacific had one chance of being an endurable and enduring movie. Film on location and get out of the way of the material. Despite the limp R & H narrative, it would have been a gorgeous, enduring movie. Instead, well... just keep reading.Things start promisingly with more attractive half-naked men than an Abercrombie and Fitch ad. A basso-profundo has his name Stewpot helpfully emblazoned on his crop-top, as if we're watching Lil Abner. The fetishizing of GI humor and machismo is at first welcome, then becomes tiresome. Then people start singing those anemic R&H songs without a trace of wit or refinement. R&H were real populists, as if they wanted the dumbest person ever conceived to get their songs, and the worst singer ever cast to hit the notes. Their work is almost always artless, pandering to the unrefined taste of 'Joe Six-pack, and Ralph Kramden. The numbers performed by the Seabees, although very dumb, are the least painful to watch because they're not tinted.In the history of dumb ideas, Josh Logan, who ruined every musical he filmed, knocks it out of the park here. Though the movie starts in beautiful Technicolor with widescreen on-location compositions, Josh decided to shoot the musical numbers through varicolored filters, producing positively bizarre results LSD anyone? But even he loses interest in the filters and tints appear over dialog, songs, whatever. If you leave a videotape in your car on a one hundred degree day, any movie can look like this. They not only tint the scenes but solarize some of them (Bali Hai). What better time to muck with the image, than when you turn your camera out to Pacific sea vistas, (and a junky matte painting of Bali H'ai !?) Filter or not, the military planning room is orange, perfectly matching the skin-tone of its occupants. Blecch! The worst argument for the filters? The shots of sunset over darkened islands are chillingly beautiful, and what I will always retain about this.The color treatment destroys and flattens the location photography. They might as well be singing in front of backdrops. Way to not capitalize on the price of location filming Josh! This movie's rating would go up 4 stars if there was some way to remove those excruciating filters.The idea to make a film about racism without mentioning the word 'race' is interesting. Perhaps a gesture to their audiences who most assuredly were more racist in the 50s than now. We don't want to rankle the racists now, do we?I really relate to the narrative of WW2, seeking to visit Normandy, rather than visit some other cool location on a recent trip to Europe. I feel a debt to twenty-year old boys who ended their lives before they began. The displacement of thousands of young people to places that forced them to become worldly is one of the more interesting results of the time. Many of the songs Always, We'll Meet Again capture the philosophical poignance of the chance stations and happenstance meetings that forced unexpected relationships into being, and heart-breaking departures; assembling vivid, youthful exploits while trying not to get killed. It's a philosophy I try to live by. Embrace randomness. "},{"Title":"Yawn!!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I was in my high school's production of South Pacific. In our version, there was about ten times more energy being exuded from the performers than there was in this version. The songs are all slower, the performers look and sound bored and boring, and what was up with the weird colors???!!! If the actors in the movie put in half the energy we did, there would have been a vast improvement. Also, the extra song (My Girl Back Home) and extra scenes featuring the mission itself seemed tacked on and unnecessary, even though it seems that there may have been a reason for them. If you want to see a great adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein, see The King and I or The Sound of Music instead.   "}{"Title":"What is so bad about this movie?","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  It puzzles me why the film version of South Pacific has been trashed so much by critics and much of the public for so many years.  (Actually, though, it appears the public only started to hate it after its initial release; at first, it was very successful.)  Well, yes, the performances and script could use a little work.  But should we really care, should we even notice, when we have the rich, beautiful, powerful, wonderfully orchestrated songs of Rodgers and Hammerstein (The REAL stars of this show!) and lush scenery of Hawaii to more than make up for that?  (They both did it for me in the widescreen edition I saw.)  Even the infamous colored filters didn't bother me very much; they only caused my eyes to water a little in the beginning, but I got used to them very quickly.  Very atmospheric and mysterious in the beginning, then adopting a bit of a lighter tone, (Though it isn't necissarily funny) it becomes an emotional drama later on, but there really aren't as many lulls as others would say, IMHO.  Maybe it was better on Broadway, but the movie really should be allowed to stand alone, on its own two feet.  Maybe then it can be judged a bit better. "},{"Title":"How come they couldn't do better?","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Against the standards of the other five Rodgers and Hammerstein films I have seen, South Pacific is a noticeable disappointment. The Sound of Music at the time, was a cast of unknowns for instance, with the exception of three time Oscar nominee Eleanor Parker. Mitzi Gaynor, the only person in the lead cast who did her own singing, is more charming as Nellie than convincing. Rossanno Brazzi was not a total unknown either, he starred opposite Katharine Hepburn in the 1955 David Lean film Summertime. As for the support cast, there is not a single name who comes to my head.On their side, they had location. Some FOX musicals were entirely studio bound (The King and I), and others like Oklahoma! and Carousel had a second film unit expand out to locations for exteriors. In parts, the movie looked so set restricted I didn't actually know it was an on location farce until after I saw it. The film, bogged down by length which is a huge show of very little, weak writing and extremely annoying colour filters supposedly created to define romance, was the most annoying aspect of the film. The score, which was lovely, is about the only thing that revives it.It's still good family entertainment for the undemanding musical lovers, but there are better things of Rodgers and Hammerstein out there. It would be interesting to see how this movie would have turned out if one of the great musical directors like Robert Wise had been on the case.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"It's Hawaii","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  As I write this I am watching the movie on TCM, and listening to the rain in Kauai, which is where it was shot.  The color changes are weird, but the music is wonderful and there is no more beautiful place than Kauai. Why else would films as diverse as Jurassic Park and Islands in the Stream be shot here?  This movie should be viewed for that alone! "},{"Title":"Tom Laughlin, RIP","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" South Pacific would have us believe that it's indicting racism, but it pushes other kinds of racist beliefs. While it condemns bigotry, it still says that the people of the Pacific islands were a bunch of naive, backwards types who needed white people to civilize them. In other words, it was what white people wanted to think that anti-racism was. A real look at the south Pacific would look at how the US army forced the natives off the islands, carried out nuclear tests, and often returned the people to the islands, resulting in high incidences of birth defects and cancers among the Pacific islanders. It's no accident that in 1979, Palau passed the world's first anti-nuclear constitution.Among the cast, the only people who caught my eye were Ray Walston and the recently deceased Tom Laughlin. Ray Walston is known to recent generations as Mr. Hand in Fast Times at Ridgemont High. As a result of Jeff Spicoli's (Sean Penn) repeatedly coming to class stoned, Mr. Hand thinks that EVERYONE is high!* Tom Laughlin is best known as Billy Jack, the half-Indian Vietnam vet is forced to take the law into his own hands to defend the Indians from the ranchers.Point is, South Pacific is NOT a realistic representation of that region's history.*The best scene remains the one guy's fantasizing about Phoebe Cates. "},{"Title":"You've got to be taught to be afraid of people whose eyes are oddly made","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" This an old-fashioned film that can still please due mainly to its stunning settings and magnificent music. But there's a lot to put up with between numbers.Mitzie Gaynor's Nellie is annoyingly perfect in body and pertness until she shows her petty prejudice, which comes across as ugly today. Listening to her moan, I can't help it! I can't help it, is pretty repellent. I found her performance largely one-note and tedious.The characterizations in South Pacific are unusually shallow, even by musicals' standards. Nellie and Emil, played by gorgeous Rossano Brazzi, are in love after only two weeks, and she scarcely thinks through how she'd adjust to life as an older French plantation owner's wife.The lieutenant falls for Bloody Mary's daughter, who looks to be about 13, so rapidly that by today's standards it looks like he's engaging a child prostitute. When he gives her his grandfather's gold watch one can only ponder how she'd possibly figure out what to use it for.South Pacific is mainly about love and the movie gets bogged down in too much military stuff toward its end. But I must admit the movie concludes on a spectacular note.(BTW, is this where Bill O'Reilly picked up his word pinhead?) "},{"Title":"A feast for the eye, not the brain","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Many people here have rightly criticized this movie's bizarre use of color filters in some scenes, and the poor acting (sometimes because of miscasting and bad dubbing).  But the images in the widescreen version are beautiful, and the narrative structure is interesting. It's basically two love stories that take place during wartime on a South Pacific island.Nurse Nellie Forbush (Mitzi Gaynor), a naive young woman from Little Rock, falls for a worldly French civilian (Rossano Brazzi).  When she finds out that he has two half-Polynesian children from a previous  marriage, she freaks out and the romance is threatened.Similarly, Lt. Cable (John Kerr), a naive young man from Philadelphia, falls for a Tonganese woman (France Nuyen).  When their talk of marriage (mostly done through her mother since the Nuyen character speaks no English) gets serious, he freaks out and the romance is threatened.Mitzi Gaynor and Ray Walston (who plays a conniving sailor) are pretty good; everyone else with a speaking part is pretty terrible.  Brazzi is miscast and Kerr is just hopeless--I never believe for one minute that he is in the armed forces, or that he is in love with Nuyen.  For a movie that is relentless about opening up the material for a more realistic look, it seems odd that the climaxes of the love stories (involving a tragic death and a heroic resuce) are played off-screen.  Tom Laughlin, who later played Billy Jack, is good in a small part at the beginning and end as a pilot. And the Technicolor is truly gorgeous, except for those weird color filter shots that were supposed to enhance the emotional impact of the songs. They don't.  If you've only seen this in a pan & scan version, you should see the letterboxed DVD, if only for the beautiful natural scenery. "},{"Title":"What's with the color wheel?","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Mitzi's cute as she can be and all the men and women of the film are tan, fit and pretty.  But what is the deal with the color wheel effect?  Was that some kind of experiment in Technicolor? "},{"Title":"Breathtaking Scenery Good Music.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" When I watched the video of this film, the red and yellow colours in some scenes, made me think that the video was faulty, but I have been reassured by my mum that it is colour filters. But do we need them? I think not. it is quite common with all Rudiger's and Hammersteins films to have excellent music. once again Alfred Newman is conducting the orchestra. I also liked Bloody Mary and there's nothing like a dame! and Happy talk these are my favourite songs. I also have the original 1958 L.P. with book inside it. all in all I rate this film to be a good taster of life in the Hawaiian islands I would of liked to of lived there. as well. I also liked the girls too. My mum has just told me, that the red and yellow bits in the film are meant to be calming but to me, it made me think that the video was faulty!! it is supposed to give atmosphere as well "},{"Title":"It's Good Spam, Just Not Gormet Cooking","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" Watching the film version of South Pacific is much like attending a gormet meal at the home of one of the world's great chef's, only to find the dishes are all made of spam. Maybe this isn't a fair comparison, because, the problem is NOT the choice of ingredients. A fairer comparison would be the first meal prepared by an aspiring gormet cook. You know the potential is there, but you're frustrated the chef lacks either the talent or experience to bring it off. Yeah, that's it, since the problems are entirely the chef, Joshua Logan, who directs as a good stage director would. Unfortunately, Logan lacks cinematic skills and experience, resulting in awkward key scenes, such as the silly singing voiceovers. Worse, Logan's choices of those awful color filters, which make the emotional scenes look unitentially ugly. Finally, Logan fails to make contact with Mitzi Gaynor, keeping his shots too loose during the Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair sequence. Couple these, with the decision to fade in and out of black between key scenes gives the movie a cold, episodic feel, which isn't shaken until after the intermission.With all these flaws, there are simply to many great elements of South Pacific to make it a bad movie. I give South Pacific a weak 6. "},{"Title":"How to botch up a great Broadway musical...","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I agree with all of the previous comments about use of color filters for effect during certain sequences. Not only is it too distracting to use a red filter for 'Bali Hai', but the big question is WHY GO TO THE TROUBLE OF FILMING ON LOCATION FOR REALISM NOT POSSIBLE ON THE STAGE and then create an artificial look that is as unreal as it is annoying.But that's not the only shortcoming of the film. Despite having a Rodgers and Hammerstein score that is probably one of the best in musical history with no less than ten outstanding numbers, Joshua Logan's leaden direction moves the story at a snail's pace and everyone seems to be acting as though there are folks in the balcony who can't hear them. Even perky Mitzi Gaynor (Doris Day would have been perfect) is unable to do for the film what Mary Martin was able to do in the stage version--namely, bring the character of Nellie to life as a believable person rather than just an actress who can sing and dance like a pro and cry on cue.Rossano Brazzi has the requisite continental charm for his role as the French planter she is attracted to and his lip synching to Giorgio Tozzi's voice is well done. There are some good jobs in supporting roles but John Kerr as Lt. Cable is totally unsatisfactory as the secondary romantic lead. Ray Walsten repeats his stage role and his There Is Nothing Like A Dame is still one of the highlights. But oddly, most of the singers are dubbed even when they are legitimate singers--as for example Juanita Hall as Bloody Mary who sang the role on Broadway. And oh, those filters!! Don't adjust your set if you watch it on TV. The purple faces may look strange but blame it on Josh Logan who had to put his own creative touch on what was already a master work! Although nominated for Best Scoring of a Musical the honor went to 'Gigi' in 1958.For purists, listen to the original cast recording with Mary Martin and Ezio Pinza and see what all the fuss was about! "}{"Title":"Sad","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This could have been great.  The music and lyrics are wonderful (of course), the acting (with one exception) was good and they had beautiful on location shooting in Hawaii...and they STILL managed to screw it up!  First off, most of the singing was dubbed and it's VERY obvious...especially with Brazzi...he gives out a good performance but he lip syncs horribly and the singing voice doesn't match his speaking voice!  John Kerr (as the guy who falls in love with a native woman) is a lousy actor with an annoying voice.  Also, he has no body--that's not too good considering he spends a lot of time with his shirt off.  You really start to wonder why that woman fell for him in the first place.  But worst of all are those stupid color filters--they totally destroy the film.  I almost gave up watching it because the color changes were hurting my eyes!  Also, you have beautiful scenery in Hawaii--why screw it up by making everything appear yellow or orange?  It's extremely distracting and adds nothing to the film.  The director Joshua Logan said, in later years, that the color filters were a big mistake.  No kidding!  ALMOST worth watching.  Somebody should really remake this correctly.  "},{"Title":"Visual Limbo on the Beach","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" No, South Pacific is not an example of how low you can go. But visually, this film has no movement. It just sits there; and it seems eons before anyone thinks of camera movement. Naturally, it could be argued that the makers preferred a conservative style of filming, and (like John Ford) only moved the camera when there was a good reason. Well, there was reason enough in South Pacific--a case of stylistic atrophy. Even the actors seem enervated. Like professional, dependable stage performers, they all hit their chalk marks. And then--like the film--they just sit there too.A movie script consisting of one static camera set-up after another is NOT symptomatic of Fifties film-making. By 1958, sound and re-recording technology had made it possible for directors to give motion to the term motion picture. But in Joshua Logan's case, the Proscenium Arch rules all. Occasionally, there have been stage-trained directors who have adapted their talents to the screen D. W. Griffith certainly comes to mind first. (He's credited with having invented film language.) And more recently, there is the late Bob Fosse (Cabaret, Lenny, All That Jazz), a hard-core stylist in the truest sense. But here, Joshua Logan uses the tropical backdrop as one would in a staged play. And sure enough, there's good old Bali Hai, rising up behind the performers, just like the fake, painted plaster-of-Paris mountains used in bad stage productions. Some scenes in South Pacific are artificially tinted red or blue or purple--whatever color matches whichever mood, I suppose. This really is taking film-making back decades; even the sepia-tinted portions of Michael Curtiz's The Sea Hawk (1940) were a distraction. But Logan's invention is more than that; it's like some bit of style an amateur director might use to beef up a boring scene--mounting colored gels over spotlights and then aiming them at the performers. The whole movie is merely bad filmed theatre.About the only items that keep this lumbering dinosaur plodding along are the songs, which (mostly speaking) are real classics and well worth hearing again, even for the thousandth time There Is Nothing Like A Dame, Bali Hai, Some Enchanted Evening, Happy Talk, Younger Than Springtime, etc. Mitzi Gaynor (as Nurse Forbush) is an actress who was born 15 years too late. As her quirky performance as the independent, free-spirited Adelaide Swanson in Take Care of My Little Girl (1951) had proved seven years earlier, she would have felt right at home on screen during the Thirties or Forties with all those other wise-cracking dames--Ginger Roger's Roxie Hart or Rosalind Russell's Hildy Johnson, for example. Here, she is merely adequate, even if she does do her own singing. Gaynor simply isn't square enough, though she tries--boy, does she try. Her prancing around during the I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out of My Hair number is just so much busy-work--like watching a stage actress doing an uninspired set of calisthenics from one side of the stage to the other. She does manage to inject some life into the Honey Bun set. But by then, it's too late; the movie has almost completely withered away.The night South Pacific first arrived in Denton, Texas--where my Mom (a big fan of Rodgers & Hammerstein) was a business teacher at North Texas State College (since re-named The University of North Texas)--she couldn't find a baby-sitter to tend to me (age 6) or my little brother. So we were dragged along to the downtown theatre to see South Pacific with her and a small audience of college students, all of whom seemed as anesthetized as we were. Mom needn't have bothered with the baby-sitter; I fell asleep in my seat shortly after the Dame number and woke up toward the film's end, just in time to witness Miss Forbush informing Bloody Mary and her daughter of Lieutenant Cable's death. True, that was long ago; but then some things never improve -- not even with age. "},{"Title":"Likes & Dislikes Of 'South Pacific'","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" With musicals, people are very subjective. The film might be a decent one; the story might be pretty good, but if the viewer doesn't like the songs, he or she is not going to like the movie. That was the case here with me, which is why I changed the headline from The Good & Bad to Likes & Dislikes.LIKES - Unique cinematography gimmick using orange or yellow filters....Mitzi Gaynor as  Ens. Nellie Forbush was pretty and had some figure! Wow! A couple of songs everybody (even me) likes Some Enchanted Evening and Wash That Man Right Out Of My Hair. Overall sets and production values pretty high.DISLIKES - Rossano Brazzi, as Emile de Becque, didn't strike me as a great actor or singer; Juanita Hall's character, Bloody Mary, gets really annoying after awhile. (I do like her name, though.)....at almost three hours, this is WAY too long.....Gaynor's character whimpers too much; Brazzi .....story now seems dated...overall did not like the songs. "},{"Title":"I don't like it","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I'm sorry but I found this movie 'corny', not entertaining and the vocal performances were not what I call good. Some of the songs performed in the show, themselves, are good tunes when performed by more talented vocalists. One such song is Some Enchanted Evening. I guess I'm just not a very big fan of any of the 'stars' either. There would have been other picks for the castings in this show that would have probably made it much better. Why this show got such a high rating of 7 stars is beyond me. Maybe I'm at fault here but I just don't credit it as a good musical either in script or performances. Of course that was a different era! "},{"Title":"No one has done this right.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I recently watched the tv version with Glenn Close as the 23 year old Nellie Forbush. Another stumble. What are these producers thinking? Why they didn't just film the Broadway show is beyond me. Mary Martin was a legend in this role, but the director cast Mitzi Gaynor. And shot it using some kind of bizarre filters that make it look like they didn't go to Hawaii to film it, which they did! I wish they'd used a bit more care and respect when they made this. The music is beautiful, and some of the acting is good, but overall this was a disappointment.           "},{"Title":"Atoll Story","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I don't know what it is but somehow the big Rodgers and Hammerstein Broadway shows don't translate well to the screen, at least not for me. Of the four major smashes produced between 1943 (Oklahoma) and 1951 (The King And I) only the second, Carousel, comes even close to what a movie musical adapted from a Broadway show should be. At a rough guess I'd say that I'm in the minority here but so be it, I'm hard to please, sue me already. It's possible that if you haven't seen the show you won't have a problem with the running order being all at sea - when I saw it in a legitimate theatre the first song was Dites-moi and Bloody Mary, which is first in the film, was around fifth or sixth. By itself that's not enough to find the film disappointing but it seems badly cast to these jaded eyes. Rossano Brazzi is fine as a middle-aged Frenchman albeit he is actually Italian but not when cast opposite Mitzi Gaynor. Likewise she is okay as a vibrant but naive native of Little Rock but not opposite Brazzi. The score is fine - if not quite as standout as Kiss Me, Kate which opened on Broadway a couple of months before South Pacific - but put over listlessly by this crew, not unlike a Rolls Royce being driven in second gear on a long journey. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest movie ever, but certainly one of the most ambitious","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time about 5 years ago on AMC. I stayed up till 2 in the morning watching it. Afterwards I wandered why i wasted my time, i didn't understand the point of the movie and fouind it rather boring. Recently, I watched the movie again and found what the message about prejudice and hatred. After it stuck me that the movies message was for a particular audience, the story was made to show America how someone can fall in love with anyone no matter what their background or skin color. The message was show specifically for the people who had lived through the war and knew what it was like to fall in love with someone overseas and then have to come back to a country where they were now considered unacceptable. I believe the movie could have been much better but it was far ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"Story seems a little shallow","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I'm a great fan of classic musicals. I've seen this a coupe times, though not in a Broadway quality road show. There is something not here for me. I know that much of the music is deeply embedded in Americana. I think it's the story. I just don't really care much for anyone in it. Nelly is basically a racist and though she comes around, that hangs over everything. I also believe that the treatment of Emile is unfair. He had made a commitment to himself and his family, and deserved better. But the bottom line is that as these people do their individual things, I never really care that much. The movie seems stilted and long. It doesn't work its way into the latter 20th and early 21st centuries as other musicals do. I saw a few scenes from Fiddler on the Roof the other night. It stands up because its themes and ideas are still relevant. Maybe someone needs to rework a few things. There are great songs. "},{"Title":"South Pacific needs an update","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  One of the major problems with the movie 'South Pacific' is that the dialog is so stilted it's really hard to believe.  I love the movie, mainly because I like the whole idea of the South Seas thing, but the lines must have been a real trial for the actors.  Live, Emil, Live or whatever she said.  I really think that with a rewrite, this could be a boffo show.  And I'm not talking about turning it into a modern play with sex and violence.  The songs, and the music behind them, are timeless.  Maybe if I'd been around to see the original Broadway play, my attitude would be different.  But, I actually was in a staging of South Pacific, and I don't recall the lines being any less wooden.  On another subject, in the movie (and the play) they really had to pussy-foot around the whole point of the thing, which was that messing around with non-whites was verboten.  Lutelan ('Saxy') Cable had to pay the price, but Emil was lucky, and he's not going to spend the rest of his life 'dreaming alone'.  Maybe if he's lucky somebody will climb up his hill.  I love it. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  I love musicals but this just bored me stupid. The score was lacking where it could have been so much better and the entire thing was far too long. And what was with the color? The changing color filters were distracting, annoying and unnecessary. O&H did so well with musicals such as 'Oklahoma' and 'State Fair' but totally missed with 'South Pacific'.  "}{"Title":"Blatantly Racist","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" This film almost works until it introduces the sub-plot which is so blatantly racist I simply walked out. When I researched the film and learned its debut on Broadway was in 1949, I could understand how the producers could get away with a storyline as embarrassing and silly as this one is. Ten years later on the big screen the story did not improve a bit and in fact seemed even worse than it should have been. Perhaps I am being too politically correct but there are boundaries you know and you simply do not insult an entire culture by giving the impression their pretty daughters are for sale. Geez! There are some great things about the film - the color for one, Mitzi Gaynor for another and Ray Walston who practically walks away with it - but the sub-plot which is introduced somewhat late in the film is so awful that I just cannot recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"South Pacific - my gay Principal's favorite.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" South Pacific - the very name begets visions of navy personnel hopping around in their tighty-whities on idyllic sand beach amid the ethereal reaches of a faraway Technicolor island. I am here today not to examine the confusion this two and a half hours of rapture has caused many, or even perhaps the liberation it has brought to a small (yet vocal) percentage of our population. South Pacific teaches us many valuable lessons. Tortured love, long-winded musical numbers, and an exotic Frenchman - only feeble examples of the goodies awaiting those who defiantly press the play button on their DVD players! We learn that color and race is irrelevant to the soul and finding love, even if that means mommy or daddy's disapproval. One thing What was up with Bloody Mary? Cable went off and died for her boring daughter (who has in the neighborhood of two lines). Cable is hot...and he DIES. Just further proof that life is unfair.I liked how the scenes would suddenly switch to a tinted orange or purple when an actor got misty-eyed. (Obvious sarcasm) I know that whenever I sing a rousing musical number, I always feel that mentally I am growing dimmer. But I suppose we all have our Bali H'ai moments, do we not? (I don't even know if the comma belongs there or what.) Yes, I've learned much about war and how to fight it in all its beguiling manifestations! South Pacific will drown you in rapturous delight. "},{"Title":"I do not like this version of South Pacific.  PBS broadcast  a production done as a benefit at Carnegie Hall","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" The songs are wonderful. I was introduced to them in junior high.The movie does not do justice to them. I find the color changes distracting rather than interesting. I think they add nothing to the film.PBS has broadcast a benefit performance of the musical this past April at Carnegie Hall. Reba McIntire plays Nellie, and quite well. Brian Stokes Mitchell plays the planter. Would you believe Alec Balwin plays Luther Billis??? I imagine you can get more information from PBS. It is the format of only the empty stage and reading from folders. But, the singing is so well done, it is a small distraction. "},{"Title":"Why didn't they just film the stage play","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" So, they take the cast and crew on location for beautiful, lush photography, in widescreen splendor, and what do they do? They use garish color filters, to make the beautiful scenery ugly, and they make all the actors behave as if their feet are nailed down. People barely move in this film version of the Broadway hit. Why bother going on location at all? Not only is it horribly filmed and choreographed, it is horribly miscast, too. Director Joshua Logan (who also ruined Camelot), seems to think that Italians play Frenchman better than Frenchman. He cast an Italian in Camelot, too! He has done everything in his power, to completely ruin this film. Mitzi Gaynor, in a role that is just begging for Doris Day, sings of being a Cock'eyed Optimist, but spends most of the film, whimpering. The film is a bit of a mess. This film was a big, big hit, in its day (due mostly to the popularity of the Rodgers & Hammerstein score), but it is a museum piece, today. A dull and often ugly one, at that. Having said all that, the film is a masterpiece, when compared to the wretched TV remake! "},{"Title":"Only for a true Rogers and Hammerstein fan","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":" I only watched this because i'm in a production of this and thought this would help me learn my words at home...........Total honesty this is awful.I'm not a Rogers and Hammerstein fan but this is to bad even for them.The scenery is cheap the acting wooden and the whole thing is cringe worthy.The songs are decent but Mitzi Gaynor wrecks Honey bun,Wonderful Guy and Wash That Man Right Out Of My Hair.Plus the sight of a lot of camp musselebound sailors strutting around on a beach singing about how much they want a woman is the only funny bit of the film but it's not meant to be.But Rogers and Hammersteins fans will lap it up.Not even so bad it's good it's just bad avoid. "},{"Title":"Great music but that's about it","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  Last year I attended my high school's production of South Pacific. I have to say even they did a better job than this lot. The music is fantastic and Mitzi Gaynor puts in a great performance but what's with everyone else. Rossano Brazzi not only shows a lack of acting talent but he also messes up the great Some Enchanted Evening with a lack of singing talent. Whoever plays Bloody Mary is wooden too and the colour is completely unnecessary and very annoying For die-hard Rodgers and Hammerstein fans only "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance, War","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie ever made.  It makes Plan Nine From Outer Space and Eyes Wide Shut look like masterpieces.  I was in the Navy, and not once did my shipmates all stop whatever they were doing and start singing and dancing.  There are a lot of bad movies about the Navy, (Ensign Pulver, Operation Petticoat, and very few good ones, (The Caine Mutiny, The Last Detail,) and this one is the worst of the bad. "}]